Report No. 1814-BR                                        t                          F
Appraisal Report                                                               k                        V
Northeast Brazil
Paraiba Rural Development Project-Brejo
Marchi 10, 1978
Agriculture and Rural Development Department
Rural Development Division
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Docurment of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Curret¶cy Unit                               =         Brazilian Cruzeiro (Cr$)
US$1                                         =         Cr$15.00 (Selling Rate, September 1977)
Cr$1                                                   US$.0667
Cr$l million                                 =         US$66,667
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                                  =         3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)                             =         0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)         2                     =         10,000 m2 = 2.47 acres
1 square kilometer (km )                     =         100 ha. = 247.1 acres = 0.386 sq miles
1 cubic meter (m3)                           =         1.31 cubic yards = 264.2 US gallons
1 kilogram (Kg)                              =         2.2 pounds
1 ton                                        =         1,000 Kg - 2,205 pounds
GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL FISCAL YEAR - January 1 to December 31
POLONORDESTE PROGRAM FISCAL YEAR - April 1 to March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BB          Banco do Brasil
(Bank of Brazil)
BEP         Banco do Estado da Paraiba
(Bank of the State of Paraiba)
BNB         Banco do Nordeste do Brasil
(Bank of the Northeast)
CAGEPA      Companhia de Agua e Esgoto da Paraiba
(Paraiba Water and Sanitation Company)
GEBRAE      Centro Brasileiro de Assistencia as Pequenas e Medias Empresas
(Brazilian Center for Assistance to Small and Medium Enterprises)
CEPA-Pb     Comissao Estadual de Planejamento Agricola - Paraiba
(Paralba State Agricultural Planning Commission)
CIBRAZEM    Companhia Brasileira de Armazenamento
(Brazilian Storage Company)
CIDAGRO     Companhia de Desenvolvimento Agropecuario
(Paraiba Agricultural Development Company)
DER         Departamento de Estradas de Rodagem
(State Highway Department)
EMATER-Pb   Empresa de Assist8ncia Tecnica e ExtensAo Rural - Paraiba
(Paraiba Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Company)
EMBRAPA     Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuaria
(Brazilian Agricultural Research Company)
EMBRATER    Empresa Brasileira de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural
(Brazilian Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Company)
FSESP       FundagAo Serviqo Especial de Saude Publica
(Foundation for Special Public Health Services)
FUNRURAL    Fundo de Assistancia ao Trabalhador Rural
(Assistance Fund for Rural Workers)
GECA        Grupo Especial de Coordinagao e Acompanhamento
(Polonordeste Special Coordinating Group)
GRPN        Grupo Regional do Polonordeste
(Polonordeste Regional Group)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perforrnance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



2 -
MOBRAL         Movimento Brasileiro de Alfabetizagao
(Brazilian Literacy Movement)
MVR            Maximo Valor de Refergncia
(Maximum Reference Value)
NAI-Pb         Nucleo de Assistgncia Industrial da Paraiba
(Nucleus for Assistance to Industries - Paraiba)
PIASS          Programa de Interiorizac,o das Ac8es de Saude e Saneamento
(Program for the Extension of Health and Sanitation Activities)
PIPMO          Programa Intensivo de Preparagao de Mgo-de-Obra
(Intensive Program for Labor Force Training)
POLONORDESTE   Programa de Desenvolvimento de Areas Integradas do Nordeste
(Development Program for Integrated Areas in the Northeast)
PROTERRA       Programa de RedistribuicAo de Terras e de EstImulo a Agro-Industria
do Norte e do Nordeste
(Program for Redistribution of Land and Stimulation of Agro-Industry
in the Northeast)
RGN            Rio Grande do Norte
(State of Rio Grande do Norte)
SAA            Secretaria de Agricultura e Abastecimento
(State Secretariat of Agriculture)
SENAC          Serviso Nacional de Aprendizagem Comercial
(National Service for Apprenticeship in Commerce)
SENAI          Servi,o Nacional de Aprendizagem Industrial
(National Service for Apprenticeship in Industry)
SES            Secretaria Estadual de Saude
(State Secretariat of Health)
SUPLAN         Superintendencia do Desenvolvimento do Plano de Obras do Governo
(State Superintendency of Works)
SUDENE         Superintendencia de Desenvolvimento do Nordeste
(Northeast Development Superintendency)
UCT            Unidade de Coordena,ao Tecnica
(Technical Coordination Unit)
UFPB           Universidade Federal da Paraiba
(Federal University of Paraiba)



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PARAIBA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BREJO
APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ..................... ...........                       i-iv
I.    INTRODUCTION  ........  .......................... .. ...1....... 
II.    BACKGROUND  .............. ...  t............... .....................               2
Characteristics of the Northeast  .... O..*... ...... ..                     2
Government Development Programs  ........ ...........                        2
The State of Paraiba .................... ...........                        3
III.    THE PROJECT AREA . ......             .... I .................... .........          4
Location,  Climate and Soils                ........................         4
Socio-Economic Conditions  ..........................                        4
Agricultural Activities and Potential  ..* ...........                       5
Non-Farm Activities  ................................                        6
Current Infrastructure  .............................                        6
IV.    THE PROJECT  ............................ ..o ..                                     7
Strategy and Objectives  ..................O.,                               7
Project Composition  ...... ........           .....                        ..............  7
A.    Agricultural Production Services  ..........                     8
B.    Non-Farm Production Services  .......                          11
C.    Credit  ...................................,                   12
D.    Infrastructure and Related Services  .......                   13
E.  Project Administration                    . . ....   16
V.    PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING  ................. .         . ............            17
Cost Estimates  ..........................................  ..... ....      17
Financing  ..........................................                       18
Procurement  ...............                        .      ...........      19
Disbursements  .....................................                        20
Accounts and Auditing  .... ............... ...                             20
VI.    PROJECT MANAGEMENT   ................... .           ....  ....... ...... .        21
Project Organization  .................... ............                    21
Monitoring and Evaluation ....                 ......................       21



-2-
Page No.
VII.   PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND BENEFITS ................... .....    22
Agricultural Production       ..........................    22
Agricultural Marketing and Prices ..................    23
Agricultural Income and Employment .    ................  23
Benefit of Non-Farm Production     .....................  25
Benefits of Social Sector Development ............. .    25
Economic Analysis ............................... ..    25
Fiscal Impact ...           . ...................................    26
Environmental Impact ................ ...............    27
Project Risks ......................................    27
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ........   ..........    27
ANNEXES
1.  The Project Area
2.  Credit
3.  Rural Extension
4.  Agricultural Technology and Production
5.  Agricultural Marketing
6.  Non-Farm Production
7.  Physical Infrastructure
8.  Education and Training
9.  Health and Sanitation
10.  Project Management
11.  Economic Analysis
12.  Project Costs
13.  Disbursement Schedule
14.  List of Key Early Actions
15.  Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAP
This report is based on the work of an appraisal mission in May - June 1977
composed of Messrs. B.A. Thoolen, D. Anderson, F. Falloux, T. Kulatilaka,
Y. Tencalla and H. Zea (Bank); and C. Guibert, W. Matthey, E. Vellez (Con-
sultants) and a subsequent post appraisal mission in September/October com-
posed of Messrs. F. Falloux, T. Kulatilaka and Ms. C. Carr (Bank) and Mr. B.
Quinones (Consultant). Mr. 0. Lafourcade (Bank Resident Representative in
Recife) assisted both missions and Mr. G. Deboeck (Bank) visited Paraiba in
October and assisted with the monitoring and evaluation component. Mr. C.
Koch-Weser (Bank) accompanied the June mission briefly and assisted with
the health and sanitation component, and Mr. N. Wilkie (Bank) similarly
with the nutrition aspects. This report has been prepared by Mr. Kulatilaka.



SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The Federal Government of Brazil has requested further Bank assis-
tance for its program to alleviate rural poverty in the Northeast. Per capita
incomes in the rural areas of the Northeast are only about a quarter of the
national average, reflecting the relatively poor resource base of the region;
within the region, an unequal distribution of land exacerbates the problem
of poverty. In 1974, the Government initiated a major program, POLONOKDESTE,
to raise the productivity, income levels and social well-being of the region's
small farmers through funding of integrated rural development projects in
priority areas. POLONORDESTE, despite some initial problems, has been in-
strumLental in orienting government programs in the Northeast towards a more
productive small-scale agriculture. Agricultural research, extension, credit
and, more recently, rural health programs, are now primarily focused on the
target group of rural poor.
ii.       Paraiba, with a population of 2.7 million, is one of the smaller
and poorer states in the Northeast. Although about two-thirds of the state
falls within the low-potential semi-arid region, it has areas with relatively
good agricultural potential still largely unexploited. The proposed project
wouldl assist in the development of one such area, the Brejo, which is situated
in the eastern part of Paraiba.  In this area, about 77% of the total popula-
tion (187,000) is rural and most of them are small farmers and farm workers.
Due to its present low productivity in agriculture, almost 70% have incomes
estimated at less than one-third the average for Brazil as a whole. Malnu-
tritlon is considerable, health problems are acute and infant mortality is
high.
iii.      The proposed rural development project would be the third in a
continuing program for rural development in the Northeast, for which Bank
assistance has been sought. For the first project, in Rio Grande do Norte
(Loan No. 1195-BR), a minimum package approach was adopted.  A more comprehen-
sive design was used in the second project in Ceara (Loan No. 1488-BR),
approved in September 1977. As in the previous two projects, primary emphasis
under this third project would be given to increased agricultural productivity
and farm income among small producers, through production related services and
investments and complementary infrastructure. In addition, it would build up
the capabilities of implementing agencies to carry out a sustained development
effort over the longer term. One new feature, however, is a small component
designed to strengthen and develop services directed toward improved off-farm
productivity and employment that would also focus on the small townships
of the Brejo. The project proposal was prepared by the State Government with
Bank staff assistance.
iv.       The composition of the proposed project would be as follows:
(a) agricultural production services, comprising a package of
services designed for small farmers, including agricultural
extension and training, adaptive research and farm trials,
a marketing system, storage facilities, and services to
improve tenurial conditions;



- ii -
(b) off-farm production services, including off-farm extension,
training, and research and demonstration on improved tech-
nology for small-scale enterprises;
(c) credit, including development and seasonal credit to some
7,400 small farmers and. investment credit and working
capital loans to about 580 small enterprises;
(d) infrastructure to supplement the above services, particu-
larly feeder roads, community centers, social extension,
rural health posts, rural water supply schemes, improved
quality and access to primary education, literacy and
training in skills; and
(e) project administration, including project management,
monitoring and evaluation.
The project would directly benefit 7,400 farmers, of whom 6,200 are owner-
operators and 1,200 tenants and sharecroppers, and a further 1,800 employees
of small-scale non-farm enterprises.
v.        The total cost of the project is estimated at US$67.3 million, with
a foreign exchange component of US$13.4 million, or 20%. Contingencies would
amount to US$15.2 million, or 29% of baseline costs. Project implementation
would be spread over a five-year period. The proposed Bank loan of US$24
million equivalent would finance 35% of total costs and comprise the full
foreign exchange costs (US$13.4 million) and 20% of local costs (US$10.6 mil-
lion). All on-farm costs under the project would be financed through credit,
and project beneficiaries are expected to gradually meet all operation and
maintenance costs of water supply services. The government would finance
the balance from funds earmarked for the POLONORDESTE program.
vi.       Construction works totalling US$15.1 million, would be awarded to
prequalified bidders on the basis of competitive bidding advertised nationally
and in accordance with procedures which are satisfactory to the Bank. Since
individual construction works would be relatively small, foreign contractors
are not expected to be interested, though they would not be excluded from
bidding.
vii.      All major equipment and materials in excess of US$300,000 per
contract would be procured through competitive bidding advertised nationally,
taking into account local spare-part availability and consistency with cur-
rently available equipment. Although foreign suppliers could participate
if they wish, they are unlikely to do so since Brazilian manufacturers of
equipment required by the project are quite competitive. All other materials
and equipment totalling about US$1 million would be procured locally in
accordance with government procurement and biddirg procedures, which are
acceptable to the Bank.



- iii -
viii.      Consultancy services involving locally available cocLsuliants woruld
be awarded after local advertisement in accordance with s .:-dard Goxanr.-
procedures.  Contracts with foreign consultants would be awarded in accordance
with Bank's Guidelines on the use of consultants and on term  er  condi tion
approved by the Bank.
ix.       The project would be executed by existinLg governaeŽnt a-isec:½s and
coordinated by a special state level POLONORDESTE technical coorallrnat:occ unit
(UCT). Key officials for the unit have already been recruited mainly from
among those earlier associated with the preparation of the project.  Support
given under the project would include staff training and consultancy services
which are aimed at further improving the capability of UCT, particularly in
effective monitoring and coordination.  Executing agencies would .have their
responsibilities defined by contract (convenio) in accordance wL,I etandard
Brazilian practice. Project evaluation would be entrusted to an independent
Evaluation Unit within CEPA/Pb, the state agricultural planning a-gency.
x.         Funds for agricultural credit would be channelled throh a,r the Cea-
tral Bank and the commercial banks, Banco do Brasil and Banco do Nord e
do Brasil, which have branches within and directly outsida tc     i a    e   3.r.a
and would lend to the participants under terms and conditionls dea    f >'-e f`or
POLONORDESTE.  Credit for non-farm enterprises would be made availables by
the above banks and also Banco do Estado do Paraiba from their own resources..
The maximum total outstanding loans per borrower for farm credit  ualiS be
about US$6,000, at 7% interest payable within 12 years with graon,erfids
up to six years.  Small-scale non-farm enterprises could also borrow 3-rt_qL-r
amouants at 16% (it is not proposed to disburse against this component as
locally available funds are fully adequate).  Credit given under the project
would be closely supervised by special credit officers who wouI_dl eL-Zu,re that
the bulk would go to small-scale farmers and entrepreneurs.
xi.       Agricultural development under the project would Lead 'bO stn     'Dsn-
tial increases in output of four cash crops, potato, banaaa. citrus aLd
ton; production increases on a lesser scale are expected in manioc, beans,
mimosa, milk and meat. Substantial yield increases over the present levels
obtained by small farmers are expected in the project area, with average
yields of potato, for example, expected to increase from 3.2 tons/ha to
12.5 tons/ha. These yield increases are not excessive as already knowrn
technology would be propagated.  Current average yields of targ^a t gsrup
farmers are low due to their traditional farm practices and lack cf acaess
to modern farm inputs; however, several bigger farmers in the area already
obtain high yields. At full development agricultural production by target
group farmers is expected to increase by some US$26 million ere  i   or
180% of current levels, mainly from increased yields resulting from adoption
of the improved technology by the target group farmers.  A netw..ork of village
level markets, linked to the marketing system operated by the Coveronce rar
keting companies, would provide marketing outlets for the increased output
in urban areas of Paraiba and the neighboring states,>  Tes-ed sn '7`-a _2
of nine representative farm models, the financial rate of retur., I-Jhe
farmers was consistently over 50%, a result that reflects the pasl neglect



- i-7 -
of the small farmers and the considerable agricultural potential in this areK .
1e  nricomes of a>Jout 790  small farmers are expz-ted to rise by between iOQj7
and 300% of the present level depending on the crops grown.  Development of
non-farm enterprises under the project is expected to result in increased
_p>, empLoyme&-lL and earnings for some 1200 u-_'s, with substantial oppor-
tunities being provided to the landless and non-farm labor to acquire skills.
Overall, improved job opportunities are expected to increase substantially,
with about 5,400 workyears created in the agriculture sector and another
1,800 in non-farm enterprises. Social sector improvements under the proj-
ect would considerably enhance the health and nutrition status of the rural
people, increase attendance in primary schools and greatly improve the qual-
ity of instruction.
xii.      The economic rate of return to the project is estimated at 30%
for the agricultural components, which account for nearly 86% of the project
costs and includes costs of production services and complementary infrastruc-
ture. The non-farm enterprise component should earn at least 50%, though
projection of project benefits presents some methodological difficulties. A
one-year lag in implementation would reduce the rate of return of the agricul-
tural component to 25%, which would be equivalent in economic terms to a 24%
cost overrun or a 20% benefits shortfall. The project carries with it the
special risks attached to multisectoral projects which depend on close coordi-
nation during project execution. Attempts have been made to include adequate
safeguards in the project management system. Overall, the expected project
benefits to about 9,200. families from directly productive components and the
benefits from health and education services to the bulk of the rural popula-
tion in the project area would justify taking these risks.
xiii.     The project is suitable f or a Bank loan of US$24 million for a
period of 15 years including three years grace at standard Bank lending
terms.



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PARAIBA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BREJO
APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The present project is the third in a series of integrated rural
development projects in the Northeast of Brazil, supported by the Bank under
Brazil's POLONORDESTE program, the objective of which is to increase the
productivity and incomes of lowest-income segments of the population. The
Government of Brazil made a request in March 1975 for Bank assistance for a
POLONORDESTE project in the Brejo area of Paraiba. During project prepara-
tion work by the state agency for agricultural planning (CEPA-Pb), several
Bank missions assisted in developing the project components. Appraisal was
carried out in May 1977 and a follow-up visit undertaken in September/October
1977. The Government has already commenced implementation activities, financed
from its own resources.
1.102     Eleven Bank loans totalling US$373.7 million have so far been made
to Brazil for agricultural development. Of these, five projects amounting
to US$98.7 million have a direct bearing on the Northeast. The first rural
development project in the State of Rio Grande do Norte (Loan No. 1195-BR of
1976) is now proceeding satisfactorily despite Government funding delays;
a second, in the Ibiapaba region in Ceara, was approved in September 1977
(Loan No. 1488-BR). Other loans were for an agricultural research program,
a settlement project and an irrigation project. In addition, the Brazil
Nutrition Research and Development project (Loan No. 1302-BR) includes a
component for pilot studies in nutrition improvement in the Northeast.
Further rural development projects are under preparation in other northeastern
states and one in Bahia may be ready for Bank consideration during the current
fiscal year. After the minimum package approach adopted in the RGN and a more
comprehensive design in Ceara, the proposed project would further extend the
scale and range of activities under the Government's rural development program
in the Northeast, with the inclusion of support for the development of off-
farm employment. It has also taken into account the early lessons learned
during implementation of the Rio Grande do Norte project, particularly in
agricultural extension and research, credit and project management.
1.03      In addition to this report which is based on the findings of the
appraisal mission, a set of 14 working papers containing fuller technical
information and implementation guidelines were prepared. These are avail-
able in the project files (see Annex 15).



- 2 -
II. BACKGROUND
Characteristics of the Northeast
2.01      The 30 million inhabitants of the Northeastern region, of whom
nearly 60% are rural, constitute the largest geographic concentration of
poverty stricken people in Latin America. Per capita income of the area is
less than half the national average. In the rural areas, land ownership is
extremely skewed; holdings with less than 10 hectares constitute nearly 70%
of the total number, but control only 5.6% of the total farm area. At the
other extreme, larger holdings over 500 hectares, representing only 1% of this
number, account for nearly 40% of the total area. Share-croppers - the most
common form of sub-tenants - cultivate about one-fourth of the land under
more or less precarious forms of land tenure. While the larger operators are
fully market oriented, the small farmers produce primarily for their own
consumption. However, in many parts of the Northeast due to poor soils,
semi-arid climate and periodic droughts, many farms of even large size by
Paraiba state standards (100 ha or more) produce low incomes. The lack of
adequate farm services provided by the Government exacerbates these prob-
lems.
Government Development Programs
2.02      In recent times, several federal government programs have been
created to address the economic and social development of the Northeast.
The Superintendency for the Development of the Northeast (SUDENE) and Bank
of the Northeast (BNB) are two Government agencies which have been set up to
provide monetary and fiscal incentives for both agricultural and industrial
development. However, the resulting increase in job opportunities has not
kept pace with the growth in population and there has been a noticeable migra-
tion from the rural areas to local urban centers as well as to the more indus-
trialized cities in the south. While government officials have been for some
time conscious of the problems of the rural poor, their programs until recently
have been oriented more towards welfare measures than production programs.
2.03      A shift in government policy was evidenced in 1974 with the creation
of the POLONORDESTE program which, among other things, is attempting to raise
the productivity and incomes of small farmers through integrated rural develop-
ment projects which are focused initially on areas with especially pronounced
poverty problems or immediate development potential. Projects are normally
executed by existing agencies assisted by special coordinating units set up
at state level. A regional unit of POLONORDESTE located in SUDENE at Recife
(GRPN) reviews and monitors these projects and reports to a central inter-
ministerial commission in Brasilia (GECA) for overall policy guidance and
allocation of funds.
2.04      POLONORDESTE programs have mainly helped to finance both prepara-
tion activities and some initial expenditures on new projects or completion
of projects prepared or begun before creation of POLONORDESTE. By the middle



- 3 -
of 1977, about US$415 million has been allocated to these various efEorts,
with most of the money going to existing projects. It is only recently that
project preparation guidelines and operating policies have begun to emerge.
Institutional capacity to plan, coordinate and execute projects still require
strengthening. Meanwhile projects already started have experienced adminis-
trative problems and delays.
2.05      POLONORDESTE has influenced the orientation of other government pro-
grams more towards the rural poverty groups. In agricultural research, for
example, EMBRAPA is giving close attention to crop and farming systems suit-
able for small farmers and EMATER extension work is being shifted towards
the small producer. In the past the larger farmers obtained the great bulk
of these services. In the social sector a new program for health and sani-
tation activities (PIASS) was created in August 1976, to extend low-cost,
basic health services to the rural poor. The program emphasizes outreach,
preventive and simple ambulatory care provided by auxiliaries, nutrition
supplementation and simple water supply and sanitation systems. This pro-
gram is still in its formative stage, with many policy and procedural issues
still to be sorted out. New policies are also being formulated for rural
education with particular attention to upgrading rural primary schools, but
some crucial issues, e.g., financing of recurrent costs, remain unresolved.
The State of Paraiba
2.06      Paraiba is one of the relatively small states in the Northeast with
a population of 2.7 million, of which 58% is rural. Urban population has been
growing at 3.7% p.a. while rural population declined slightly by 0.15% p.a.
The latest available per capita income figures (1969) indicate that Paraibans
earn only 36% of the national and 78% of the northeastern average income and
the state has lagged behind rest of the Northeast in development and state
revenues.  The latter dropped in the early seventies with the contribution
from agriculture declining significantly. Of the total area (56,000 km )
about two-thirds fall within the drought affected region of Northeast Brazil;
there are however regions with relatively high agricultural potential.  The
economy of Paraiba is mainly dependent on agriculture; beans, corn, pineapple,
banana, manioc, rice, cotton, sisal and sugar cane constitute the major crops
wlhile livestock and fishery, particularly whaling, also figure significantly.
During the seventies there has been a rapid increase in industrial activity
arising from investments sponsored by SUDENE and a parallel build-up of
infrastructure.  In social infrastructure, recent activity has favored the
urban locations, particularly in regard to provision of water supply and
sanitation. High levels of morbidity due to waterborne diseases are evident
in rural areas throughout the State. Rural education has been neglected
resulting in extremely high illiteracy levels. The POLONORDESTE, and the more
recent PIASS programs, have not yet had a major impact on the rural areas.



-4 -
III. THE PROJECT AREA
Location, Climate and Soils
3.01      The project area (the Brejo) is located in the eastern part of the
state of Paraiba, and covers 14 municipalities with a total area of about
158,000 ha. The Brejo is an elevated region (600 m on average) which bene-
fits from favorable climatic conditions with rainfall well distributed over
a six-month period, but its broken topography and steep slopes have created
serious problems of erosion and resulting losses in fertility. Most of the
soils found in the area are of medium to low fertility. For agricultural
development, three different sub-areas are distinguished according to the
cropping pattern (see map). The potato sub-area (20% of the total area) ben-
efits from 800 mm to 1,000 mm of annual rainfall, has very sandy soils and
is traditionally specialized in potato production; the second sub-area (20%
of the total area) has similar physical conditions, but is more specialized
in cotton and in traditional food crops; the third sub-area (60% of the area)
benefits from higher rainfall (between 1,100 mm and 1,400 mm), presents a more
broken topography and has a highly diversified cropping pattern (subsistence
crops, sugar cane, fruits and dairy cattle). Details of each of the sub-
areas are in Annex 1.
Socio-Economic Conditions
3.02      A special socio-economic survey was done in 1976, for purposes of
project preparation. According to this survey the population of the project
area in 1976 was estimated at 187,000 or some 31,200 families; of these about
77% lived in rural hamlets, the rest in the relatively small townships that
co2stitute the 14 municipal centers. Population density is around 118 per
km ; nearly three times the average for the state. Population growth during
the sixties is estimated at 1.4% p.a.; towns grew faster, aided by consider-
able out-migration from villages. Females outnumber males by 53% to 47%,
which largely reflects the migration of able-bodied males in search of em-
ployment.
3.03      The high incidence of endemic diseases and water-borne diarrheal
ailments, added to the high malnutrition levels among the vulnerable child
and maternal groups, indicate a very unsatisfactory health situation. Schis-
tosomiasis, ancylostomiasis, ascariasis and helminthiasis due to parasitic
worm infestation affect a large segment of the population. The infant mor-
tality rate, 117 deaths per 1,000 live births, is very high even by North-
east Brazil standards. Only 12.5% of homes (rural and urban) have satisfac-
tory drinking water and 25% of the homes, sanitary facilities. A recent
survey of nutrition in the region showed a protein-calorie malnutrition
(PCM) rate of 60%, among children under six years.
3.04      Illiteracy, especially among the higher age groups, is extremely
high; a 1976 survey showed illiteracy to be 70% among males and 60% among
females. School attendance among children of the school-going age was only



-5-
32% in 1975. Schools in the rural area are housed in unsatisfactory deteri-
orated buildings or in teachers' houses and are lacking in qualified teach-
ers; the majority of the teachers themselves do not have more than the pri-
mary level of education.
3.05      Earnings and incomes in the Brejo area are derived mainly from
agricultural production. The larger agricultural holdings of over 50 hec-
tares numbering about 430, belong primarily to absentee landlords. About
8,700 small to medium owner-operators (owning below 50 ha) generally have
farm incomes below one-third of the per capita GNP, there being a few excep-
t:ions among the medium farmers who have adopted improved technologies.
Tenants and share-croppers, who number about 3,100, earn considerably less.
Regular farm workers have comparatively stable but low incomes, with more than
90% among them earning less than Cr$6,000 per annum (US$425) according to the
findings of the socio-economic survey. The remaining landless categories,
mostly temporary agricultural laborers or squatters, earn less than US$200
p.a. Non-farm enterprises, particularly in small-scale industry, construction
and services, provide an important source of employment and income, i.e. about
20% of the permanent employment and a high proportion of part-time employment
and secondary earnings to small farmers and the landless. More than 70% of
the households are estimated to have incomes less than one-third that of the
national average (US$1140 in 1976) and about 35% are within the absolute poor
category.
Agricultural Activities and Potential
3.06      Of the total project area of 158,000 ha about 75% is presently
under agriculture, including pasture, about 11% potentially cultivable and
the remaining 14% unsuitable for agriculture. The cultivated area is made
up of 69% cropped land, 28% pastures (concentrated mainly in the larger
estates) and 3% forest. Two-thirds of the cropped land is devoted to sub-
sistence crops, mainly manioc and beans, and the remainder to cash crops
mainly sugar cane, sisal, cotton, potato, citrus and banana.  Beans, manioc
and occasionally some corn form the traditionally repeated cropping combina-
tion of the small farmers in the citrus and cotton areas, while medium to
large farmers grow commercial crops like sugar cane. Potato, of the tradi-
tional variety, is grown twice a year in small farms in the potato area,
the first crop serving as seed for the second one, which is marketed.
3.07      Agricultural productivity at present is very low due to El combi-
nation of constraints, although the area has substantial potential for a
wide range of crops. A few large farmers who have adopted advanced tech-
nology have achieved high yields; e.g., in the potato area, as much as five
times the average yield. The small-scale producers, however, have little
or no access to extension, credit, inputs and marketing services, and get
consistently low yields. The limited extension staff now available in the
area serves mainly the larger farmers, who are also the chief beneficiaries
of the agricultural credit services provided by the official bankirLg system.
The area has so far not benefited from agricultural research applicable to
local conditions, nor have the results of on-going research programs sys-
tematically found their way to the area primarily due to the lack of inte-
gration between research and extension. However, the federal agricultural



- 6 -
research agency, EIBRAPA, is currently concentrating on crops commonly grown
in the project area, and two research stations situated in the neighborhood
have been recently revitalized, under the Bank assisted Agriculture Research
Project (Loan No. 1249-BR).
Non-Farm Activities
3.08      Non-farm enterprises provide an important and increasing source
of output and employment in the project area. Conservatively, it is esti-
mated that over 10,000 people including those in small local towns are pri-
marily employed in a range of off-farm activities, while a large fraction of
the small farmers and landless also rely on non-farm work in the slack season
to supplement their earnings. Over 80% of the primary non-farm employment is
provided by some 2,500 enterprises with 20 employees or less and an average
payroll of three employees.  The range of products and services provided is
very broad: 22% of employment is in industry and construction, carpentry,
metal work, crop processing, textiles and wearing apparel; 18% in commerce
and marketing, including retail trade; 22% in services, including repair ser-
vices; 6% in transport; and 32% in other private and government activities.
Current Infrastructure
3.09      The project area is fairly well served by the state highway sys-
tem. A recently upgraded "Brejo loop" runs south to north, through the cen-
ter of the project area, serving six main municipal towns. Other towns in
the Brejo are connected to the highway system through unpaved state roads.
This network connects with the federal highway system which runs through
the southern end of the project area. The local (minor) roads which are
maintained by the municipalities, are in relatively poor condition due to
low maintenance capabilities and inadequate financial resources. The federal
rail system runs close to the project area and serves the cities of Campina
Grande and Guarabira which are in the vicinity. Fairly regular public trans-
port services are available in the towns served by the highways, but services
(passenger and goods) to the rural hamlets are poor.
3.10      All towns are linked to the Paulo Alfonso hydropower grid with dis-
tribution within the project area handled by the local power company - SAELPA.
However, only a small number of households are served by the system due largely
to the inability of the local inhabitants to pay for this service at prevail-
ing rates. Postal and telephone facilities are available in all principal
towns, and Areia and Esperanca are linked by micro-wave to the national direct
dialing system. The area is also within the range of the state radio and tele-
vision services.
3.11      Pipe-borne water is available in nine of the municipal towns and
the rest have only simple communal supplies. However, in these towns only
42% of the households have domestic connections, 26% are served by public
standpipes and the rest (32%) depend on other (often contaminated) sources.
The situation in rural areas is worse as none of the villages is served by
any satisfactory water supply system.



- 7 --
IV. THE PROJECT
Strategy_and Objectives
4.01      The first Bank rural development project in Rio Grande do Norte
and the subsequent project in Ceara have been particularly instrumental in
reorienting sectoral policies for the Northeast in agricultura' research,
extension and credit, towards the small farmers' target group. The Brejo area
with its high population density and favorable development potential would be
a suitable location to further emphasize this poverty target group orientation.
The specific target group for agricultural development in Brejo is the 11,700
small to medium-scale group of producers (owner and non-owner) who farm up to
50 ha in extent (25 ha in the potato sub-area - see Annex 4, table 2).
Incomes of this group zre less than a third of the latest estimated GNP per
capita. The substantially underemployed non-agricultural labor, which in-
cludes the core poverty groups of landless in the rural areas and unskilled
workers in the small towns (Annex 6), is an additional target group to be
reached in the project, through a non-farm production component.
4.012     The project strategy adopts a multi-sectoral approach to set the
stage for sustained development in the long-run.  The immediate objectives
would be to increase incomes from agricultural and non-farm enterprises
through integrated packages of production services and complementary infra-
structure. This would be supported by improvements to social infrastructure.
In addition, the project would build up the capabilities of the implementing
agencies to carry forward the development effort.
Project Composition
4.03      The proposed project would consist of the following five principal
components:
(i) Agricultural Production Services (18% of project costs),
including: rural extension and training; research and
farm trials; marketing and storage; and a land tenure
service.
(ii)  Non-far. Production Services (2%), including:  exten-
sion and technical assistance, research and demonstra-
tion; access to credit services; and training.
(iii)  Credit (41%), including:  investment and seasonal
credit to improve and expand agricultural production
by 7,400 small farmers; and credit for investment and
working capital to expand or establish 580 small-scale
non-farm enterprises.
(iv) Infrastructure (35%), including: upgrading, improve-
ment and maintenance of feeder roads; nutrition sup-
port; improved health services; simple water supply



soerer> :uaz        ;. 2U.7'W    '       ,_8' 071    .....
(v)  FProect AdMi_ni'Stri,.'%fJi1    rn:hdn    o, eq 
Petlnrid Teatureq
A    ,0rA.SJcuito t.X77L-oCtIO._ Seryices
4.04       Rur-al Extension ionH TUSS½     ni"-lioc-., basel ine cost)   The project would
support an expansion arnd cSjOr raooei c-utaZ±ian Of extension activities by the
State Extension Agency (EHAT'ER-Fb).  hitherto, the Brejo region has had only
eight agriculture extensiron staff serving a farming population of nearly
12,000; they served maainll-y the la-rger farmers owning aver 100 ha and primarily
in the supervision o-F agric-ultural credit.  The project would finance the
cost of increasing the size ot thne agriculture extension staff sevenfold, to
about 60.  Following - e <pei7ence al the Rio Grande do Norte Project, the
exteusion workers 'rar1i7 o 'enmry           its smaller farmers through the media
of farmer groups5 ard             C 7<fl aenseon services, not only credit
services as in the 2                           hers would be given srpecialized
training on the selected cr_on    -e.-.        esoranges, banana, cotton, beans
and manioc.  There wouca se s               3r}eo officers to supervise credit and
assist the farmers in loan prozessing,  A newu category of 'dairy-cattle
extension agent' t'uld also be created 'ot veterinary care and artificial
insemination servzsi.. -  fte field staff wCuld also be backs<,c-mped by five
subject matter  reti          st-ationed ia the area, four for crop husbandry
and one for dair-  catF-ea
4.05       A regional ag.ricu`ral ofice 4 would be set u  in-  Areia with a
special coordinator  oes?o-n-,sibLe for- rhe ag-ricultural development programs.
Further, seven su--regsonai branches  arnroximately one for every two munici-
palities) would be opened tn briec the extension staff nearer to the farmers.
The specialist staff -arou   b oe station'ed i  Are-a and the field extension
ugents would operate         a sr=m t bre '--anch ctic2as (see malco),  No -probLems are
:oreseen en the recrC'a,'e   of adequasein qualified persons and the project
would support a cmpre ernsive De3erivc^  training program lasting twelve
weeks for a1l exterlon strvzcz per.sonnel, with the active participation of
the Agricultural College (Areia) 3f  -,e Federal University and representa-
tives f rom the resear7ch tctations. Short  one-day training sessions would
also be orzanized f_or f armera  rac resentatives covering snecial activities
such as marketing acd c            Thed -e prcSect wouild finance the incremental
-1ar- :3s of the extensi-on --aff, The offices would be located in rented
:2 i 1 nd i ags a
The social a-rroeirn agents of ELATER will assist the agricul-
arae age-nt s 7<n a --ci >J al production dwork by motivating and assisting
in the dearoloomert of amer associatiocs.  The project would supoort a



- 9 -
variety of activities in agricultural and infrastructural development for
which community participation would be important for their successful opera-
tion.  In Paraiba and RGN, social extensionists of EMATER have demonstrated
thal communities could be successfully motivated for development activity
where state-sponsored programs are operated, and where the government bears
the cost of the necessary physical infrastructure. The project would strengthen
these efforts through provision of small community center buildings in 50
selected locations which would be used as meeting places for the various
commnunity development groups (where health-posts are built, the community hall
would be an integral part of the health-post building). The social extension
service, which is staffed by trained female workers, would be expanded from
four to fourteen extension agents, leading to a coverage of each extension
sub-region by two social extension agents (Annex 3).
4.07      Agricultural Research, Farm Trials (US$0.94 million).  Recently,
federal and state agencies responsible for agricultural research have under-
taken adaptive research on potato, beans, manioc and cotton. The project
would finance the additional costs of research on other crops suitable for
Brejo - i.e., citrus, banana and pastures. It would also finance the field
level experiments on all-these crops. EMBRAPA, which is responsible for co-
ordinating agricultural research in Brazil, has re-equipped a state-level re-
search station in Alagoinha, which borders on Brejo, under a Bank financed
research project (Loan No. 1249-BR), and has set up a National Center for
Cotton (CNA) in nearby Campina Grande. The research activities at both places
would lend support to the project. The project would also support a research
program in soil conservation to be conducted by the agricultural college of
the Federal University of Paraiba (UFPB), in Areia, under EMBRAPA coordination.
This would give an opportunity to the students (many of whom are likely to be
future agricultural extension workers) to be associated with an applied
research program under an ongoing rural development project. A senior agri-
culturalist would be appointed as Research Coordinator in Areia who would be
required to maintain close liaison with the Regional Extension Coordinator and
the subject-matter specialists (Annex 4).
4.08      Land Tenure Services (US$0.32 million).  As an initial step, toward
rectifying the anomalies in land ownership and tenure, the project would
start a nucleus land redistribution and tenancy reform service. During
the first six months of the project a special team of three specialists
would survey the existing tenurial conditions and legislation.  During nego-
tiation assurances were obtained from the State Government that the report of
thiLs survey would be furnished to the Bank before January 1, 1979 along with
the recommendations on actions to be taken by the Government and that the Bank
would be given a reasonable opportunity to comment on it. The State Government
would then prepare implementation procedures for improved land tenure contracts
and set up a new institution to acquire properties for parcelling and sale
among small producers. Subsequently, the team would be absorbed within
the special land department now located in the Secretariat of Agricu:Lture.
Redefinition of the scope and functions of this department would also be
part of the team's terms of reference (Annex 4).
4.09      Marketing and Storage (US$1.44 million).  As project actions take
efJEect, the demand for inputs and the supply of agricultural produce would



- 10 -
become considerable. The existing arrangements for marketing and storage
are judged inadequate and largely exploitative of the small farmers; hence,
the project proposes to help reform and expand these services. At the vil-
lage level a network of about 50 marketing centers  vL.wJI -D CC.-,-.--i     -
provide three basic services: (a) a mini-market for purchase of produce;
(b) a warehouse to store produce temporarily, prior to marketing outside the
project area (mainly beans, manioc flour); and (c) a retail store for inputs.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that designs and specifications
for this mini-complex would be prepared by SUPLAN prior to August 1, 1978
and forwarded to the Bank for comment along with the list of selected loca-
tions. Every producer would have a market place within a maximum of 4 km
from his farm and it is expected that at full development approximately
60% of the production would go through this channel. This network would be
initially operated by CIDAGRO (the state marketing and supply company),
which is well organized and is one of the best marketing companies in the
Northeast. The managers of mini-markets would be selected locally and employed
by CIDAGRO. Progressive farmers' associations would in due course take over
the management of the mini-markets; eventually some of them becoming full-
fledged cooperatives. However, this transformation is expected to take
place over a fairly long period, probably extending beyond project disbursement.
The proposed marketing system would function in competition with the priVate
trade, its primary objective being to provide fair prices to producers and
not to replace the existing traders. The cost of this investment on marketing
infrastructure would be recovered by CIDAGRO by establishing purchase prices
at a level sufficient to effect such recovery over a reasonable period of time
adopting prudent depreciation practices. Operating costs would also be fully
recovered. Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiation (see
also para 7.13 and Annex 5).
4.10      Two cold stores, each of 1,000 ton capacity, would be constructed
in the project area; their primary purpose being to make good quality seed
potatoes available to project farmers. The first cold store is scheduled
for construction in 1978 by the Brazilian Storage Company (CIBRAZEM) s±ng
Brazilian government funds outside POLONORDESTE. The project woul-` .:nance
the cost of the second cold store planned for 1981 in order to cater for the
expected growth in demand for seed potatoes. These stores would be located
within the project area. Certified seed raised by selected farmers from
high quality seed imported from South Brazil and under close techniLcal super-
vision of EMATER and EMBRAPA, would be purchased by CIDAGRO and stored in the
cold stores for sale to potato growers during the following season. Resale
prices would be fixed at a level sufficient to recover the cost of storage,
including phased recovery of investment costs. 'While CIDAGRO would manage
seed procurement and distribution, CIBRAZEM would operate the storese Sub-
mission of a detailed plan for the second cold storage unit, including irfor-
mation on capacity, location, technical specifications and system of operation
would be a condition of disbursement against this component. An assurance to
this effect was obtained during negotiations.



- 11 -
B. Non-Farm Production Services
4.11      General.  The project includes assistance to develop a variety of
small-scale non-farm enterprises (SSEs) 1/ in the project area, which would
increase the employment and earning opportunities of the target group. These
enterprises largely supply inputs and services to the small farmers in the
project area and non-food goods and services to the local population. The
growth in output and incomes in small farms is expected to generate a large
increase in demand for the products and services of these SSEs. This compo-
nent would be an innovative step in programs focused towards rural and semi-
urban poverty groups in Northeast Brazil, and would provide a model fEor future
projects. Assistance given under the project would include technical assis-
tance, credit, research and demonstration and training. About 1,200 enter-
prises are expected to benefit in varying degree from these services (see
also Annex 6).
4.12      Non-farm Extension (US$0.77 million).  This service would Eocus on
provision to SSEs of technical advice and assistance to obtain credit through
thes Nucleus for Assistance to Industries (NAI - Pb). This agency was formed
in 1970 as a state level branch of the Brazilian Center for Assistance to
Small and Medium Enterprises (CEBRAE) to provide technical assistance to a
range of enterprises in industry, construction, commerce, repair services,
transport services, agro-industries and general service activities. The NAI
Board of Directors is composed of representatives of related agencies including
the local development banks. The services provided by the extension agents,
particularly in loan processing, would infuse greater confidence in the banks
to lend to SSEs. The project would finance the cost of salaries and training
of eight professionals and two auxiliaries to the NAI extension staff.
4.13      Research, Demonstration and Training (US$0.28 million).  The proj-
ect would encourage the development of new products and production techniques
and improvements to the existing ones, by financing the construction, equip-
ment and staff of a research and demonstration center in the project area
to be run by the Vital de Nigreiros Agricultural College of the UFPB.
Sufficient scope would arise as a result of the project for new services in
packaging, processing, etc., and the center would concentrate on developing
appropriate techniques for them. Project support for training in manual,
business and other skills relevant for SSEs is described in para. 4.20 and
detailed in Annex 8.
1/   "Small-scale" is defined as an enterprise with an investment of less
than Cr$180,000 (US$12,000) and an owner's family income of less than
US$480 per month, both in prices of September 1977.



- 12 -
C. Credit
4.14      Agricultural Credit (US$20.15 million).  A key element for the suc-
cess of the project is timely availability and proper administration of pro-
duction credit to meet the needs of the project target group. The project
would provide incremental credit funds, coupled with technical assistance, to
help achieve the projected increases in agricultural production. A total of
7,380 small-scale target farms (6,150 owners and 1,230 landless operators
farming up to 50 hectares in extent) would benefit from agricultural credit.
In 1976, roughly US$4 million was extended in agricultural credit to about
1,200 farmers in the project area, but three-fourths was absorbed by farms
over 50 hectares and 85% of the borrowers that year were repeat clients from
previous years. Hence, the large majority of the expected project participants
would be receiving credit for the first time. Seasonal production credit will
be used to finance farm inputs to increase production of potatoes, beans, cot-
ton, manioc, sugar cane and bananas. Investment credit (medium and long-term)
would be made available to finance the establishment of citrus crops, pastures
and to purchase equipment, tools and livestock. Small farmers who may need
credit for land purchase as a result of land tenure services provided under
the project, would have access to an established POLONORDESTE line of credit
without project financing (Annex 2).
4.15      Rural credit would be channelled through the local branches of Banco
do Brasil (BB) and Banco do Nordeste (BNB). Agricultural credit terms to
the farmers, established by the Government for the POLONORDESTE program provide
for a nominal interest rate of 7%, unindexed, for both investment and seasonal
working capital credits, with the exception of credit for fertilizer purchase
which carries no interest charge following government policy. Credit for
"semi-fixed" investments (work animals, light equipment, etc.) would have a
final maturity of up to 8 years, including up to 4 years grace, and for "fixed"
investments (land clearing, establishment of permanent crops, small-scale irri-
gation, etc.) up to 12 years, including up to 6 years grace. No collateral is
needed on loans below 50 MVR (US$3,000). 1/ Given Brazil's inflation rate, the
interest rates adopted by the Government for POLONORDESTE projects are highly
negative in real terms. As a result of a continuing dialogue with the Bank,
the Brazilian Government has already reduced some subsidies, as in fertil-
izer, and also standardized interest rates on short-term credit. However,
in this project several safeguards have been incorporated to see that the
beneficiaries of subsidized credit would be largely small farmers. These
include a ceiling on size of outstanding loans fixed at 100 MVR (equivalent
to US$6,000), close supervision of credit by special credit extension agents
and periodic monitoring of credit disbursements. Adoption of these measures
would ensure that the expanded credit coverage envisaged in the project would
1/   MVR (Maximum Reference Value) is a unit established by the Brazilian
Government, and adjusted periodically in accordance with inflation, which
is roughly equivalent to the prevailing national minimum wage (Cr$890 or
US$60 in September 1977).



- 13 
be accomplished and that the bulk of the credit would reach the small farmers.
Durin,g negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Federal Government
that the Central Bank would maintain its arrangements with BB and BNB to act
as intermediaries for the credit component, that credit funds under the
pl .._et would be lent on terms and conditions of thL .OLONORDESTE prcew..:  a 1,
in addition include a ceiling of 100 MVR on the aggregate principal amount
outstanding on loans for working capital and on-farm investment to any indi-
vidual farmer and that the Government would inform the Bank of any modifica-
tions in such terms and conditions.
4.16      Non-farm credit (US$1.26 million).  To comDlement the non-farm pro-
duction components, the project would include credit for small-scale enter-
prises, including industries, commerce and services located in the area. The
estimated credit requirement is fully within the lending capacity of the local
banking system; hence the Bank loan would not disburse against it. About 800
loans are expected to be made with some SSE's borrowing both for investment
and working capital. With assistance from NAI extension agents, non-farm
credi t would be provided through Banco do Brasil, Banco do Estado da Paraiba
(BEP) and Banco do Nordeste do Brasil. These banks would make credit avail-
able through their ten branch offices, using an existing line adequate for
SSEs., Credit would be made available at rates determined by the current
lending policy to industry and commerce in the Northeast, which are also
high:Ly subsidized, given the inflation rate and the fact that such loals are
not indexed. Credit would be extended to finance working capital (short-term)
and investments (long-term) for expansion, modernization and establishmnent of
new enterprises. A number of new procedures simplifying access to credit
for small enterpreneurs, would be tested through implementation to further
strengthen the links between credit (both farm and non-farm) and other ser-
vices and these procedures would be closely monitored and further improved
during project implementation (Annex 2).
D. Infrastructure and Related Services
4.17      Rural Roads (US$13.23 million).  The project's road component would
upgrade 72 km of state roads to DER's (The State Highway Department) basic
standard, and make spot improvements along another 73 km; would reconstruct
92 km of main municipal feeder roads to an improved standard and provide
essential drainage and surface improvement for another 85 km. No new road
construction is proposed as the existing road network would be adequate
to meet project requirements provided it is upgraded and well-maintained,
The project would follow variable width, low-cost feeder road standard that
has ample capacity for projected traffic flows and meets local needs.  The
specific roads to be improved under the project, as well as the proposed
sch.edule and methods of execution, would be reviewed and confirmed during the
first supervision mission, for this component, scheduled for mid 1978.
"The DER would be responsible, with appropriate assistance from consult-ants,
Ftor preparation of engineering, for supervision of construction done by
contractors and for carrying out some of the small-scale improvements on
f orce account.  The arrangements for execution of the road component would be
the subject of a convenio between the POLONORDESTE Management Council and DER.
Assuirances were obtained during negotiations that this agreement would be
finalized before August 1978.



- 14 -
4.18      The state and the municipalities receive shares from the National
Highway Fund that are earmarked for road maintenance and improvement. DER is
organized with field offices, poorly equipped but staffed for maintenance of
state highways (and some delegated national roads). Maintenance priority is
given to paved roads and the more important unpaved roads. The municipali-
ties have little to no maintenance capability and receive only sporadic DER
assistance. Hence, the project would emphasize the importance of commitments
to road maintenance. Maintenance equipment for the DER consisting chiefly
of motor graders, road rollers and trucks would be financed to assure both
the maintenance of the state roads and systematically programmed assistance
to the municipalities. Assurances were obtained from the State Government
during negotiations that these would be used in the first place on mainte-
nance of feeder roads in the project area in accordance with annual programs
satisfactory to the Management Council. Training of municipal foremen in road
maintenance will be conducted by DER, followed by two years of supervised
implementation. Written agreements (convenios) would be obtained from the
municipalities to provide sufficient funds from their budget to ensure adequate
maintenance of feeder roads to agreed standard and DER would be requested to
provide systematic assistance to the municipalities in road maintenance.
Assurances were obtained from the Government on the above during negotiations.
The norms and practices developed in this project component would have benefi-
cial effects on similar activities in other POLONORDESTE projects.
4.19      Education and Training (US$3.90 million).  The project would collab-
orate with the federal Ministry of Education in reorganizing several aspects
of the primary education system in the Brejo area to serve as a pilot attempt
in improving the rural education system in the Northeast. It would rational-
ize the distribution of schools and provide improved accommodation by con-
structing, furnishing and equipping 74 primary schools with a total of 5,180
student places for 10,360 rural primary pupils in double shifts, at grades I
to 8 and by providing 30 houses for primary teachers. It would assist the
Secretariat of Education by financing the cost of consultants for the elab-
oration of a new curriculum and textbooks, and by printing seven basic text-
books for a total of 21,200 pupils (total 1977 enrollment in the project area)0
To supplement the curriculum revision, the project would help to upgrade 28
teacher supervisors and 1,124 teachers under an existing government program
for teacher training (LOGOs). Assurances were obtained during negotiations
from the State Government that it would enter into agreement with the munici-
palities where the new facilities would be located assuring priority placement
for project upgraded teachers, payment of appropriate salaries and adoption of
minimum standards for recruitment of new teachers. The project would not meet
the recurrent costs of the formal primary education component, but the Federal
Government has expressed willingness to participate on a sliding scale in
financing recurrent costs and simultaneously to assist with ways of improving
the resources available to the municipalities for this purpose. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that the State Government would ensure
adequate funding of all recurrent cost obligations of the primary education
component. The project would further assist the state Secretariat of Education
to coordinate the implementation of various project sub-components with funds
to meet the cost of consultancies, additional staff, furniture, equipment and
vehicle for the division responsible for supervision of school construction.



- 1J -
During negotiations assurances were obtained that master plans for the schools
and staff houses would be provided to the Bank for review prior to August
1978. Disbursement against the planned construction of individual primary
schools would be conditional upon provision to the Bank of (i) evidence
of acquisition of the respective sites, (ii) site plans for each school and
(iii) a municipal decree providing for the closure of any existing sCEool or
schools which will not be necessary after the construction of the new school.
4.20      Th-. project's non-formal training component would support a literacy
program for She families of nearly 8,200 illiterate target group farmers by
providing teaching materials, salaries and subsistence of trainers for 70
literacy instructors.  It would also assist EMATER in organizing specialized
farmer training coou-ses, eventually covering most of the 11,700 target group
farniers.  Comnlcs- in-arv to the project support given for off-farm enterprises
(para 4,12) , assistar? would be given to the institutions dealing with
various types of vocatI.on.al training (i.e. SENAI for industry and SENAC for
commerce), for purchase of transport, equipment and furniture, and also meet a
part of the recurrent expenditure connected with the training programs.  The
project would assist the artisan training program operated by the UFPB with
equ:Lpment, fellowships and funds for upgrading the instructors and to run 36
training courses for artisans many of whom are women (Annex 8).
4.21      Health and Sanitation (US$0.89 million).  The project actions would
complement the National Program for Integrated Health Care in the Rural Areas
(PIASS), in improving the rural health delivery system and sanitation. In
the project area, PIASS would concentrate on strengthening the delivery ser-
vice through health centers located in rural towns, and the project would
complement PIASS by financing the construction of:  (i) 25 elementary health
units (health-posts); and (ii) 25 simple water supply schemes. Although ambi-
tious investments in rural health are planned under PIASS, the future of the
program is uncertain and no clear operational procedures have been drawn up
yet. At the federal level those responsible for the two programs now have
agreed on uniform policies. The proposed division of responsibilities within
this proJect aims at bringing about cohesive working arrangements at the state
level, which would be detailed in an agreement (convenio) between the Manage-
menLt Council and the Secretary for Health (SES).
4.22      Under thn -vroject, the health-posts would be constructed in locations
to be jointly selected by officials of the SES and the UCT. They wouLld be
manned by basic health workers selected from the locality and trained by the
federal health agency, FSESP, which operates the principal urban health centers
in the project area. Community health associations, formed under the initia-
tive of the Social Extensionists, would help to select candidates for training
as basic health workers and also solicit community participation in the opera-
tion and maintenance of the centers. The health-posts would be linked to the
urban health centers for referral services and supervision. The project would
meet the costs of training health workers.
4.23      The water supply schemes would be constructed by the State Water,
Supply and Sewerage Authority (CAGEPA), after entering into an agreement
satisfactory to the Bank, with the water users' committee in the same villages
in which the health-posts are to be located. Location of water sources and
type and levels of _ervices would be identified after feasibility surveys are



- 16 -
conducted by CAGEPA. Completion of feasibility surveys would be a condition
of disbursement for the sanitation component. CAGEPA would be responsible for
final engineering designs and construction of the schemes and repair and
maintenance thereafter. The local water users' committees would cover the
operating costs of the schemes including the salary of the operator. The
project would finance the cost of a vehicle, some equipment and spare parts
for a maintenance service to be operated by CAGEPA.
4.24      The effectiveness of the project's health component would  -pend
on the active interest taken in    by the health agencies, including ^-verall
coordination by the Secretary of Health (SES), and the extent to whic- com-
munities participate in using the health-posts and in the operation o  the
water supply schemes. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that
an agreement (convenio) would be established between the POLONORDESTE Manage-
ment Council and SES regarding the executing responsibilities and coordina-
tion of the health improvements in the project area and the State Government
would arrange adequate recurrent cost funding to maintain the health services
efficiently in the project area. Agreement was also obtained that health-posts
and water supply systems would be constructed only in locations where a
minimum of 100 families would be served directly and where communities
have agreed through their health associations and water-user committees to
participate during construction and meet the operation and maintenance costs
of the systems (Annex 9).
4.25      Nutrition Improvement.  The 14 social extensionists of EMATER sta-
tioned in the project area would also promote nutrition improvements through
community involvement (para 4.06). The community centers (and health-posts)
would be the nuclei for organization of mothers' clubs, youth clubs and other
group activities for rural women through which nutrition education, home
gardening, improved food preparation and home economics would be promoted.
The health-posts would screen the severely malnourished children for clinical
care in the health centers and would also be used for any expansion of the
ongoing pilot food distribution and other nutrition activities in the future.
One such pilot program is being carried out in nine municipalities in Paraiba
under the Brazilian National Nutrition Program (PRONAN), which has Bank
support under the Brazil Nutrition Project (Loan No. 1302-BR), and includes
one project area municipality. The project would not incur any costs directly
related to nutrition improvement, except support for the social extension
services (Annex 3 and Annex 9).
E. Project Administration (US$2.15 million)
4.26      The project would be executed by existing state and federal agen-
cies. However, in view of the complex nature of the project and the mul-
tiplicity of agencies involved, a POLONORDESTE project coordinating unit
(UCT) would play a vital role of coordination and monitoring (Chapter VI).
The unit, already operative since May 1977, would be staffed by a Chief Pro-
gram Coordinator, a Coordinator for the Brejo project, an assistant coordina-
tor for monitoring and evaluation and seven technical advisers with specific



- 17 -
responsibilities for coordination of project execution, technical support to
the executing agencies and monitoring of progress. Equipment, transport, con-
sultancy services, training and incremental salary support for UCT during the
project execution phase are included within project costs, as well as the
costs for project evaluation to be done independently by the Evaluation
Unit within CEPA - Pb (Annex 10).
V. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Cost Estimates
5.01      The total project cost over the five-year project period (April 1978
to March 1983) is estimated at US$67.3 million which includes physical contingen-
cies equivalent to 4% of baseline costs and price contingencies equivalent to
25% of the baseline costs plus physical contingencies. Baseline costs have
been estimated at post-appraisal (September 1977) prices. The estimated for-
eign exchange component is US$13.4 million or about 20% of the total project
costs. The Government will be spending up to US$4.2 million equivalent of
own resources during POLONORDESTE fiscal year 1977-1978 on advanced project
implementation. This amount is not included in total project cost. Physical
contingencies were added at 10% for all construction and for equipment used on
agricultural services and infrastructure including health, education, research
and demonstration for non-farm production and for project management. Price
contingencies were calculated on US$ terms as follows: civil work 9% per
year. from 1977 to 1979 and 8% thereafter; for equipment and all other costs
at 8% per year from 1977 to 1979 and 7% thereafter. Cost estimates are
summarized below and the phasing of investments shown in Annex 12.



- 18 -
US$ million
% Foreign    % of Total
Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange   Baseline Costs
I. Productive Support          8.94    1.61   10.55       15             20
Rural Extension             5.95    0.86    6.81       13             13
Applied Agricultural
Research                  0.84    0.09    0.93       10              2
Marketing & Storage         0.88    0.56    1.44       39              3
Land Tenure Services        0.32     -       0.32       -              -
Small-Scale Enterprises   0.95    0.10    1.05         10              2
II. Development Credit         18.06    3.35   21.41       15             41
On-farm Seasonal           10.47    1.29   11.76       11             23
On-farm Investment          6.46    1.93    8.39       23             16
Small-Scale Enterprises   1.13       .13    1.26       10              2
III. Infrastructure             12.84    5.18   18.02       29             35
Roads                       8.92    4.31   13.23       33             25
Health & Sanitation         0.71    0.18    0.89       20              2
Education & Training        3.21    0.69    3.90       18              8
IV. Project Administration    1.93    0.22    2.15         10              4
Project Management          1.23    0.14    1.37       10              3
Monitoring & Evaluation   0.70    0.08    0.78         10              1
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS       41.77   10.36   52.13       20            100
Physical Contingencies    1.63    0.41    2.04         20              4
Price Contingencies        10.50    2.63   13.13       20             25
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS        53.90   13.40   67.30       20            129
Financing
5.02      The proposed bank loan of US$24 million equivalent to the Federal
Republic of Brazil would finance 35% of total project costs, representing
100% of foreign exchange costs (US$13.4 million) together with 20% of local
currency costs (US$10.6 million); the rest would be financed by the Federal
Government under the POLONORDESTE program, except for credit needs of small-
scale enterprises which would be met in full by the participating banks. The
foreign exchange content of projects designed to assist low-income groups is
characteristically very low; hence for the Bank to have a major impact on the
preparation and execution of these projects, it is important to finance a
significant share of local costs. Moreover, Brazil has demonstrated that
it is making strong efforts to raise domestic resources to finance its prior-
ity development programs such as POLONORDESTE and should therefore be encour-
aged further through Bank support in this area.



- 19 -
5.03      Budgeting.  Release of funds by POLONORDESTE is controlled through
annual implementation plans which are prepared by the respective executing
agencies and coordinated by the state-level coordinating unit (UCT). After
approval by the Project Management Council, these plans are subjected to
reviiew at the Regional and Federal levels prior to release of funds. Ex-
perience so far with the RGN project has shown that the existing procedures
for release of funds are complicated and prone to delay. Discussions have
been going on with the Government on streamlining procedures for release of
funds for rural development projects especially those supported by the Bank.
As a positive step in this direction, the President of Brazil has on February
15, 1978 authorized the establishment of a special coordinating unit in the
Ministry of Agriculture to facilitate early approval of POLONORDESTE project
plans, and the creation of a Revolving Fund (Fundo Rotativo) under the control
of the Federal Ministry of Planning (SEPLAN) for all Bank financed POLONORDESTE
projects, along with an initial deposit of Cr$49 million. The details of
operation regarding these institutions would remain to be worked out. However,
during negotiations assurance was obtained that the Government of Brazil would
make an initial deposit of not less than Cr$49 million (US$3.25 equivalent) in
the Revolving Fund, and thereafter deposit in the Fund such amounts as shall
be required to ensure that on the first day of each quarter, there shall be
available in the Fund sufficient amounts to meet the payments expected to be
made on the project during that quarter; and that the Revolving Fund would be
maintained until all payments in respect of the project have been made.
Further, placing of the initial deposit referred to in the Fund would be a
condition of project effectiveness. The funding situation would be closely
reviewed during project supervision. Further, assurances were obtained during
negotiations that the annual operating plans would be submitted to the Bank
for review at least four months prior to the start of the POLONORDESTE fiscal
year.
Procurement
5.04      All materials and equipment needed for the project would be procured
in accordance with government procurement and bidding procedures, which are
acceptable to the Bank. Farm inputs would be procured by individual farmers
through CIDAGRO, farmer associations and private traders. All major equipment
and materials in excess of US$300,000 (or 5,000 MVR according to Brazilian
rules) per contract, would be procured through competitive bidding advertised
nationally. These would be mainly equipment for road maintenance, which would
cost about US$500,000 and would be limited to vehicles and a few types of
equipment manufactured in Brazil, taking into account spare part ava:ilability
and consistency with currently available equipment. Although foreign sup-
pliers could participate if they wish, they are unlikely to do so since
Brazilian manufacturers of equipment required by the project are quite
comrpetitive.  Other equipment and materials totalling about US$1 million would
be procured through bidding procedures laid down by the government for pro-
curement on a local basis.
5.05      Construction works (totalling US$15.1 million) would be awarded to
pr,equalified bidders on the basis of competitive bidding advertised nationally.
Thiese include anntal contracts for feeder roads, (totalling US$11.2 million)



- 20 -
and the contracts for civil works required for health posts, schools,
community centers and mini-markets (an additional US$3.9 million). Brazil
has a competitive local construction industry capable of carrying out the
project works. Since the individual construction works are relatively
small, foreign contractors are not expected to be interested, though they
would not be excluded from bidding. Where contractor interest is insuf-
ficient for works costing up to US$20,000, including small spot-improvements
on roads, DER and SUPLAN would carry out construction under force account.
Consultancy services of locally available consultants for agricultural
research, marketing and project administration would be awarded after local
advertisement in accordance with standard Government procedures. Six months
of foreign consultancy services costing about US$4,700 per month, would be
required, in addition, for the monitoring and evaluation component. Contracts
with all consultants would be awarded on terms and conditions approved by the
Bank.
Disbursement
5.06      The proposed loan would be disbursed at the rate of 36% against
all project expenditures except non-farm credit. Disbursements would be
made to the Central Bank of Brazil, the fiscal agent for the POLONORDESTE
program, against withdrawal applications covering statements of all expen-
diture except credit, initiated by the various implementing agencies under
the project and certified by the Project Coordinating Unit. Disbursements
for credit would be made against statements certified by the Central Bank.
Supporting documentation for salaries, administrative expenses and minor
construction under force accounts would not be submitted to the Bank, but
would be retained by the UCT and made available for inspection by the Bank
during the course of project supervision missions. Standard documentation
covering civil works, vehicles and equipment and technical assistance would be
submitted to the Bank. Similar procedures are being followed in the Rio
Grande do Norte and Ceara projects. Details of the documents required were
reviewed during negotiations. Disbursements are expected to occur over six
years. The estimated disbursement schedule is given in Annex 13.
Accounts and Auditing
5.07      Each participating agency would maintain accounts of its project
expenditures, which would be audited annually by Government auditors (In-
spector General of Finances), according to standard Government practice for
POLONORDESTE projects. Both BB and BNB are audited by the Central Bank's
auditing unit (Division of Auditing and General Accounting) and BNB is also
audited by satisfactory independent auditors. The state POLONORDESTE co-
ordinating unit would maintain accounts of its own project expenditures as
well as statements of expenditures by each participating agency. Copies of
the audited statements of project accounts of the various participating
agencies and the audited statements of the participating banks of their
lending under the project, would be provided to the Bank annually within six
months from the end of the fiscal year. Assurances were obtained to this
effect during negotiations.



- 21 -
VI. PROJECT MANAGEMENT
Project Organization (Annex 10)
6.01      The POLONORDESTE program has a structured organization at the
federal, regional and state levels for project planning and coordination.
In Paraiba, state-level coordination of the program and the establishment
of policy guidelines is done by a Management Council composed of the State
Secretaries responsible for the implementing agencies, with the Secrietary
of Agriculture as President, representing the Governor. Responsibility for
implementation of project components is assigned by the Mfanagement Council
through agreements (convenios and sub-convenios) with the relevant State
Secretaries and implementing agencies.
6.02      The Management Council would also enter into special agreements
with the respective State Secretaries to ensure their cooperation and assis-
tance in project coordination. A Technical Coordination Unit (UCT) has been
created to carry out day to day coordination of project activities, finalize
annual operating plans along with the executing agencies, provide technical
support, monitor project progress and serve as the liaison link (for all
POLONORDESTE projects) between the executing agencies, and the Management
Council. It would be directly responsible to the Management Council. The
UCT is headed by a full-time Chief Program Coordinator. Its staff, dealing
directly with the Brejo project, would comprise a project coordinator, an
assistant coordinator, seven technical advisers and support staff. The
assistant coordinator would be responsible for processing progress reports
and coordinating evaluations. The Coordination Unit would function as the
direct liaison age-icy between the POLONORDESTE Regional Group in Recife
(GRPN), the Federal Group (GECA) and the Bank. Key officials, including the
Chief Program Coordinator, the Brejo Project Coordinator, and most technical
advisers have already been appointed from among those who had been closely
involved in the preparation of the project. The unit has received whole-
hearted support from the State Government. An assurance was obtained during
negotiations that the key positions would continue to be staffed by qualified
and experienced persons and the Bank informed of any change. Drafts of all
convenios and sub-convenios have been reviewed with the respective agencies.
Monitoring and Evaluation
6.03      The Project would have a management information system built into
the project management structure, including a progress reporting system for
each of the executing agencies. Quarterly reports to UCT would form the basis
of a quarterly review by UCT monitoring staff and technical advisers, who
would bring to the attention of the Management Council and the implementing
agencies any problems or shortfalls needing corrective action. Copies of the
review, with comments of Management Council on action needed/taken, would be
forwarded to POLONORDESTE and the Bank, within three months after each quarter.
Assurances to this effect were obtained from the Government during negotiations.



- 22 -
6.04      Evaluation of the project effects and impact would be handled by
the special unit of CEPA, which will report to the Management Council through
the Chief Program Coordinator. The unit would have responsibility for the
following: completing the baseline socio-economic survey; farm and social
surveys on the output and effects of the project especially of the target
groups; studies of particular issues and problems; and mid-term and ex-post
evaluation of the project's design and impact. Information and data obtained
through the socio-economic survey undertaken during project preparation would
serve as bench-marks for measuring project impact. In designing the monitoring
and evaluation system, efforts have been made to define the objectives of
each project component and to identify key indicators to measure project
progress and impact. These are shown in Annex 10, Charts 1 to 3.
VII. PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND BENEFITS
Agricultural Production
7.01      The project envisages substantial increases in the output of the
main cash crops commencing fairly early in the implementation period, as the
main thrust of extension would be to propagate the available improved tech-
nology among small-and-medium-scale farmers. At full development gross out-
put by target group farmers would increase by some US$26 million, or 180% of
current levels. About US$14.8 million (57% of the total increase) would
follow from increased production of potatoes and citrus; production of manioc,
banana, beans, cotton, mimosa, milk and meat would also increase. Yields of
potato would increase from the current low average of 3.2 tons/ha to 12.5
tons/ ha over a 6-year period; and for citrus, from 10.0 tons/ha to 20.0
tons/ha over 13 years. Sizeable increases in area planted to potato and
citrus is anticipated, while areas planted to sugarcane, beans and manioc
would decrease by 2,880 ha. In total some 2,000 additional hectares would
be cultivated, an increase of less than 4% of the present area.
7.02      The proposed technologies for adoption by small farmers would not
require major changes from those now used by the advanced farmers and would
mainly involve application of high quality seed and technical packages
defined on the basis of current, local know-how. Project actions would
improve further on existing technology through applied research and soil
conservation practices. The estimated yield increases (Annex 4 para. 12)
could be considered quite modest since in potato cultivation, for example,
some of the better producers have already been harvesting over 20 tons/ha.
7.03      Project improvements to infrastructure, particularly feeder roads
and marketing services, would also benefit agricultural production as the
flow of inputs to rural areas and the transport of marketable surpluses to
marketing centers would be substantially improved through better rural roads.
Refrigerated storage and village stores closely linked to the marketing ser-
vices provided by CIDAGRO, would be incentives to the local producers to
grow the identified high value crops.  Increased use of draft animals and
the increased production of farm-yard manure would also improve the yield
levels among small farmers.



- 23 -
Agricultural Marketing and Prices
7.04      The proposed project actions are expected to generate such heavy
marketable surpluses in cash crops that, without a parallel build-up in the
marketing arrangements, wastage and producer disincentives would occ:ur. The
proposed marketing structure (Annex 5) is designed to provide the producer
with easy access to markets as well as better prices. In place of the pres-
ent monopoly enjoyed by the middlemen dealers, the project would create a
competitive situation (para 4.09). Producer prices are not expected to be
influenced by increased production except in the case of potatoes and oranges
where a 10% reduction has been allowed for seasonal peaking of supplies. How-
ever, this reduction would be more than compensated by the benefits resulting
from improved marketing.
7.05      The marketing improvement provided under the project wouldl largely
benefit the producers of potato, citrus and banana. These products are ex-
pected to be absorbed within the urban markets in Paraiba and the neighboring
states of Pernambuco and Rio Grande do Norte according to marketing studies
done during project appraisal. The increased output of cotton and milk would
be! taken up by the existing processing plants within Brejo and the marketable
surplus of the neighboring areas.  Manioc is locally processed by numerous
simple processing plants scattered throughout the project area (which would
in turn benefit from the technical extension services provided by the proj-
ect's non-farm development component), and marketed locally. Incremental
production of beans could be absorbed within Paraiba and in the neighboring
states.
Agricultural Income and Employment
7.06      Out of the 11,700 target farmers about 7,400 are expected to adopt
the improved technology. These farmers would derive substantial income bene-
fits from the project investments in on-farm development, improved agricul-
tural services and infrastructure support (Annex 4). These benefits would
include increased family employment, improved subsistence and increased cash
revenue from marketed production. Under the proposed development pattern,
the project would generate increased agricultural employment opporttnities
equivalent to some 3,240 work-years annually of family labor and 2,160 work-
years of hired labor.
7.07      Current farm incomes for the target groups of small farmers (owning
less than 5 ha.) and share croppers are substantially below the estimated
poverty threshold of US$2,500 per family of six, based on the GNP per capita
of US$1,140 in 1976 for Brazil. Even medium farmers (owning from 5 to 50 ha.)
would on average be well below this level. However, some small farmers and
share croppers augment their income farming additional land rented from
larger owners and would have incomes from other non-farm sources. Overall,
some 90% of farm families directly benefiting from the project fall within
the poverty target group. To analyze the project's overall income effects,
n:ine farm models representative of variations in areas, farm sizes and



- 24 -
tenure were selected out of 25 basic farm models. Gradual adoption of known
improved technology was assumed, with 63% of the target group adopting fully
the proposed technical packages. Results of the analysis indicate that most
farm incomes would at least double as a result of the project. For example,
in the potato area, both small and medium-scale farmers would increase their
incomes more than fourfold; in the cotton area, target farmers' incomes would
nearly double and some medium-farmers in this area, who are expected to take
up dairying, would triple their incomes. In the citrus area too, three to
fourfold increases could be expected although full production levels in this
area would be reached only after about 14 years. Share-croppers in all three
areas would also benefit considerably from the project and on the average
double their incomes, with those in the potato area improving most. However,
their actual incomes would depend on the terms of the tenurial contracts,
which currently preclude them from growing pasture and long-term crops like
citrus. Their incomes from farming could improve even further if project
actions would be successful in bringing about secure and more favorable
tenancy conditions.
7.08      Weighted averages of income improvement for the three adoption
groups would be as follows:
Net Farm-Income
Average Cropped  Number of                    At Full
Area        Adopters   Pre-Project  Development  Increases
US$          US$           %
Potatc Area
Small farmers   (1.4 ha.)        1,310          290         1,150        300
Medium farmers  (6.5 ha.)          850        1,100         5,040         360
Share-croppers  (3.8 ha.)          430          470        3,225         580
Cotton Area
Small farmers   (1.9 ha.)          570          275           465         70
Medium farmers (10.6 ha.)          630        1,145         3,600         215
Share-croppers  (4.5 ha.)          140          685         1,280         85
Citrus Area
Small farmers   (2.7 ha.)        1,570          365         1,245        240
Medium farmers (14.6 ha.)        1,220        1,800         7,345        310
Share-croppers  (5.5 ha.)          660          360           660         85
Financial rates of return to all the representative groups are in excess of
50%, which largely reflects the past neglect of small farmers as a group
and also their productive potential. Large farmers who are outside the
project target group would benefit indirectly from some project actions,
mainly applied research and feeder roads. These and other indirect benefits
have not been considered as part of project benefits.



- 25 -
BenefLts of Non-Farm Production
7.09      The non-farm development component of the project has the bas:ic
objective of increasing output, employment and earnings in small-scale enter-
prises (SSE) in and around the project area. Project actions would encourage
further investment by the small entrepreneurs and adoption of new and imnproved
methods of production.  Many of the existing enterpreneurs are outsie tLhe
project's poverty target group; however, project actions would beneff.t the
substantial group of unskilled semi-urban labor and rural landless woo form
the most needy group in the area's population, by providing opportun,-ties to
acquire skills and find employment in a variety of small industry, commerce
and other services. The output of a substantial portion of the over 1,200
SSEs receiving technical assistance directly from the project is expected to
double within the five year project period. Improved earnings are expected to
accrue to about 1,800 unskilled laborers. This component, which involves only
a modest investment, could remove key constraints to development and could
well provide a model for the sector in the whole Northeast of Brazil and
elsewhiere.
Benef:Lts of Social Sector Development
7.10      The development of social infrastructure under the project would
benef:Lt almost all persons living in the rural parts of the project area.
Investments are designed to support and supplement the economic effects aris-
ing from development of the productive sectors and substantially contribute
to meeting the basic needs of the rural population. The network of rural
health-posts would extend to the villages primary health care services which
are now available only in a few urban centers. Clean drinking water, envi-
ronmental sanitation and nutrition improvement promoted by the project
social extensionists are expected to considerably improve the health status
and productivity of over 50% of the rural people. In education, project:
actionis are expected to increase attendance in rural primary schools and
greatly improve the quality of instruction. The adult literacy program would
benefiLt the families of the nearly 8,200 target group farmers.
Economic Analysis
7.11      An economic rate of return was calculated only for the agricultural
and non-farm investments under the project, as the return to social invest-
ments, though qualitatively significant, is not quantifiable. The economic
rate of return to the agriculture component, which accounts for nearly 86%
of project costs including productive support programs and infrastructure such
as feeder roads and for which benefits can be quantified, is estimated at 30%.
For the non-farm component the rate of return was tested for a range of
possibilities and is expected to exceed 50%. The return to agriculture and
non-farm components together is about 32%. Details of the calculations are
given in Annex 11.
7.12      The economic rate of return on the agricultural components would
be reduced to 26% with a cost overrun of 20% and would be 25% if benefits
fell short by 20%. Lags in implementation would have a similar effect, with



26 -
a one-year lag reducing the rate of return to 25%; this would be equivalent
in economic terms to a 24% cost overrun or a 20% benefit shortfall. The
economic rate of return on the non-farm component would drop below 50% under
similar situations, with a one-year lag causing i L to drop to 43%.
Fiscal Imoact
7.13      Project investments in the farm and nornfarm productive sectors
including roads, would be about US$3,500 per to-nefiting family.  Iridirect
beneficiaries, such, as large farmers and the o-r.ers of the small-scale
enterprises who are outside the project9s target group, are not considered
here.  Social sector investments, mainly on health and education, are
relatively modest, ar-.-unting to about US$600 per benefiting target group
family. The extent to which project costs in productive sectors could be
recovered is difficult. to estimate, except for the marketI ng and storage
component, where the goisxrqment has agreed to recover in full the invest-
ment (US$1.5 million) and orerating costs of the project mini-markets
and cold store through the pricing system (para. 4.09). Further, credit
amounting to 41% of project cost, also would be recovered. Together, these
two sub-components account for 72% of directly produCti e investments,
However, in the case of credit, full recovery in real terms would not be
possible in the present context of high inflat-Lon and unindexed creditL.
This situation could be expected to improve, at l-es, pariLCally, as a
modest decline in the rate of inflation was seen d          the past year
and the government has taken some preliminar-y steps, althogh with only
marginal imDact, towards modifying the interest rates.  Government policy
has been to provide highly subsidized credit. particularly -nder programs
like POLONORDESTE which are intended for the relat:ivelv low income groups.
After the full impact of the development programs are felt, higher incomes
of project beneficiaries resulting from production _rcreases would enable
them to bear the real cost of credit   In the social sector, beneficiaries
would contribute towards the construction. costs o. water supply schemes
and bear the full operating costs.  Tha co ai              opmet actions under
the project are expected to generate greater CtS   sharing ay the benefi.
caries; for examsple, the cost of operat-½q the eir-ens-    Services could
eventually be transferred to the farmers themselves t.rough i-c'ucer-s'
associations.
7.14      After the initial five-year investmo--  pez-fo-s; the recurrent costs
burden of the project improvements would amo. nt to        nxlately US$2.1
million per annum or about 6% of the incremental income generated by the
project.  These would be mainly the costs of ml. -ii   the services (at
a reduced level of intensity) for agriculture `ao  d,ust   ad OF ofii
and maintaining rural roads and schools. Under;  x-epzevailing arrangements
the local municipalities who are expected to meet tme brunt of these cos-ts are
assisted through federal government funds.  These ars r        % of the municipali-
ties' budgets, but will increase by one percentagE  poin-t per annum -uintl'i the
total. federal contribution becomes 9%.  The capacity of the municipalities to
meet recurrent cost obligations is expected to impr    .'urther with the
assistance the   government proposes to give to'as 'dIE-g their  -um es



- 27 -
of revenue. During appraisal, the Government indicated that federal grants to
State Governments and municipalities would be increased and that the possi-
bilities of improving the revenue base of the municipalities would be studied.
Moreover, the increased incomes generated by the project would result in
an increase of local tax receipts. Assurances were obtained during negotia-
tions that, pending the improvement of municipal revenues, the State Government
would meet all additional recurrent costs arising from the project improvements.
Environmental Impact
7.15      The project would have a direct ecological benefit as project
actions are intended to arrest the high levels of erosion resulting from
the neglect of soil conservation. Improved cultural practices on the undu-
lating lands to be advocated by the extension service and the research in
soil conservation to be carried out by UFPB, have been specifically included
with this objective in mind. The sanitation and social extension components
should considerably contribute to improving the domestic environments in the
project villages.
Project Risks
7.16      An inherent risk in multi-sectoral projects of this type would be
failure to achieve the necessary coordination in implementing the various
compionents. In the Brejo project such a situation could arise if, for exam-
ple, farm credit is not made available as anticipated, cold stores are not
ready in time or if delays occur in setting up the marketing system. A safe-
guard built into the project against this type of eventuality is to strengthen
projject management mechanism to ensure early identification of problemns and
actions by the governments (state and federal) at the highest level. The
keen interest shown in the project by the State Government thus far has been
an extremely encouraging feature.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During loan negotiations, agreement was reached with the Federal
Government on the following main points:
(a) The study on land tenure conditions along with recommended
actions would be submitted to the Bank by January 1,
1979 (para. 4.08).
(b) The full cost of the marketing infrastructure would be
recovered from purchase prices (para. 4.09).
(c) A detailed plan for the second cold storage unit would
be submitted to the Bank before the end of 1980 (para. 4.10).



- 28 -
(d) Credit would be lent on the terms and conditions of
POLONORDESTE with in addition a ceiling of 100 MVR on the
amount outstanding from any individual borrower (para. 4.15).
(e) Health-posts and water supply schemes would be constructed
only in locations where a minimum of 100 families would
be served and where communities have agreed to participate
in the construction and to meet the operation and maintenance
costs of the systems (para. 4.24).
(f) Drafts of annual operating plans for each year would be
provided to the Bank for review and comment at least four
months before the start of the POLONORDESTE fiscal year
(para. 5.03).
(g) A Revolving Fund (Fundo Rotativo) would be created, which
would be replenished every quarter (para. 5.03).
8.02      During negotiations, agreements were also reached with the State
Government on the following main points:
(a) Copies-of standard designs for mini-market and store would
be sent to the Bank for review before August 1978 along
with the list of selected locations (para. 4.09).
(b) The State Government would enter into agreement with all
project entities, including agreement with municipalities
on feeder road maintenance and on primary education
(paras. 4.18, 4.19 and 6.01).
(c) The UCT would be staffed by qualified and experienced
persons and the Bank would be informed of any proposed
changes (para. 6.02);
(d) The State Government would ensure funding of the addi-
tional recurrent costs arising from the project improve-
ments (paras 4.19, 4.24 and 7.14).
8.03      A condition of project effectiveness would be the creation of a
Revolving Fund, including an initial deposit of Cr$49 million (para. 5.03).
8.04      The following would be conditions of disbursement:
(a) For the cold storage component, submission of a detailed
plan for the second cold storage unit satisfactory to
the Bank (para. 4.10).
(b) For the primary education component, evidence satisfactory
to the Bank of the acquisition of sites for each school,
a site plan for such schools, and a municipal decree
providing for the closure of superfluous schools in
the vicinity (para. 4.19).



- 29 -
(c) For the water supply component, feasibility surveys on the
proposed water supply systems (para. 4.23).
8.05      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan of
US$24 million equivalent for a term of 15 years, including a three-year grace period.






ANNEX 1
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PARAIBA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BREJO
Project Area Summary Data
1.        This annex supplements the information given on the project area in
Chapter 3 of the report. It includes additional information on physical
features and statistical data on climatic features, demographic aspects,
agricultural and non-agricultural activities, nutrition status, and school
attendance in the project area. Further specific information on social and
economic infrastructure and services is given in the respective annexes.
I.        Physical and Climatic Features
2.        A- Physical characteristics
The Brejo is a hilly plateau of about 1,580 km  in area.  The
altitude varies between 500 and 700 meters with a broken topography. For
project purposes, the Brejo has been divided into three different subareas in
accordance with its ecological conditions (rainfall, soils and agricultural
prospects): a) the potato subarea, located in the southern part coveris 20% of
the total project area; (b) the cotton subarea in the western part covers 20%;
and c) the citrus subarea in the northeastern section covers 60%.
3.        B- Climate and Rainfall
The average temperature varies from 180c - 200 C (average maximum)
with low fluctuation over the year.  Average relative humidity is higher in
citrus subarea (80%-85%) than in cotton subarea (75%). Rainfall, in the
project area, is exceptionally favorable for agricultural production in com-
parison with usual Northeast conditions:
(a)  total annual rainfall is fairly high in citrus subarea (1,100
mm to 1,400 mm) lower in potato and cotton subareas (800 mm to
1,100 mm);
(b) rainfall is well distributed over the year with a 6-7 months
rainy season (from February to August) receiving 85% of the
annual rainfall; and,
(c) the inter-yearly rainfall variation is relatively low with
variation coefficients ranging from 22% to 30%.
Further data on rainfall given in Table 1.



ANNEX I
Page 2
4.        C- Soils
The project area has mainly four kinds of soils:
(a) red yellow equivalent eutrophic podzolic soils. They cover
about half of the project area, are mainly found in the citrus
subarea (municipios of Areia, Alagoa Nova, Piloes, and Serraria)
and are generally associated with a broken erosion-sensitive
topography. This kind of soil has a medium fertility, a medium
texture, lacks organic matter and is often acid. They need
conservation practices associated with acidity correction, or-
ganic and chemical fertilization.
(b) distrophic regosols, They cover around 30% of the project area,
represent the majority of the soils in potato subarea (municipios
of Esperanca, Areial, Montadas, Puxinana, Sao Sebastiao da lagoa
de Roca, and Lagoa Seca) and half the soils of cotton subarea
(municipios of Arara and Western part of Esperanca, Areial,
Montadas, Puxinana). They are generally associated with an un-
dulated topography. They are very light, sandy, poor in organic
matter and phosphorus.
(c) red yellow eutrophic latosols, They cover around 10% of the
project area, are mainly located in the citrus subarea (muni-
cipios of Bananeiras and Borborema) and are associated with
undulated topography with deep valleys. They possess good
fertility but need conservat4on practices.
(d) Lithosols, They cover around 10% of the project area and are
located in the Northern part of the municipio of Bananeiras
(cotton and cotton citrus subareas).  They are stony, super-
ficial and present a very low fertility.
Population and Area
5.        The total population of the project area in 1976 was estimated at
186,700 of which 144,400 lived in the rural area and the rest in the small
municipal towns. Table 2 gives the distribution of the total population and
the rural population by municipality and agricultural sub-area.  The project
area is approximately 158,100 ha in extent. In Table 3, the extents falling
within the sub-areas and municipalities are shown. as well as the extents of
the municipalities irncluded within each sub-area.
Land Ownership and Land Use
6.        There are some 9,100 owners in the project area.  About 5,200 (57%)
have less than 5 ha each and occupy roughly 10% of the cultivated land; about
1,900 (21%), with between 5 ha and 10 ha, occupy 9% of the cultivated land;
about 1,600 (17%), with between 10 ha and 50 ha, occupy 20% of the cultivated



ANNEX 1
Page 3
land; and some 430 (5%), with more than 50 ha, control 61% of the cultivated
land. Although far from even, the land distribution is less concentrated in
large estates than the general pattern in Northeast Brazil. Small-scale
farmers are more concentrated in the potato subarea and make better use of
the land than in the other two subareas. Total cultivated land in the potato
subarea, represents 95% of the cultivable land while it is only 84% in the
citrus area, and 90% in the cotton area. Total cropped land in the potato
subarea represents 80% while it is only 68% in the cotton subarea and 51% in
the citrus subarea where pastures are more common Table 4 gives the land use
pattern by sub-area and target group producers.
Non-farm Activities in the Project Area
7.        Non-farm enterprises provide an increasing and important source of
output and employment in the project area.  Conservatively it is estimated
that over 10,000 people are primarily employed in a range of non-farm acti-
vities, while a large fraction of the small and landless farmers also rely on
non-farm work in the slack season to supplement their earnings. Over 80% of
the primary employment is provided by some 2,500 enterprises having 20 em-
ployees or less and an average size of about 3 employees. The range of
products and services provided is very broad: 22% of employment is in indus-
try and construction, including carpentry, metal work, buildings, crop proces-
sing, textiles and wearing apparel; 18% in commerce and marketing, including
retail trade; 22% in services, including repair services; 6% in transport; and
32% in private and government service activities. Details are given in tables
5 and 6.
Health
8.        The project area has two Integrated Health Care Centers (Unidade
Mista) in Areia and Bananeiras with 20 beds in each catering primarily to
MCGE cases, and 12 primary Health Centers (Unidade Sanitaria) located at the
remaining municipio headquarters. The quality of services available in these
institutions vary from good to extremely poor, and their clientele is drawn
largely from urban areas. Larger hospitals situated in the neighboring towns
of Campina Grande, Guarabira and Alagoa Grande provide wider services, but
there is no operative referral system to these from the Brejo health centers.
The reported mortality rate is 13 deaths due to all causes per 1,000 popu-
lation, and the infant mortality rate is 117 deaths (children under 1 year
of age) per 1,000 live births, which is very high even judged by NE Brazil
standards.
Nutrition
9.        The extent of protein-calorie malnutrition (PCM) is one of the
Brejo region's major health problems. The groups primarily affected are
infants, pre-school children, pregnant women and nursing mothers. Among
453 children aged under 5 surveyed in outlying rural areas under the CEPA/
EMATER nutrition study in four representative municipalities, 63% were below
the Brazilian standard of weight-for-age and 40% below standard weight-for-
height. Within Brejo, differences have been recorded from area to area.
PCM is more extensive and severe in the northern Zone (comprising eight
municipalities and approximately two-thirds of the region's population),



ANNEX I
Page 4
where 69% of infants and preschoolers are affected compared with 57% in the
Southern Zone. Table 7 summarizes the results of a nutrition survey of seven
municipalities close to Brejo, including one (Piripirituba) situated within
Brejo.
Education
10.      WIhile primary school enrolment in the project area is extremely
low, being less than 40% for the age group 5 to 14 years, the dropout rate
among those enrolled is very high. Table 8 gives the enrolment figures for
1975 and indicates the extent of dropouts after the first year.
11.       Illiteracy among adults is also extremely high, although women are
slightly more literate than the men. Table 9 gives the preliminary analysis
of data relating to literacy obtained during the socio-economic survey of the
project area, while Table 10 shows the level of formal instruction received
by those who did attend schools. (Note: This information is based on a
fairly small sample, but appears to reflect the general situation).



ANNEX I
Table ]
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PARAIBA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BREJO
RAINFALL PROBABILITIES AND VARIATIONS
(1931/1970)
Annual Rainfall less than:
Probabilities                 600 mm   800 mm   1,000 mm   1,200 mm   1,400  mm
Potato and Cotton Subareas
Campina Grande             21.6     70.2        96.7       99.9       99.9
Guarabira                   1.9     14.1        46.8       81.9        97.1
Citrus Subarea
Areia                       0.5      2.7        10.2       26.9        51.5
VARIATION COEFFICIENT OF AVERAGE ANNUAL RAINFALL
Variation Coefficient           Number of Years
Potato and Cotton Subareas
Campina Grande                            21.1                          26
Guarabira                                 19.8                          18
Citrus Subarea
Areia                                     24.9%                         58
Bananeiras                                29.1%                         49
Serraria                                  28.4%                         23
Source; SUDENE and CEPA-Pb



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PARAIBA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BREJO
DEFINITION OF ThE THREE SUBAREAS
ESTIMATED DISTRIBUTION OF RURAL POPULATION
7% of the Municipio
Subarea           Municipios              Total Population/           Rtral Population         Population Includpd          Rural Population included         Total per Subarea        % In each Subarea
in each Subarea -                 in each Subarea
Potato Subarea                                                                                                                                                      33.700                      24 %
Areial                       4,900                       3,800                        85                            3,200
Esperansa                   21,000                      10,600                        85                            9,000
Lagoa Seca                  18,300                      16,300                        50                            8,200
Montadas                     3,100                       2,700                       100                            2,700
Puxinanl                    10,700                       9,200                       50                            4,600
S.S.L. Roga                  6,700                      6,000                        100                           6,000
Cotton Subarea                                                                                                                                                      23,600                      16 %
Arara                        7,700                       5,000                       100                            5,000
Areia                       30,000                      22,700                        15                            3,400
Areial                       4,900                       3,800                        15                              600
Bananeiras                  27,500                      23,600                        25                            5,900
Borborema                    5,100                      3,400                        30                             1,000
Eaperanza                   21,000                      10,600                        15                            1,600
Puxinanr                    10,700                       9,200                       50                            4,600
Serraria                    12,000                      10,200                        15                            1,500
Citrus Subarea                                                                                                                                                      87.100                      60 %
Alagoa Nova                 21,900                      18,000                       100                           18,000
Areia                       30,000                      22,700                        85                           19,300
Bananeiras                  27,500                     23,600                         75                           17,700
Borborema                    5,100                       3,400                       70                             2,400
Lagoa Seca                  18,300                      16,300                        50                            8,100
PilVes                       8,200                       7,000                       100                            7,000
Pirpirituba                  9,600                       5,900                       100                            5,900
Serraria                    12,000                     10,200                         85                            8,700
TOTAL PROJECT AREA                           186M 00                     144 400                                                                                   144 400                     100%
1/  Source: IBGE 76 Census
2/ Source: CEPA Estimate



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PARAIBA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BREJO
DEFINITION OF THE THREE SUB&REAS
AREA
% of the Municipio Area          Municipio Area included
Subarea         Municipios          Total Area (ha) per Municipio          included in each Subarea.,        in each Subarea (ha)            Total per Subarea (ha)           % in each Subarea
Potato Subarea                                                                                                                                           31,600320%
Areial                               8,300                                80                              6,600
Esperanza                           8,700                                 80                              7,000
Lagoa Seca                          13,300                                35                              4,700
Montadas                             6,000                               100                              6,000
Puxinang                           11,300                                 40                              4,500
S.S. L. Roca                         2,800                               100                              2,800
Cotton Subarea                                                                                                                                           33,400                          21%
Arara                                7,100                               100                              7,100
Areia                               14,300                                20                              2,900
Areial                               8,300                                20                              1,700
Bananeiras                         28,400                                 30                              8,500
Borborema                            3,900                                30                              1,200
Esperanza                            8,700                                20                              1,700
Puxinant                            11,300                                60                              6,800
Serraria                           17,700                                 20                              3,500
93,100                          59%
Citrus Subarea  Alagoa Nova                          22,500                                100                            22,500
Areia                               14,300                                 80                            11,400
Bananeiras                          28,400                                70                             19,900
Borborema                            3,900                                 70                             2,700
Lagoa Seca                          13,300                                 65                             8,600
Piloes                               6,300                               100                              6,300
Pirpirituba                          7,500                                100                             7,500
Serraria                            17,700                                80                             14,200
TOTAL PROJECT AREA                                                                                                                                       158,100                          100%



ANNEX 1
Table 4
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PARAIBA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BREJO
LAND USE
TOTAL
POTATO       COTTON         CITRUS        PROJECT AREA
SUBAREA      SUBAREA        SUBAREA
1 -TOTAL ARE&
Total Area (ha)                    31,600        33,4oo         93,100          158,100
Total Cultivable Land (ha)         27,000        28,800         79,800          135,6o0o
Total Cultivated Area (ha)         24,300        25,100         69,400          118,800
2 - TARGET GROUP OWNER OPERATORS
Total Cultivable Area (ha)          9,600        10,100         28,50O           48,200
Total Cultivated Land (ha)          9,100         9,100         24,5oo           42,700
Total Cropping Area (ha)            8,100          7,000        17,000           32,100
Total Pasture and Forest (ha)       1,100         2,100          7,hOO          10,600
3 - LANDLESS PRODUCERS
Cropping Area Outside Target
Group Owners Operators (ha)         2,700           700          6,700         10 q100



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PARAIBA RUIRAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT-BREJO
ECONO,yICLY AC'TIVE 1DADTTT TYOn TV THE PROJECT AREA. 1970
Economically Active PoDulation
-Municipality                                          Total    Farm Work   Non-Farm iWork
BREJO                                                                 Percentages
Alagoa Nova                                             5439       86.9          13.1
Arara                                                   2222       80.6           19.4
Areia                      *                            9688       60.3          39.7
Bananeiras                                              6974       80.2          19.8
Borborema                                               1393       66.2          35.8
Piloes                                                  2422       86.9          13.1
Pirpirituba                                             2645       68.7          31.3
Sao Sebastiao de Lagoa de Roca                          1798       90.8            9.2
Serraria                                                3984       87.4          12.6
Areial                                                  1226       87.2          12.8
Esperanca                                               4898        63.2          36.8
Lagoa Seca                                              4798       87.1           12.9
Montadas                                                1053        93.3           6.7
Puxinana                                               .3272        86.3          13.7
Total                                                  49792       80.4           19.6
Source: Demographic Census Paraiba - 1970
MD X



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PARAIBA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BREJO
INDUSTRIAL ESTABLISHMENTS IN PROJECT AREA
Te. of Tadntry
Municepality            Food products               Beverages                    Tobacco                   Textilet                    G-t n-t-                   C-rp-etry            F-rniture               Miner-l                 Herbs                 TOTAL
Est.b.       No. of        E.t.b.        No.  f        Est.b.       No. of        Btch.        No.  f        Est.b.        No.  f        ERtcb.    No.  of    Etb.    No, of    Eteb.    No.  of    Estab.                No. of    Etb.    Me, of
Oper-r .                                             Oper.                        Oper.                        per.                   Oer.                    Oper.                  Oper.                              Ope.         er.
BREJO PARATBANA             -             -            08             37          01             09          01            100            -             -           -            -         -            -         01           03        01           10         155       2.559
AlgoC NHove                18            162           02             06           -             -            -             -             -             -            -           -         -            -          -           -          -             -         20          168
Ar-ia                      57           1030           02             14            -            -           01            100            _             _            _           _          _           _          _           _          01           10         61       1,154
Ar-r-                      03             08           -              -            -             -            -             -                                                                                                             -            --         03           08
Renne.ires                 11            238          02              12           -             -           -              -             -             -           -            -         -            -         -            -          -             -         13         250
Boborec-                   08            109           -              -            -             _           _              _             _             _            _           _                                B01          03         -             -         09          112
Piloet                     22            562           -              -                          -                   -             -                    -            -           -          -           -          -           -          -             -         22          562
Pirpirituba                 -             -            02            05            -             -            -             -             -             -            -           -          -           -          -           -          -             -         02           02
S. Hehbtico de
Legoc de Ro-e              05             02           -              -            -             -            -             -             -             -            -           -          -           _          _           _          -             -         05           02
Serrer-i                   19            281           -              -           01             09           -             -             -             -            -           -         -            -          -           -          -             -         20          290
Are-il                     07             03           -              -            -             -            -              -            -             -            -           -          01          91         -            -         -             -         oa           04
Esperee..                  09             43           01             01           -             -            -             -            03            05            -           -         03           06         02          05         01           75         19          135
Lg.oa Sec                  10             09           01             01           _             _            01             05           -             -            02          -           -           -         01           12         -            -          15          27
Moot.das                   07             01           -              -             -            -            -              -            -             -            -           -           -           -         -             -         -            -          07          01
Pusiose.                   21             04           -              -            -             -            -             -             -             -            -           -           -          _          _             _         -            -          21          04
TOTAL                     197           2452           10             39          01             09           02           105           03             05           02          -          04          07        04            20        02           S5        225        2,722
Source   IndustriSl 8urvey of P-ribha 1974.



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PARAIBA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT-BREJO
Nutrition Status of Children 0 - 6 years
riarchn ;976-
Municipality       Total           Normal                                       Undernourished
Total          1st degree         2nd degree       3rd degree
No.       No.        %       No.        7       No.       7       No.      %        No.    %
1.  Guarabira        461        156       33,8     305       66,2     189      62,0      82     26,9      34    11,1
2.  Pirpirituba      768        208       27,0     560       73,0     378      67,5    155      27,7      27     4,8
3.  Alagoinha        245         96       38,9     149       61,1     106      71,2      34     22,8      09     6,0
4.  Mulungu          839        182       21,7     657       78,3     503      76,6    138      21,0      16     2,4
5.  Aracagi         1056        260       24,6     796       75,4     517      64,9    245      30,8      34     4,3
6.  Alagoa Grande   751         193       25,7     558       74,3     340      61,0    191      34,2      27     4,8
7.  Belem            464         93       20,0     371       80,0     239      64,5    120      32,3      12     3,2
TOTAL               4584       1188       26,0    3396       74,0    2272      66,9    965      28,4    159      4,7
Source: EMATER - Pb
1/       Study conducted at start of INAN-EMBRATER nutrition improvement program in seven municipalities
neighboring the Project area - Pirpirituba is within the project area.
-1



ANNM 1
Table 8
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PARAIBA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BREJO
Rural Primary Enrolment in the Project Area, by_Age Groups
and Grade, 1975
__________       Age Grouvs        ___ __                        Percentage
Grades      0- 7 years   7-10 years   11-14 years    +14 years    Total    of Total
1st         1,437       8,143         2,191            355       12,126        70.9
2nd            13       1.375_        1.220            201        2,809        16.4
3rd                       362           909           265         1,536        9.0
4th                        30           4o0           205           636         3.7
5th                                       1                           1        0.0
6th-8th
Total       1,450       9,910         4,722         1,026        17,108      100.0%
Percentage
of Total        8.5          57.9         27.6            6.o        100%



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PARAIBA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BREJO
LITERACY OF MEN AND WOMEN BY AGE GROUP IN THE PROJECT AREA
Males                                                Females
Age Group        Literate       Illiterate        % nlliterate         Literate        niliterate        % Illiterate
--Number In Sample ----Number in Sample--
5 -  9              5             138                 96.5               11              141                 92.8
10 - 14             44               74                62.7               81               48                 37.2
…                                                                                      
15 -19              49               42                4~6.2              80               26                 24.5
20 -29              36              52                 59.1               51               44                45.8
30 -39              27               49                64.5               41               46                 52.9
40 -49              19               32                62.7               20               36                 64.3
50 -59              13               41                75.9                4               46                 92.0
~60            10               49                83.1                 4               49                90.7
203             477                 70.1              292              436                 59.9
Source; Preliminary analysis of data obtained during the socio-economic survey of the project area.
'1-3~ z



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PARAIBA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BREJO
LEVEL OF FORMAL INSTRUCTION BY AGE GROUP IN THE PROJECT AREA
Over               Total
Age Group                 5-9     10-14    15-19    20-29    30-39    40-49    50-59       60      Total    (Over 15)
- - - -                             Number in Sample - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Never Attended           141        26       14       34        4?       35        57      77       427
Attended or Attending    143       219      182       148      121       72        47      34       966
% Never Attended         49.6    10.6       7.1      18.7       25.8     32.7      54.8    69.4      30.7
Level of Instruction of Those Attending
Pre-Primary            '12?        108       44        53       46       44        26      21       467       (234)
Primary
- incomplete            12        95       82       54        52       24        15       7      341        (234)
- complete               0         9       27       10        14        5         2       4        77       ( 68)
Ginasio
-incomplete              0         4       18         7        -        -         -       -        29       ( 25)
-complete                 -        -        3        3         1        -         -       -         7       (7)
Ciclo (Secondary-high school)
- incomplete              -        -        1         5        -        -         -                 6       (  6)
- complete               -         -        -        1         -        -         -       -         1       (  1)
Source: Preliminary analysis of data from socio-economic survey.
crlX
m
o >



ANNEX 2
Page 1
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PARAIBA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BREJO
CREDIT
I. Agricultural Credit 1/
A. General Background
Agricultural Credit in the Northeast
1.        Institutional agricultural credit in the Northeast of Brazil is
delivered by Federal and State banking institutions, the former channeling
the bulk (over 95%) of such funds. Banco do Brasil accounts for some
80% of the loans disbursed, followed by Banco do Nordeste (about 12%) and
the remainder channeled by the other banks.  The main source of funds for
agricultural credit has been Banco Central rediscount procedures for several
lines of credit, each with relatively specific priorities and terms. This
source accounts for some 80% of the funds, the remainder being banks' own
internal sources, usually with a compensation from government to cover
interest rate subsidies.
2.        In 1972 the Government started the PROTERRA credit program intended
to stimulate agricultural development in the Northeast and North Brazil with
cred:Lt to finance investment, use of modern inputs and land transfers. Low
nominal interest rates, together with existing inflation, contributed to the
use of these funds for land purchase and livestock investment which provided
attractive forms of asset holding, especially among larger landowners.
Although the PROTERRA program has been a significant source of funding for
northeast agricultural development, very little of the increase in the
availability of rural credit funds in the region has actually gone to small
farmers.
3.        In late 1974, the Government created a new program, POLONORDESTE,
aimed specifically at improving income and living conditions of the rural
poor in the Northeast through integrated rural development projects. Credit
resources are provided by the Banco Central do Brasil through rediscount
procedures up to 100% to participating banks, namely BB, BNB and BNCC. The
POLONTORDESTE credit program differs from PROTERRA primarily in that special
1/   For a detailed analysis of agricultural lending in Northeast Brazil,
the reader is referred to "Rural Development Issues and Options inL
Northeast Brazil", June 23, 1975, Report No. 665a-BR. Also, BB and
BNB are previous Bank borrowers for grain storage (Loan 857-BR of
September 27, 1972 and Appraisal Report No. PA-135a of August 2,
1972) and industrial credit (Loan 656-BR of February 16, 1970 and
Appraisal Report No. DB-52a of December 19, 1969), respectively.
Appraisal Report No. 158a-BR on the Ceara Rural Development Project
and the Working Paper on Credit for Agriculture and Industry for the
Paraiba appraisal contain updated information on credit for the
Northeast.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
emphasis is given to reaching small farmers, renters or sharecroppers requir-
ing loans up to 50MVR (about Cr$44,000) by exempting such loans from real
collateral requirements; all loans are tied to technical assistance provided
by an expanded extension service.
4.        In late 1976 and early 1977 modifications were introduced to the
terms and conditions applicable to Paraiba which are as follows:
POLONORDESTE Credit Terms (May 1977)
Repayment Period        Interest Paid
Grace        to Final
Type of Credit                         Loan Size   Maturity               Period      Beneficiary
I.   Supervised Seasonal                  Any         Depending on production           7% unindexed 1/
Credit (for production                           cycle of crop produced
inputs and subsistence
costs)
II.  Supervised Investment             up to 200 MVR 2/                                 7% unindexed
Credit:                           200-2000 MVR                                   10% unindexed
over 2000 MVR                                  12% unindexed
a)  for "fixed investment"                       up to 12 yrs. up to 6 yrs.    depending on
(land clearing, fences,                                                      loan size
establishment of per-                                                        (see above)
manent crops, small
scale irrigation, etc.)
b)  for "semi-fixed" in-                         up to 8 yrs. up to 4 yrs.       depending on
investments (work ani-                                                       loan size
mals, light equipment,                                                       (size above)
etc.)
III.  Land Purchase Credit            up to 100% of  up to 20 yrs. up to 6 years   12% unindexed
price of land
up to 6 titles
size of INCRA
module. 3/
1/   Zero interest for fertilizer (and elimination of previous 40% price rebated
according to Resolution 419 of March 1977, issued by the Monetary Council.
2/   "Maximum Reference Value", a periodically adjusted reference value equi-
valent in September 1977 to Cr$890, or about US$60 (US$1 = Cr$15.00).
3/   A module is that amount of land defined by INCRA (the National Institute
for Colonization and Land Reform) to be necessary to generate a farm
income of four times the annual minimum wage. The size of the module
varies from about 3 to 120 ha depending on the region and type of
potential production.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
B. Agricultural Credit in the Project Area
Banking System
5.       The project area is presently serviced by four banking institutions
three of which (BB, BNB, BEP) extend credit to small farmers. There are
only two branch offices (both BB) which are actually located in municipali-
ties included in the project (Bananeira and Areia). However, another eight
branch offices (of the same three banks) located outside the project area,
in nearby towns, also extend credit to farmers in project area muncipalities.
Credit Coverage
6.       Institutional credit coverage in the project area is quite low.  Out
of the total number of farmers in the area (16,595 owners and non-owners),
only 1,230 (7.4%) received credit in 1976. Target farmers (owner with less
than 50 ha and landless operators) who received credit were estimated to be
850 (5.1%), of which 93% were serviced by Banco do Brasil.
Credit Portfolio
7.       Total loans outstanding for the three banks in Paraiba increased
from Cr$69.8 (US$10.3 million) in 1974 to Cr$222.7 million (US$18.9 million)
in 1976. While in 1974 Banco do Brasil contributed to 97% of the credit
portfolio, in 1976 it represented around 71% owing to a substantial growth in
the Banco do Nordeste lending. Since the above disbursements include credit
in areas outside the project, a rough estimate based on percent of clients
serviced and average value of loans, the amount lent in 1976 in the project
area would be around Cr$60 million.
Credit Operations in Project Area
8.       From a random sample credit survey conducted in the project area,
it was found that: (a) credit concentration is high as 12% of the borrowers
held 68% of the credit portfolio and 72% with loans below 50 MVR received
11% of the total value; (b) small farmers with less than 25 ha represent
70% of the borrowers and receive one-third of the credit and those with
more than 50 ha (19%) absorb 60% of the funds; (c) 70% are landowners and
30% landless operators; (d) only 15% of the 1976 clients were "new" first
time borrowers; (e) 43% of the credit granted was short-term and 57% 'Long-
term; (f) credit recovery is satisfactory with 4% of outstanding portfolio
in arrears and roughly 1% defaulted; (g) the incremental credit baseline
(the short-term loans issued in 1976 to project target farmers, rough:Ly 850)
was estimated at Cr$11.0 million.



Page 4
C.  The Agic-ultural Credit Cj~nn
Description and Obijective
9.       The proposed agricultural credit component aims at servicing a
total of 7,380 farmers, of which 6,150 are small-scale low-income omners,
and 1,230 landless operators with less than 25 ha, in sub-area A and 50 ha
in sub-areas B and C, throughout the 14 muinicipalities comprising the proj-
ect area. The credit component, coupled with technical assistance from the
strengthened extension system and integrated into a "package" service with
the marketing (storage, farmers associations and cooperatives) education,
agricultural research and demonstration components, will be a key instrument
in helping project beneficiaries increase their agricultural production and
income through the adoption of improved farming techniques, diversification
of production and expansion of cropped areas. Items to be financed will
include: (a) seasonal credit (less than one year) for the production of short-
cycle crops and establishment of semi-permanent crops starting to produce
within the first year (bananas and sugar cane); and (b) medium and long-term
for the establishment of citrus plantings and pastures and purchase of live-
stock and equipment. Extended repayment periods (up to 12 years) however
would be made available only to citrus growers.
Estimated Agricultural Credit Requirements
10.      The estimates of total credit requirements under the project include
the rediscounts - in project year I   of credits provided under POLONORDESTE's
advanced financing of project start-up activities in fiscal year 1977/78.
Total requirements would, on an incremental basis, amount to Cr$320.7 million
(US$21.4 million) of which Cr$186.4 million (5$%) would be seasonal short-
term credit and Cr$134.3 million medium and long-term investment credit
(42%), with the following phasing:
Annual Incremental Credit Requir~ements.
x,C5r millions)
Year
Total    77/78  78/79   79/80   80/81   81/82   82/83
Seasonal Credit            18604    10.0    5.2    39.6    62.5        44.0    25.1
Investment Credit          1343      8.5   107    20.9    39.4        30.4    24.4
Total                      320.7    18.5   15.9    60.5   101.9        74.4    49.5
Accumulated                320.7    18.5   34.4    94.9   19608    271.2   320.7



ANNEX 2
Page 5
11.      Detailed estimates and assumptions about rates and phasing of
farmer participation and calculation of total seasonal and investment
credit requirements are provided in Tables 1 and 2.
Land Purchase Credit
12.      In addition, credit is available in the project area to landless
farmers for the purchase of land; this credit will continue to be provided
under an existing program, without project support, under the revised POLO-
NORDESTE terms and conditions (see para. 4). Credit can cover 100% cif the
purchase price of land for a period up to 20 years with six years graLce at 12%
interest unindexed. However, small farmers have not benefited from this
facility as they have no knowledge of the procedures involved or about the
availability of land for sale.  Under the project, technical assistance
will be provided to the landless farmers to assist them in the preparation
of documentation required for land purchase credit through participating
barnks. It is expected that the limitations in farm size, the extended grace
and repayment period and the technical assistance in applying for land credit,
combined with the availability of 100% credit on the purchase price, should
enable a significant number of rural families to make use of land purchase
credit and hence benefit from production increases foreseen under the proj-
ect.
Actions for Implementing the Agricultural Credit Component
13.      Up to now, general credit coverage by the Banks in the project
area, particularly for small farmers, has been low. To achieve the proj-
ect s credit targets in terms of portfolio expansion and orientation on
the rural poor, special joint efforts will be needed by the banking system,
ext'ension service and project coordinating unit. Procedures and actions
geared toward expanding credit coverage among target-group farmers are espe-
cially required in: (a) coordination between extension service and banks;
(b) establishment of annual credit plans; (c) promotion and development
of credit demand; (d) simplification of credit procedures; (e) relaxation
of collateral requirements; (f) organization of temporary banking service;
(g) increasing permanent bank staff; (h) modification of performance cri-
teria for bank managers; (i) setting a limit on the amount of debt outstand-
ing; (j) promoting use of group loans; (k) disbursing credit to landless
operators directly; and, (l) establishing a credit monitoring system. The
working paper on credit elaborates on each of those actions.
II. Non-Farm Credit
A. Background
14.      Credit for industry and commerce in Brazil is available through its
many financing institutions and is primarily directed to large-scale investors
and enterprises. Although some lines of credit are supposed to assist small
operators, the bulk of the credit funds are disbursed in large loans. Loans
over 5,000 MVR (Cr$ 3 million) absorb 70% of the credit.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
15.       The general credit situation in the project area is described
in para. 8 above. A total of 44 non-agricultural loans were outstanding
by the end of 1976 amounting to Cr$ 50.1 million, an average of Cr$ 1.1
million per loan. Here, too, the provision of credit is oriented mainly
towards the larger enterprises. However, most of the 10,000 people in
the project area, primarily engaged in non-farm activities, are in small-
scale enterprises; over 80% of employment is in establishments with 20 or
less employees. Very little, if any, institutional credit reaches them.
B. The Non-Farm Credit Component
16.       The project proposed to provide credit for working capital and
for investment to allow expansion, modernization and establishment of new
small-scale enterprises (SSE), including industries, commerce and services,
in the 14 municipalities of the Project area. It is projected that about
580 SSE would be served with some SSE getting loans for both investment
and working capital.
17.       Non-farm credit would be provided through the Banco do Brasil
(BB), Banco do Estado de Paraiba (BEP) and Banco de Nordeste (BNB). BB has
agreed to make credit available to SSE in the Project area through its four
local branches using an existing line of credit adapted to small operators
(15% p.a. interest and no real collateral on loans below 50 MVR).
18.       Gross credit requirements for 805 SSE based on 325 average loans
of Cr$ 15,000 for working capital, and 450 average loans of Cr$ 50,000 for
investment are estimated as follows:
Annual Volume of Credit to SSE' a
Working Capital    Investment Capital          Total
No. of    Value    No. of        Value    No. of    Value
Year                    Loans   Cr$ '000   Loans        Cr$ '000   Loans   Cr$ '000
1977/78                   10         150        15           750      25        900
1978/79                   35         525        55         2,750      90      3,275
1979/80                   55         825        80         4,000    135       4,825
1980/81                   75       1,125       110         5,500    185       6,625
1981/82                   75       1,125       110         5,500    185       6,625
1982/83                   75       1,125       110         5,500    185       6,625
Total                    325       4,875       480        24,000    805      28,875
a/   September 1977 prces.



ANNEX 2
Page 7
19.       Annex 6, Non-Farm Production, elaborates on volumes of credit
forecasted and on specific actions under the project to meet the above
targets, including the key role of the non-farm extension service.



ANNEX 2
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PARAIBA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BREJO
Number of Farms Receiving Rural Credit by Project Areas and Farm Modell/
Project Submissions
and Models              1977-78 1978-79 197Q-8W lQAn-Rl lg3l-R2 IQ827-83 1QRB-&.4 I-RQRs  108i-6
Sub Area A
Model I                      -       130      330      660      980   1,180   1,310   1,310   1,310
Model II                    100      150      340      590      760      850      850      850      850
Model III                    -        40     110       220      320      390      430     430      430
Sub-total             100      320      780    1,470   2,060   2,420   2,590   2,590   2,590
Sub Area B
Model I                      -        60      140       280     430      510      570      570      570
Model II                     -        60      190      440      570      630      630      630      630
Model III                    -        10       40        70     110      130      140      140      140
Sub-total                      130      370       790   1,110   1,270   1,340   1,340   1,340
Sub Area C
Model I                      -       160      390       780   1,180   1,410   1,570   1,570   1,570
Model II                     -       120      370      850   1,100   1,220   1,220   1,220   1,220
Model III                    -        70      160       330     490      590      660      660      660
Sub-total                      350      920    1,960   2,770   3,220   3,450   3,450   3,450
Total Farms with Credit       100      800   2,070    4,220   5,940   6,910   7,380   7,380   7,380
1/  Traditional technology farms not included since they would not use credit.
Source: IBRD Projections.



ANNEX 2
Table 2
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
Paralba Rural Development Project - Brejo
Estimated Rural Credit Requirements for the Project Farmers
(Cr$ millions)
1977/78  1978/79 1979/80 1980/81 1981/82 1982/83
A. Seasonal Credit
(i)  Sub-Area A          12.9    15.5    36.3    65.5    87.5       99.5
(ii)  Sub-Area 8           3.2     4.0    11.0    22.3    28.0       30.0
(iii)  Sub-Area C           5.4     6.7    18.5    40.5    56.8    .67.9
(iv)  Sub-Total           21.0    26.2    65.8   128.3   172.3    197.4
(v)  Annual Incremental
seasonal            10.0     5.2    39.6    62.5    44;0       25.1
(vi)  Accumulated Incre-
mental seasonal,..  10.0    15.2    54.8   117.3   161.3    186.4
S. Investment Credit
(i)  Sub-Area A            1.9     2.4      3.1     4.3      3.1      2.3
(ii)  Sub-Area B            1.5     1.9      4.2     8.0      4.2      2.5
(iii)  Sub-Area C            5.1     6.4    13.6    27.1    23.1       19.6
(iv)  Sub-Total             8.5    10.7    20.9    39.4    30.4       24.4
(v)  Annual Incremental
Investment ......,   8.5    10.7    20.9    39.4    30.4        24.4
(vi)  Accumulated incre-
mental Investment,   8.5    19.2    40.1    79.5   109.9    134.3
C. Annual Total Incremental
Credit ......e........ Be 18.5    15.9    60.5   101.9    74.4       49.5
D. Accumulated Total Incre-
mental Credit ......... a 28.5    34.4    94.9   196.8   Z71.2    320.7
3/
E. Annual Gross- Credit Re
9Lired   tiv) +9 (iv) 29.5    36.9    86.7   167.7   202.7    221.8
quired  A(iv) + B (iv)        ~      .       .        2 ~ . 
Source:    IBRD Estimates.
1/  Estimated at 80/o of Year 1 computed requirements.
2/  Incremental credit baseline is the value of short-term loans disbursed to
farmers at Cr$ 11.0 in 1976.
3/ Without deducting incremental baseline;  equivalent to the actual
composite summation of all farm models coming into the nrojpct: ench 'ear.



ANNEX 3
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PARAIBA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BREJO
RURAL EXTENSION I/
Present Status of Rural Extension in Paraiba
1.        Extension in the rural areas of Paraiba is the responsibility
of EMATER-Pb 2/ which is an autonomous state company administratively under
the Secretary for Agriculture, but with strong links to the federal extension
agency, EMBRATER, mainly for funding and technical supervision. EMATER
is concerned with both agricultural and social extension and all its extension
workers have some training in agriculture. The greater emphasis has been
in agricultural extension oriented towards the larger farmers, but the social
extensionists, all of whom are females, have recently begun to work with the
families of smaller farmers. Their work is of a community development nature
and has emphasized the establishment of health miniposts with the participa-
tion of the local communities. In the Brejo area, six agricultural field
extension agents (of whom four are agriculturists and two agricultural techni-
cians) are distributed over five local extension offices. Three social
extensionists were active in a few locations in Brejo until 1976, were then
withdrawn and, after the recent renewed interest in Brejo, have been replaced
by five others.
Extension Under the Prolect
2.        The project proposes to bring about a wholesale reorientation
of extension work, with emphasis being placed on assistance to small farmers
and their families, and with both areas of the extension service adopting
a group or community approach. This orientation, together with the principle
of a unified extension service, providing assistance in both agricultural and
social fields, is fully supported at the conceptual level bu. has made little
headway at the field level. Encouraging progress has been made however in
several pilot programs, including:
(a) the Bank-supported First Rural Development Project in Rio
Grande do Norte (Loan No. 1195-BR);
(b) the Sergipe applied nutrition program, supported under the
Bank-financed Nutrition Project (Loan No. 1302 BR); and
(c) the experimental, applied nutrition program in Paraiba,
executed by EMATER/Pb.
The extension component of the proposed project has been designed on the
basis of early lessons from these pilot programs, adapted to the specific
conditions of the Brejo region.
1/   Working papers on Agricultural Extension and Social Extension contain
more detailed information on the functions and procedures of the
extension service.
2/   Empresa de Assistancia Technica e Extensao Rural de Estado da Paraiba --
Enterprise for Technical Assistance and Rural Extension of the State
of Paraiba.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
Organization of the Extension Service
3.        The agricultural extension component would be coordinated by
a Coordinator at the state-level in Joao Pessoa, dealing directly with
the POLONORDESTE project unit and located in the EMATER/Pb organization.
In the project area, a Regional Extension Officer located in Areia will
be. responsible for all the extension activities undertaken by EMATER.
He will also be responsible for integrating research activities with
extension work and for coordinating and supervising the work of the five
subject matter specialists attached to his office. There would be two
regional coordinators for social extension, one in Areia and the other in
Esperenca. They will maintain close liaison with the regional coordinator
for agricultural extension and would be responsible to a Supervisor at
EMATER headquarters for policy direction.
4.        There would be seven sub-regional offices in the 14 municipios
included in the project area, each headed by a Sub-regional Extensicin Officer
assisted by a team of field extension agents made up of: (a) a credit agent;
(b) a dairy cattle agent; (c) eight field extension agents; and (d) two social
ex:tension agents. The Sub-regional Extension Officer would be a higher-level
agriculturalist (see also Chart 1).
Agricultural Extension Activities
5.        On the agricultural side, the extension service would be substan-
tially increased in size, from 6 to 57 extension agents and from a total
staff of 19 to 118.  Further, major innovations would be introduced in
the structure of the service and the techniques used. The main inncivations
would be: (i) extension through newly created informal associations of pro-
ducers, particularly through their representatives functioning as "contact
farmers"; (ii) relative specialization of functions within the service; (iii)
provision of five subject matter specialists to back up extension staff; and
(iv) introduction of a sub-regional management level to improve coordination.
6.        Field extension agents would be reoriented towards the target
group of small- and medium-scale producers and would work through groups of
farmers. These groups would be gradually evolved into farmer associations for
marketing purposes. This new approach to agricultural extension would be
applied flexibly to suit local conditions. It would begin by the development
of smaller ad hoc groups (20-25 farmers) eventually merging to form an associa-
t:ion (50-150 farmers) which may in due course evolve into a full-fledged primary
cooperative. Thus, the extension agents would initially concentrate on the
creation of farmer groups and the election of representatives. They would
subsequently work with these representatives as "contact farmers" wbLo would
aLso progressively take responsibility for organizing local marketing asso-
ciations and would eventually become responsible for all operation cf the
local store. This process of cooperative development would be initially
engineered by the extension agents through farmers' meetings at which the
main goals of an association would be explained, and through observation



ANNEX 3
Page 3
of informal leadership patterns. 1/ Each extension agent would be assisted
by his sub-regional coordinator in these pioneering tasks.
7.        To support the field agents, five subject matter specialists would
be attached to the regional office in Areia, three for agricultural techno-
logy (potatoes, citrus and banana, and dairy cattle), one for rural credit
and one for training. Two other types of specialized, agricultural agents
would be located in each of the seven sub-regions: (i) a credit agent to
assist in credit supervision; and (ii) a dairy cattle agent to be in charge
of veterinary care and artificial breeding.
8.        The functions of the subject matter specialists at the regional
(Areia) level would be the following:
(a) Potato Specialists. He would carry out three main activities:
(i) technical diffusion of new techniques to potato growers
through technical support and training of extension agents in
all potato-related subjects; (ii) coordination of all potato
seeds production programs; thus, he would prepare contracts
for supplying the project area with new seeds coming from
outside, organize local multiplication through a good network
of technically advanced producers, and supervise seed conser-
vation in refrigerated stores; and (iii) coordination of the
marketing of potato production.
(b) Citrus/Banana Specialist. Located in Areia or Bananeiras, his
main activities would be: (i) technical diffusion of new
technology and coordination of research and development on
these crops; (ii) seedlings production and supply by super-
vision of nurseries; and (iii) coordination of marketing of
fruits through associations of producers, cooperatives, CIDAGRO
and COBAL (federal organizations in charge of food marketing).
(c) Dairy Cattle Specialist. His responsibilities would be:
(i) diffusion of new technology to dairy cattle raisers and
technical support to field extension agents; (ii) artificial
insemination, veterinary care, and semen supply, and supply of
vaccines and drugs; (iii) coordination of the marketing of
milk and cheese.
(d) Credit Specialist. He would coordinate the work of the seven
credit agents at the sub-regional level and participate in
their training. He would maintain contact with the banks
involved in the program of rural credit and pay particular
attention to long-term credit for land purchases.
1/   Details on the prospective development of farmer associations are in
the working paper on extension.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
(e) Training Specialist. He would be in charge of designing and
organizing the training programs for the extension staff and
farmers.
9.        The functions of the extension agents at the sub-regional level
would be the following:
(a)  The Credit Agent.  A  -ln component of the project being credit
to the small farmers, new methods will be introduced to reduce
the administrative burden by simplifying borrowing procedures
both for the farmers and the banks. The credit agent will be in
charge of farm management advisory work and planning and super-
vising on-farm investments and agricultural crediL   He will
be a high level agriculturalist ("engheneiro agronomo") with
special training in credit planning and supervision. He wou:Ld
help consolidate the new farmers' associations to allow prov:Lsion
of group loans.
(b) The Dairy Cattle Agent. This agent would be a veterinary
technician trained in artificial insemination and vaccination.
He will have a fixed visits schedule within his sub-regional
area arranged in consultation with the field extension agent.
(c) The Field Extension Agent. He will be an agriculturalist of
intermediate level ("tecnico agricola"). He will work with
representatives of producer groups whom he will visit
on a fixed schedule. In a fortnight, the extension agent
would spend five working days visiting groups and associa-
tions of producers; one working day reporting to his sub-
regional coordinator and consulting with subject matter
specialists on particular problems and receiving specific
instructions and training related to the work during the
next fortnight; and four working days training groups
of farmers.
10.       The transfer of agricultural technology would be realized
through an adapted system of demonstration and training. Three chronolo-
gica:L steps can be distinguished:
(a) Farm level trials. The groups of farmers would select the best
"adopter" farmers to carry out simple trials under the supervi-
sion of EMBRAPA (research) personnel. These fields would be
also used by extension agents for farmer training.
(b) Limited diffusion. Demonstrations will be organized by the
groups of producers, a few "demonstrator" farmers being desig-
nated by the whole group. These demonstrations would also be!
used for seed production.
(c) General diffusion. At this point, the techniques are extended
widely through the groups of farmers.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
Social Extension Activities I/
11.       Social extension work in the project area would likewise be
restructured .or increased effectiveness and reoriented to reach the
broader   target group, which comprises all rural poor.  During the proj-
ect period, the number of social extensionists would be increased to 14.
The socia`_ extension agent will be an extensionist specialized in home
economics and community development, and will deal with the promotion of
health, sanitation, nutrition educatiori, family garden activities, etc.  This
agent will T'orl closely with the field extension agents in organizing village
associations f5  :3 z.tivities linked with agricultural production and social
programs as 2 -   S of community development.
12.       Several coaponents which require the mobilization of the rural
people for communrity action are included in the project. On the production
side, there would be Hee producers' associations formed to provide exten-
sion advice, marketing services, credit and training; on the social side,
there would be basic health care, nutrition improvement, domestic hygiene,
and literacy and craft training. The primary responsibility of the social
extensionists-would be to establish close liaison with the local popula-
tion and gradually promote a sense of community interest and group action
among them to obtain and fully benefit from the above services.
13.       The hub of this community action would be a community center
(Centro de Communidade), of which there would be 47 located in the larger
villages (povoados). The core structure in each location would be a small
community meeting room; however, depending on the types of activity receiv-
ing emphasis in each location, other structures such as a health post, mini-
market and godowns a school and a simple rural water supply system would be
located in orf near the community center.  Most of the rural infrastructure
provided by the project would be coordinated with a view to efficiency and
cost saving in construction and operation.
149       The social extensionists would promote community action in the
fo llowing ways
(a)  In the co-Munities selected for the establishment of
community centers, they would carry out socio-economic
surveys of pre-identified agglomerations of rural popula-
tion (povoados), establish health associations and solicit
community participation in the construction and operation
of miniposts. They would contact the potential beneficia-
ries of water supply schemes and start water users' asso-
ciations for similar action as in miniposts.
(b) They would collaborate with the agriculture extension
agents to establish farmer associations and to run farmer
training classes and mini-markets.
I/   See working paner on Social Extension for further information.



ANNEX 3
Page 6
(c) They would organize mothers' clubs, youth clubs, etc., to
promote home gardens, handicrafts, teach elementary home
economics and provide health education and guidance on
nutrition improvement.
Staffing Requirements and Training
15.       The staffing requirements, at full development, will be 21 higher-
level agriculturalists ("engheneiro agronomo"), 64 medium-level agricul-
turalists ("tecnico agricola"), 2 senior social extensionists and 14 field-
level social extensionists. They would be supported by 36 office auxi-
liaries (29 for agriculture extension and 7 for social extension). A heavy
expansion of the extension service is needed in view of the importance of
mounting a program of quick diffusion of technology among newly formed
groups of producers right from the beginning of the project. However, as
farmers become more adept at using new technology, and with the gradual
build-up of farmer associations and other community groups, it would be
possible to gradually withdraw the major portion of field level extension
workers (from 57 to about 20) and a corresponding number at the supervisory
levels. Instead, after undergoing upgrading through training, the remain-
ing field extension workers would come to play the role of technical
advisors to the farmers' associations (cooperatives). It is expected that
the build-up of extension cadres would proceed at a steady pace in the ini-
tial years, leveling off during years six to eight, then declining by year
ten to approximately 50% of the peak level.
16.       The training of extension service personnel will include pre-
service training adapted to the project needs and continuous on-the-job
upgrading and training by the subject matter specialists and others.
The pre-service training of the extension agents will be divided into
three parts. The first will be a three-week general orientation course,
the second, a field survey in the project area and the third session
will be on work organization using the data of the field survey, and on
technical matters. During the agricultural growing session, extension
agents will also receive, once every two weeks, special training on ithe
crops being grown in the area and the current problems relating to them
from subject matter specialists. The dairy cattle and credit agents would
be trained in their special technical fields. The social extensionists
are normally given a training organized on a pattern similar to the agri-
culture agents. This training program would be improved, particular:Ly
incorporating instructions in techniques of communty mobilization.



NORTHEAST BRAZIL                             (Cr $00OOs)
PARAIBA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BREJO
COSTS OF RURAL EXTENSION                                                          (September 1977)
ITEM                              Start up Costsi                                Project Costs                                            Total
1   1978-79        1979-80          1980-81          1981-82           1982-83         1978-1983
5PITAL COSTS
I.   AGRICULTURE EXTENSION
1.  Construction                                       120 0            1,350.0           -
2.  Equipment and installations.                       3,247.            2,1766          1,156.0            -                                                3 1,350.0
3. Permanent materials.                                  480.0             259.4           117.7            -                -                 -               377.1
4,  Training                                              556.7            618.5           337.6           94.0             53.0               -             1,103.1
II.  SOCIAL EXTENSION
1.  Equipment and installations.                          544.9            640.5           162.0            -                -                 _                802.5
2.  Construction of community centers                     225.0            375.0           488.0          450.0            225.0                -            1,538.0
3.  Training                                               27.0             67.5            54.0           54.0              -                 -               175.5
Sub-total                                          6,701.5          5,487.5         2,315.3          598.0             278.0               -             8,678.8
OPERATING COSTS
III. AGRICULTURE EXTENSION
1.  Salaries and allowances.                            5,173.1         11,420.9        13,653.0      13,653.0         13,653.0          13,653.0           66,032.9
2.  Materials and services                             1,463.3          2,609.9         3,187.7        3,195.8          3,195.8           3,195.8           15,384.4
IV. SOCIAL EXTENSION
1.  Salaries and allowances.                             688.4    |    1,657.7          2,132,5        2,373.9          2,453.0           2,453.0           11,070.1
2.  Materials and services                                 56.2    |        91.5           163.8         224.7             258.9            258.9              997.8
Sub-total                                          7,381.0         15,780.0        19,137.0       19,446.8         19,560.7          19,560.7           93,485.2
Total baseline costs                              14_082.5         21 267.5        21,452.3       20,Q44.8         1j9838.7          19,560.7          102,164.0
Physical contingencies
equipment and materials
(I (l &3) , II (1), III (2), TV (2)
at  10%)                                            579.2            577.8           478.7          342.0            345.5             345,4           2,089,4   1|
Construction  (I (1), II (2))                        184.5            172.5            48.8           45.0              22.5                              288.8    K 4
763.7            750.3           527.5          387.0            368.0            345.4           2,378.2
Grand Total                                       14_84602         22017-8         21,979,8       20,431.8         20,206.7          19,906.1         105 ' 



ANNEX 3
Chart 1
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PAFtAIBA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BREJO
PROPOSED RURAL EXTENSION SERVICE
CENTRAL EXTIONSION
OFFICE
(Joao Pessoa)
Chief Co-ordinator - Agr.
Supervisor-Social Ext.
REGIONAL OFFICE
Regional Co-ordinator
(Areia)                              -    POTATO
CITRUS
BANANA
SOCIAL EXTENSION
Co-ord. lAreia)                       Subject Matter Specialists           _
CATTLE
SOCIAL EXTENSION
Co-ord. (Esperanca)
CR ED IT
TRAINING
SUB - REGIONAL OFFICE
Sub. reg. coordinator (1)     SRO           SRO           SRO          SRO           SRO           SRO
Dairy Cattle Agent234567
& Social Extensionists (2)
Field Extension Agent   |     EA          FEA            FEA           FEA          FEA
Assoc.   |  |  Assoc.  |
World Bank -18335



ANNEX 4
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PARAIBA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BREJO
AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY AND PRODUCTION I/
I.   Current Agricultural Conditions
1.        The project area benefits from favorable climatic conditions which
allow growing a large range of crops, including tropical fruit, vegetables,
sugar cane, cotton and potatoes, but its broken topography presents a serious
risk of erosion.
2.        Since the rural population density is high, almost all the culti-
vable land is actually cultivated (88%), but yields are very low for the
following reasons:
(a) small-scale farmers, who represent the large majority of
the producers, have to crop their land permanently without
fallow to feed their families;
(b) landless producers (sharecroppers, tenants) do not have
enough security of tenure to invest in the land they
sharecrop or rent (verbal contract on a one year basis,
bad housing), or opportunity to purchase land, they
consequently stick to the low traditional technology;
(c) all these small-scale producers receive very limited or
no technical and credit assistance;
(d) consequently, they do not use modern inputs particularly
selected varieties, fertilizers and pesticides; and
(e) they have no tradition of crop rotation and soil conser-
vation practices.
As a result, a large part of the project area is in .a process of soil
impoverishment.
3.        Cropping patterns are related primarily to the family requirements
of food crops (manioc and beans), which cover about two-thirds of the total
cropped land, and only secondarily to cash crops, cultivated area of which
varies from year to year since the marketing structure is currently weak and
unable to secure stable outlets for farm products, particularly for perish-
able ones.
4.        A few technically advanced farmers, however, are already applying
improved technology along with crop rotation and soil conservation practices;
even though there is room for improvement, the yields these farmers now reach
(up to five times the average yield for potatoes) obviously show the potential
of this area.
1/   See working paper on Agriculture Development for fuller information.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
II. Agricultural Development Strategy
5.        Agricultural development under the project would aim at three main
objectives:
(a)  increase rural family income by developing four intensive
cash crops (potatoes, oranges, banana and cotton);
(b)  improve rural family nutrition by increasing subsistence
production (manioc, beans, home garden vegetables) and
developing small-scale dairy cattle; and
(c)  introduce adequate crop rotation and soil conservation
practices to stop soil degrading processes and, where
possible, to raise fertility levels.
6.        The crops and related technologies proposed under the project are
already applied with success by more advanced farmers. These existing tech-
nologies thus would be extended to the target group of the small- and medium-
scale producers. These technologies would also be improved and refined
through a fairly comprehensive applied research program implemented over the
project life to better fit the circumstances of small producers.
7.        Some improvement is expected on land tenure through a pilot program
aimed at:
(i)  improving the contracts between owners and renters or shaLre-
croppers;
(ii) making access to land easier to landless people; and
(iii)  creating a state institution in charge of all land-
related problems.
III.  Target and Adoptor groups, Corresponding Farm Models (see Tables 1 and 2)
8.        The project would be oriented towards a target group of aLbout
11,700 producers of whom:
(a)  8,600 are small- and medium-scale owner-operators, which
represents the large majority of landowners (94%), but
who only control 36% (42,700 ha) of the total cultivated
land in the project area; and
(b)  3,100 landless producers who rent or sharecrop land, mainly
contracted from large owners outside the target group.
9.        It is anticipated that about 7,400 producers (63% of the target
group), would fully apply the new proposed technologies, would be assisted



ANNEX 4
Page 3
by supporting services (credit, extension, land tenure program, applied
research and marketing), and thus would constitute the direct beneficiary or
adopter group. This adopter group would be made up of: (a) 6,150 owner-
operators or 72% of the target group owners; and (b) 1,250 landless producers
or 40% of the target group landless tenants and sharecroppers. The project
would also indirectly benefit:
(a) some 4,000 farm workers through increased employment oppor-
tunities;
(b) some 4,300 "non-adopter" producers of the target group
through access to improved infrastructure and some assis-
tance from support services (marketing, inputs, etc.); and,
for similar reasons;
(c) some 500 large farmers from the results of agricultural
research.
10.       Within each of the three project sub-areas (Annex 1) which can
be characterized as the potato, cotton, and citrus subarea, three broadly
representative farm models 1/ have been designed to suit the target group:
-    Model I would apply to small-scale owner-operators who crop
manually an area between 0 and 5 ha and do not have cattle;
-    Model II would apply to medium-scale owner-operators who
have some cattle, crop with draft animals or are potentially
able to use them. Cultivable area varies between 5 and 25 ha
in the potato subarea and between 5 and 50 ha in the two other
subareas; and
-    Model III has been especially designed for landless people who
crop manually and, so far, have not been authorized to grow
permanent crops and maintain pastures of their own since land
leases are based on one-year contracts. Only annual crops are
included in the project calculations for this group, but it is
hoped that improvements through the pilot land program would
open to landless producers a wider range of agricultural activi-
ties through better contracts with owners.
IV. Technology of Production
11.       The proposed crop technologies do not involve major changes from
those currently used by advanced farmers. They are mainly based on highly
1/   Farm models are based on INCRA's data which provide estimates of
cultivable (crops, pastures, and maintained forests), and cropped
land for each farm stratum.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
productive selected varieties which fit the climatic conditions of the project
area, adequate fertilization and efficient plant protection. Fertilizer
recommendations should be looked at as preliminary averages based on the
best available data on soil fertility levels and on "technical packages"
defined jointly by extension, research services and some of the most advanced
producers. During project implementation, recommendations will be improved
and adapted on the basis of further soil fertility analysis and the result of
the applied research program. Yield assumptions are prudent since they are
currently being reached, and sometimes substantially exceeded. These assump-
tions should be considered as averages of different technical levels that
depend on real expertise and actual investment possibilities of each producer.
It is expected that yields would progressively increase during the first four
years of the project before reaching a stable level in Year 5, except for
citrus whose stable production would be reached in Year 8 after planting.
Yearly input coefficients and assumptions of yields are given in Tables 3, 4
and 5. The research activities supported under the project are expected to
generate conditions for sustained growth beyond these time horizons, but no
attempt has been made to quantify these possible benefits because of their
uncertainty.
12.       A fairly large increase in potato productivity is expected over the
first five years of the project and would constitute one of its major outputs.
Under present conditions, yields are very low (3.2 t/ha on average, Table 3)
because of the poor quality of seeds combined with the low level of technology
and the uncertainty of growing two crops a year: the first crop is pLanted
very early to produce seeds for the second crop in order to avoid rotting
since there is a lack of cold storage for keeping good potato seeds over the
dry season. With selected seeds carefully kept in adequate cold storage,
combined with advanced technology,r including equilibrated and highly respon-
sive fertilization, it is anticipated that the average yield would reach 12.5
t/ha after five years. 1/ The assumption is quite modest since some farmers
are currently harvesting an average 20 t/ha a year.
13.       The proposed crop technologies would be extended within a compre-
hensive soil conservation program. This program would focus on:
(a) systematic contour-farming with strip cropping;
(b) rotating crops systematically with permanent soil coverage;
(c) locating crops according to their erosion sensitivity;
(d) creating contour ridges planted with "sabia", elephant
grass or other erosion preventing plants;
(e) planting steep slopes of land unsuitable for agriculture
with "sabia" (mimosa tree); and
1/   Fertilizer currently used does not include potassium.



ANNEX 4
Page 5
(f) improving soil structure by raising organic matter
content (returning crop residues incorporating organic
manure or compost). The development of dairy cattle
would contribute to this last item.
V.  A.Dplied Research Pro&ram 1/
14.       The proposed applied research program would have four objectives:
(a)  ref ir.e. improve and adopt existing advanced technologies
to tLa  -raget group for the main crops and dairy husbandry
accordi.sL to their relative weight in the total output of
the proj-Ja,-  th.<e crop program would particularly focus on
varieties, fertilization and plant protection;
(b)  monitor the so1I. conservation program which is much needed
in the Brejo and right be considered as a pilot program for
Northeast Brazil as a whole;
(c)  set up a permanent mechanism for continuous technology
development from applied research to extension with the
farmers' participation; and
(d)  involve the University of Paraiba (UFPb) in the research
program since its agricultural college, located in the
project area, is the main. graduation center in the North-
east.
15.       This applied research program would be implemented at two levels:
(a)  Experimental station of Alagoinha.  This station is close
to Brejo and has similar ecological conditions. Experi-
ments conducted under strictly controlled conditions would
aim at sorting out new techniques for the project area.
Since a research program is already being implemented under
Bank financing (see report 103ia-BR) for four of the main
crops (potatoes, beans, manioc and cotton), the project
would finance only the additional costs of research on
other crops (citrus, banana and pastures) and on soil
conservation.
(b)  Experiments at the farm level.  These experiments would be
conducted with the actual participation of farmers.  They
would permit the testing of farmers' reactions to, and the
appropriateness and benefits of, the new techniques coming
I/   Details of research program are given in working paper
on Agricultural Research.



ANNEX 4
Palge 6
from the experimental stations within a particular farming
system in order to gauge any difficulties for possible fur-
ther diffusion. Fifty farm sites of I ha will be selected
and developed during the six-year project period.
16.       The applied research program would be coordinated and implemented
by ]EMBRAPA with the participation of the UFPb on soil related matters, plant
protection and dairy husbandry. The EMBRAPA research team would be made up
of a coordinator and five assistants, who would be high level agriculturalists
witlh research experience and extension background. The research team would
wor]k very closely with EMATER and farmers' representatives. Every year a
research council made up of farmers' representatives, EMATER, EMBRAPA and
UCT would meet together to review the results of the past research campaign,
to sort out techniques ready to be extended and to decide on the research
program for the following campaign. The total cost of this experimentation
program over the five-year project period (1978-83) is estimated at albout
Cr$ 14.0 million (US$0.94 million), as detailed in Table 6.
VI.  Land Tenure Services
17.       A pilot program of land tenure services would be oriented towards
some 3,100 landless producers and some 1,750 small scale owner-operators
whoise owned land (between 0 and 2 ha) is often supplemented with rented plots
to meet family requirements. Land contracts are almost always verbal and on
a one-year basis, consequently, renters or sharecroppers are not attracted
to invest either in the land itself by applying advanced technology or in
housing to improve living conditions. Landless producers and small scale
owners-operators have had very limited access to land ownership so far because
of the following reasons:
(a) small scale producers do not have information either of
the available land or of the legal procedures to obtain
land.
(b) PROTERRA 1/ line of credit for land purchase was not
adapted so far to small producers since credit covered
only 80% of the total investment. The Central Bank of
Brazil has just modified the land purchase credit
regulations within the POLONORDESTE program, to better
meet actual requirements of small scale producers.
(c) large estates on the land market are out of reach of
the small producers in the absence of arrangements by
which small farmers can purchase large pieces of land
collectively to be distributed in small plots afterwards;
and
1/ PROTERRA (program for the Redistribution of Land and Stimulation of
Agro-Industrial Development in the Northeast and North of Brazil),
is a special program, created in 1972 to stimulate agricultural
development in general.



ANNEX 4
(d)  INGRA                                               red w;2.vt*uol--
such heavy inZras;uructure costs tnat they havve not made aany
sign-4 5zant impact0
18.       The land tenure services wou-ed adopt three main act'ivti½esO
(a)  improve land tenure .-ct'.rr ['Kir.ag sechl-ical and leg
assistance) byJ7 having them. `ormallv written with ezpanded
tenure periods (up to 5 years or more) and more favorable
terms for housing.  This act-oa -.ould make ad*ption of
improved technology attrE for the smail producers and,
consequently, benefit tuE o-,ers themselves, by having their
estates better maintained and made more productive.
(b)  make access to land easier for small scale oroducers through
three complementary actionsi Ci) a state institution would
be in charge of buying large estates to be distributed in
smaller units to landless and small scale farmers; a special
line of credit already exists to assist institutions (state
company, foundations, cooperatives  ,03 in this kind of trans-
action; (ii) small farmers would benefit from a POLONORDESTE
line of credit for land purchase under better coniditions
(100% coverage of total investment up to 20-year repayment
period and up to 6 years grace period); and ('iii) they would
be assisted in the legal aspects of land purchase procedures;
and,
(c)  set up - Atflln  he State Secretary of A_r i      r     soecial
land depaftment to carry.out the land programs inr the whole
state of Paralba.
19.       A special team of three technicians "a sociiologist, an agricul-
turalist, and a lawyer) located in -F1EPAIPb from Jan.Auary tc July 1978 would
prepare initially detailed implement stion procedures for the land tenure
improvement program0  This teae  weouad particularly fOocus on carrying out
complementary stud&-es  identifying the a%ppropriete state institution to be in
charge of acquiring large estates., ivestigating the feasibility of creating a
revolving fund for land purchase a-ad the possibillity of including state lands
to be distributed under this sceme '-che state owns 2 estates amounting to
some 700 ha in the projecr- area3,  Tie report on this study will be completed
before the end of 1978 and a copy mad@ a7"ailable to the Bank, along with
actions contemplated by thAe Goverant o   After the preparation period, this
team would be relocated within a ne-u department in the State Secretariat of
Agriculture firstly, to implement the Brejo pilot program and secondly, to
build the new land department which will eventually handle all the land
-elated programs in the state. It is anticipated that some 500 farmers would
eventually benefit f rom the land purchase program (5,000 ha red4stributed) and
1,500 other landless producers would benefit from improved land tenure contracts.
Costs of this program are shown in Table 7.



ANNEX 4
Page 8
VII. Farm Budgets
20.       Some 25 different farm models have been analyzed to test project
recommendations under the variety of conditions in the project area with
regard to ecology, farm size, and land tenure. For each of these specific
models, the set of technical packages to be extended under the project, were
found to be moderately to highly profitable for the target farmers. For
purposes of aggregate project analysis, the wide range of possibilities was
further reduced to nine broadly representative farm models (para. 10). The
most illustrative farm situations among these nine are the small-scale owner-
operators in each of the three sub-areas. These three illustrative farm
models are presented in Tables 8-10.
21.       The farm models shown assume rapid adoption of available technical
packages. In reality, however, the extent and timing of adoption will vary.
This has been taken into account in aggregate project analysis by assuming
gradual uptake over the project period within the nine broad categories of
target farmers, with final adoption rates of between 40 and 80% (para. 9 and
Table 2).
22.       Income.  Comparison of the with - and without - project situation
for three illustrative farms models, representing the small-farmer group shows
the potential benefits of project actions. Net farm incomes would rise from
Cr$ 4,400 to Cr$ 17,250 in the potato sub-area; from Cr$ 4,100 to Cr$ 7,000 in
the cotton sub-area; and from Cr$ 5,500 to Cr$ 18,700 in the citrus sub-area.
Financial rates of return would be over 50% in each case. Average results for
the nine representative farm models would be as follows:
Net Farm Income
Pre-project At Full Development
Cr$     US$         Cr$     US$
Potato Sub-area: owner with 1.4 ha            4,400     293      17,250   1,150
owner with 6.5 ha         16,500   1,100       75,600   5,040
non-owner with 3.8 ha       7,100     473      48,400   3,227
Cotton Sub-area: owner with 1.9 ha            4,100     273       7,000      465
owner with 10.6 ha        17,200   1,147       54,000   3,600
non-owner with 4.5 ha    10,300       687      13,200   1,280
Citrus Sub-area: owner with 2.7 ha            5,500     367      18,700   1,245
owner with 14.6 ha        27,000   1,800    110,200   7,347
non-owner with 5.5 ha      5,400      360       9,900     660
23.       Employment.  As a result of the developments proposed under the
project, primary agricultural employment is expected to increase substantially.
At full development, annual labor requirements on project farms would reach
21,250 man-years, an increase of 5,400 man-years, or 34% over present: labor
use. The extent to which these requirements can be met from family labor



ANNEX 4
Page 9
varies significantly among seasons and farm sizes. On average, some 60% would
come from family labor and the remainder would be hired within the Brejo area
and - particularly during harvest periods - from the nearby SERTAO. The
latter area, with its low potential and high unemployment, has traditionally
been a supplier of temporary workers to the Brejo and other more productive
regions. The increased labor demand resulting from the project would only
make a minor dent in the SERTAO's huge labor surplus. The main employment
effect of the project would be a better, more evenly spread utilization
of labor available in the Brejo region.
VIII. Production Estimates
24.       Based on INCRA's data and on a farm sample survey carried out by
CEPA preparation team in the project area, the estimated pre-project produc-
tion of the target group in 1976 is about Cr$ 214.1 million (US$14.3 million)
of which 25% comes from manioc flour, 22% from beans, 21% from sugar cane,
10% from potatoes, 7% from dairy cattle, 6% from cotton and the remaining 9%
from citrus and banana. Most probably - and in line with the experience of
recent years without the project, the total production of the target group
would remain at the same level as under existing conditions since possible
improvement in crop technologies would be nullified by the current process
of soil deterioration.
25.       The production development under the, project has been projected on
nine illustrative farm models (three in each subarea) reflecting different
size, tenure status and ecological conditions of the target group. Excluding
vegetables and small husbandry, the incremental output would be equivalent to
Cr$ 387.3 million (US$25.82 million) bringing the total value of production to
about Cr$ 601.4 million (US$40.1 million) at full development. This increase
would result mainly from an improvement of productivity (130% on average)
rather than an increase in cultivated area (only 4%). Summary of expected
changes in yields, areas cropped and production by crop is given in Table 11.
26.       Most of the additional output is expected to be in potatoes (33%),
citrus (25%), manioc (8%) and banana (12%), the remaining 22% coming from
dairy cattle, beans, cotton and sabia. A summary of present, target and incre-
mental value of production is shown in Table 12. Projections of output for
the project are made for the whole target group of the project, production
increases would, however, be attained by the 63% of producers who would
directly benefit from the project, whereas the balance of 37% are supposed
to remain at their traditional levels.



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PARAIBA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BREJO
VARIt STRAT1TnCATION - PRESENT SITUATION
LANDLESS                                                                                        TOTAL       TOTAL OWNERS
Unit          PRODUCERS      0-2 ha       2-5 ha       5-10 ha      10-25 ha      25-50 ha      50+ ha       OWNERS       TARGET GROUP
Potatoes Subarea
Number of Producers             families         1,090         720          1,280         680           390           100           70         3,X60            3,070
Total Cultivable Land           ha                 -           650          2,950       3,000         3,000         4,000       13,400        2/,000            9,600
Total Cultivated Land           ha                 -           650          2,950       2,780         2,720         3,800       12,700        25,600            9,100
Total Cropping Land             ha               4,100         650          2,590       2,400         2,360         3,200       10,600        21,800            8,000
% of Total Owners               %                  -            22.2           39.5        21.0          12.0           3.1           2.2         100              94.8
. of Total Cultivable Land    %                    -             2.4           11.0        11.1          11.1          14.8         49.6          100              35.5
Cotton Subarea
-       ~~families 
Number of Producers             ha                 360         260            590         430           290            80          110         1,760            1,650
Total Cultivable Land           ha                 -           260          1,480       2,620         4,060         1,680       18,700        28,800           10,100
Total Cultivated Land           ha                 -           260          1,480       2,440         3,480         1,440       16,800        25,300            9,100
Total Cropping Land             %                1,600         260          1,180       1,940         2,500         1,120       12,500        19,500            7,000
7. of Total Owners                                 -            14.8           33.5        24.4          16.5           4.5           6.3         100              93.8
% of Total Cultivable Land                         -             0.9            5.1         9.1          14.2            5.8        64.9          100              35.1
Citrus Subarea
Number of Producers             families         1,650         760          1,590         820           540           160           250        4,120            3,870
Total Cultivable Land           ha                 -           760          5,570 .    6,570         10,800         4,800       51,300        79,800           28,500
Total Cultivated Land           ha                 -           760          5,400       5,720         8,620         4,000       42,800        67,300           24,500
Total Cropping Land             ha               9,100         760          4,600       3,680         5,400         2,560       23,400        40,400           17,000
% of Total Owners                                  -            18.4           38.6        19.9          13.1            3.9          6.1         100              93.9
% of Total Cultivable Land    %                    -             1.0             7.0        8.2          13.5            6.0         64.3         100              35.7
Total Project Area
Number of Producers             families         3,100       1,740          3,460       1,930         1,220            340          430         9,120           8,590
Total Cultivable Land           ha                 -         1,670         10,000      12,190        17,860        10,480       83,400        135,600          48,200
-Total Cultivated Land          ha                  -         1,670          9,830     10,940         14,820         9,240       72,300       118,800           42,700
Total Cropping Land             ha              14,800       1,670          8,370       8,020        10,260         6,880       46,500         81,700          32,000
% of Total Owners               %                  -            19.1            37.9        21.2          13.4           3.7          4.7         100               94.2       4 
% of Total Cultivable Land    %                    -             1.2             7.4        9.0           13.2           7.7         61.5         100               35.5
Source:  INCRA CORRECTED BY CEPA Pb



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PARAIBA RURAL DEVELOEMENT PROJECT - BREJO
TARGET GROUP AND ADOPTORS
LANDLESS PRODUCERS                         OWNERS-OPERATORS                                                  TOTAL                     TOTAL
Unit                               0-2 ha        2-5 ha        5-10 ha      10-25 ha       25-50 ha               OWNER-OPERATORS               PRODUCERS
POTATOES SUBAREA
Target Group                    families        1,090                 720         1,280           680           390           -                         3,070                    4,160
Estimated % of Adoptors        %                 (40)                (40)           (80)         (80)          (80)           -                          (70)                      (62)
Adoptors                        families          430                 290         1,020           540           310           -                         2,160                     2,590
COTTON SUBAREA
Target Group                  families          360                 260            590           430          290             80                       1,650                     2,010
Estimated % of Adoptors       %                 (40)                (40)           (80)         (80)          (80)           (80)                       (73)                       (67)
Adoptors                      families          140                  100           470           340          230             60                       1,200                     1,340
CITRtS SoBAREA
Target Group                   families        1,650                 760          1,590           820          540            160                       3,870                     5,520
Estimated % of Adoptors        %                 (40)                (40)           (80)         (80)          (80)           (80)                        (72)                      (62)
Adoptors                       families          660                 300          1,270           660          430            130                       2,790                     3,450
PROJECT AREA
Target Group                   families        3,100               1,740          3,460         1,930        1,220            240                       8,590                    11,690
Estimated % of Adoptors        %                 (40)                (40)           (80)          (80)         (80)           (80)
Adoptors                       families        1,230                 690          2,760         1,540          970            190                       6,150                     7,380
Source;  INCRA-CORRECTED BY CEPA Pb.



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PARAIBA RURAL DEVELOPMENT - BREJO
EXISTING SITUATION - ESTIMATED YIELDS AND YEARLY INPUTS COEFFICIENTS
(Per hectare)
Potatoes      Citrus                  Manioc                                     Traditional
Unit   (2 cycles)  (Average year)             (2 years)  Beans 1  Cotton 1  Sugarcanep
2/                                                                                1/
Yield                   tons       3.2           10           -12       2.4       0.4        0.4         40            4
Crop Loss              %          5              15            15     10         10
Per Capita Consumptiox/kg        10              30            50     50         50
year
INPUTS
Seeds                   kg        550                                              30         30
Seedlings               unit
Cuttings                m3                                                4
Organic Fertilizer      tons        8                           6
Insecticide F           liters
Anticide                kg                                                          1          1
Bags                    unit       60           120-          180        48         5
Transport               tons                                                                             40
Manioc Processing       tons                                              2.4
LABOR
mandays   103            41            48      106         67         50
1/ Dry Matter
2/ 3.2 is a weighted average of relatively high yields (14 tons/ha) reached by advanced farmers using existing    HlE
cold storage facilities and cultivating approximately 200 ha and very low yields (2 ton/ha) reached by the
majority of potato growers on 1,700 ha.



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PARAIBA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BREJO
IMPROVED TECHNOLOGY - EXPECTED YIELDS AND YEARLY INPUT COEFFICIENTS
(Per hectare for the First Years)
Sugarcane   Banana       Sabia       Improved
Planting       Citrus                     1st year   1st year   1st year   Pasture
Unit   Year    2    3    4    5    6    7                                             1 st year
Yields                                                      6    8   12   15         70          25                        8 (M.S)
Crop Loss                       ions                       5    5    5    5                      10
Per Capita Consumption/year   kg                          50   50   50   50                      50
INPUTS
Seeds                           kg                                                                                         3 Kg
Seedlings                       !xnit   230                                                   2,500       2,800
Cuttings                         tons                                                 5
Organic Fertilizer               tons      5                                          5
Lime                             tons      1.5                                        1.5
Urea                             kg       25   50   75  100  120  120  150          200         200                      100
T-Superphosphate                kg      100   50   75  100  120  120  150           150         200
Potassium Chloride               kg            25   25   25  120  120  150          100         300
Manganes Sulfate                 kg             0.25       2          4
Zinc Sulfate                    kg              0.5        4          8
Insecticide A                   kg                                                    0.5        40
Insecticide F                    literS   1    1    1    2    3    3    4                         2
Anticide                         kg        7    6    5    4    4    4    4                                     4           4
Fungicide C                      kg        1    1    1    2    2    2    3
Fungicide D                     kg
Fungicide M                     kg                                                    0.5
Adhesive                         liters
Mineral Oil                      liters   2    2    2    4    4    4    6
Bags                            unit                     120  160  240  300                     540
Transport                        tons                                                70
Fencing                         unit                                                                                       1
LABOR
with draft animal               mandays110   62   53   95   98  135  158            171         161           62          24
without draft animal                    131   73   64  106  119  156  180                       193           62          24
F- X



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PARAIBA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BREJO
IMPROVED TECHNOLOGY - EXPECTED YIELDS AND YEARLY INPUT COEFFICIENTS  Al' FIS.T. O       ErA  NT
(per ha)
Unit         Potatoes       Citrus       Banana      Manioc         Beans 1       Beans 2       Cotton I       Cotton 2        Sugarcane       Sabia
8-20 Year   2-5 Year    (2 years)                                                                   2-5 Year        5 year
Yield                                 tons           12.5            20          25       4.5 (flour)        0.7           0.5           0.9            0.6              70        5,000 stakes
Crop Loss                             %                1              5          10             5             3             3
Per Capita Family Consumption/Year  kg                20             50          50           50             50            50
INPUTS
Seeds                                 kg             1,500                                                     30            30            30              30
Seedlings                             unit
Cuttings                              M3                                                          4
organic Fertilizer                    tons              20
Lime                                  tons
Urea                                  kg               150            150         200           100                                        50                             200
T-Superphosphate                      kg               150            150         200           150                                       100                             150
Potassium Chloride                    kg               150            150         300           100                                                                       100
Manganes Sulfate                      kg 
Zinc Sulfate                          kg                               16
Insecticide A                         kg                 4                         40
Insecticide F                         liters             3              4           2             1             3             3              3
Anticide                              kg                                4                         2             6              6             4              4
Fungicide C                           kg                                3
Fungicide D                           kg                 8
Fungicide M                           kg
Adhesive                              liters             4
Mineral oil                           liters                            6
Transport                             tons
Processing                            tons                                                       475
Bags                                  unit             250            400         500             90           14             10
Frigorific Storage                    kgmx            sew,
LABOR
with draft animal   (MODEL II)    manday             115            193          83           116            59             14            79             66               70            75
without draft animal (MODEL I,ITI)                   137            214         119           145            80             19            79             66                             75



ANNEX 4
TabIe 6
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PARAIBA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BREJO
COSTS OF APPLIED RESEARCH
(SeDtemher 1977)
(Cr$ '000)
Total
Start-Up   78/79   79/80   80/81   81/82   82/83  Project
Cost
1. Personnel
Coordinator (1)          110      221       id       id      id       id
Research Staff (5)        390     780        "                H "
Admin. Assistant (1)       65     130        "
Admin. Auxilfaries (3)   97       195
Total Social Charges    212       424
Per Diem Costs             90     180
Sub Total                965    1930    1930    1930    1930    1930    9650
2. Training                  154     154      154      154     154      154      770
3. Vehicles
Buying (6)                365
Operational and
Maintenance Costs         115      60       60       60       60      60
Sub Total                480       60       60       60      60       60      300
4. Equipment
Office                    274
Soil Lab.                 462
Agricultural Equip.       122      _        53       _       53       -
Sub Total                858       -        53       -       53       -       106
5. Farm Trials               550     450      450      450     450      450
Sub Total                550      450      450      450     450      450    2250
6. Station Trials             50      50       50       50       50      50      250
7. Consulting &
Spec. Studies             110     140      140      140     140      140      700
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS   3167    2784    2837    2784    2837    2784   14026
Physical contingencies   84        56       61       56       61      56      290
TOTAL                    3251    2840    2898    2840    2898    2840   14316



ANNEX 4
Table 7
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PARAIBA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BREJO
COSTS OF LAND TENURE SERVICE
(CR$'000)
1978/79   1979/80   1980/81   1981/82   1982/83   Total
Project
Costs
Personlnel                              810        810        810        810        810       4050
Consulting                               250         30        30         30         30        370
Studies and Preliminary surveys          150        -          50         -                    200
Operational Costs                        30          30         30        30         30        150
Total                                  1240        870        920        870        870       4770



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PARAIBA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BREJO
FARM BUDGET. FINANCIAL                                         FARM TYPE# ADVANCEDIs4MA FARM A
IN CHtUZEIRIl
CALENDAR YEAR
WITH PRIJLCT                                    1977      197T      1979      1980     1981      1982      1987      1992.    1997
(CASL YR)
GIlOSS VALUE                               7,884       9,9S4   14,852   19,472   24.712   295331   30,411   30,411   30,411
LtlANS AND GRANM                            -            O15,084   145S30   14,564   13,557   12,430   11,457   11#464   11,360
LTITAL  ANFLDG T                             7,884      25,038   29,382   33,636   38,269   41,76b   41t,66   418675   41.791
- WtASTE AND 1.I18                           536         Ito       236       284      355       403       45q       437       457
*   ON"FARM CliNSUMPTII1N                      3,030       3,324    3,24    3.3?4    3,S24    3,24    3,324    3,324    3,324
* NET INFLOW                                   4,318      21,534   25,822   30,027   34,590   38#034   38,057   38,094   38,010
DIRECT PRODUlCTION COST                    2,939       8,211    9,170    9,921   10,801   11 U72   11,660   11.660   11,660
INVCSTMCNTS                                 -             84       I30      214       207       130       207       214       130
DEUT-SERVICES                               -         16,059   35,428   14,979   14.389   13,316   12,224   12.224   12,224
- TUAL OUTFLIOW                                2,939      24#345   24,728   25,114   25S397   24,518   24,091   24,098   24,014
NET FARM CASH FLIIW                          1,379        -2,12    1,094    4,914    9192  13,516   13,997   13,997   13,997
LOANS AND GRANTS                            -         15,0A4   14,530   14,164   13,557   12,430   11,457   11#464   11,380
. NON-PRUDUCTIIIN INFLIIW                       -         155084   14,530   14,164   13557   12,430   1t,457   11#464   11,360
ON-FARM CllNSlMFPTIllN                     3,030       3,324    3,324    3,324    3,324    3.324    3,324    3,324    3,324
DC1T-SERAVICES                              -         16,050   15,428   14,979   14,389   13,316   12,224   12,224   12,224
+ NON.PRIIDUCTIIIN nOUfFLIW                     -         19,374   I,7s52   18,303   17,713   16,640    5,5148   15.546   15,546
*-LESS FAMILY LABOR CIOST                       -          S5200   S5200    5,200    5,200    5,200    5,200    5,200    5,200
* NET FARM BENEFIT                              -         -3,722       116    3R5S3    6,348   12,526   12,067    la,660   12*964,
Net Farm Income                              4,408         513     4,418   8,238   12,517   16,840  17,320   17,320  17,320
1! Small farm in the potato area.
Extent cropped 1.4 ha.
CD C
o: >4



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PARAIBA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BREJO
.                                                             .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
FARM UBUDGET, FINANCIAL                                        FARM TYPEI ADVANCED 2 HA FARM B
IN CRUZEJRO
CALENDAR YEAR
WITH PROJECT                                    1977      1975     1979      1980      1981      1982      19A7     1992      1997
(BASE YR)
GROSS VALUE                                6,084      6,696    A,166    9,069   10,548   11,274   12,714   12,714   12,714
LOJANS AND GPANT8                           -         11#610   11,179   10,926   10,475    9,566    8,862.   8,853    8,760
3 TuTAL INFL11W                                 6,084    18,306   19,345   19,995   21,02S   20,840   21,76,  21,567   21,474
-   WASTE AND LOSS                                465        204       238      249       289       500       372.      372      372-
*   ON.FARM CONSUMPTION                         2,820      2,820    2,820    2,8Ž0    2,520    2,820    2,820    2,820    2,820
* NET INFLOW                                    2,779    IS,282   16,287   16,926   17,914   17,720   18,384   18,375   18,282.
DIRECT PR11DUCTItIN CIOST                  1,533       1,907    2,710    2,996    3,646    3,653    4,436    4,436    4,436
HIRED LABlilI C1st-                                      14       146       146 146             146       146       146      146
INVESTMENTS                                               89      119       212       221       119      221       212       119
DEIOT-SERVIVES                              -         12,327   11,856   11,515   11,075   10#265    9,454    9.454    9,454
* TlTAL UUTFLOW                                1,533    14,469   14,831   14,069   IS,088   14,183   14#257   14,248   14,155
* NET FARM CASH FLtIW                          1,246         8t3    1,456    2#057    2.526    1,557    4,127    4,127    4,t2?
LOANS AND GRAIITS                           -         1t1610   11,t79   10,926   10o,475'   9,566    8,862;   8#853    8,760
- NUN-PRUDUCTwIN INFLOW                         -         11#610   11,179   10,926   10,475    9,566    8,862    8,853    8,760
ON-FARM CIINSUMPtIIIN                      2,820      2,820    2,820    2,820    2,820    2,820    2,820    2,620    2#820
DC13T-SERVICES                              -         12,327   1185S6   11,515   110075   10,265    9,454    9,454    9,454
+ NUN-PRHUDUCTION OUTFLIIW                     2,820    15,147   14,676   14,335   13,895   13,085   12#274   12,274   12,274
* LESS FAMILY LABDOR C11ST                      -          6,075    6,075    6,075    6,07S    6,07S    6075    6,07s    6,075
S NET FARM BENEFIT                              -         -1,725   -1,122      "609       171       981    1,464    1,473   I1,66
Net Farm Income                              4,066      3,633    4,276    4,877    5,646    6,357   6,947    6,947    6,947
l/ Small farm in the cotton area.
Extent cropped 1.9 ha.
rZ



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PARAIBA RITRAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECI - BREJO
FARM BUDGET, FINANCIAL                                           FARM TYPEt ADVANCED 3 HA FARM Cot -
IN CRUZEIRO
CALENDAR YEAR
WITH PRnJECT                                      1917      1978      1979      1960      1981      1982      1967      1992       1997
(BASE YR)
GROSS VALUE                                12,332      133512   15,54n   16.532   19,139   2A,665   31.705   31,t75   31#705
LOANS AND GRAIJTS                            -         20,99R   18,340   16,944   13,416   11,782   13.009   13,009   13.009
7 TOTAL INFLllW                                12,332       140,51    330A8P   33,476   32,555   35447   44#714   44,714   44,714
-   WA;TE AND LllSS                             1,581        1,710    1,83S    1,769    1,777        3,140    1,529    1,529    1#529
-   ON-FARM CONSUOPT4ION                        3,396        7,680    7,r60    7,680    7,680    7,680    7,680    7#680    7,680
a NET INFLOW                                    7,355       25.120   24,373   24,0?1   23,097   26,627   35,50S   35,505   35.505
DIRECT PRIIDLICTION C1S1                    5,050        4,065    60235    4#3117    S,O         6110    8,390    8,390    8,390
HIRED LABIIHR cOsr                            239          764       635       165       16S       176       284       284        284
INVESTMENTS                                  -          2,137    3,172    2,617            0         0         0          0         0
DEBT-SERVICES                                -         17#55    136,376   16,526   15,t74    14#544   36,170   15#854   15,854
TOITAL UUTFLIIW                               5,289       24,524   26,418   23,625   21#206   20,829   24,843   24,527   24,527
* NET FARM CASH FLIIW                           2,066          596   -2,045        402    1,892    5,798   10#662.  10,978   10,976
LOANS AND GPANTS                             -         20,99R   18,340   16,944   13,416   11,782   13,009   13,009   13#009
NON-PRODUCTION INFLOW                          -          20,998   18,340   16#944   13,416   11,782   13,009   13,009   13,009
ON-FARM CIINSUMPtJilN                       3,396        7,680    7,680    7,680    7,680        7,680    7,680    7#680    7#680
DEUT-SERVICE:S                               -          IT7558   16,376   16,526   15,749   14,544   36,370   15,854   15,854
+ NON-PRODUCTION 0I11tFLOW                     3,396       25,238   24#056   24,206   23,420   22,224   23#850   23,534   23,534
- LESS FAMILY LABOR CIOST                        -           7,146    7#983    7,324    7,227    7,669    8,523    8,523    8,523
* NET FARM BENEFIT                               -          p2,309   -4,311        340    4*669    8,571   12,980   12,980    12,980
Net Farm Income                               5,462        8,276    5,635    8,082    9,572   13,478  18,302   18,658   18,658
1/  Small Farm in the Citrus Area.
Extent cropped - 2.7 ha.                                                                                                                   otz
i- tM
0 



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PARAIBA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BREJO
YIELDS, CROPPED AREA AND GROSS OUTPUT
Area Under Cultivati                                      Yields                         Production (grosg)
(ha)                                                (t)                                   (t)
W/O Project    WI Project      WI Project        Total            Traditional      Improved
'Tradittonal    Improved       Traditional    Incrementa          Technology      Technology          Present    Target    Incremental
Technology     Technology      Technology        Area
Potatoes Subarea
Potatoes                                  1,900           2,820                           +920                3.2           12.5             6,080      35,300      +29,220
Beans 1                                   5,060           2,810           2,220             -30              0.4             0.7             2,020       2,850      +   830
Manioc 2nd year                           5,060           2,810           2,220             -30               2.4            4.5            12,140      17,970      + 5,830
Cotton 2                                                  2,810                         +2,810                               0.6                         1,690      + 1,690
Cropped Area                              12,400          8,680           4,600           +880
Cultivated Area                          13,360           9,020           4,800           +460
Citrua/Banana Subarea
Citrus                                       200          4,290                         +4,090               10.0           20.0              2,000    85,800        +83,800
Banana                                       800          2,140                         +1,340               12.0           25.0               9,600    53,500       +43,900
Beans 1                                   9,120           4,760           3,930            -430               0.4            0.7               3,650     4,900        +1,250
Msniioc 2d year                            9,120          4,760           3,930            -430               2.4             4.5             21,890    30,850        +8,960
Sugarcama                                 6,240           2,440           1,380          -2,420              40.0            70.0           249,600   226,000        -23,600
Sabia (1,000's)                                             610                            +610                               5.0                        3,050        +3,050
Dairy Cows (Nb)                           4,560 U         5,230 U           900 U       +1,570 U                                                 570 U     9800         +410 U
Milk Production (1,000 1)                                                                                     0.6/U           1.25/U           2,740     7,080        +4,340
Calf Production (Nb)                                                                                          0.5/U           0.70/U           2,280     4,110        +1,830
Cropped Area                             26,210          18,800           9,550         +2,140
Cultivated Area                          33,450          23,120          11,070            +740
Cotton Subarea
Cotton                                     5,340          3,810           1,530            +100               0.4             0.9              2,140     4,100        +1,960
Beans 1                                    6,920          4,920           2,060             +60               0.4             0.7              2,770     4,270        +1,500
Manioc 2nd year                            1,580          1,110             530             +60               2.4             4.5              3,790      6,270       +2,480
Sabia (1,000's)                                             320                            +320                               5.0                         1,600       +1,600
Dairy Cows (U)                             1,600          3,150             340             +50                                                  200        570         +370             *
Milk Production (1.000 1)                                                                                     0.6/U           1.25/U             960      4,140       +3,180             WIN
Calf Production (Nb)                                                                                          0.5/U           0.7/U              800      2,370       +1,570
Cropped )Atea                             8,740           6,180           2,680            +120
Cultivated Area                          10, 50           8,390           3,070            +880



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PARAT.A RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BREJO
3/
TARCET GROUP'S P_ESE_TTARGET AND INC REMENTAL VALUE OF PRODUCTION
Value of Present Production                             Value of Target Production                             Value of Incremental Production
Cr$ Million-1/   Us$ NillionY           7                Cr$ Million      US$ Million                             Cr$ Million       US$ Million 7,
Potatoes                          20.8             1.39               9.7                  146.8            9.79               24.4             + 126.0               + 8.40           + 32.5
Citrus                             2.0             0.13              0.9                   97.8             6.52               16.3             +  95.8               + 6.39          + 24.7
Manioc                            54.5             3.63             25.4                    83.7            5.58               13.9             +  29.2               + 1.95          +  7.6
Banana                             9.8             0.65              4.6                   57.8             3.85                9.6             +  48,0              +111.20          + 12.4
Beans                             47.1             3.14             22.0                   73.6            4.91                12.2             +  26.5              + 1.77           +  6.9
Cotton                            12.6             0.84              5.9                   34 2             2.28                5.7             +  21.6              + 1.44           +  5.6
Sabia                                                                                       6,7             0.45                1.1             +   6.7               + 0.45          +  1.7
Sugarcane                         44.9             2.99             21.0                   40,7             2.71                6.S             -   4.2               - 0.28           -  1.0
Milk                              1.4.1            0.94              6.6                   42.6             2.84                7.1             4  28.5                1 1.90         d  7.4
Calf                               8.3             0.55              3.9                    17.5            1.17                2.9             +   9.2               + 0.61          +  2.4
TOTAL VALJE                      214.1            14.27            100.0                  601.4            40.09              100.0             + 387,3                25.82          +100.0
1/  All production value figures are based on average fEarmgate prices expreseed in constant terms of July 1977.
2/  Rate of exchange US$1-   Cr $15.OO (September 1.977).
3/  Home consumption has been included.



ANNEX 5
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PARAIBA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BREJO
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING 1/
I.   Existing Situation
1.        In the Brejo area, the marketing structure is weak:  there is a
lack of organized outlets for outputs and the small volumes of inputs used
also have not generated an efficient supply network.
2.        Outputs.  Farmers know that it is possible to increase their produc-
tion substantially through already existing technology, but they do not apply
it because, among the main reasons, they cannot market their products profit-
ably. The three existing cooperatives are not working well and farmers are
generally at the mercy of small unorganized middlemen who exploit the situation
by syphoning off an excessive mark-up. This is particularly true for perish-
able food crops; the wholesale mark-up over the farm-gate price is 15-20% for
beaLns and manioc, 70% for potatoes, 100% for oranges, and 180% for bananas.
Thel situation is better for industrial crops (cotton and sugar cane) since
these crops are mainly produced by the larger farmers, and the factories need
the production to operate.
3.        Inputs.  The large farmers account for 80% of all input purchases
in the project area and often get their supply directly from Recife. The
smaLll producers depend on small private traders and on the new network of
CIDAGRO (State Company for Input Supply). They usually limit their purchase
to pesticides, tools and, recently, also to selected cotton seed. They do not
use any chemical fertilizers. In the potato subarea, the main bottleneck is
the lack of high quality potato seeds. Farmers have to use their owni seeds
which have deteriorated through the years and are almost rotten by the time
they are planted. The climatic conditions of the Brejo require cold storage
to keep potato seeds in a suitable condition, but the existing facility can
stcre only less than 10% of the required seeds (this storage facility is
mainly used by medium and large farmers).
II. Potential Market (See Table 1)
4.        The potential market for the main crops to be grown has been used
as a basis to design the agricultural development proposed under the project.
A conventional procedure was used to project demand up to the year 1990 on
the basis of per capita consumption and income elasticity. As a general
hypothesis, it has assumed that sales of the Brejo production would be limited
to the urban market of Northeast Brazil including towns of over 20,000 in
Paraiba and over 50,000 in the other states; smaller towns are not considered
since they are generally supplied from local sources. Other specific. hypo-
theses were made for the different products as follows:
1/   Separate working papers have been prepared on agricultural marketing and
storage, and marketing prospects.



ANNEX 5
Page "
(a)  Potatoes:  Cons-umption ias c nsts-nt over tiO  year; there is
no genuine competitor to the  raio within the Northeast:
potato- S  aZm be- sod .-var a        on:      >tint nr
following the first harvesti ng date by assuming a t1wo month
harvesting period and a one-'month storage under normal con-
ditions without damage to t-e product0  If cold storage is
used, an additional threeZ-r-nh -marketi-ng reriod may be con3
sidered but only for the main nb urban centers s4nce the tech-
nology is fairly exnensive0
(b)  Orpages:  The potential market is lImited to three states
(Paraiba, Pernambuco. and Rio Grande do Norte) in view of
the existing and potential competitors (like the state of
Sergipe and the valley of Sao Francisco). Within this
limited market, it is assumed that the Brejo would only
substitute imports which currently come Lrom the other states
of Brazil except Pernambuco whose import requirement is
assumed to be equally shared between the Brejo and Sergipe
(50% each)0
(c)  Bananas:  Since the Northeast is generally well-supplied, the
potential market for the Brejo has been limited to (i) the
city of Camp'ina Grande because of its proximity to the project
area, and (ii) the substitutiorn of Pernambuco imports from the
state of Ceara which is too far away to supply this state with
bananas in good condition0
(d)  Beans:  There ite a large potential market in all of Brazil
and, consequently, the best outlets for the Brelo are firstly
the market of the state o-f Paraiba itself, secondly, the sub-
stitution. of imports in the neighborirng states and thirdly,
the ex-port to Southern Brazil which has a permanent shortage.
(e)  Manioc flour:  There is a fairly large potential market
in the state of Parai7ba itself 0
(f)  Milk:  There is a large mark-et and even with the additional
production of the Brejo, de   nd will be far from satisfied.
L:    Or£gaUnization of Market=in
I.        The main objective would be to provide farmers of the target group
with adequate inputs to secure favorable outlets for their products, and to
offer them better prices by improving marketing efficiency0 The current
marketing structure is particularly weak and totally inadequate to handle
such a large increase in production as proposed under the project. In
Paraiba, there has been only limited experience with cooperatives and that
too has been confined to larger producers. Smallholders are served by some



ANNEX 5
Page 3
loosely organized middlemen. The project would build up a more effective
system, in which farmer organizations would compete with the existing
system on the following lines:
(a) At the community level, a network of 47 small commercial
facilities would be set up and operated by CIDAGRO at the
beginning of the project. These facilities would eventual'."
be transferred to the associations of producers when they
are prepared to take full responsibility.  These associations
may be considered as pre-cooperatives.
(b) At the regional level, in Campina Grande, an efficient com-
mercial apex would be built and operated by CIDAGRO. This
apex would eventually be taken over by apex cooperatives
specialized either by area or by crops. Where feasible, the
three existing cooperatives would be integrated within this
system. Fully-fledged cooperatives are not expected to be
established during the project period (years I to 5).
(c) For the potato subarea, a cold storage facility would be built
and operated by CIBRAZEM to store potato seeds. Other cold
storage facilities could be built in Campina Grande and/or
Joao Pessoa to store marketable potatoes.
6.        Cold storage for marketable potatoes has not been included in
the project, since further studies and practical tests are needed before
makirLg any decision. Moreover, such storage would probably operate most
effec:tively on a purely commercial basis with financing through regular Bank
credit, which is available. Interest in cold-storage investments is expected
both in CIDAGRO and among private traders.
A.   Network of Small Commercial Facilities (see Table 2)
7.        The basic, small commercial facility has been designed to concen-
trate on production in one location, close enough to farmers in order to
make product collection and input delivery easier for them, but with a market-
able volume sufficient to have an efficient marketing and profitable oper-
ation. Accordingly, a basic facility integrated into the community cenLter
(see Annex 3), would serve an association of 100 to 200 producers within an
area of about 30 square km. Each producer, consequently would not be further
than 4 km from this facility and could use his own means of transportation to
carry his production. This facility would provide the farmers with three
basic services:



ANNEX 5
Page 4
(i) Mini-market
The mini-market would be the contact point between the
farmers and their buyers in order to maintain a fair
competition. In addition to the private traders (tradi-
tional middlemen, wholesalers, etc.), CIDAGRO and COBAL 1/
would also be buyers to ensure outlets and regulate prices.
Tnis mini-market would operate mainly for the perishable
and subsistence products (potatoes, oranges, bananas, beans
and manioc flour). Cotton, sugar cane and milk would have a
direct marketing channel to the factories.
The mini-store would be used by the associated farmers to
store their ex_ra production of beans and manioc flour (and
also benefit from the minimum price system) before getting
a favorable price onl the market (see para 4).
(iii)  Warehouse for input delivery
Building design of these facilities has been standardized as
much as possible to include a market area, a storage room
and an office space by using a model structure. Some addi-
tional specifications, however, have been considered for
each of the three subareas in accordance with the main pro-
ducts to be marketed.
8.        Considering the expected agricultural development and assuming that
roughly 60% of the total production would be channeled through this new net-
work, 47 small commercial facilities would be built during the first five
years, of which li would be in the potato subarea, 7 in the cotton subarea
and 23 in the citrus subarea. Because of the innovative aspect of this com-
mercial network, a yearly evaluation, however, would be carried out to modify,
iL necessary, the building program during the first years of the project.
9.        At the beginning of the project, this network of small commercial
facilities would be progressively built and put into operation by CIDAGRO.
Each facility would be operated by a manager with an assistant. This manager
would be locally recruited among farmers or previous middlemen since this
position requires market experience. The associations of producers to
be promoted at the beginning of the project would, however, elect their
representatives who would receive a special training program (marketing
organization, simple accounting, management).  As a result, it is anticipated
that the associations of farmers would progressively take over their commer-
cial facility by replacing CIDAGRO personnel with their own people.
1/   COBAL Federal company for food products.



ANNEX 5
Page 5
B.   Commercial Apex in Campina Grande
10.       A commercial apex would be set up in Campina Grande within the
existing produce wholesale center (CEASA) of this city. The main functions
of this apex would be to: a) coordinate price information and demand from
the CEASA's in Northeast Brazil with offers at the mini market level; b)
supervise the operations of each mini-market; c) decide on production dis-
patching from the mini-markets to the different CEASAs considering off'ered
prices and operational costs; d) coordinate transportation; e) relate as much
as possible integrated retailers (supermarkets) directly to mini-markets;
f) analyze on a monthly basis, commercial results; and g) supervise ccld
storage for marketable potatoes, if needed.
11.       This commercial apex would be initially run by CIDAGRO through
a high level commercial manager to be recruited from the private businessmen
(supermarkets, commercial firms). This manager would be assisted by i.) three
marketing specialists each of them respectively responsible for potatoes, food
products (beans and manioc flaur), and fruit (oranges and bananas); ii) a
field coordinator in charge of supervising mini-markets; and iii) an aLccount-
ant with two auxiliaries. This staff would progressively be hired according
to the development of the mini-markets. At the beginning of the project, the
commLercial apex would hire consultants specialized in marketing organization
to help define the operational procedures for the whole marketing system.
Consultants would also be needed to review yearly operations and modify
following program2 accordingly. The physical facility of this commercial apex
consists of 400 m storage area for temporary storage and office space within
the CEASA. This apex would be linked with the mini markets by a radic system
and with the other CEASA's by telex, to be provided under the project.
C.   Cold Storage for Potatoes
12.       Cold storage is required for potato seeds and probably for part
of the marketable potato production. Regarding seeds, it is assumed that
50% of the annual requirements would be met by importing from Southern Brazil;
consequently, the other 50% (e.g. 2,000 tons at full development) would be
produced in the state of Paraiba and require cold storage during the dry
season. A first (1,000) tons facility would be built in 1978 using a special
fund outside POLONORDESTE (not included in the project costs), and an addi-
tional 1,000 tons facility would be built in 1981 according to the agricul-
tural development. CIBRAZEM would be in charge of building and operating
these facilities.
13.       CIDAGRO would purchase certified seed from selected growers at
harvest (July-August) and store' them in the cold storage facilitates until
the next planting season (February-March). It would engage the services of
EMBRAPA/EMATER for technical supervision of seed production and CIBRAZEM



ANNEX 5
for cold storage. Price paid to producers of cerifise^d seed would mi rcud.
the cost of basic seed, transportation and a reasonable margin to seed pro-
-   Selling prices to farmers would include the price of certified
seed paid to seed producers, the costs of storage, inandling, and a 
cost recovery to cover amortization of the investment on cold stores facil-
i~ ^s.  Only certified seed would hereafter be stored in the cold sztores,
and the earlier practice of renting space to farmers to store their o,n
seed potatoes would be discontinued. CIBRAZEM and CIDAGRO would be required
to prepare a plan of operations for this sub-component giving details on
capacity, location, technical specification and the method of operating the
seed supply system.
D.   Existin  Cooperatives
14,       The three existing cooperatives have not been formally included
in the marketing structure since they currently have problems regarding
finances, actual representation of small farmers, and general acceptance.
The project would attempt, as part of the cooperative development program,
to restore these cooperatives by improving their financial situation, by
organizing new elections and, if possible, by progressively involving them
in the marketing structure, A cooperative specialist would be in charge
of this program.
IV. Prices (see Table 4)
15.       Farm-gate prices for the products to be developed under the project
have been estimated firstly from the official data 1/ in recent years, and
secondly, by including expected increases for better marketing conditions
and improved quality under the project. Production has been particularly
uneven in these years, with 1974 being normal, 1975 showing unusually high
production, and 1976 low production. To arrive at consistent estimates,
prices were averaged for the three years, and corrected for inflation. As a
result of the project, prices are expected to increase on average by 10%
due to improvements in marketing for bananas, beans and manioc flour, which
would be marketed through the new system. In the case of potatoes and
oranges the expected benefit resulting from marketing improvement was re-
adjusted to allow for a price reduction due to the substantial increase in
marketable outputs.
1115c     For beans and manioc flour, it is expected that the minimum price
system would operate through the network of ministores. This system operates
as follows: the minimum price is annually fixed for each region by the Crop
Financing Commission (CFP). Farmers may store their production in an official
1/   Market information service (SIM)
Getulic Vargas Foundation (FGV).



ANNEX 5
Page 7
warehouse (ministores would be considered as such) and have two options: to
obtain 80% financing over three months or to sell for 100% of the price. This
system would help farmers to get cash at harvest time.
17.       As regards inputs, prices have been estimated from current, September
1977, prices registered in Paraiba (CIDAGRO) and in other states of Northeast
Brazil.
V.   Cost Estimates (see Table 5)
18.       The investment costs of building the whole network of commLercial
facilities would be financed by the project. In addition, the staff would
be financed by the project for a 6 month period considered as training for
initial operations. A full cost recovery system to meet the costs of the
commercial operations would be put into operation right at the beginning of
the project, by taking a 2% margin calculated on the retail price (see
Table 3).
19.       As regards the commercial apex, cost of equipment and consulting
would be financed by the project. Staff would also be financed, but on a
regressive basis ending year 4 of the project. This apex would retain a
10% margin from the retail price which would be apportioned in the following
manner: 8% to cover transport, services or marketing cost of the apex
agency; and 2% as a seasonal security fund during the marketing campaign.
At the end of the marketing season for each crop, this security fund would
be released by the apex unit to the farmers associations except for 25% of
this amount which would be remitted to state revenue (starting in year 5)
as cost recovery of the whole investment of the marketing system.
20.       At the mini-markets, farmers would be paid either in cash (farm-
gate price less financial charges) or after a two-week delay (full price).
In its purchase campaign, CIDAGRO would yearly need a commercial credit that
can be obtained under the current banking system.
21.       As regards cold storage, the project would only finance the
investment for a 1,000 ton facility to be built in 1981.  The investment
and operating costs of this facility would be fully recovered from aL mark-up
on the farmer's purchase price for potato seeds.



ANNEX 5
Table 1
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PARAIBA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BREJO
Potential Market for the Brejo Products
(in tons)
Products                 1980        1985       1990        Comments
Potatoes I               16000       22500      32000       Three months marketing
period.
II              25000       36000       52000      Three months marketing
period.
+ cold storage for three
additional months.
Oranges                  58000       67000      77000
Banana                   47500       61000      77500
Beans  I                 16000       20000      24300       Without export to Southern
Brazil
II                 18000      23500       29300      With export to Southern
Brazil.
Manioc flour             40000       47000      53000
Milk (1000 liters)        4500        9000      60000



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PARAIBA RURAL DEVELMPMNT PROJECT -BREJO
Building Program for the Small Commercial Facilities and Number of Producers Involved
1977/1978    1978/1979   1979/1980   1980/1981   1981/1982    1982/1983    1984 - 1998
Potato Subarea
Number of facllities    2                6           13           17           17            17            17
(area 220 m )
Number of Producers   200              750         1700         2300         2600          2600          2600
Cotton Subarea
Number of facilities    1                3            6           7            7              7               7
(area 165 m2)
Number of Producers   100              400          800         1050         1300           1300            1300
Citrus Subarea
Number of facilities    1                 5           8           17           13
(area 220 m2)
220 m2 + additional
110 m2                                   -            -            -           10              23              23
Number of Producers   100              650         1050         2300         3100             3900           3500
Total Project Area
Number of Facilities    4               14           27           41           47               47             47
N6mber Of Producers   400             1800         3550         5650         7000            7400           7400          1|
L n



ANNEX 5
Table 3
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PARAIBA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT -BREJO
Marketing Markups - Comparison between Existing and Projected Situations
(in %)
Existing        Projected              Situation
Situation            I                    II*
Retail price                        100              100                   100
Retailers                            25               25                    25
Wholesalers                          10               10
Middlemen                            20
New System:
Commercial Apex
Operational costs                                      8                     8
Market Commission                                      2                     2
Mini markets
Cost recovery                                          2                     2
Farm Gate Price                      45              53                     63
(*) The commercial apex sll8 directly to supermarkets.



ANNEX 5
Table 4
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PARAIBA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BREJO
Farmgate Prices used in the financial analysis
(Cr $ per ton)
PRODUCE:   Potatoes, grade I and                                       4200
grade II                                         3500
Manioc flour                                                1600
Cotton                                                      5900
Bananas                                                     1200
Oranges                                                     1200
Milk (1000 liters)                                          3800
Meat                                                       16500
Beans                                                       6200
INPUTS:    Potatoes:  traditional potato seeds                         4500
improved potato seeds                           8600
organic fertilizer                               160
Urea                                            4500
T. Superphosphate                               3300
potassium chloride                              2300
Insecticide
"folidol" (liter)                                 90
fungicide "dithane" (kg)                          30
adhesive product (liter)                          12
packing bags (unit)                                6
Cotton:    cotton seeds (kg)                                   4
Beans:     bean seeds (kg)                                    12
Manioc:    manioc cuttings (m )                               45
manioc processing                                320
Sugarcane: sugarcane sets                                    180
sugarcane transport                               30
Castor oil cake                                  730
Bananas:   banana suckers (1000 u)                          2300
Citrus:    citrus stock (1000 u)                            6000
lime                                             200
zinc sulfate (kg)                                 60
manganese sulfate (kg)                            65
mineral oil (liter)                               25
fungicide (cuprovit) (kg)                         50
insecticide "aldrin"                              40
anticide (kg)                                     10
fungicide "herpacane" (kg)                       120
Mimosa:    mimosa seedlings (1000 u)                        1000



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PARAIBA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BREJO
COST OF MARKETING AND STORAGE COMPONENT
__(CI$ 1000')                           (September 1977)
Start up                                                                       Total Pro ect
Costs       1978/79       1979/80       1980/81       1981/82       1982/83  -       oset
I.   Small Facilities
Building             580         1460          1890          2120         1690           1000
Equipment            310         1100          1410          1630          720             -
Pre-training         170           430          560           620          270             -
Sub Total               1060          2990          3860         4370         2680           1000
II. Commercial Apex
Equipment            500          _             -              -            -              -
% cost of          (I00)         (80)            (50)         (20)          -
Personnel           760           920           700           280           -              -
Consulting          400          100            100           100           -              _
Sub Total              1760          1020            800          380           -              -              2200
III. Cold Storage
Building and           *
Equipment         (O00O)                       _-000                                  _                  3000
IV. Assistance to Existing Cooperatives
Equipment           90                          -              -
Personnel          120            240           240           240           240           240
Operational costs  25              50             50           50            50            50
Sub Total              235            290            290           290           290           290          1450
Total jaseline Costs 3055            4300           4950          8040         2970           1290         21550
Physical contingen-
cies at 10% for
building & equip.      148            256            330            675          241           100           1600
TOTAL                 3203           4556           5280           8715         3211          1390          23152
*  Item financed directly by the Federal Ministry of Agriculture



ANNEX 6
Page 1
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PARAIBA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BREJO
ASSISTANCE FOR SMALL-SCALE NON-FARM ENTERPRISES 1/
A. Background
Employment and Migration
1.        Non-farm employment in industrial, processing, construction, com-
mercial, transport, repair and service activities accounts for approximately
one-third of primary employment in the State of Paraiba, and one-fifth of
primary employment in the project area. These estimates are based on demo-
graphic and industrial census data, and are probably on the low side; such
data tend to underestimate non-farm employment in household and very small-
scale informal sector activities, and also--particularly in rural areas--the
extent to which women are engaged in non-farm and off-farm work. Table 1
provides some rough estimates of the distribution of primary employment
between farm and non-farm activities in 1970. Secondary employment in both
farm and non-farm work is also important for people living in the project
area. A social survey conducted during the preparation of the project found
that about half of the working population whose primary activity is agricul-
ture have secondary jobs.
2.        Approximately two-thirds and a rising share of the non-faLrm employ-
ment opportunities are found in the head towns of the 14 municipios that make
up the project area. The sizes of the towns ranged from 400 to 8,000 in-
habitants in 1970; over the period 1960-70 they expanded steadily at 1.1
percent per year; and they are visibly in a process of modernization and
commercialization. Increasing non-farm employment opportunities are also
available in the nearby town of Guarabira, which since 1950 has grown from
9,000 to 25,000 inhabitants, to become an important local commercial and
marketing center; and in the nearby city of Campina Grande, which in the same
period has grown from 73,000 to 200,000 inhabitants, to become an important
industrial and regional center of the State.
Nature and Composition of Non-Farm Activities
3.        The range of non-farm activities is very broad, covering industry,
construction, commerce (mainly shops and traders), marketing, transport,
and a range of service activities. Table 2 provides an indication of the
broad composition of non-farm activities, and compares it to the composition
of such activities for Paraiba as a whole. A more detailed breakdown of
the composition of non-farm activities found in rural areas in Paraiba is
1/   Working paper on Small-Scale Non-Farm Enterprises contains a fuller
discussion on history, issues and prospects of SSEs.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
shown in Table 4, which also provides corresponding data for urban areas. 1/
For industrial activities, about half of the employment in rural areas is
in textiles and wearing apparel, another quarter is in food processing, and
the remainder is in wood, metal and mechanical workshops and other activities.
In urban areas, wood, metal and mechanical workshops and other activities
rise in importance relative to textiles, clothes and food processing. In
construction activities, three-quarters of employment is in building con-
struction, the rest being mainly on road works. In addition, it is associated
with a variety of other non-farm activities such as carpentry, brickmaking and
electrical work. In commerce and marketing, activities related to agriculture
predominate. Service activities are not detailed in Table 4, but these too
are very diverse in composition, including repair shops, social and recrea-
tional services and finance.
Wages in Non-Farm Work
4.        The growth and composition of non-farm activities is also reflected
in the structure of wages that has emerged within the project area. A survey
by CEPA in June 1976 found that the basic wage of unskilled workers was about
US$1.25 per day; for semi-skilled workers, wages ranged from US$2.60 to 3.25;
and for fully skilled workers, from US$3.25 to 5.25 per day.
Agricultural Development and the Expansion of Non-Farm Enterprise
5.        The centerpiece of the project is a package of assistance to promote
increased output and incomes in small- and medium-scale farming. It is ex-
pected that this will stimulate considerably the markets for the products and
services of local small-scale non-farm enterprises. First, the demands for a
range of supporting services and supplies to farms increase directly with farm
output - equipment and repair services; transport services to move increased
quantities of farm inputs and outputs; construction and modernization of farm
buildings; and processing, storage and marketing services. Second, the
increased incomes of farm and farm worker families is likely to raise the
demands for non-food goods and services supplied by local non-farm activities.
Low income farm families spend approximately 40% of their incomes on non-food
goods and services - e.g., on clothes, footwear, dwellings, furniture, dura-
bles and transport - the percentage increasing with income level. While some
of the goods, such as modern durables, are commonly supplied (through local
retailers) from outside areas, the nature of many of them - in retail trade,
transport, construction and repair and personal services, for example - is
such that they are often best supplied by local enterprises. Small-scale
manufacturers and small-scale processors of food for local consumption also
find distinct advantages of being located in the rural towns, close to their
markets. The development of agriculture is therefore expected to induce
considerable growth of non-farm activity in the region of the project.
1/   Corresponding data have not been collated for the project area; a survey
undertaken by NAI-Pb and CEPA provides some indications, however. (see
Table 5).



ANNEX 6
Page 3
The amount of expansion can be gauged from the expected increases in outputs,
and thus of incomes, of the 7,000 small and medium farms to be assisted under
the agricultural component of the project (see Annex 4). Third, the special
provision to provide assistance directly to local enterprises through the
project would by itself provide increases in non-farm activity. The supply
of credit and training facilities are intended to increase output by relaxing
the constraints stemming from the shortages of capital and skilled labor,
while technical assistance, research and demonstration services are intended
to increase innovation and investment in new kinds of activities.
B. Existing Forms of Assistance for Industry and Commerce
6.        Present policies for supporting industry and commerce in the region
include: (1) Credit, available from Banco do Brazil (BB), Banco do Estado
da Paraiba (BEP) and Banco do Nordeste do Brazil (BNB); (2) Technical assis-
tance services for industry, provided by Nucleus for Industrial Assistance
(NAI); and, (3) Training in industry and commerce, provided by the Apprentice
Services for Industry and Commerce (SENAI and SENAC respectively). There is
also a range of tax and subsidy policies to encourage industrial decentrali-
zation reviewed in the Bank's report on "Development Prospects for N.E.
Brazil." 11 The basic limitations of current forms of support for industry
and commerce is that they either do not exist at all in the project area, or
are designed to benefit mainly medium and large-scale enterprises in the
modiern sectors. With respect to credit, technical assistance and training,
there is practically no support for SSEs in the area, though such enterprises
account for over 80% of non-farm employment.
7.        Credit.  Both BEP and BB have branches in the project area, with
facilities for lending to industry and commerce. In principle, these credit
channels are available to both large and small-scale enterprises, though in
practice only a very small volume of credit is received by the latter. Loans
by Banco do Brazil of less than 100 MRV (approximately Cr$ 89,000) accounted
for only 0.7% of the total volume of credit issued to industry, and for only
0.1% of the total volume issued to commerce (see Table 6). In the project
area, there is practically no record of a loan to a small-scale enterprise
outside the modern sector. The local banks are fully aware of this, and
cite three fundamental obstacles to making loans to such enterprises: (a)
small-scale enterprises often have little collateral; (b) small business
men are often illiterate, unaccustomed to dealing with Banks, and lack the
knowledge or confidence to apply for loans; and, (c) the Banks themselves
have little experience in dealing with a largely illiterate or semi-
literate clientry and find the costs and difficulties of processing
loans and helping clients too high. The first problem is not necessarily
serious for small loans, particularly since the equipment purchased with the
1/   Report No. 665a-BR, June 23, 1975.



ANNEX 6
Page 4
credit can be used as collateral. The problem can be solved through the use
of guarantee funds, on the model used by UNO-NAI in Recife. 1/ The major
constraints, however, are (b) and fc,  To overcome them the basic requirement
is for an intermediary to provide technical assistance to the borrowers, to
help in loan processing and to pro,de- a,ssurance to the Bank regarding the
crediL-worthiness of the client a      s   one of the objectives of the
technical assistance component of th'a --oJect,
8.        m echnicl Assistance.  TechniCal assistance for industry and
commerce is curretitly provided by NAI-Pb, the Paraiba State agency of CEBRAE
(the Brazilian Center for General Asslstance to Small and Medium Enterprises).
NAI-Pb wer- for'ed J. l l1970 to provide a -range of advisory and trainirg serv-
ices in manag.   X-ad production plann':ig to small and medium-scale enter-
prises and to uŽ.-^ ke research and diagnostic studies into industrial
problems and the ecomn.. potential of particular industries.  To promote
collaboration with othe.r agencies in their work, NAI-Pb have a board of
directors representing seven othe:r agencies and development banks. 2/ Their
budget in 1976 was approxJ.i-mately Cr$ 8.5 million, of which 47% was provided
by CEBRAE, 8% bv the State b.udget, 39% from fees to clients and 6% from
SUDENE.  Since their inceptlon  NAI-Pb have provided intensive management
assistance to over 500 enterp.r  ses anti -.-er 150 courses on business manage-
ment, several survey and re         St-l  .S have also been undertaken.
9.        Most of NAI-Pb's operations {ant also of NAls in other States)
have so far been with small and medium-scale modern-sector enterprises
in urban areas. Recently, ho,ever, there have been a number of initiatives by
the NAIs in Penambuco Bahia and  ½io Clra_.e do Sul to provide technical and
advisory services to cater for tlhe -atore elementary - and in some respects more
diverse - needs of SSEs outside the mnodarn sector. These initiatives have
CEBRAE's backing, and an enlarged program is being considered.  One of the
more important services offered is help and advice to SSEs in obtaining
credit.  In Penrambuco the NA! agen.c  x as worked in conjunction with UNO
(Northeastern Union for Assistance -.o Small Organizations), a private non-
profit organization - The system fo-- obeainine credit for SSEs, in the
first years of the project, was first .? survey SSEs in the region, second,
on the basis of      suirvey and the ccn -acts made with the enterprises, to
identify those entlerprises requirific- Lrd r.erliting assistance in obtaining
credit: and third, to help these ente-.-c-orses apply for loans.  To provide
a form of assurance to the banks against risks, a guarantee fund of
approximately Cr$ 200,000 was established (largely from donations from
banks, industries and public institutions interested in the project) for
deposlt in local bank branches.  The credit has been made available by
1/   This model is discussed further below, in paeragraph 9.
2/   The directors represent CEBRAE, SUDENE, the State Government, BNB,
BEB, CINEP (Paraiba Industrialization Company) and UFPB (Federal
University of Paraiba).



ANNEX 6
Page 5
Banco Estado do Pernambuco and two private banks; these banks are prepared to
issue credit up to the point where the guarantee fund covers at least 10% of
all outstanding commitments on principal. This is in fact quite a generous
guarantee in the light of experiences so far: default rates have been less
than 0.4% on the volume of credit issued. Notwithstanding the understandably
cautious approach of NAI-UNO in establishing the program, and of the banks
in issuing credit, issues have now (in May 1977) expanded up to the point
where the size of the guarantee fund is a constraining factor, and NAI-UNO are
seeking ways to enlarge it. During the first three years of the project,
up to the end of 1975, 6,500 SSEs were visited in the course of the surveys,
and a total credit of Cr$ 5.0 million was channeled to 336 of them; of this,
42% went to commerce, mainly for working capital, 39% to industry and 19% to
services. The average size of the loans was very small, about Cr$ 12,300
in current prices, reflecting the smallness of the enterprises assisted.
10.       Training.  Training programs in a range of elementary manual and
business skills relevant for small-scale enterprises are provided by SENAI
(for industry) and SENAC (for commerce). Both SENAI and SENAC have been
active in rural areas in Paraiba, including (though to a very limited extent)
parts of the project area. To reduce costs and improve coverage SENAI and
SENAC are developing programs based on the idea of mobile training centers,
in which instructors move into selected locations for the duration of the
courses, bringing with them the necessary materials and equipment.  These
programs would be an important aspect of the assistance provided to develop
small-scale enterprises; they are discussed in Annex 8.
C. The Project Components
11.       The project will consist of providing the following services to
small-scale enterprises in or near to the project area:
(a) Technical assistance - administered by technical
assistance extension agents living and working
in the project area;
(b) Credit - made available through local branches of
Banco do Brasil and the State Bank; the technical
assistance extension agents would help people in
applying for loans;
(c) Research and demonstration - into new kinds of non-farm
activities and products based on the area's resource
endowments; and ,
(d) Training - in manual and business skills (described
in Annex 8).



ANNEX 6
.inical Assistrnzar
1^        0b'Obr-ives.  The broad objectives of this :ormnc-cnent are (a) to
provIde a range Of advisory servicees to SSEs in. tLe proje   area ac           .
help these enterprises in obtainLing credit for Work'ing and investment capital,
it the provisions of the credit component o  the )rolezt   tn     .al
cases, technical assistance wi'l also he extended to SSTs in toMMs Cutside
but near to the p-roject area; the reason for this is that these SSEs also
provide products, services and employment and earnings opportunities for
the project areaT s people3
13.       The technical assistance extension agents will work with the f-ull
range of types of smallscale enterprit ses -in industry, construction (of
buildings, roads and other), commerce (including shops), repair services,
transport services, agro-industries and general service activities, The
assistance (including assistance in obtaining credit) of the TAEAs will be
restricted to enterprises:   (a) with fixed assets of less than Cr$ 180,000
(September 1977 prices), and, (b) where the family income of the owner
of the enterprise is less than Cr$ 7,200 per month (also in September 1977
prices).
14.       OrgaizatIrn  anda Staffing.  11T-Pb will be the agency responsible
for technical assistance, including assistance to SSEs in obtaining credit
from local banks0  The research and demonstration compon-ent of the project
will be carried out by UFPJT   as discussed below (paras. 2728).  To promote
communications between research, demo-nistration and technical assistance,
however, it has been arranged for NAI-Pb to assume overa - responsibility
for the implementation of the research and demonstratio  comonent, under
finance provided by the project; NAT-Pb would thus sub-contract the research
anad demonstration to UFPB, and super7vise and report on the nrogress of this
component.
15.       The project makes fin&ncial provisions fLor the salaries and train-
mtg of eight professional staff and two assistants to work within NAI-Pb, as
f3ollowys :  one fultiua state coordi-.-natol-r, w-,hose office uwill be at the
-ecdquarters of NikL-Pb n3. Joao Pesesoe  nix technicas assistance extension
agents plus one supervisor whose of>lie will be in Areia, a torwn in the
center of the project area; and two general secretarial assistants.  The size
of the technical assistance staff has been decided wiith the objective of
providing assistance to aeDroximately 200 establishments per year, of which
about two-thirds would receive credit frrom local banks. Assistance and advice
on credit is exeeted to take about 30 man-hours per loan, excluding travel
and reporting. Tne remainder of the time of the agents will be divided
'e,.en genral techrical assistance and survey work to identify the needs of
.e enterprises in the area.
15.       The traini-ng of the TfEAs will be provided by NAI-Pb, in Joao
Passrs    Some of the training proposed has been influenced by the experience
of NAT and UNO in Recife   with modifications to suit the specific needs of



ANNEX 6
Page 7
the project area. Approximately 400 hours of instruction will be provided
on the following topics: purpose of the project; banks and institutions
connected with the project; banking regulations for credit; likely credit
needs of small-scale enterprises; duties and responsibilities of the agents.
A further 100 hours training will be in the form of field-work under super-
vision.
17.       Costs and Finance.  The time stream of costs of the project is
shown in Table 7.  Total costs amount to approximately Cr$ 14.0 million
(US$1.1 million) in September 1977 prices. The fully investment and operating
costs of technical assistance over the implementation period will be financed
by the project. As with agricultural extension, it is appropriate to consider
salaries and other operating costs during the implementation period as an
investment. A principal function of the technical assistance extension
agents, for example, is to overcome bottlenecks in the working of the banking
system regarding the issue of credit to SSEs. Once enterprises have become
accustomed, through the experience of one or more loans, to obtaining credit
from the banks, and once the banks have similarly become accustomed to working
with SSEs, no further technical assistance of this nature is necessary. After
the project period NAI-Pb will continue to provide assistance in the region
to enterprises not previously having received assistance.
Credit
18.       BB, BEP and BNB each have channels for making credit available to
smallscale enterprises, but the inexperience of the banks in dealing with
a clientry who themselves lack the knowledge or confidence to apply for
credit, has presented a formidable bottleneck in practice to the issuing
of credit to smallscale enterprises. An immediate objective of the technical
assistance to be provided by NAI-Pb will be to release these bottlenecks
by providing a responsible and specially trained intermediary between the
banks and the borrowers.
19.       Gross Lending Forecasts.  The number of loans over the project
iAplementation period will be determined by the rate at which the TAEAs
caa release the supply bottlenecks discussed above. The number of loans
to be made has therefore been estimated according to the times that TAEAs
can devote, among their other duties, to loan processing and supervision.
Based on the experience of NAI and UNO in Recife, it is reckoned thal the
six agents will need to be trained, gather experience, undertake surveys
and make contact with SSEs in the area. A gradual build-up of lending is
thus assumed in the forecast shown in Table 8.  This forecast is based on
an average loan of Cr$ 30,000, corresponding to 306 working capital :Loans
averaging Cr$ 15,000 and 234 investment capital loans averaging Cr$ '50,000.
The forecasts in Table 8 show the expected gross value of credit. Both
NA:[-Pb and the Bank mission feel that higher rates of lending may in fact
be possible once the program is established. For this reason two forecasts
have been made:  forecast (a) which is the "expected" volume shown in Table
8 and forecast (b) which allows for the possibility of a larger volume of
credit. The latter assumes that TAEAs would assist in processing 18'5 loans



ANNEX 6
Page 8
per year, once the project is fully operational; it takes an average loan size
of Cr$ 40,000 corresponding to 325 working capital loans averaging Cr$ 15,000
and 805 investment capital loans averaging Cr$ 50,000; a gradual buildup of
lending activity is also assumed, as shown in the table. In order that the
volume of credit issued is not constrained by the low forecast of require-
ments during the present stage of the project, the calculations of net credit
requirement have been based on the higher forecast volume of credit shown in
Table 9.
20.       The size of loans in both forecasts is somewhat higher than the size
of loans processed by NAI and UNO in Recife, which (in July 1976 prices) were
Cr$ 28,000 in 1973, the first year of the program, Cr$ 20,000 in 1974 and
Cr$ 12,000 in 1976. (The larger sizes of loans in the early years probably
reflect the process through which NAI-UNO selected enterprises for assistance;
it is natural that the best enterprises would be selected first, and this
would probably include enterprises more ambitious in their expansion plans
than those assisted in later years.) A survey by NAI-Pb and CEPA of 100
enterprises in the project area, however, indicates that the average size
of loans may be higher than NAI and UNO found in Recife. Some results are
shown in Table 10.   Average assets of 60 of 100 enterprises surveyed, i.e.,
those in the project target group, in March 1977 were Cr$ 36,100 and the aver-
age planned investments Cr$ 83,000 (see row 14). These figures are probably
on the high side, since the sample was concentrated on the more "visible" and
established of the small-scale enterprises. Also, as in Recife, the average
size of the loans may decline over time as the program gradually extends to
the "less visible" and less established enterprises. Allowing for all these
factors and for the obvious uncertainties, and bearing in mind the experience
of NAI and UNO in Recife, an average loan size of Cr$ 30,000 over the project
implementation period is the best assumption that can be made at the present
time.
21.       Sources and Terms of Credit. Both Banco do Brasil and Banco Estado
da Paraiba have agreed to make credit available through their local branches
to small-scale enterprises in the project area. BEP are prepared to meet up
to 30% of gross credit requirements of SSEs in the project area, while BB have
imposed no limit. Banco do Nordeste do Brasil also agreed to participate.
BEP's terms for investment capital loans are an interest rate of 18% per year,
with a repayment period of up to three years. For working capital the rate
is 1-1/2% per month repayable over a period of up to one year. These interest
rates are not indexed for inflation, which is currently around 35% per year,
resulting in a substantial subsidy on investment. BB's terms are generally
softer and structured differently. For investment credits of up to 50 MRV
(Cr$ 44,000) 1/ in industry and commerce, interest rates are 15% per year,
1/   The Maximum Reference Value (equal to Cr$ 887.70 in September 1977) is
determined annually by the government and equals the official highest
minimum salary in the country.



ANINEX 6
Page 9
with no monetary correction, and repayment periods of up to five years, in-
cluding up to one year's grace.  Loans in excess of this are at 10% interest,
plus a monetary correction up to a maximum of 16%. Working capital loans are
at 24% interest, with a grace period of up to 120 days and repayable over one
yeear. BNB (who have three branches in towns neighboring the project area)
also have a line of credit available for industrial investment, at an interest
rate of 16% per year, without monetary correction.
22.       The Interest Rate Issue.  The above interest rates result in a heavy
subsidy on investment, since inflation is currently in excess of 35% per year;
at current interest rates, the effective subsidy on investments in industry
and commerce is over 50% of capital costs. This raises an obvious dilemma
for the employment generating objectives of the project, since such subsidies
generally produce contradictory effects. On the one hand, they act to in-
crease employment through encouraging investment and expansion; on the other
hand, they act to reduce employment by encouraging capital intensive invest-
ment. In activities where there is scope for substituting capital fcr labor,
it is possible for the negative effects of the latter to offset the employment
gains achieved through expansion.  The subsidies also entail a heavy drain on
credit reserves and the public revenue, resulting in reductions in investment,
output and employment in other programs. For these reasons it is difficult
to countenance the idea of heavy subsidies on credit for industry and commerce.
23.       The subsidies presently extend only to those establishments with
access to credit from BB, BEP and BNB: that is, predominantly to large-scale
modern sector establishments. The effect of this is to make it difficult for
smaller-scale establishments to compete and expand in the same markets. Since
the latter account for the bulk of current employment outside agriculture, the
negative effects of this on employment and incomes must be considered to be
very serious.
24.       What will be the effects of improving the access of SSEs to sub-
sidized credit, as proposed under the project? Within the context of the
present structure of interest rates there are three effects expected, two
positive and one negative; (i) the extra investment in SSEs will itself
be used for expansion of output and employment; (ii) SSEs will also be
able to respond better to markets that are becoming excessively domin.ated
by large-scale production; since SSEs are generally more labor intensive,
this too should act to increase non-farm employment and earnings opportuni-
ties; and, (iii) on the negative side, however, the policy will encou:rage
more capital intensity in SSEs than is desirable in the interests of pro-
mot:ing employment.  The judgement of the mission is that the first two
effects are likely to offset the latter, particularly in the light of the
rapid expansion of demand that is expected for the products and services of
non--farm activities as farm incomes and output rise in the project area. In
add:ition, there are social grounds for ensuring that, if credit is to be sub-
sidized for industry and commerce, then some of it should at least reach the
smallest and poorest of the enterprises.



ANNEX 6
Page 10
25.       In the longer-term, it is to be hoped that more fundamental reforms
in interest rate policy can be achieved. Although it is anticipated that
widening access to subsidized credit will improve employment and earnings
opportunities, the subsidies still entail a drain on credit reserves and the
public revenue, and sacrifices on other programs. Such reforms, however,
were not practically attainable within the context of the present project.
No fixed commitments were sought, under the project, to a predetermined level
and structure of interest rates, except that interest rates to small-scale
enterprises should be broadly comparable to those currently prevailing for
industry and commerce in general. As and when reforms do take place, there-
fore, they will be felt across the full spectrum of industrial and commercial
enterprises.
26.       Net Credit Requirements.  Net credit requirements equal gross re-
quirements less (a) repayments with interest by borrowers, (b) bank charges
and (c) defaults. The calculations of net requirements are shown separately
for working capital in Table 11(a), and for investment capital in table 11(b),
based on estimates shown in Table 9. In summary, the net credit requirements
amount to Cr$ 1.7 million for working capital loans and Cr$ 16.1 million for
investment capital loans in September 1977 prices.
Research and Demonstration
27.       Objectives.  A provision has been made in the project to finance a
research and demonstration center at the Colegio Agricola Vital de Negreiros
(CAVN) located in Bananeiras, a small town in the project area; CAVN is a
college of UFPB. The objective is for CAVN, working in conjunction with
NAI-Pb and UFPB, to identify, test and demonstrate:
-    new kinds of products and production techniques, and
-    improvements in existing products and production
techniques, appropriate for small-scale enterprise
in the project area and nearby towns.
28.       There are several reasons for including a research and demonstra-
tion component in the project. The agricultural component of the project
aims to increase substantially the small farmers' production of potatoes,
manioc, beans, bananas and citrus. Effective marketing of these products
will require the development of packaging facilities, involving cleaning and
chemical treatment, grading, storage for maturation (in the case of fruits),
and boxing or bagging of the produce. All these operations can be performed
efficiently by small-scale units, adding to employment and incomes in the
area. Packaging operations for small farm output are practically non-exis-
tent in the area, however. The first priority of the research and demon-
stration center will be to identify, test and demonstrate ways of packaging
the crops of small farmers. A second priority will be to examine supplemen-
tary processing activities. Preserves, dried fruits, bottling and pickling
of vegetables, wines, liquors, vinegars, meat, cheese and dairy, are all



ANNEX 6
Page 11
products for small-scale enterprise, but again uncommon in the area (see
Table 5). A third area of research and demonstration into non-farm activi-
ties other than crop processing is expected to evolve during the course of
the project, on the basis of the surveys and the problems identified by the
technical assistance agents of NAI-Pb.
29.       Staffing.  This component of the project will involve the .astalla-
tion of machines and related equipment to be tested and demonstrated using
local materials and produce of the area. Over the project implementation
period, a total of 12 machines are to be installed, to be run by six tech-
niciams and ten students from the college. Thirty demonstrations are planned
annually, each demonstration lasting one day, and involving 6-8 local farmers
and small-scale entrepreneurs.  Additional demonstrations are to be provided
on request.
30.       Costs and Finance.  Cost estimates are provided in Table 12.  The
total costs of research and demonstration amount to approximately Cr$ 8.5 mil-
lion (Table 12), of which Cr$ 5.5 million (about 85%) would be financed by
the project. The share of operating costs financed by the project is 100%
for the first two years, declining in increments of 25% to zero by the sixth
year; this follows recent proposals of POLONORDESTE regarding the finance
of operating costs during project implementation. The construction costs
cover land and buildings to house the equipment; construction would extend
over the first two years of the project. The equipment cost estimates have
been based on an average Cr$ 27,000 (September 1977 prices) per unit; six
machines and related equipment are to be installed in the first year, two
in the second, and one more in each of the remaining four years.  Administra-
tion and demonstration costs include costs and expenses for approximately
200 mLan-days of participants' time each year. Expenses are only to be paid,
however, for planned demonstrations; for demonstrations on request, expenses
would not be paid.
31.       Economic Justification.  A basic aim of the non-farm components of
the project is to increase output, employment and earnings in SSEs by encour-
aging investment, the acquisition of skills, and the adoption of new or im-
proved products and production methods. The economic benefits of this are
the net increase in value added made possible by the non-farm components,
they can be divided into two parts: increased profits to the enterprises,
and increased earnings of the non-farm labor force. The output of the SSEs
assisted under the project could be expected to increase two-fold. Analysis
of the streams of costs and benefits of the non-farm development have shown
a benefit cost ratio of approximately 3.7 and an economic rate of return of
58% (see Annex 11, Table 2).



NORTHEAST BRAZITL                    ANNEX 6
PARAIBA RIJRAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT -BREJO       Tables 1 and 2
Table 1l  FARM AhD NON-FAM   <PTLOY1ZNT IN PARAIBA
AND  TE PROJECT AREA, 1970a/
b /              Paraiba
Activintc        Urban        ra      b t                  Project Area Total
- =-  rNpmber n:nloyed OOOs -  - 
Farm               60       372        432                        4o.3
Non-FPr.:         2014        32       236                         9.7
Thtal                  
Percentages            -
Farm               2$        92         65                        80.5
Non-Farm           7            S       3;                .       19.5
TAtal        .
a/  Source: Demographic Census Paraiba, 1970.
b/  Fishing and Mining activities exclu.ded.
ci This apparently low percentage is explained by the point that the head
towns and villages of over 150 agricultural based municipios in the State
are classified as urban, although their populations are mostly less than
10, 00; these villages and towns are the main source of non-farm employ-
ment for the rural population.Q
Table 2.  BROAD CC01SITTTON OF NON-FARM ETLO`IT
1N THE PRC)JT, AREA AID PARAIBA$ 1970
Non-Farn ,rEpl1oyment
Pro°-ect .Area              Paraiba
rSector                               PC
Industray/ and Construction          29130   2109             58,576   27.1
Comerce and Marketing                l.,73o   17.8            39,667    8,3
Se1°rviceS                           2615r!  22.1             52,083   214.1
TransRQrt & Commnmications             635    6.5             16,521    706
Other. b/                            3 08'   317              499 615   22.9
Total                    .9735    100                                   100
Source: Demographic Census raraiba. 1970.
at   Includes mining and utilitiess
b/   Includes Public and Recreati onal Senrices, Government aiid Financial
Services.



ANNEX: 6
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PARAIBA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BREJO
URBAN AND RURAL POPUIATION LEVELS IN THE
PROJECT ARE, NEARBY TOWNS, PARAIBA AND N. E. BRAZIL 1969 - 70
Population, OOOs
Area                                        Total         Urban        Rural
Project Area                       1960     185.6          38.1         147.5
1970     186.9         42.4         144.3
Rate of Increase, % per year                  0.1           1.1       -  0.3
Guarabira                          1960      24.7          15.8           8.8
1970      34.7          23.2         11.5
Rate of Increase, % per year                  3.5           3.9           2.7
Campina Grande                     1960     116.2          98.8         17.4
1970     196.0        168.0          27.9
Rate of Increase, % per year                  5.4           5.5          4.8
1/
Joao Pessoa                        1960     155.1         148.9          6.2
1970     221.5        213.5           8.1
Rate of Increase, % per year                  3.6           3.7           2.6
Paraiba, Total                     1960   2,018.0         708.1      1,310.0
1970   2,382.6      1,002.2       1,380.5
Rate of Increase, % per year                  1.7           3.5          0.5
N. E. Brazil                       1960  22,429         7,681       14,748
1970  28,112       11,753        16,359
Rate of Increase, % per year                2.3           4.4          1.0
1/  The capital city of Paraiba located on the coast,    Km from the project.
Source:



ANNEX 6
NORTHEAtST BR.AZIL
PARAIBA RURAL DEVELOPMIENT PROJECT - BREJO
BROAD OMPOSITION OF INDUSTRIAL, CONSTRUCTION AND
COMMERCIAL ACTIVITIES IN URBAN AND  aL AREAS OF PARAIBSA  1970
Ep1loyment
Urban                      Rural
Activity Group
Industry:
1. Metal, Mechanical and
Electrical Workshops                2231    9.4               222      4 0
2. Wood, Furniture, Leather and
Paper                               4517   18.9               663     11 .9
3.  Textiles and Wearing Apparel        8123   34-.              2735    149.0
14. Food Processing etc.                50140   21.1             1477      26.5
5. Other                                3949   16.6               681      12.2
2380    100              777        100
Construction:
1. Buildings                           17509   83.3              3372      714.4
2.  Roads and Railways                  3502   1                 1163     25.6
21011    100                        100
Commerce and Marig:
1. Related to Agriculture              11572   32.3              1511     65.0
2. Other                               24271   67.7              2323     35.0
3        100              3837      100
j  Not including mining and utilities.
Source: Preliminary Census, Paraiba, 1970.



ANNEX 6
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PARAIBA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BREJO
NON-FARM ENTEIRPRISES IN THE PROJECTED AREA,
INTERVIEWED BY NAI AND CEPA IN 1977
Number of
Type of Enterprise              Number         Number     Average Age of   Workers per
Interviewed                Interviewed    Registered   Enterprise Years  Enterprise
1.  Sawmilling, Carpentry,       21              5                11            1.4
etc.
2.  Bakers                       20             17                13            5.4
3.  Small Sugar Cane             11              9                23           13.8
Processors-/
4. Grocers                       10              6                 5            1.6
5.  Repairshops                   6              1                14            3.0
6.  Potters                       5              2                 8           13.4
7. Flour Processors               4              0               10             6.8
8.  Hotels, Sleeping Houses and  4               1                 9            2.5
Lodges
9. Making and Bottleing           3              3                 9            2.7
Beverages
10.  Footwear, including           3              1                10            2.0
Cobblers
11.  Confectionary                 2              1                 5            3.0
12.  Other Small Enterprises      11              8                16            4.1
Total                       100                              11             T7
1/  Not sugar manufacture; cammon products of these enterprises are juices and
beverages (including alcoholic beverages.
Source: Project Preparation Report, CEPA, 1977, Chapter 8.



ANNEX 6
Table T
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PARAIBA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BREJO
SIZE DISTRIBUTION OF CREDITS BY BANCO DO BRAZIL
FOR INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCE DURING 1976
Size Range                    Credits                     Value of Credit, OOOMRVVs
Loan, MVR              Number       % of Total       -  Value         % of Total
Industry:
(25                2,019          11.8                28             0.1
26-50                1,321           7.7                47             0.2
51-100               1,.427          8.3               106             0.4
101-200               2,206          12.9              330              1.1
201-500               3,667          211.5           1,221              4.1
501-1000              2,555          15.0             1 ,778            5.9
1001-5000              2,785          16.2            5,760             19.2
5001-10000               550           3.2            3,849             12.8
10001-50000               511           3.1           10,212             38.8
>50000                64           0.4             6 817            22.6
Total                  17,105         100.0           3O,148            100.2
Commerce:
<25                   24           4.4              o0h              0.0
26:50                   37           6.7               1.4            o0o
51-100                  77          14.0              5.8              0.1
101-200                  85          15.5             12.8              0.2
201-500                 141          25.7             47.8              o.6
501-1000                 87          15.8             60.2              0.6
1001-5000                 87          15.8            192.6              2.3
5001-10000                 8           1.5             48.3              o.6
>10000                              0.6         89003.              95.6
549'         100.0         8,372.4            100.0
1/ 1 MVR curTently eqaals Cr$880 (May, 1977).
Source: Banco do Brasil Records.



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PARAIBA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BREJO
Costs of Technical Assistance Provided by NAT-Pb -
(Costs in Cr$ '000)2/
Average
Yearly
Total   Costs
Start up                                                          Project  After
Cost Category                                Costs     1978/79   1979/80   1980/81   1981/82   1982/83    Costs  1982/83
A. Investments
Equipment 3/                              453.1      131.0       -                     -          -         131.0     20
"Permanent" Materials                      47.4        6.5       -                     _          _           6.5      5
Training TAEAs!/                          150.0       -          .         100.05/ _     _                  100.0     30
Sub-total                            650.5      137.5                 100.0                           237.5      55
B.  Operating Costs
Terciary Services                         117.9      157.4      157.4      157.4      157.4      157.4      787.0    103.9
Materials                                  90.2      132.8      147.0      137.9      156.7      147.5      721.9     97.4
Salaries                                  525.8   1,355.2   1,355.2   1,355.2   1,355.2   1,355.2    6776.0    894.4
Social Charges                            125.0      313.3      313.3      313.3      313.3      313.3   1566.5    206.8
Research (Consultants)                    100.0      200.0      200.0      200.0      200.0      200.0    1000.0    132.0
Various                                     74.7     114.8      108.6      108.1      109.1      108.6      549.2      71.7
Sub-total                          1,033.6   2,273.5   2,281.5   2,271.9   2,291.7   2,282.0 11,400.6  1,506.2
Total Bateline Costs               1,684.1   2,411.0   2,281.5   2,371.9   2,291.7   2,282.0 11,638,1  L 561.2
Physical contingencies for
equipment, materials and
services (10%)                              71.0       54. 2     41.3       40.3       L?.t        41.3    219.4       29.8
TOTAL COSTS                              1,755.1   2,465.2   2,322.8   2,412.2   2,334.0    2,323.3 11,857.5  1,591.0
1/  A more detailed breakdown is provided in the working naper=
2/ Base year prices, September 1977.
3/  There are no construction costs since offices (in Areia) will be rented.
4/ Technical Assistance Extension Agents.
5/  This is-a provision for training new TAEAs, should some of the existing staff change jobs.
Source:  Estimates of NAI-Pb, CEPA and IBRD mission.                                                                          1bX



ANNEX 6
Table 8
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PARAIBA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BREJO
1/ 5/
Forecast (a) Gross Volume of Credit Issued to SSE -  -
Working Capital        Investment Capital             Total
No. of2/  Value Cr$    No. of3 Value Cr$    No. of    Value Cr$
Year     Loans -      OOOs        Loans -    OOOs        Loans        OOOs
1977/78     6         100           4         200          10         300 4/
1978/79    25         375          15         750          40       1,125
1979/80    50         750          35      1,750            85      2,500
1980/81    75       1,125          60      3,000          135       4,125
1981/82    75       1,125          60      3,000          135       4,125
1982/83    75       1,125          60      3,000          135       4,125
Total     306       4,600         234      11,700          540     16,300
1/ September 1977 prices.
2/ Average size of loan equals Cr$15,000.
3/ Average size of loan equals Cr$50,000.
4/ Credit issues are not likely to begin until the last two months of the
first year of the project.
5/ Note that the forecast only includes loans obtained with the help of
the TAEAs. The experience of NAI and UNO in Recife indicates that,
once enterprises have repaid their first loan, they often apply for
other loans on their own initiative; this is common, for example,
for working capital loans. So the gross volume of lending may be
higher than indicated above.
Source: Estimates of NAI-Pb, CEPA and IBRD mission.



ANNEX 6
Table 9
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PARAIBA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BREJO
Forecast(b) Gross Volume of Credit Issued to SEEs1/
Working Capital'/  Investment Capital /         Total
No. of    Value      No. of    Value       No. of    Value
Y'ear                 Loans,  Cr$ '000    Loans   Cr$ '000    Loazns   Cr$ '000
19,77/78                 10        150         15         750        25        9004/
19,78/79                  35       525         55       2,750        90      3,275
1979/80                  55        825         80       4,000       135     4,825
1980/81                   75     1,125        110       5,500       185     6,625
1981/82                   75     1,125        110       5,500       185     6,625
1982/83                   75     1,125        110       5,500       185     6,625
Total              325      4,875        480     24,000       805    28,875
1/  September 1977 prices.
2/  Average size of loan equals Cr$ 15,000.
3/  Average size of loan equals Cr$ 50,000.
4/  Credit issues are not likely to begin until the last two months of the
first year of the project.
Source: Estimates of NAI-Pb, CEPA, and IBRD mission.



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PARAIBA  RURAL DEVELOPMIENT PROJECT-BREJO
EMPLOTMNT, CURRENT INVESIMk:Nr AND PLANNED INVESTM:NTS IN SEL4CTED SMALL-SCALE ENr.tPRPlllSES IN
Th: PROJECT AREA, MARCH 1Y77
Efxpansion PlSns
Number       Average No.       Present Ay7rage                          Expected  ,'nvestrent      No. Currently with
-Y        enee of    eriene    Interviewed   of ,plo_yees    Inveust.rnt-j Cr$000    No.  cdin                 CO l ,)0Q1/ 2J          accesa to Rsnks
1.   Furniture amd Wood               21.            1.4                13,000                 19                   33,100                     3
2.   Bakeries                         20             5.3               157,600                 1l                  151,000                    17
3.   Sugar Mills                      11            13.8               390,000                  18                 250,)00                    10
h.   General Stores                    10             1.6               25,000                                      3(0,000                    3
5.   Repair Shops                      6              3-0               6o,8o0                  5                   8o,ooo                     3
6.   Vegetable Oil Prooessors           5            13.-              1450,000                 5                  900,000                     3
7.   Cassava Flour                      4            6.7                12,000                  2                   17,500                     0
8.   Hotel/Lodges                       4            2.5                61,000                  2                   55,000                     2
9.   Beverages                          3            2.7                25,(0o                  3                 370,000                      1
10.  Sh(oe Repairs                      3             2.0                 2,0(00                 2                   15,000                     1
11.   Candies                            2             3.0               77,5(0                  2                  170,000) 
120   Other                             11           L4i                162 OX)                  7                  I3L(,000
Totals and Averages             100             1;.9              119,700                 79                 Ti ,ioo
13,   Bakeries, Sugar Mills,
and Beverages (2+3*6+9).Y        39             8,5               250,100                 3h                 32b,900                     31
1l.   Totals and Averages without
No.13                            61             2.6                36,100                 I5                   83,O(0                    17
1/ FEst1mated value at time of survey   Pigure includes fixed capital and stocks.
2/  Investment pnriod not given; plannirE period differs  among industries-
3/ Enterprises in these groups tave avcrage asset  in excess of the Cr$150,000 cut-off for NAI-Pb assistance.  An exception is beverages; these
have been included in row 13 (excluded from row 1l) since their estimnated planned investmnents seem to be very large. Note, however, that
some ent4:rprises uithin tbese groups would qpalify for as3istance provid(id thtey menet thie criteria discussed in paragraphs 3.13; the abcwe
caj.r.!lation does not  imply, of coourse, that small-scale bakeriespUgar, mills, vegetahle oil processors or beverages should  be excluded
from technical assistance.
Source:  Survey by ?AI-Pb and CEPA.
1fm



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PARAIBA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BREJO
(a) Net Credit Requirements for Working Capital Loans
Net Funds
Amount Borrowed                        Repayments                       Required
Base                           (Current Prices)                           Base
Year   Current                  Bank      Defaults    Net    Current   Year
Year      Prices  Pricesl/  GrossY  Charges3/   2% 4/    (2-3-4)  Prices   Prices
(1)       (2)        (3)        (4)        (5)        *36T-    (7)       (8)
1977/78       150      150        -          -          -          -          150      150
1978/79       525      709       180          6          4          170       539      399
1979/80       825   1,504        851         28         17          806       699      383
1980/81    1,125   2,768    1.805            60         36       1,709    1,059       430
1981/82    1,125   3,737    3,322           111         66       3,145        592      178
1982/83    1,125   5,045    4,484           149         90       4,245        802      179
1,719
1/ Inflation of 35% assumed.
2/ Average interest rate of 20%, one year repayment period, corresponding to lending conditions of Banco do Estado da Paraiba.
3/  4% interest on the loans.  Net interest rate at which reserves are replenished is therefore 20 - 4 - 16%.
4/ 25% on gross repayments.
Source: Estimates of CEPA and Bank mission.
(b) Net Credit Requirements for Investment Capital Loans
Net Funds
Amount Borrowed                               Gross Returns (Current Prices)                                     Required
Base                                        ,,Current   Base
Year   Current   Year of Loan Repayment-                                 Bank4/       2%5/    Net Returns  Prices    Year
Year      Prices  Pricesl/  Year 1:1  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4  Year 5  Total  Charges  Defaults              (3-4-5)       (2-6)   Prices
(1)       (2)                                                      (3)     (4)        (5)          (6)          (7)      (8)
1977-78      750       750         -        -        -        -        -        -        -         -             -           750       750
1978-79   2,750    3,712           -        263      -        -        -        263      21         5             237      3,475    2,574
1979-80   4,000    7,290           -      1,299      263      -        -      1,562      77        31           1,454      5,836    3,202
1980-81   5,500   13,522           -      1,890   1,299       263      -      3,452    112         69           3,271    10,251    4,166
1981-82   5,500   18,268           -      2,599   1,890   1,299        263   6,051    154         121           5,776    12,492      3,761
1982-83   5,500   24,662           -      2,599   2,599   1,890   1,299   8,387    154            168           8,065    16,597    3,701
18,154
1/  Inflation of 35% assumed.
2/ Grace Period of one year.
3/ Annuity - r/ [l-(lI/(l+r))n]. Interest rate of 15% repayment over last four years assumed. This corresponds to the
lending conditions of Banco do Brazil.  Annuity on these terms - 35.0%..
4/  Assuming a 4% margin on the loans.  If this is amortized over the period of the loan, with one year grace period, the                                   9
annual rate at which reserves are replenished is the annuity rate corresponding to r - 15-4-11%, and n   4.  The value
of this is 32.2%, so that the bank charges equal (35.0-32.2) = 2.8% on principal.
5/  2% on gross repayment.
0z
I-a,



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PARAIBA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BREJO
Costs of Research and Demonstration (Non-farm)
(Costs in Cr.$'000) I/
Start-up Costs   1978/79   1979/80   1980/81   1981/82   1982/83            Costta
A.  Investments
Construction                                 579.0         679.7                                                   679
Equipment                                    290.0         110.0      50.0       50.0       50.0       50.0        310_.(Y
Sub-total                               869.0         789.7       50.0       50.0       50,0       50.0       98M.7
B.  Operating
Salaries        3/                           243.5         829.3     829.3      829.3      829.3      829.3      4,146,5
Social Charges -                              75.7         233.0     233.0      233.0      233.0      233.0      1,165,0
Administration & Demonstration---               -          184.0     184.0      184.0      184,0      184.0        920,o
Other                                         20.0          10,0   _  10.0       10.0   __ lOo0        10.0         50,0
Sub-total                               339.2       1,256.3   1,256.3   1,256.3   1725663   1,256,3         6, 8. .05
% of Operating Costs Financed
by Projects                                 100           100        75         50         25          0
Sub-total of Operating Costs
Financed by Projects                        339.2      1,256.3      942.2      628.2      314.1        0        3,14/,
C.  Total. Baseline costs                      1,208.2       2,046,0      992.2     678.2      36401       50.0      4,1:_1   5
C.  Physical contingencies at 10%                89.0          98.0       20.0      1500       10.0        5.0        148.C
TOTAL                                 is29.2        2_l44,    1_O12.2       693.2      374.1       5'. 40278>
1/  Base year prices, September 1977.
2/  Salaries in September 1977 prices total Cr,$144 for the coord:i,nation of the centei, Cr.,$286 for a.         la   I'rag v
assi-Lstants, Cr.$234 for thi-ie technicians, Cr-$665 fo; r a'hine operae-tors, Cr.$80 for student fees,   C L   20
expenses, or Cr.$829 in total.
3/  Equals 32% of salaries.                                                                                                      Iw
4/  includes costs and paymiient of ef.penses of participan.nts in the plaaned demornstration couirses;  cos.i:: azn e.;D,
are Cr.$100/participant/day.  There are to be approximately 200 part-u-icipants staying for one day  . a
Source:  Estimuates of CEPA, UEPb and IBRD mission.



AINEX 7
Page 1
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PARAIBA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BREJO
ROADS 1/
1.        A system of paved state highways borders and traverses the project
area, interconnecting half the municipal centers. The remaining 70% of the
state road intermunicipal connectors are unengineered, unpaved and in sec-
tions barely passable during the rainy period. The municipal (feeder) road
network is composed mostly of poorly drained dirt tracks, frequently impas-
sable during and after rains. At present only the paved roads are satis-
factorily maintained.
The Project
2.        The proposed road improvements would upgrade, to all-weather
standards, those portions of the state and municipal roads which have high
project priority while providing other, minor municipal roads, also serving
the target areas, with essential drainage and surface improvements. The latter
would at least substantially reduce time closed due to rains, facilitate
maintenance, and in many cases result in all-weather access. Improvements in
road maintenance will benefit all the state and municipal roads in t]ne area.
3.        The road component would be composed of:
(i) reconstruction and re-alignment of 72 km of state roads to basic
state geometric standards, including 38 km of new pavement
construction;
(ii)  spot improvements needed to assure a full two-lane width aad all-
weather traffic standard, along another 73 km of state road;
(iii)  upgrading of 92 km of main municipal feeder roads to a variable
width, all-weather road standard; and
(iv) drainage and spot-surface improvement of another 85 km of
municipal tracks.
The component also includes: (i) acquisition of road maintenance equip-
ment to be used on both state and municipal roads; (ii) training of mnunicipal
road maintenance foreman; and (iii) consulting services to assist DER, the
state road agency, in the preparation of designs, bidding documents and super-
vision of construction.
1/   Details on this component, and particularly on design standards, are
in the working paper, which is available on request.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
4.        The feeder road design standards are geometrically less demanding
than those established by the National Economic Development Bank (BNDE) and
the National Highway Department (DNER) for the feeder road program that is
being partly financed by the Bank (Loan 1207-BR), i/ while the same quality
specifications have been retained. The standards adopted are specifically
adapted to the Brejo conditions; they substantially improve on what is pre-
sently in use, ensure year-round usability and adequate capacity at minimum
cost and, where costs per unit length of road are low, provide a wider than
minimum road (Table 1).
Project Cost and Financing
5.        The total cost of the road component is estimated at US$15.48
million, including physical contingencies. The foreign exchange component
is estimated at US$5.00 million equivalent, or about 32% (Tables 2 and 3).
6.        The design and construction of major roadworks and bridges would
be contracted by the State Highway Department, while that of minor road-
works would either be performed in-house, by state engineers and work forces,
or when convenient, included as a part of the major roadwork contract packages.
There are 15 highway contractors currently registered with DER, five of
whom are large (capital in excess of Cr$5 million) and five more with c&pital
in excess of Cr$500,000. DER also employs a number of consulting firms with
offices in Recife.
Project Maintenance
7.        Maintenance equipment to be provided under the project would con-
sist of two motorgraders, two pneumatic rollers, four stake trucks, six
dump trucks of ten tons, and one water truck. This equipment would be pro-
vided to the State Highway Department (DER) which is responsible for maint-
aining state roads and which, in addition, will become responsible for
providing mechanized maintenance assistance to the municipalities in the
project area. The DER is organized into field "Residences" each responsible
for road maintenance in a defined area. The Brejo project area falls under
two different jurisdictions, with the area to the east of BR-104 (map)
under Campina Grande and the remainder under the Solanea residence. For
the project Solanea would be given full responsibility for work in the
project area.
8.        The equipment will become a part of the Residence's total fleet.
It will not be limited to work only on project area roads. However, DER
and UCT, the project coordinating unit, will agree annually on a defined
physical work program that will give first priority to the project area,
in the use of the equipment. Also, the full cost of equipment depreciation
and repairs (in addition to operation) will be charged to the DER and/or
Municipalities for the use of equipment in order to assure its replacement
and maintenance. This would apply to all equipment including existing
machinery.
1/   The BNDE/DNER standard is essentially the same as the DER basic state
highway standards. (Table 4).



A1NNEX 7
Page 3
9.        The cost of maintenance operations, labor and tools will lbe borne
by the regular annual state and municipal highway budgets which are funded
from the state and municipal shares of the National Road Fund that is
distributed by the DER. Table 4 summarizes past expenditures and projected
receipts from the highway fund.
10.       Road maintenance equipment would be procured on the basis of
competitive bidding in accordance with procedures for procurement contained
in Decree-Law No. 200 of February 25, 1967 which assures adequate competition
and reasonable prices.  For the size of purchase proposed bidding would be
between previously registered suppliers.
Training and Assistance to Municipalities
11.       The DER will also provide training for road maintenance to
municipal road foremen, in the project area, followed by two years of
practical on-the-job assistance in implementation. The municipalities
will execute the labor-intensive road maintenance operations with their
own work forces and will pay the costs of systematically planned mechanized
maintenance assistance by DER work forces.
Project Management
12.       The management of the DER operations relating to all Brejo
project work, including municipal training and maintenance assistance,
will be the responsibility of the CEPOL office, especially formed to
coordinate and manage DER involvement in POLONORDESTE-financed projects.
CEPOL will be responsible for coordinating with the Municipal Affairs
Section of DER which presently deals entirely with the statutary accounting
for expenditures of the Highway Special Fund shares by all municipalities.
The Municipal Affair Section is not staffed to exercise any physical con-
trol over work performed by municipalities. Eventually, once staff are
trained by CEPOL and new procedures have been tested, DER proposes to
transfer both the trained staff and responsibility for physical inspection
oiE municipal work, for adoption on a state-wide basis. At present, the
D]ER has neither the equipment nor staff to undertake such a commitment on
more than a pilot scale under the project.
13.       DER will assign an experienced field supervisor to the Solanea
Rtesidence, to work exclusively with the municipalities on their road
work and to help arrange and oversee the scheduled dispatch of equipment.
He will be assisted on an "as needed" basis by experts in accounting,
soils and materials or other specialities, as the case may require, whose
services will be arranged by CEPOL. The costs of the training program and
of DER assistance to the municipalities in implementation will be financed
under the project.



ANNEX 7
NORTHEAST BRAZIL                              Table 1
PARAIBA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT-BREJO
Road Geometric Standards
DER Basic State Road           Project Feederl/    Improvements to
(BNDE/DNER Feeder Road) 2!           Road            Collector Road
Terrain                     Any                   Any
Flat       Rolling    Mountain        Terrain               Terrain
Design speed (kph)              60           40           30   not used              not used
(60)        (40)         (30)
Ave. driving speed (kph)    55/45          35/30        27/23  not used              not used
paved/unpaved             (55/45)     (35/30)      (27/23)
Min. horizontal radius (m)   110             50           30   desirable min. 30m  see feeder rd.
(110)         (50)        (30)  absolute min. as    see feeder rd.
required
Max. grade (x)                   4            6            2   desirable max. 12 3 see feeder rd.
Class A                       (4)          (6)         (3)  absolute max. 15%
Class B                       (6)         (3)         (10)
Platform width (m)              8.0          8.0          8.0  variable             variable
Class A                      (8.6)       (8.6)        (7.6) normal min. 5m        normal min. 6m
Class B                      (7.0)        (7.0)       (6.0) absolute min. 4m    absolute min. 5m
Pavement width (m)              6.0          6.0          6.0  not applicable       not applicable
Class A                      (6.0)        (6.0)       (6.0)
Class B                      (5.0)        (5.0)       (5.0)
Shoulder width (m)              1.0          1.0         1.0  none                  none
(1.0)       (1.0)        (1.0)
Min. sight distance
(a) passing (m)                      Not specified          Not specified
(380)        (240)       ( - ) instead a desirable
5Dm min. target      see feeder rd.
(b) stopping (m)                     Not specified          between curves.
(75)        (50)         (50) Widen road when
sight distance is
bad.
Right of way (m)                 40           40           40  as needed             as needed
(30)        (40)         (50)
Min. cross slope (%)              4            4            4         5              see feeder rd.
(Not specified)
Max. super elevation (%)          8            8            8         5              see feeder rd.
(Not specified)
1/  Basic standards for feeder roads are:  (i) to construct all needed drainage works and culverts;
(ii) to improve or to bridge river crossings; and (iii) to place select material surface.
Geometry is secondary.
2/  BNDE/DNER standards shown in parentheses.
3/  Improve surfacing on steep grades as needed.



ANNEX 7
Table 2
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PARAIBA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BREJO
Cost nf RnRia   Tmnrnuement 11
tin Cr$ 'vvv)
Total
Start-Up  1978-79   1979-80  Project
Costs                          Costs
I. Civil Works
Construction of 72 km to State
Highway Standard                          3,938    61,705    24,648    90,291
Spot  Improvement along                       -      12,234    17,782.   30,016
73 km State Roads
Construction of 92 km to Feeder
Road Standards                            5,243     8,738    30,846    44,827
Improyement to 85 km of Municipal Roads       -       3,685       , _
Sub-total                           9,181    86,362    82,118   177,661
II.  Design and Supervision                        3,269    10,630    10,120    24,019
III.  MHaintenance Equipment                          -        7,081       -        7,081
[V.  Maintenance.Training                -       1,458        701      2,159
Total Baseline Costs                         12,450  105,531    92,937   198,470
Physical Contingencies
.hysical Contingencies           ~~1,245    10,553     9,294    19,847
(10% of I, II, III, and IV)                            1
Total Cost                          13,695   116,084   102,233   218,317
1/ September 1977 prices.



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PARAIBA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BREJO
ROADS - PROJECT COST SUMMARY
Foreign    Cost per
Exchange Km (US$)
Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total    Component
---- (Cr$ million)-----    (US$ million equivalent)         (%)
I. Civil Works
Construction of 72 km to State
Highway Standard                        56.13    30.22    86.35       3.74    2.02       5.76                80,000
Spot Improvement along 73 km
State Roads                             19.51    10.51    30.02       1.30    0.70       2.00                27,000
Construction of 92 km to Feeder
Road Standards                          25.73    13.86    39.59       1.72    0.92       2.64                 28,000
Improvement to 85 km of Municipal
Roads                                    8.14     4.38    12.52       0.54    0.29       0.83                  9,000
Sub-total                        .109.51    58.97   168.48       7.30    3.93      il.23          35
II.  Design and Supervision                     18.68     2.07    20.75       1.24    0.14       1.38          10
III.  Maintenance Equipment                       3.89     3.19      7.08      0.26   0O,21       0.47          45
IV.  Maintenance Training                       1.73      0.43      2.16      0'12    Ql.03      0.15         20
V.  Physical Contingencies
(10% of I, II, III, and IV)               13.50      6.35    19.85       0.90    0.42        1.32         32
Total Cost                       14.7.31     ?1.01   218.32       9.82     4.73      14.55         32



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PARAIBA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BEJ
Past Expenditures and Projected Budgets (Roads)
/ 
1974           1975          1976           1977           1978 -         1979
Highway Department (DER) (In Cr$ millions)
Construction  (contracted)                                                                                 2/             3/
Roadworks                                              8.34           77.65          55.63         119.942/        36.22-'
Pavement                                              39;.12          18.74          39.40         130.00-         40.00
Bridge                                                 6.50.           7,49           8.12           1.5L         __
Sub-Total                                     53.96          103.88         103.15         251.45           76.22
Designs                                                0.45            2.52           3.90           2.38           2.67
Retirements (by DER)                                     8.92            8.65          19.33          19.50           2.50
Maintenance                                             15.17           27.42          33.58          39.00           3.50
Total                                          78,50          142.47        159.96          312.32          84.89
Brejo Area Municipalities (In Cr$ '000)
Alagoa Nova                            34.77          60.49           36.38          65.0           70.0          175.0
Areia                                  64.41          28.75           64.25         287.0           24.0          305.0
Areial                                  9.80          13.14            9.90          46.0           46.0           46.0
Arara                                  18.68          13.97           39.83          81.0           87.0           90.0
Bananeiras                             58.35          68.12           51.02         235.0          243.0          250.0
Borborema                              10.38           8.80           11.19          41.0           42.0           44.0
Esperanca                              69.64          48.75           81.70         248.0          251.0          220.0
Lagoa Seca                             21.82          39.11           60.72         150.0          154.0          159.0
Montadas                                6.04           7.30            9.84          29.0           30.0            31.0
Purinana                               20.03          24.72           18.84          90.0           93.0            96.0
Pirpirituba                            21.58          25.31           28.66          77.0           30.0            82.0
Piloes                                 17.80          18.05           12.66          55.0           57.0            57.0               z
Serraria                               39.15           6.65           69.67         108.0          111.0           115.0
S. Sebastiao de Logoa                   8.71          14.91           14.94          42.0           43.0            44.0
1/ in 1977 Cr$.  2/  Anticipates POLONORDESTE financing.  3/ Cr$550,000 needed for maintenance of project feeder roads.



ANNEX 8
Page 1
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PARAIBA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BREJO
EDUCATION AND TRAINING 1/
Educational Profile of the Project Area
1.        The general educational level of the target group population is low
with a literacy rate of only 30% compared to 64% for all of Brazil and 55% for
the State of Paraiba (1970). The participation rates of the 7 - 14 school age
population (urban and rural), averaged 59% in 1973, compared to an estimated
86% for all of Brazil and 56% for the State of Paraiba (1976). In rural areas
enrollments are concentrated in the first four grades, where more than 40% of
the children are over-aged and about 75% of all students drop out after the
first grade and only 8% of the first graders complete the fourth grade. In
1972, 93% of the teachers had no pedagogical training, and only 59% had them-
selves completed primary education. Physical infrastructure is also poor as
27% of all classrooms are in a very bad condition (Table 1). The costs of
formal primary education are supported by the municipalities, with the State
financing urban primary and secondary education. In 1976, the 14 municipali-
ties in the project area spent about 23% of their total budgets on education.
These figures include the direct participation of the Federal Ministry of
Education through the PROMUNICIPIO program 2/, which presently assists two
municipalities in the project area. Teacher salaries are very low, between
US$7 - 14 per month, compared to a range of US$42 - 188 per month for the
same categories of State teachers. However, municipal teachers usually
teach only two hours per day.
2.        The main federal agencies dealing with non-formal and adult edu-
cation are presented in the project area i.e., MOBRAL, SENAI, SENAC, FSESP,
University of Paraiba. They develop functional literacy, accelerated pri-
mary education, occupational training and various other community-oriented
programs. None of these non-formal training programs provides adequate
coverage of the project area, and they therefore need to be reorganized and
strengthened in order to give adequate support to the increased economic
activities to be generated by the project.
1/   A working paper giving more details is available in project files.
2/   A program of direct assistance to the municipalities.  PROMUNICIPIO
creates Municipal Education Units (financing of local teams, salaries
and direct technical assistance), and assists in school building pro-
grams. In addition, it provides technical assistance to State Secre-
tariats of Education.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
The Project
3.        The education and training components of the proposed project would
serve both the young and adult population by improving the general educational
infrastructure in the project area and developing local skills. Benefits
would reach almost the whole rural population: 10,360 primary students (49%
of the 1977 enrollment); 1124 primary teachers (100% of the teaching force in
1977); 78 extension agents (the whole of the decentralized level technical
personnel); 11,690 farmers (100% of the target group); 2,220 skilled workers;
1,800 artisans; and some 360 adults in various other skilled occupations.  The
StaLte Secretariat of Education, DIATER, PIPMO, SENAI, SENAC and the F'ederal
University of Paraiba would be the executing agencies.
4.        (a) Primary School Construction (US$2,462,000).  The project would
provide for the construction, furnishing and equipping of 74 primary school
buildings to replace a total of 5,180 student places (or 10,360 double shift)
for rural primary pupils at grades 1 - 8, and for the construction of 30
houses for primary teachers. Priority would be given to enrollment of new
pupils in the 7 - 10 years age group. Each school building would include two
classrooms (primarily for grades 1 - 4 students), an office for two teachers,
storage space for teaching materials and agricultural tools and implements,
an(d a small canteen area (Table 2). All the schools to be built would be re-
placement facilities, either of classes presently given at teachers' houses
(first priority) or of existing school premises in very bad condition. The
basic criteria for locating the new schools would be: (a) adequate density of
tal5get group population (at least 1,370 within a catchment area of about 28
km'); (b) insufficient existing infrastructure, resulting in pupils walking
more than 3 km to reach the school; and (c) all-year-round access possibili-
ties. Teachers' houses would be built in those localities where new schools
would be relatively isolated; they would constitute an incentive for attract-
ing qualified teachers. The average cost per school would be US$30,000 (Table
2). The schools and houses would be built under the technical supervision and
direct financial control of the State Secretariat of Education's Division of
Assistance to the Municipalities (DAEM), on the basis of architectural cri-
teria established by DAEM and approved by the Bank.
5.        (b) New Curriculum for Grades 1 - 4 (US$233,650).  The State Secre-
tariat of Education, following outlines published by the Federal Ministry of
Education, is now preparing a new curriculum which would be introduced on an
experimental basis in all rural schools within the project area. After proper
evaluation and adaptation, the curriculum would be officially applied through-
out the State of Paraiba. The main features of this new curriculum are: (a)
the subdivision of the program into two self-contained learning cycles (grades
1 - 2 and 3 - 4, respectively); (b) adaptation of the school calendar to the
agricultural calendar; and (c) the possibility of subdividing the school year
into separate periods, not necessarily following each other immediately. The
proposed project would assist the State secretariat of Education by financing
the costs of: (a) consultancies for the elaboration of the new curriculum and
textbooks; and (b) printing of seven basic textbooks for a total of 21,200
pupils (the estimated 1977 rural enrollment for grades 1 - 4 in the project
area).



ANNEX 8
Page 3
6.        (c) Teacher and Supervisor Upgrading (US$100,000).  All 14 munici-
palities included in the project area would be assisted by PROMUNICIPIO,
starting June 1978. A Regional Educational Office would be set up in Areia
(CRE), and a Municipal Education Unit (OME), staffed by three education offi-
cers, would be created in each municipality. The staff of these institutions
would be trained by specialists of the State Secretariat of Education and of
the PROMUNICIPIO headquarters in Brasilia. They in turn would be responsible
for the training of all 1,124 municipal teachers in the project area, in the
application of the new curriculum and the use of the textbooks. The project
would assist both the State Secretariat of Education and PROMUNICIPIO in
organizing and executing the upgrading program for the 28 supervisors and
1,124 teachers. The course for the teachers would be organized at schools
in the project area, mainly during vacation periods. The project would fi-
nance consultants' fees, boarding costs and transport for the participants,
and teaching materials.
7.        (d) Literacy and Training Courses for Target Group Farmers
(US$180,000). The project would provide financial assistance to the State
Secretariat of Education for materials, subsistence and salaries to train
instructors to implement a literacy program for 8,200 target group farmers,
at a cost of US$14,000. The project would also assist EMATER in organizing
specialized courses for about 11,690 target group farmers included in the
project area.
8.        (e) Occupational Training (US$663,300).  One of the most important
effects of the proposed project would be an increase in employment opportuni-
ties in the project area. It is estimated that, in the non-farm sector, about
500 direct and 1,000 indirect jobs would be created, in the fields of (a)
electricity (installation, repair and maintenance); (b) automobiles repair;
(c) construction; and, (d) commercial activities. The project would assist
the two agencies presently implementing training programs at skilled worker
level, SENAI and SENAC, by providing mobile equipment and financial resources
to cover all the expenses of the courses to be organized during the project
period. Both SENAI and SENAC would utilize the mobile training concept. A
small team of instructors would organize ad hoc training courses in various
sub-sections of the project area, in several industrial and commercial sub-
jects (Tables 3 and 4). In addition, SENAI and SENAC would supervise the
training courses presently given at the Artesanato Dom Adauto, which are
mainly intended for the students of the annexed primary school (grades I to
8) and for community development activities. The project would finance the
costs of: (a) one vehicle each for SENAI and SENAC for the transport of
equipment, instructors and supervisory personnel; (b) basic equipment for
the training courses; (c) a complement of basic equipment for the Artesanato
Dom Adauto; (d) furniture for the two regional offices in Areia; (e) salaries
for personnel in charge of supervising and implementing the training courses;
(f) consumable materials for the courses; and, (g) operating expenses for
the vehicles. The operating costs per trainee hour for SENAI are estimated
at US$1.2 and.for SENAC at US$1.3.



ANINEX 8
Page 4
9.        (f) Artisans Training (US$86,000).  The Federal University of
Paraiba has begun to assist the artisanal sector by creating "artisanal
nuclei" (Nucleos Artesanais Rurais Femeninos, NARF), which are intended as
training centers for members of low income families, to stimulate the crea-
tivity of the participants, teach new techniques and organize the coimmercial-
ization of the products. The efficiency of the NARFs is low, mainly because
the programs are too rigid in content and duration, the existing mar]keting
channel operates slowly and the programs service only female participants.
The project would assist the Federal University in correcting these defi-
ciencies, and finance the costs of: (a) additional equipment for the nine
existing NARFs in the project area; (b) upgrading 40 instructors and super-
visors; (c) two fellowships of 20-months' duration each for master degrees in
Adult Education and Rural Sociology for two staff members of the central unit,
located at the University campus in Joao Pessoa; (d) 36 training courses per
year for a period of five years, at an average base cost of US$4,222 per group
of 10 artisans with UFPG assuming an increasing part of the cost annually,
reaching 100% in Year 5. The University would also carry out a study on the
various marketing possibilities for the artisanal products of the NARFs.
10.       Project Administration (US$178,500).  The executing agency for the
formal education and adult literacy component of the proposed project would
be the State Secretariat of Education, which would appoint a coordinator
responsible for the component, who would act as liaison with the overall
project coordination unit. The Department of Fundamental Education (DEF)
of the Federal Ministry of Education would provide technical assistance to
the State Secretariat of Education for the implementation of various subcom-
ponents. The project would finance the following administration costs of
the State Secretariat of Education: (a) professional fees for architectural
consultancies for four years; (b) contract salaries for an accountant and an
administrator (temporary contracts) for five years; (c) one vehicle for the
project coordinator and supporting staff; (d) furniture and equipment for
the Regional Center in Areia; and (e) office expenses.
Recurrent Expenditures
11.       At full operation in 1982, the total recurrent expenditures gener-
ated by the formal education and adult literacy component of the proposed
project would amount to about US$700,000. This is equivalent to an increase
of' 124% of total current expenditures on education in 1976 by the 14s munici-
palities. Even assuming by 1982 a 10% per annum real increase in the total
budgets of the municipalities and an increase to 25% of the share of current
expenditures allocated to education (cf. 23% in 1976), the expected recurrent
expenditures would far exceed the financial capacity of the municipalities.
The Federal Government, therefore, intends to participate on a decliLning
scale (in conjunction with POLONORDESTE but without project support) in
financing rural primary education recurrent costs in the project area, until
these costs can be fully met by the municipalities. In non-formal training,
trainer salaries, materials and other miscellaneous expenses during project
irmplementation are included in the project costs. Component costs are sum-
marized in Table 5.



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
'PARAIBA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BREJO
EDUCATION AND TRAINING COMPONENT
Primary School Facilities in the Project Area, by Physical Conditions (1977)
No. of                                 Physical condition
No. of    class-      Shifts                Schools                Classrooms
MUNICIPALITIES                  Schools   rooms                  Good   Average  Poor    Good   Average   Poor
Arara                                       24         29          30        1       13       10       1       16        12
Borborema                                    9          9           9        -        7        2       -        7         2
Alagoa Nova                                 84         86         90         -       54       30       -       56        30
Pil8es                                      27         35          31       14       10        3      10       20         5
Bananeiras                                 120       123         129         6       98       16        7      99        17
Puxinana                                    29         33          49        2       20        7        3      22         8
Pirpirituba                                 22         27          30        -       22        -       -       27         _
Serraria                                    29        29          23         -        8       21       -        8        21
Areia                                       42         47          54        3       33        6        5      35         7
Esperanga                                   24         30          32       17        3        4      23        3         4
S.Sebastiao de L. de Roga                   21         24          32        3       14        4        3      14         4
Areial                                      13         16         18         3        7        3       4        9         3
Montadas                                    11         16         16         1        1        9       2        2        12
Lagoa Seca                                  44         49         67         1       22       21       2       24        23
TOTAL                 499        553                    51     312      136       60      345      148



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PARAIBA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BREJO
EDUCATION AND TRAINING COMPONENT
Schedule of Accommodation and Area of a Primary School
Student places: 70
Project item: Primary school (two classrooms per school)                                             Grades: 1-8
Type of accom-               Area in M2                      Cost in CR $ (estimates)                         Total Cost
modation          Per Unit        Total           Building         Furniture       Equipment       In Cr $          In US $
Classrooms           49             98
Storage area         12             12
Office space         12             12
Canteen/kitchen       9              9
Washrooms              7              7
Walls and
Circulation (25%)                   35
Total area and
base cost 1/                       173             311,400            35,000          4,500         350,900
Site works (15%)                                    46,700                                           46,700
TOTAL                                              358,100            35,000          4,500         397.600            27,707
Professional
Services (9%) 2/                                                                                     35,800             2,495
2           2 
1/  Civil works cost estimates, Sept.1977 = Cr $1 800/m  (USl20/m)
2/ Including 2% for topography and soil study.



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PARAIBA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BREJO
SENAI - Type of Courses and Number of Participants (1978-1982)
Duration
Total     Days            Number         No. of      No. of              Total Number of Trainees
No. of     of             of Courses    Instruc-    Particip.           Per
Courses             hours     Training        per year        tors       per course         year     Total  (5 Years)
1. Electricity 1/           800         230              2            1             12             24            120
2. Auto mechanics 2/        800         230              2            1             12             24            120
3. Carpentry                800         230              2            1             12             24    '       120
4. Locksmithing             400         115              2            1             12             24            120
5. Plumbing                 400         115              2            1             12             24            120
6. Masonry                  400         115              2            1             12             24            120
TOTAL                                     12             6                          144            72o
1/ With three specializations:installation electricity, electrical engines coiling,
electrical household appliances repairing.
2/ Full training, including auto-electricity.
W coD



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
*PARAIBA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BREJO
SENAC - Type of Courses and Number of Participants'(1978-1982)
-Duration
Days           Number         No. of        No. of            Total Number of Trainees
No. of    of             of Courses    Instruct-  Participants          Per
hours    Training        per year         ors        per course         year     Total (5years)
1. Salesmanship             120         40               6            1             15             90            450
2. Typewriting              240         75               6            1             15             90            450
3. Accounting               360       120                2            1             15             90            150
4. Shopkeeping              120         40               6            1             15             90            450
TOTAL                                   20             4                          300          1.500
4-



ANNEX 8
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PARAIBA RURAL DEVELOPHEIT PROJECT - BREJO
COST nF EDUCATIONB ANn TRAINING
(Cr.S'OOO)
(September 1977)
Start-up                                                            Total
No. of Units Unit Cost  Costs        1978/79   1979/80   1980/81   1981/82   1982/83   Project
Costs
I. FORMAL EDUCATION
1.  Construction
a. School Buildings              74      311.4                  3,736.8   7,473.6   7,785.0   4,048.2          -    23,043.6
b. Teacher Houses                30       245.8                 1,229.0   2,458.1   2,458.1   1,229.0          -      7,374.2
c. Site Development              74        46.7                   560.4   1,120.8   1,167.5        607.1       -      3,455.8
2.  Educational Equipment            74         4.5                    56.4      112.9      117.6        61.2      -        348.1
3.  Furniture                        74        35.0                   439.1      878.2      914.8      475.7       -      2,707.8
4.  Curiculum Development
a. Consultancy                                       140.3        204.8         -          -          -        -        204.8
b. Testbooks                                                    3,300.0         -                     -        -      3,300.0
5.  Training and
Upgrading
a. Fees and Allowances                                             79.5   1,410.0          -          -        -      1,489.5
b. Training Materials                                              15.0         -          -          -        -         15.0
Sub-total                                        140.3      9,621.0  13,453.6   12,443.0  6,421.2           -    41,938.8
II.  NON-FORMAL TRAINING
1.  Farmer Training
a. Participant
Allowances             24,000         0.1                   378.0      630.0        756.0    504.0   252.0    2,520.0
b. Training Materials                                             27.0       45.0        54.0      36.0    18.0        180.0
2.  Occupational Training
a. SENAI X
(i) Vehicle                  1        87.8       87.8
(ii) Equipment                                 1,056.7
(iii) Furniture                                   458.9            -          -         19.3        -        -         19.3
(iv) Depreciation
Allowances                                     -          45.0       45.0         45.0     45.0    45.0         225.0
(v) Scholarships                                   -         140.0      180.0        250.0    250.0   250.0    1,070.0
(vi) Incremental
oeers'tln costs -
personal                                         141.8         713.2      713.2       713.2    713.2   713.2    3,566.0
(vii) Incremental
operating costs -
naterials & services                               66.2         180.3      180.8       184.5    184.2   182.4         912.2
b. SENAC
Ci) Vehicle                  1        76.1       76.1
(ii) Equipment                                   157.4         33.0         -            -         -        -         33.0
(iii) Furniture                                    55.4
(iv) Depreciation
Allowances                                     -          45.0       50.0        50.0      50.0    50.0        245.0
(v) Scholarships                                   -          84.0       84.0        84.0       84.0    84.0       420.0
(vi) Incremental
operating costs -
personal                                         133.8         546.8     546.8        546.8    546.8   546.8    2,734.0
(vii) Incremental
operating costs -
materials & services                                55.2        144.1      144.6       145.1    145.6   146.1         725.5
3. Artisan Training
a. Furniture and
equipment                                        391.3            -          -           -         -        -
b. Instructors'
allowances                                                      93.6       70.2        46.8      23.4       -        234.0
c. Trainees'
allowances                                        67.4         50.6        33.7        16.8        -        -        101.1
d. Scholarships                                                   166.5      124.9        83.3      41.6       -        416.3
e. Revolving marketing
fund                                                          180.0          -           -         -        -        180.0
f. EOhibitins.                                                     48.0       36.0        24.0      12.0       -        120.0
g. Office supplies and
other consumptive
materials                                                       95.2       74.1        47.6      23.8       -        240.7
Sub-total                                      2,747.9      2,970.3   2,958.3    3,066.4  2,659.6 2,287.5   13,942.1
III. EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION
1.  Vehicle                          1        68.0         -          68.0         -           -         -        -         68.0
2.  Furniture and Equipment                                           30.0         -           -         -        -         30.0
3.  Technical Assistance                                             300.6      300.6       300.6    300.6   195.2    1,397.6
4.  Vehicle Operation and
Maintenance                                                      229.5      232.5       237.0    240.0   243.0    1,182.0
Sub-total                                              -         628.1      533.1       537.6    540.6   438.2    2,677.6
Total Baseline Costs                             2,888.2    13,219.4  16,945.0   16,047.0  9,621.4 2,725.7   58,558.5
Physical Contingencies                              240.5      1,014.4   1,272.1    1,313.o    705.1    58.9    4,363.5
TOTAL                                            3,128.7     14.233.8  18.217.1   37,36n- lnp i         2.784.6 i,922.
(US$)                                             (208.6)       (948.9) (1.214.5)  (1,157.3)  (hRR.6) (1R5.7)  (4,104.5)
* 105 of construction, vehicles, equipments, furnitures, and other materials and services:
Items: I: 1, 2, 3, 4b, 5b; II: lb, 2.    (i) - (iii), (vii);    2b  (i) - (iii), (vii);  3a, 3R
III: 1, 2, 4.



ANNEX 9
Page 1
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PARAIBA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BREJO
HEALTH AND SANITATION 1/
Health Situation in the Project Area
1.        The main health problems among Brejo's rural population are
endemic and water-borne diseases, infant mortality, and malnutrition.
Schistosomiasis and ancyclostomiasis, ascariasis and other worm infestations
are commonly reported; poor environmental sanitation is thus a major cause
of rural ill-health. Malnutrition affects 60% of the children of one to
four years of age, and PCM (protein-calorie malnutrition) is particularly
high among infants, preschool children and pregnant and lactating women.
2.        Four agencies are directly involved in the provision of medical,
sanitation and other health care services in the State of Paraiba. They
are the State Secretariat for Health (SES), the Brazilian Foundation for
P.ublic Health (FSESP), the State Enterprise for Rural Extension (EMATER-Pb)
and the State Company for Water and Sewerage (CAGEPA). SES has primary
responsibility for health affairs throughout the State, but has delegated
the delivery of health services in four of the fourteen Brejo municipali-
ties to FSESP.
3.        Paraiba has recently begun a program to extend primary health care
and sanitation services to the rural areas through miniposts. EMATEL-Pb has
taken the initiative in establishing nine miniposts, under convenio with SES
and assistance from FSESP, as part of its rural extension work. The mini-
posts are designed to provide elementary clinical services, health education,
nutrition improvement programs and also serve as centers for community devel-
opment. In the few locations where they have been active, social extension-
ists of EMATER have promoted environmental improvement through the distribu-
tion of filters and by encouraging villagers to construct latrines. In water
supply, the activities of CAGEPA have been confined so far to urban centers,
but it is gradually assuming responsibility for water supply in rural areas.
CAGEPA is primarily a "commercial" venture (50% private ownership) and would
need to simplify its techniques and modify some of its procedures if rural
clientele are to be served. In the schistosomiasis affected areas FSESP has
a program (PECE) to construct latrines and to supply pipe-borne water as a
means of controlling the incidence of the disease. This program however,
is extremely costly and involves almost one hundred percent subsidization
by government. Its impact on rural areas has so far been minimal.
1/   More information on this component is given in separate working papers
on Health and Sanitation and Social Extension.



ANNEX 9
Page 2
Health Policy
4.        The quality of service provided by the health agencies reflects
resources available to them; for example FSESP, which has better qualified
personnel and more funds at its command offers noticeably better services
than FUSEP, the implementing arm of the State Secretariat of Health. SES
is particularly short of technical staff and is compelled to rely on FSESP
for such support.  The size of the health program of the state is also heav-
ily dependent on the extent of Federal finances available. The Brazilian
government started a new rural health program in August 1976, designated
PIASS (Program for Interiorization of Health and Sanitation Services) to
augment state resources. Under the PIASS program emphasis is being placed
on outreach preventive and simple ambulatory care provided by auxiliary per-
sonnel, on nutrition supplementation and on low cost water supply and sani-
tation systems. The increased resources available from PIASS will allow SES
to greatly improve its services.
5.        The federal government wants PIASS to be the major source for
health sector financing in the north-east. However, as yet there are many
organizational and other issues which'remain unresolved. The principle
issue concerns the relationship between POLONORDESTE and PIASS, especially
in areas like Brejo where both programs would be simultaneously active.
Other issues center around the manner of funding recurrent costs expendi-
ture, technical support for state level agencies, and the role of the State
Health Secretariats. To avoid duplication and possible conflict of norms,
the high-priority health interventions under the project would be limited
to investments in health posts and water supply services in rural locations.
PIASS norms would be applied and implementation would be coordinated by a
PIASS coordinating committee.
The Project
6.        Health Posts (Cr$2.19 million).  The health component of the proj-
ect is intended to collaborate with and complement the actions planned for
the area under the PIASS program. The project and PIASS jointly would pro-
vide an integrated network of rural basic clinical-care service and urban
"support" or referral services to cover the whole project area. These would
be complemented through the project with sanitation, nutrition improvement
and other preventive actions to improve the health situation of the rural
people. The strong community development focus adopted in the project would
be utilized to mobilize popular participation in the operation of health ser-
vices.
7.        The project would construct buildings for 25 health-posts in loca-
tions selected jointly by the health and agriculture authorities. The build-
ings would be so designed as to accommodate a health-post and a community
meeting hall and would be sited in close proximity to the village mini-store
and market, the primary school and the water supply scheme; the objective
being to provide a center for community activities and also to economize
on costs by entrusting all construction to one agency - SUPLAN, the con-
structing arm of the State Secretariat for Works. Cost of equipment for



ANNEX 9
Page 3
the health posts would be included in the project as would the cost of train-
ing the health-post workers (Orientadora de Saude) during the project
period. The EMATER social extensionists would be the primary motivators of
the rural communities to participate in this program. They would organize
rural health associations and train the community in running them. SES would
provide the technical supervision and support in the form of drugs etc. to
the health-post network.
8.        Water Supply (Cr$11.1 million).  The project would also construct
25 simple rural water supply systems in the same villages served by the health
posts. Each system would consist of a deep well, a filter, a diesel or elec-
tric motorized pump, a pump house with an elevated water storage tank and
public hydrants. Where feasible, a gravity fed supply would be instaLled in
place of the well. In order to ensure a distance of not more than 250 to 500
m. between public standpipes and target houses (PIASS norm), a piped distribu-
tioni system with a maximum length of 1.5 km would be constructed. Further,
hea:Lth miniposts and schools would receive house connections. The minimum
user-group size to assure financial feasibility would be 100 houses and the
average size is projected to be about 120 households. The capacity of the
source would have to meet a minimum daily demand of 30 liters per capita
(aliso PIASS norm) and enable the system to satisfy increased demand as pro-
jected for a period of 20 years.
9.        During the first year of the project, the state Water Supply and
Sewage Authority (CAGEPA) would carry out feasibilities studies on the
selected locations. These studies would cover investigations on water avail-
ability, service levels, population concentration and other socio-economic
data on the target communities, the appropriate system to be installed in
each location, detailed cost estimates, and ability of the target community
to pay operation and maintenance costs. The social extensionists of EMATER
would assist in investigating the socio-economic aspects. Completion of
feasibility studies would be a condition of disbursement. Before commence-
ment of construction, EMATER would set up water-user committees (affiliated
to the health associations) to channel community participation in construc-
tion and operation of the system. CAGEPA would sign with each committee an
agreement, in terms satisfactory to the Bank, stating the type of comimunity
contribution to the construction works and its responsibility for the oper-
ation and maintenance of the system. CAGEPA would train an operator, prefer-
ably a member of the water-user committee, to be responsible for the oper-
ation and routine maintenance of each water supply system. SupervisiLon of
operation and any major maintenance would be done by the regional un:it of
CAGEPA located in Guarabira. The project would finance the cost of a mainte-
nance vehicle and some equipment for the maintenance unit.
10.       The average cost of construction and installations per system is
esitimated to be about Cr$415,000. It is expected that through community
participation in the form of labor, local materials etc., a cost reduction up
to about 15% would be possible. The costs of operation and maintenance would
be borne by the water-user committee, through collection of agreed payments
from individual user families. However, as the ability of the beneficiaries



ANNEX 9
Page 4
to meet their obligations is likely to be limited untjl the results of pro-
duction improvements under the project are achieved, the local municipalities
would subsidize the water-user committees, on a decreasing scale. The actual
amounts of subsidy would be established during the feasibility studies;
however, it is expected that after year 4 of the project, full responsibility
for the cost of operation and maintenance would be taken over by the water-
user committees. Agreement would be reached during negotiation, that health-
posts and water supply schemes would be constructed only in locations where a
minimum 100 families each would be served and where the water-user committees
have agreed to participate during construction and meet the cost of operation
and maintenance.
11.       Nutrition.  The contribution of the project to nutrition improve-
ment would be made primarily through the activities of the social exten-
sionists. They would organize groups of farmers, mothers and youths for
health education, home gardening, hygienic and balanced food preparation
and child care. The health posts would also serve as a means of identi-
fying the seriously malnourished cases for clinical attention. In areas
not directly served by the health posts, the project would be constructing
another 23 meeting halls which would, under the guidance from EMATER social
extensionists, serve as nuclei for nutrition improvement activities. No
direct project costs would be incurred in respect of nutrition improvement;
the costs of the social extension service, which would be responsible for
the nutrition improvement program, are shoun under Rural Extension (Annex 3).
Organization and Management
12.       Through convenios with Management Council/POLONORDESTE the respon-
sibility for (a) construction of health posts buildings (which would be linked
to the community center building) would be assigned to SUPLAN; (b) the pre-
investment studies, designing and commissioning of the water supply systems
would be entrusted to CAGEPA; and, (c) the supply of equipment for health
posts and the overall coordination and execution of the operation and mainte-
nance of both health posts and water schemes would be given to SES (Secretariat
of Health). The PIASS Coordinating Committee under the chairmanship of SES
would be responsible for matters of conformity between the components financed
by the project and the other health sector development in the project area
financed by PIASS. Coordination at the regional and local mminicipality level
would follow the system established for the PIASS program.
13.       For the health post construction component sub-convenios would
be established between (i) SES and EMATER for the formation of health
associations and motivation of community participation in the health,
nutrition and sanitation programs; (ii) between SES and the prefeituras
for the financing of the salaries of health post workers; (iii) between
SES and FSESP for the training of the health workers. Similarly in water
supply, sub-convenios would lay down terms of agreement between (a) CAGEPA
and SUPLAN regarding the construction of the structures for water supply
schemes; and, (b) CAGEPA, the Prefeituras (municipalities) and the water
users associations on the sharing of operations and maintenance costs.



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PARAIBA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BREJO
COSTS OF HFALTS AND SLTATION 2
(Cr.$'000)                                                    (September 1977)
Year         ~~Unit
Cost          1978/79          1979/80          1980/81          1981/82          1982/83         Total
HEALTH           .1
No. of Units -/                                       6                6                7                6
1. Capital Cost
Construction        75              450              450              525              450               -           1,875.0
Equipment            7,5             45               45               52.5             45               -              63.5
Training             2.6              15.3           _15.3            - 1736
2.  Operating Cost.
Materials            0.8               4.8              9.6             15.2             20.0           20.0             69.6
Sub-total                            515.1           519.9            610.6            530.3           20.0          2,195.9
WATER SUPPLY
3.  Capital Cost    Studies             225.0             225.0               -               -                 -             -              225.0
Construction      415.0           2,490.0          2,490.0          2,905.0          2,490.0                         10,375.0
Equipment           20.0             120.0            120.0            140.0            120.0                           500.0
2,835.0         2,610.o          3,045.0           2,610.0                        11,100.0
Total Baseline Costs                                   3,350.1          3,129.9          3,655.6          3,140.3             20.0         13,295.9
Physical Contingencies
(107 Construction Equipment                             311.0            311.5            363.8            312.5             2.0          1,300.8
and Materials)
Total Costs                                            3,661.1          3,441.4          4,019.4          3,452.8             22.0        14,596.7
1/  To be constructed as part of the community center - with a floor area of 75 Km  - of which approximately 50 Km2 would be available for the
health post - Cost nf community center apportioned to Rural Extension.
2/ These estimates were made by the post-appraisal mission based on the broad agreements reached.
1- 



ANNEX 10
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PARAIBA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BREJO
PROJECT MANAGEMENT 1/
Introduction
1.        The Brejo project is the most comprehensive of Paraiba's rural
development projects approved so far by POLONORDESTE. It includes a number
of innovations which could be introduced subsequently on a wider scale both
inside and outside Paraiba. Successful implementation of this project will
require improvement of organizational structures and strengthening of coor-
dination mechanisms, which are included as components within the project.
This annex describes the proposed project organizational structure, the
planning and implementing system, financing procedures, and the mechanism
set up for project monitoring and evaluation.
Organizational Structure
2.        The POLONORDESTE program is coordinated at the federal level by
a special group, GECA, which was established in April, 1975, by interminis-
terial decree. It consists of representatives from the Planning Secreta-
riat of the Presidency, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of
Interior, and the Ministry of Finance through the Central Bank. It, as the
main policy-making body for POLONORDESTE, coordinates all agencies involved
at the federal level, requests and releases funds for the POLONORDESTE
program, and monitors program execution. GRPN, is the main coordinating
group at the regional (Recife) level. It is placed administratively under
SUDENE, but functionally under GECA. Its main functions are to analyze
and approve annual operating plans, review quarterly progress reports,
approve the release of funds, provide technical advice and control coor-
dinating agencies (e.g., UCT) at the State level.
3.        At the State level, the program is coordinated by a Management
Council (Conselho Diretor). Currently, the Council oversees three POLONOR-
DESTE projects 2/. The Council is comprised of the Secretary of Agriculture,
who also serves as President representing the Governor, and the Secretaries
of Planning, Transport, Labor, Industry and Commerce, Education and Health.
Apart from these fulltime members, other agencies like UCT, CEPA, EMATER and
EMBRAPA can participate on invitation. The main functions of the Management
Council are to establish general guidelines for POLONORDESTE projects, deter-
mine strategies and define priorities; coordinate all agencies involved in
the execution of POLONORDESTE projects; resolve points of disagreement be-
tween executing agencies at the policy level; and approve project plans,
annual operating plans, and quarterly progress reports. The Management
Council meets at least quarterly, but would meet more regularly in the
future when an increasing number of projects are being implemented.
1/   Working papers on Project Organization and Mangement, and Monitoring
and Evaluation are available in project files.
2/   Vale do Piranha, Serido, and Brejo.
3/   See Chart 4.



ANNEX 10
Page 2
4.        The Management Council is serviced by a fulltime Technical Coordi-
nating Unit (UCT) which also provides day-to-day coordination and technical
advice to all executing agencies. Its specific functions are to assist the
Management Council and carry out all responsibilities delegated to it by that
Cotmcil; provide orientation and technical advice to the agencies charged
with the execution of POLONORDESTE projects; progress control on projject
implementation; and communicate with GRPN, GECA, the World Bank and other
financing agencies. UCT staff consists of: a General Coordinator; an Admin-
istrative Unit; a group of Project Coordinators (one for each project); and
a group of Technical Advisors.  Its staff belongs administratively and func-
tionally to UCT. However, UCT derives its legal status under a convenio from
the Secretary of Agriculture in his function as President of the Management
Council.  Besides being a Technical Coordinating Unit, UCT is also the execut-
ing agency for the project components of organization and management, techni-
ca:L assistance and monitoring.
5.        UCT is headed by its General Coordinator, who is appointed by the
President of the Management Council.  His main function is to coordinate
project execution and resolve problems of implementation, in consultation
with the various executing agencies. 'In this task he is assisted by a
Project Coordinator for each project. A special assistant project coordina-
tor (Monitoring Officer) would be created under the Brejo project to speci-
fically process the progress reports in consultation with the UCT technical
advisors. He would also be responsible for advising the Management Council
through the General Coordinator on project-related problems and delays in
implementation as observed from the progress reports. The General Coordi-
nator would present the annual operating plans through the Management: Coun-
cil to GRPN, GECA and the World Bank.
6.        The Project Coordinator will maintain close liaison with the exe-
cuting agencies and frequently visit the project area to inspect progress in
implementation. He would be assisted by the technical advisors in the analy-
sis and consolidation of annual operating plans. His responsibilities would
require him to maintain a day-to-day scrutiny of the implementation of all
project components.
7.        The Technical Advisors and the Administrative Unit would provide
functional support to the General Coordinator and the Project Coordinators.
There will be technical advisors for each of the specific areas of agricul-
tural extension and research, marketing and storage, non-farm production,
roads, education and training, health and community development, and commu-
nications. They would technically liaise with the executing agencies in
the preparation of annual operating plans and in the implementation of
specific project components.
8.        Execution of the various project components will be the respon-
sibility of existing line agencies rather than a special project authority.
Where an agency's present implementation capacity is not adequate to carry
out the component assigned to it, specific measures are included under the
project to improve its capacity. These measures should have a positive



ANNEX 10
Page 3
impact on the agencies' implementation capacity beyond this project. Each
agency would appoint a Coordinator for POLONORDESTE projects who will act
as the liaison point with the UCT. The main functions of an executing
agency are to prepare annual operating plans; execute their components
in conformity with POLONORDESTE and UCT guidelines; carry out internal
monitoring, keep separate accounts for the Brejo project; prepare quarterly
progress reports and annual consolidated accounts.
9.        The State Agricultural Planning Agency (CEPA/Pb), which played
a key role in the preparation and appraisal of the Brejo project, will con-
tinue to have a special role in project execution, through its Evaluation
Unit. On the basis of its evaluative work, CEPA would provide both UCT and
Management Council with suggestions for improvements in the project and,
where necessary, with recommendations for modifications in project design.
Project Management Tools
10.       The Brejo project incorporates four principal instruments of man-
agement: (i) a system of annual operating plans; (ii) the project financing
system; (iii) a progress reporting and monitoring system; and (iv) a project
evaluation system.
(i) Annual Operating Plans. A detailed six-year plan for the
Brejo project was prepared by CEPA/Pb, and subsequently
analyzed and appraised by GRPN and the World Bank. This
appraisal has resulted in an agreed project plan, de-
scribed in 14 working papers and summarized in a World
Bank appraisal report. For purposes of implementation this
plan would be translated into annual operating plans, which
constitute the project budget and present the detailed
programming of project activities with their justification.
This system gives an element of flexibility to the project
by allowing adjustments to the initial targets of the
project plan that may be needed because of changed circum-
stances or subsequent experiences. Departures from the
project plan should, however, be specifically justified.
UCT in particular will have an important role in ensuring
consistency of annual operating plans with the objectives
of the project plan. The very first draft of the plan
is prepared by the executing agencies, each for its com-
ponent(s), in consultation with the UCT. This Unit conso-
lidates the plan and presents it to the Management Council
for its consideration. By October 28 of each year the plan
should be submitted to GRPN and to the World Bank for
approval.
(ii) Project Financing. In contrast to other POLONORDESTE
projects in Paraiba, the Brejo project would be financed
directly from the Federal Government budget. Annual
operating plans prepared under the directions of UCT are



ANNEX 10
Page 4
first approved at the state level by the Management
Council. They are then transmitted through GRPN and
Ministry of the Interior (who scrutinize them in detail),
to GECA. After approving the annual operating plan for
the project, GECA would request inclusion of the total
amount required in the budget of SEPLAN's National Develop-
ment Fund. Each quarter, the necessary funds would be
released by the National Development Fund and transferred
to the General Inspector of Finance of SEPLAN. This
office, in turn, would transfer these funds in three
proportions as follows:
(a) for credit needs to the Central Bank, which would
discount loans by the local banks to small farmers;
(b) for applied agricultural research and rural extension
to the Inspector General of Finance in the Ministry
of Agriculture, who would transfer these funds through
EMBRAPA and EMBRATER respectively to their state
offices;
(c) for all other components, by the following route:
- to the head office of Banco do Brasil, which
transfers the funds to;
- the central agency of Banco do Brasil for Paraiba
in Joao Pessoa, which credits the Brejo account,
and notifies;
- the President of the Management Council and the
Secretary of Finance. The former provides the
latter with a breakdown of project funds by com-
ponent and agency prepared by UCT and requests
him to make these amounts available to the res-
pective executing agencies; next the Secretary
of Finance authorizes:
- the General Accounting Office of the State, which,
in its turn, authorizes:
- the General Treasury of the State to credit the
project funds to various accounts for each compo-
nent and agency in the Banco do Brasil:
- where a particular Secretariat, e.g., in Health or
Education, is responsible for coordination within
the sector, it would be informed about funds
released to executing agencies coordinated by it.



ANNEX 10
Page 5
This process is highly complicated and delays are ex-
perienced both during the approval cycle and the fund
release process. In practice, delays are occurring
regularly, causing cash-flow problems, uncertainty and
frustration among executing agencies. UCT will have main
responsibility, under the project to monitor the flow of
funds and to bring problems to the early attention of the
Management Council, for immediate action. Uncertainty
about and delay in funding is one of the project's major
risks. (The Bank has taken up this issue with the Brazilian
government in order to reduce the number of procedural
steps and to eliminate delays in other ways.)
(iii) Monitoring of Project Progress. A management information
system in the project would permit monitoring of project
progress. This system would provide timely information on
the actual use of project inputs, the accomplishment of
activities and the project outputs or immediate results.
Actual results would be compared with planned ones in
order to discover any discrepancies and to alert project
management about potential implementation problems requir-
ing corrective action.
Each of the executive agencies responsible for implemen-
tation of project components would monitor progress of
that component internally. Quarterly the agencies would
provide progress reports to UCT. On the basis of these
progress reports an Assistant Project Coordinator/Monitor-
ing Officer in UCT would prepare quarterly a systematic
summary including the comments of Technical Advisors and
the field observations. This, together with the account-
ing information provided by the Administrative Unit in
UCT would be the essence of the monitoring reports the
Project Coordinator would submit quarterly to the
Management Council, GRPN, GECA and IBRD.
The costs of monitoring project progress would be part
of the overall administration and management costs of
the project.
(iv) Evaluation of Project Effects and Impact. The actual
uses of project outputs, or effects of the project, as
reflected by increased area cultivated, productivity,
production, employment and farmer income would
be the minimum scope for evaluation of the project.
Beyond that, changes in the conditions of living (as re-
flected by improved diets, health, increased literacy,
etc.) resulting from the impact of the project on the
target population would also be included for evaluation
purposes.



ANNEX 10
Page 6
Evaluation of the effects and impact of the project
would be handled by the Special Projects Unit of CEPA.
This unit would have the responsibility of undertaking
(i) analysis of data collected and completion of baseline
survey; (ii) annual farm (sample) surveys during the
project disbursement period; (iii) one or two social
surveys to measure the changes in the living conditions of
the target population in the project area; (iv) ad hoc
studies of specific issues and problems identified by the
Management Council or UCT. In addition to separate
reports on each of the above, CEPA would produce a mid-
term and ex post evaluation report, summarizing the major
results from farm, social surveys and ad hoc studies.
All evaluation reports would be submitted to the Manage-
ment Council through the General Project Coordinator of
UCT. Charts I to 3 outline the type of information that
would be collected, the sample and survey design, the data
processing and analysis requirements. Table 2 provides a
detailed costing for the evaluation of this project.
Costs
11.       The costs of the project management system are summarized iLn
Table I.  The project would provide UCT with office equipment, transport
and other aids to project coordination costing Cr$ 240,000 (US$16,000).  It
woujld finance consultancies, project-related seminars and studies at an esti-
mated cost of Cr$ 1,490,000 (US$95,300) and the incremental operating costs
of UCT pertaining to the Brejo project during the five-year implementation
period amounting to Cr$ 18,900,000 (US$1,260,000). The total cost of the
Project Management component would be Cr$ 21 million (US$1.4 million).



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PARAIBA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BREJO
COSTS OF PROJECT MANAGEMENT
(Cr.$'000)
(September 1977)
ITEM                    Start up                                                                            Total
Costs          1978-79       1979-80      1980-81      1981-82      1902-33        Project
Costs
I.    CAPITAL COSTS
1. Equipment and
installations               458.5        192.7                                                                192.7
2.  Permanent materials         109.4          47.3                                                                47.3
3.  Professional services       892.0        298           298          298          298          298           1,490.0
II.   OPERATING COSTS
4.  Salaries (including       1,304.5      2,500.0       3,060.5      3,060.5      3,060.5      3,060.5        14,742.0
allowances and social
charges)
5.  Materials                    48.9        124.0         124.0        124.0        124.0        124.0           620.0
6.  Training                    130.0         385.0        385.0        385.0        385.0         385.0        1,925.0
7.  Other costs                 234.0        321.0         321.0        321.0        321.0        321.0         1,605.0
Total baseline            3,177.3      3,868.0      4,188.5      4,188.5       4,188.5      4,188.5        20,622.0
Physical contingencies
-  (equipment 1, 2, 5            85.1          68.5         44.5         44.5          44.5         44.5           246.5
& 7 at 10%)
Total Costs                3,262.4   I 3,936.5        4,233.0      4,233.0      4,233.0       4,233.0       20,86R.5  |
HOl



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PARAIBA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BREJO
COST ESTIMATES OF PROJECT EVALUATION   (Cr.$'0000
Start-Upi   1978/79      1979/80       1980/81    1981/82       1982/83        Total
Costs  I,                                                                    Project
Costs
Staff:
- Fulltime Staff _ 
3 Professionals                               842.4         842.4        842.4        842.4        842.4        842.4     4,212.0
1 Research Assistant                           54.6          54.6         54.6         54.6         54.6         54.6        273.0
1 Secretary                                    54.6          54.6         54.6         54.6         54.6         54.6        273.0
1 Driverl                                      49.9          49.9         49.9         49.9         49.9         49.9        249.5
- Part-time Staff
8 Enumerators for Farm Surveys                 29.1          29.1         29.1         29.1         29.1         29.1        145.5
for Social Surveys              36.0          -             -           36.0         -            36.0        72.0
Sub-total                                   1,066.6       1,030.6      1,030.6      1,066.6    1,030.6        1,066.6      5,225.0
Equipmen. and Supplies:
Office Furniture, 2 typewriters 3             155.0           5.0          5.0           5.0         5.0           5.0        25.0
Calculators, 1 vehicle, supplies:
Travel and Per Diem:
a.   Per Diem Professionals & Enumerators          275.0         123.0        123.0        275.0        123.0        275.0        919.0
b.  Travel Costs, Maintenance and
Depreciation of Vehicle                         30.0         30.0         30.0          30.0        30.0          30.0       150.0
Data Processing and Analysis:                       250.0        125.0         125.0        250.0       125.0         250.0        875.0
Ad hoc Studies 2/                                     -        1,200.0         600.0        600.0        600.0        600.0    3,600.0
Consultants 3/                                      450.0          -            -           450.0         -           450.0       900.0
Total Baseline Costs                       2,226.6       2,513.6      1,913.6      2,676.6      1,913.6      2,676.6   11,694.0
Physical Contingencies 107 (2, 3b, 4)                56.0         16.0         16.0          28.5        16.0          28.5       105.0
Total (1977 prices)  2,282.6  2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~) 
Total (1977 prices)                               2,282.6      2,529.6       1,929.6      2.705.1    1,929.6        2,705.1   11,799.0
1/Including social charges.
2/ Assumes that at least six ad hoc studies are undertaken, the largest of which would roughly amount to CR$600,000 (see detailed
cost estimate for ad hoc study).
3/ Six man months of international consultants in three years.



ANNEX 10
Chart 1
PARAIBA, BRAZIL
Brelo-Paraibano Rural Development Project
Qhat. 1,i  Selected Indicators for Monitoring and Evaluation of AGRICULTURE DEVELOPQMT Components
Project Components                   MaLor Objectives                                  Key Indicators
1. Crop and livestock           - To develop four cash crops                     - Area cultivated
development                - To increase subsistance production              - Productivity/ha/crop
- To develop small scale dairy cattle            - Production volume ha/crop
- To introduce soil conservation practices
2. Agriculture extension        - To encourage farmers to handle their own    - Number of field extension agents appointed
development by improving and/or creating   - Number of extension agents trained
small farmer associations                    - Number of courses per extension agent
- To increase and upgrade extension service   - Number of small farmer associations (SFA)
personnel                                        established
- To diffuse existing and new technology         - Number of SFAs run by farmers
through agriculture extension agents         - Number of prime cooperatives/sub regional
cooperatives tstablished
- Percent Farmer contributions to agriculture
support services of SFA and coops.
3. Agriculture credit          - To pvovide seasonal short-term credit as    - Number of borrowers by loan size and type of
working capital for short cycle crops            credit
- To provide medium and long-term credit         - Number of borrowers by farm size
for investment in permanent crops            - Types of borrowers
- To provide credit for purchasing land          - Collateral requirements
by landless farmers                          - Time of loan processing by borrowing insti-
tution
- Loan repayment
- Coverage by borrowing institutions
4. Marketing                    - To construct 53 mini-markets                   - Number of mini-markets constructed by sub-area
- To construct cold storage warehouses           - Volume of products in mini-arkets per annum
for potatoe seeds                            - Average number of farmers using warehouses/
- To organize a marketing center                    mini-markets per year
- To promote cooperative investment              - Net product over total sales of mini-markets/
warehouses
5. Agriculture research         - To develop improved technology adapted         - Number of farm level trials and techniques
to the project area and target group            selected per year for each crop
for the main crops and cattle activities   - Number of experimental station level trials and
- To initiatea soil conservation program            techniques selected for:  (i)organic fertilize:
- To set up a permanent mechanism for con-          (ii)soil conservation techniques; (iii)small
tinued technology development                   equipment and draft animals; (iv)dairy activi-
- To involve the Agricultural College               ties
of Areia of UF-Pb
6. Land reform                  - To improve the land exploration contracts   - Number of contracts registered
- To facilitate the access to land for the    - Number of landless farmers who purchased land
landless and small scale owners
- To create within the Secretariat of
Agriculture an organization to deal with
all aspects of land reform.



ANNEX 10
Chart 2
PARAIBA, BRAZIL
Brejo-Paraibano Rural Development Project
Chart 2: Selected Indicators for Monitoring and Evaluation of
SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE Developm  nt
ProJect Component                MaJor Obiectives                        Rey Indicators
Services to Small         - To promote output and employ-        - Employment in SSEs in project area
Scale Enterprises:           ment in project area               - Network of SSEs: incremental sale
- To enable local SSEs cater              profits, expansion of assets
better to needs of agriculture
and rural population
1. Technical              - To provide advisory services         - Number of technical assistance
Assistance                in management to SSEs                 extension agents appointed
- To help SSEs in obtaining           - Hours of technical aLssistant
credit for working and                extension agent spent for loan
investment capital                    application
- To provide technical. assistance
for management of SSEs
3. Credit                 - To provide loans for working         - Type of enterprises financed
capital (CR$15,000)                - Use of loan funds:
- To provide loans for moderniza-               -working capiLtal
tion and expansion (CR$40,000)               -investments
- To provide loans foe establish-   - Date loan contract
ment of new enterprises            - Time loan application and dis-
(CR$100,000)                          bursement
- Total loan amount
- Terms of loan, etc.
3. Research and            - To identify, test and demon-        - Number of demonstrations per year
demonstration             strate new kinds of products       - Number of farmers and small scale
and production techniques;            entrepreneurs involved
-  and improvements in existing       - Number of new industries identi-
types                                 fied by type and employment
.potential
4. Training                - To improve the skills of            - Number of entrepreneurs, employees
entrepreneurs and-employees           of SSE trained by type of in-
of SSEs                               dustry
- To train potential employees
of SSEs
- To provide skills for develop-
ment of new SSEs



ANNEX 10
Chart 3
PARAIBA, BRAZIL
Brejo-Paraibano Rural Development Project
Chart 3: Selected Indicators for Monitoring and Evaluation of
__________________   SOCIAL SERVICE Components
Project Components            Major Objectives                       Key Indicators
1. Health and            - To reduce incidence of              - Incidence, mortality, morbidity
Sanitation              mortality, morbidity                  of waterborn diseases
resulting from waterborn          - Incidence of DPT, measles,
diseases                             whooping cough
- To reduce the incidence of         - Number of health posts
measles, DPT, whooping cough      - Number of simple water supply
- To provide health posts in            schemes
community centers                 - Community participation in main-
- To provide simple water supply        tenance of health posts and
schemes                              water supply schemes
2. Nutrition and         - To reduce protein caloric           - % of mothers who breastfeed their
Social extension        malnutrition                          babies
- To.raise overall level of food    - % of mothers who breastfeed their
and nutritient intake among          babies more than 6 months
the poor                          - Incidence of II and III degree mal-
- To motivate members of health         nutrition in infants and pre-
associations, water users, and       school children
mother clubs                      - % of mothers adopting improved
weaning practices
- Incidence of PCM in infants and
preschool children
- Number of home gardens established
3. Education             - To reduce rate of adult and         - Literacy rate
child illiteracy                  - Number of teachers trained, by
- To construct primary schools          type
- To improve the curriculum  of      - Number of non-formal trainees
primary school                       employed
- To upgrade teachers and super-    - Adoption of curriculum and dis-
visors                               tribution of textbooks
- To train teachers for
occupational and artisan
training



AMINEX 10
CIEtt 4
FIGURE 1: MANAGEMENT AND INFORMATION SYSTEM FOR PARAIBA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
C.,di,At-o of
GECA. Portoymekmtt  tytot            GECA~ Potc yguodanc  otrOlotdeet
Proisot IteptemottECA                                                                                                                                                                                                  porototdeste pootdtneted eonir        potooteo to Sestonel grouP
jgtonal Level                                |             G                 l                                                                                  prwram execuXlon~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eeots00100etfdeo pd
g   FPN   ff~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tSet etPN                                            tealyesese prvsena toodetot             oegTgpasT    ng
General Coordnator           l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BP mA tot wimaetwoodOpmpFt poetsooe                                    RN   ot  oop  oMogmt  ot
}~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ooes teore eptoe th                                                                                      Ito otlOOT
Admlmdratlve~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OOfCtC Statecl 
U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MbteAvgeslpoteot Cootdtao rso it Ste tottootteotI                                                      Ii Md ettgttmt potooth Ottlon R eot
r  MgnitOrlngO fccr   j                           v w Ff~~~~~~tepe gdetitte totm tti Ooelp  eoseo tepottt ot OPPAo teo CP
.  .. ..          t
P ojgez Implementatan ~ ~~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~soolpeten pet.qorel
AeeistefltCootd,tstott ~ ~ ~      SeN           ttneUTtottoepdeem  s dotogt,pIpOlnre  sm   Ptoneiestbeetd&osdpeovielotnoent
gud;n -o iOslim d *dgna
Ptorepe tmptettteotst,oo ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Wrd ee_ d3
'-..-,t.-----j  1 7 1                                                                                                    t,peloplotttoelleoepot,totoptp,ts,            GPPA,ISPS;pottttotttott-efPh-trdps.,  r CPA,  GR
Adv,-             P,.cl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tt CEP    Genetadl                                   b           CEACooMtd,tuotlo,             U
Pettety hottest  [ 1   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                -PtorpotCootdtttot                  Or QoeoetroCottpnidsteAppooC.-tttod-0 cldi1,  -.1R.-     F.d, ~r
OtopaUpte  333  SAl  OhO                     333Pp3           Seo             PIPMO            UP Ph               - Assietett PtOrtpt COotdt             to Mso-ossmett- f  hoot,r- IPSO
Itotopoto)  EM  I.                                                                                                                                                                                                         etrosi oodtttepotteoilthoptoreot~~~~~~AW71C.'- 0    11 1 ..~~d-    11,  ,.-i  d  ,.-l-
-f                                    fidoldd     -1 -fd.tth.
_Z- Ad o ote teti oe Ps tedot tor
psootdeto Cootteot  OPASA  SEA ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~P.  .Ie    Rp
(snootoettor   SUPLAS                                MTO,peItot      PthpP        PUPLAS       POOrER        MOSSAL                    AOTPSAtO3T~~~~~~~~~-)                                    CT:,)   -,VP1.,-  .- c-dli
.f, G- I~~~~~~~~~~~~Wtd 5h- 53



ANNEX 11
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PARAIBA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BREJO
Economic Analysis
General
1.        Costs and benefits were assessed on an incremental basis, compar-
ing "with" and "without project" situations. Separate estimates of rates of
return were made for the agricultural and for the (smaller) non-agricultural
components. Agricultural benefits are derived from incremental crop produc-
tion, with incremental costs due mainly to increased use of producer inputs
and labor, improved extension services and research, and physical infrastruc-
ture. For the non-farm component, a more tentative and illustrative calcula-
tion was made comparing enterprise investment (financed through credit and
expressed as a flow of capital services), training and technical assistance
costs with expected incremental value added, the latter adjusted for the
estimated opportunity costs of incremental employment. Excluded from the
calculations for want of adequate quantifiable indicators of benefit were
social infrastructure outlays (health, water supply, education) and land ten-
ure services. The rate of return, estimated over a 21-year period, was 30%
for the agricultural component and over 50% for the non-agricultural compo-
nent. These rates were tested for sensitivity to cost increases, benefit
shortfalls and implementation delays.
Agricultural Production
2.        Physical data were taken from Annex 4 and cost estimates for agri-
cultural extension, research, marketing, roads, road maintenance and project
administration from annexes of appropriate heading (Tables 1 and 2). For the
internationally traded commodities (cotton and sugarcane) international prices
were considered and adjusted for a higher valuation of foreign exchange (cur-
rent Bank estimates indicate a "shadow exchange rate" of Cr$18.5/US$1.00,
some 23% higher than the official exchange rate, on account of taxes, sub-
sidies and quantitative restrictions); these prices were subsequently dis-
counted for transportation, marketing and processing costs. For commodities
traded within Northeast Brazil (potatoes, oranges, bananas, beans, manioc),
domestic retail prices were considered and were also discounted for trans-
portation, marketing and processing costs (see Annex 5). For project in-
puts, current financial farm-gate prices were considered except in the case
of superphosphates where international price projections were used, result-
ing in a farm-gate equivalent price of Cr$3.20/kg. Incremental labor inputs
were valued at going market rates because of a lack of prime labor in the
peak season due to outmigration from the Brejo area.



ANNEX I1I
Page 2
Non-Farm Production (see also Annex 6)
3.        Benefits.  The thrust of training, technical assistance and re-
search and development activities to be supported by the project for the
non-farm sector would be to cause a more efficient use of existing capital
in the small enterprise sector, to increase access to loan funds for incre-
mental fixed and working capital, and to upgrade worker and management skills.
In total some 1,200 enterprises are expected to benefit to varying degrees
from these activities. Such enterprises employ 2.6 people on average, with
wages (September 1977) averaging Cr$30 per day; returns to entrepreneurs are
estimated at about double that level, roughly equivalent to general averages
for skilled workers. The expectation used in calculating project benefits
is that about 700 of the enterprises affected would be able at least to
doutble value added relative to what would otherwise obtain in the absence
of the project. It is expected that most benefits would accrue to entre-
preneurs and their existing workforce (through skill upgrading for the lat-
ter); benefits to incremental labor employed have been discounted for oppor-
tunity costs estimated at Cr$20 per day. In total, benefits are estimated
at Cr$25 million per annum at full development. 1/
4.        Costs.  The costs include those of (a) technical assistance; (b)
research and demonstration; and (c) training (Table 3). The cost of credit
was not included in the cost stream, since credit would be used for stocks
and equipment, the costs of which were also not included in the (partial)
value added computed above; in other words, investment costs were already
deducted from the time stream of gross benefits when value added data were
used. In addition, the actual volume of credit issued under the project
would account for only a fraction of total investment, since most enterprises
would also invest out of profits, family savings, or informal credit. The
experience of NAI and UNO in Recife further suggests that, once an enter-
prise has successfully received one loan from a bank, it often applies for
further loans on its own initiative.
Sensitivity Analysis
5.        The results of the sensitivity analysis were as follows:
1/   Current value added is Cr$140 per day per enterprise:  for 700 enter-
prises at 250 days per annum, this is equivalent to Cr$24.5 million
per annum. Assuming growth of value added in the absence of the proj-
ect at 3X per annum, this would increase to Cr$28.4 million over five
years. Net benefit from doubling value added is thus Cr$28.4 million.
After discounting for labor opportunity costs, net benefit would be
Cr$25 million.



ANNEX 11
Page 3
Rate of Return (%)
Agricultural      Non-Farm         Total
Component        Component       Project
Base estimate                              30               58             32
20% less benefits                          25               48             26
20% higher costs                           26               50             27
One-year lag in benefits                    25              43             26
Two-year lag in benefits                   21               35             22



ANNEX 11
Table 1
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PARAIBA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BREJO
Economic Prices
Unit                     Cr$9
Potato
-  traditional                            ton                     4,200
-  advanced                               ton                     5,000
Bean                                          ton                    6,800
manioc                                        ton                    1,750
Cotton                                        ton                    4,400
Banana                                        ton                    1,400
Citrus                                        ton                    1,3,00
Sugarcane                                     ton                      1.80
Milk                                          liter                    3.8
Calf                                         head                    2,700
Meat                                          kg                      16.5
M-imosa                                       stake                    7.2



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PARAIBA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BREJO
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
AGRICULTURAL COMPONENT
Economic  PEhEFIT ANC CCST STREAYS.                                           TCTAL PRCJECT AREA
IN CRLZEIPC
CALENEaR YEAR
WITHOUT PRCJECT                                    1977      IS7E      1979      1980       1S81         1SE6         1991       1SS6
BENEFIT STREAM
NET FARM 8ENEFIT                            T    S,'58   29,24s   32,548   35,952   41,896            43,540       43,630    43,630
COST STREAM
NET BENEFIT STREAM                            T    S,558   2s,24s   32,548   35,952   411,896           43,540       43,63C    43,63c
WITH PRCJECT                                       1977      IS7e      1979      1980       1S81         1SE6        1S91        1SS6
(BbSE 'R)
BENEFIT STREAM                                                                                                      2
NET FARM PENEFIT                            T    S,S10   23,416   21,823   52,072   83,648    235,454             272,651   262,866
COST STREAM
RESEARCH £ EXTENSION                        T   -21,155   46,3C4   46,e37   44,183   44,044           27,203       21,822    21,822
OPCGANtZATICN C MANAGEMEN                   T  2,186.3  2,S18.C  2t571.0  2,926.0  2,S26.0    1,757.C    1,577.0   1,157.0
ROBACS                                      T    5,452    14,436   42,004       2,080      27080       2,080      2,CBJ.o   2,C80.0
MARKETING                                   T  2,56C.0  2,S91.u  3,E61.0  4,371.0  2,679.0              SS9.0    999,000   999,000
NET BENEFIT STREAM                            T  -22,C43  -43,23-  -73,85C   -19488   31,919    2C3,415             245,993   236,208
INCRErENItL 1577                                            197e      1979      1980       1s81        1586         1591       1556
BENEFIT STREAM
NET FARM BENEFIT                            T       -s2   -5,e34  -10,725   16,120   41,752    191,914           229,021   219,235
COST STREAM
RESEARCH E EXTENSICN                        T   -1,155   46,3C4   46,837   44,183   44,C44           27,203       21,822      21,822
ORGANIZATICN C MANAGEMEN                    T  2,1E6.0  2,Sle.0  2,971.0  2,926.0  2,526.0    1,157.0            1,757.G   1,757.C
RO6DS                                       T    5,4A2    14t43f   42,004       2,080    2,c0o         2,080    2,c8s.0   2,CBO.0
MARKETING                                   T  2, 5C.0  2,591.0  3,861.0  4,371.0  2,679.0            999.0    999,000   999,000
NET BENEFIT STREAM                            T  -fkleciC   -72,4e' -106,398  -37,44c   -9*977    15S,e75          2C2,363    192,577
INTERNAI. RATE OF RETURN 30%
I -
FD 



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PARAIBA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BREJO
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
NON-FARM COMPONENT
Cost of Component, Cr$ Millions"/           Gross 2/    Net
Technical   Research and                         Benefits  Benefits
Year                 Assistance  Demonstration  Training    Total  (Cr$ m)   (Cr$ m)
1977-78                  1.7            1.3           2.8        5.8        -        -5.8
1978-79                  2.4            2.3           1.6        6.3       2.0       -4.3
1979-80                  2.3            1.4           1.6        5.3       5.0       -0.3
1980-81                  2.3            1.4           1.6        5.3      10.0        4.7
1981-82                  2.3            1.4           1.6        5.3      15.0        9.7
1982-83                  2.3            1.4           1.6        5.3      20.0       14.7
1983-84                   -              -             -          -       25.0       25.0
1984-85                   -              -             -          -       25.0       25.0
1985-86                   -              -             -          -       25.0       25.0
1986-87                   -              -             -          -       25.0       25.0
1987-88                   -              -             -          -       25.0       25.0
1988-89                   -              -             -          -       25.0       25.0
1989-90                   -              -             -          -       25.0       25.0
1990-91                   -              -             -          -       25.0       25.0
1991-92                   -              -             -          -       25.0       25.0
Benefit-Cost Ratio = 98.7/26.8 = 3.7.  Economic Rate of Returr    = 57.9%
1/ Costs and benefits calculated in September 1977 prices.
2/ After allowing for loan repayment and depreciation.
Source:  Misslor, es"i.mates.
'-3
t I
U-.)F



ANNEX 11
Table 4
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PARAIBA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BREJO
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS - SUMMARY OF ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
Million Cruzeiros
PYO     PYl      PY2     PY3      PY4     PY5      PYlo    PY15    PY20
1977/78 1978/79 1979/80 1980/81 1981/82 1982/83 1987/88 1992/93 1997/98
ECONOMIC COSTS
Farm Component        42.8    66.6    95.7    53.6    51.7    49.6    26.7    26.7    26.7
Non-farm Component    5.8       6.3     5.3      5.3     5.3      5.3       -       -        -
Total              47.8    72.9   101.0    58.9    57.0    54.9    26.7    26.7    26.7
ECONOMIC BENEFITS
Farm Component         0.4      5.8    10.7    16.1    41.8   171.1   252.1   258.2   271.0
Non-farm Component      -       2.0     5.0    10.0    15.0    20.0    25.0    25.0    25.0
Total               0.4   - 3.8   - 5.7    26.1    56.8   191.1   277.1   283.2   296.6
NET BENEFITS        - 47.4   -76.7  -106.7   -32.8   - 0.2   136.1   250.4   256.5   269.3
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN AND SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
Base Estimate    Cost + 20%  Benefits -20%   1-Yr. lag  2-Yr. lag
Farm Component          29.7              25.6           24.7            24.8      21.2
Non-farm Component      57.9              49.7            48.0           42.8      34.7
Total                31.8              27.4           26.5           26.2       22.4



NORTEEST      IL                                                     ANNEX 12
PARAIBA RURAL   VELO       OET- BREJOTabLe I
SU2MARY OF PROJECT COSTI AND PHASING
(US$ '000)
1/        Fo~~~reign 4
-     - 1979-0                                    Total     Baseline  Ex change-
Costs   1978-79    1979-80   1980-,8  1981-82   1982-83    1978-03   Costs Z          (%)
I.  Credit                                                                                                      2
On-Farm Working Capital       666.7      346.7    2,640.0   4,166.7    2,933.3    1,673.3  11, 760.0        22.6     1L
On-Farm Investment            566.7      713.3    1,393.3    2,626.1   2,026.7    1,626.7   8,386.7         16.1     23
Credit for SSE's               60.0      198.2      239.0      306.1      262.6      25A.7   1,264.9         2.4     10
II. Product:Lve Support
Agricultural Services
Rural Extension           938.8    1,417.8    1,430.2    1,336.3    1,322.6    1,304.0   6,810.9        13.1      13
Agr:Lcultural Research    211.1      185.6      189.1      185.6      189.2      185.6    935.1          1.8      10
Marlceting and Storage    197.0      286.7      330.0      536.0      198.0       86.0   1,436.7         2.7      39
Land tenure                33.3       82.7       58.0       61.3       58.0       58.0    318.0          0.6      0
Non-Farm Development
Technical Assistance        112.3      160.7      152.1      158.1      152.8      152.2    775.9          1.5.     10
Research snd Demonstration   80.5      136.4       66.1       45.2       24.3         3.3     275.3        0.5       7
III.   Infrastructure and related
Services
Roads and Maintenance       830.0    7,035.4    6,195.9         -          -           -   13,231.3       25.4      32
Health and Sanitation          -       223.3      208.7       243.7      209.4        1.3    886.4         1.7      19
Education and Training      192.5      881.3   1,129,7    1,o69.8       641.4       181.7   3,903.9        7.5      16
IV. Prolect Administration
Project Coordination Unit   211.8      257.9      279.2      279.2      279.2       279.3   1,374.8        2.6      10
Evaluation                  148.4      167.6      127.6      178.4      127.6      178.4    779.6          1.5      10
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS        4,249.1   12,093.6   14,438.9   11,193.4    8,425.1    5,988.5  52,139.5       100.0      20
Physical Contingencies/          -       878.6      794.6      195.0      120.2        45.6   2,034.0        3.9      20
3/
Price Contingencies -            -     1,306.2    2,945.8    3,083.5    3,075.3    2,714.6  13,125.4        25.2      20
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS              -    14,278.4  18,179.3   14,471.9   11,620.6    8,748.7  67,298.9        129.1
1/ For the purpose of Bank financing total project costs calculated for yers, 1978 through 1983.  (FOLOORDESTE fiscal year is April 1
__ through Mrch31           LY   l = April, I    to
2/ Phyesical contingencies calculated at  tOX on all construction a  on materials and equipment.
3/  Price contingency calculated on total  aline cost plus physicl,contingenv on the following basis
1978/79    1979/80    1980/81    1981/82    1982/83
Civil Works
Annual                     9          9          8          8           8
Cumulative              10.6       20.6       30.4       40.8        52.1
Equipment and Others
Annual                     8          8          7           7          7
Cumulative               8.8       18.2       26.6        35.5       44.9
4,verted at US$1                (rate in September, 1977).



ANNEX 12
Table 2
NOR EST B  IL                                          Page 1
PARAIBA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT -  BREJO
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS (local & F_reign), R COMPONENT
Cruzeiro '000                        USS '000
Toraign           -oreign    -oref8n                                           Z-f Total
Local      exchange    Total        Local       exchange    Total         exchange %        base costs
I.  Productive Support
A.  Rural Extension             89221       12943       lA1_§4       5948.1       862.8       6810.9         13                 13.1
1. Construction              2022         866         2888        134.8         7.7        TTO7                            -
2. Equipment and
installations            2894        1241         4135        192.9        82.7        275.1         30
3. permanent materials        264         113          377         17.6         7.5         25.1         30
4. Training                  1215          64         1279         81.0         4.3         85.3          5
5. Materials & Services   13433          2949        16382        895.5       196.6       1092.1         18
6. Salaries & Allowances  69393          7710       77103       44616.2      514.0       5140.2          10
B.  Applied Agricultural
Research                    12656        1370        14026       843.8         91.3        935,1         10                 1.8
1. Equipment                  -           106          106          -           7.1          7.1        100
2. Training                   731          39          770        48.7          2.6         51.3          5
3. Trials                    2300         200        2500        153.4         13.3       166.7           8
4. Consulting & Special
studies                   700          -           700         46.7         -           46.7
5. Vehicle 0 & M              240          60          300         16.0         4.0         20.0         20
6. Staff salaries                                                                                        2
allowances, etc.         8685         965         9650        579.0        64.3        643.3         10
C.  Marketing and Storage       13141        8409        21550        876.0       560.7       1436.7         39                  2,7
1. Construction              6096       4064        10160        406.4       270.9        677.3          40
2. Equipment                 1758       4102          5860       117.2        273.5        390.7         70
3. Training                  1786          94        1880        119.0          6.3       125.3           5
4. Consultants                300         -            300        Z.O        -             20.0         -
5. Staff salaries and
allowances                2976        124         3100        198.4         8.3        206.7           4
6. Other operating costs    225            25          250         15.0         1.7         16.7         10
D.  Land Tenure Services         4770          -          4770        318.0         -          318.0         -                   0.6
t. Technical assistance,
studies and surveys       570          -           570         38.0         -           38.0         -
2. Staff salaries            4050          -          4050       270.0          -         270.0         -
3. Office operating costs   150            -           150         10.0         -           10.0        -
E.  Small-scale Enterprises   14324          1445        15769        954.8        96.4        1051.2         9                 2.0
1. Construction               544         136          680         36.2        9.1          45.3        20
2. Equipment                  309         132          441         20.6        8.8           29.4       30
3. Permanent materials          3           4            7          0.2         0.2           0.4       50
4. Training                    90          10          100          6.0         0.7           6.7       10
5. Operation &
Maintenance             13378        1163        14541        891.8        77.6         969.4         8



PARAIBA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BREJO                                                ANNEX 12
Table 2
Cruzeiro '000                              uss 'ooo                                              Page 2
Forl    c    g    Total       Local      aori±n        Ttl      Por                   f ~ ~ 5  Total
Local      excEafige    Total       Local      exchafge      Total    excRaige 2         gase costs
II.  Development Credit         270938       50235      321173      I'062.5      3349.0       21411.5       16                 41.1
A. On-farm working        156996       19404       176400      10466.4     1293.6       11760.0        11
B. On-farm investment      96866       28934       125800       6457.8     1928.9        8386.7        23
C. Small-scale
EnterprLses            17076          189.7      18973       1138.3      126.5        1264.8         1O
III.  Infrastructure
A. Roads                  133809       64661       198470       8920.6     4310.7       13231.3        33                  25.4
1. Civil wDrks            109512       58968       168480       7300.8     3931.2       11232.0        35
2. Maintenance
equipment                3895        3186         7081        259.7      212.4        472.1         45
3. Maintenance Training    1727          432         2159        115.1        28.8       143.9         20
4. Design & Supervision   18675         2075        20750       1245.0       138.3      1383.3         10
B. Health & Sanitation    10630         2666        13296        708.7      177.7        886.4         20                   1.7
1. Construction             9800        2450        12250        653.3       163.3       816.6         20
2. Equipment                 481         206          687         32.1        13.7        45.8         30
3. Studies                   225          -           225         15.0         -          15.0         -
4. Training                    61          3           64          4.1         0.2          4.3          5
5. Operation &                63           7           70          4.2         0.5         4.7
Maintenance                                                                                         10
C. Education & Training   48171        1.387        58558    | 3211,4       692.5       3903,8         I                   7,5
1. Construction            27099.       6775        33874    | 1806.6        451.6      2258.2         20
2. Equipment                4691        2010         6701    | 312.7        134.0        446.7         30
3. Tech.Asst.& training    7225          628         7853    I 481.7         41.9        523.6          8
4. Special funds             732          38          770    I   48.8         2.5         51.3          5
5. Operation & Maint.       8424         936         9360        561.6        62.4       624.0          10
IV.  Project Administration & Evaluation
A. Project Management      18483        2139        20622       1232.1       142.6       1374.7         10                 2,6
1. Capital costs            1384         346         1730         92.2        23.1       115.3         20
2. Training                 1829          96         1925        121.9         6.4       128.3          5
3. Operating costs         15270        1697        16967       1018.0      113.1       1131.1         10
B. Monitoring_&
Evaluation              10522        1172        11694        701.5       78.1        779.6         10                  1.5
1. Consultants & Studies   3465         1035         4500        231.O       69.0        300.0         23
2. Staff salaries           6144          -          6144        409.6         -          409.6        -
3. Other Operating costs    913          137         lO50         60.9         9.1         70.0        13
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS      626664      155428       782092      41777.6    10361.8       52139.5         20                 100
Physical Contingencies 24412         6099        30511       1627.5       406.6       2034.1         20                 3.9
Price Contigencies    158159        38722       196881      iO543.9      2581.5      13125.4         20                25.2
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS       809235      200249      1009484      53949.0    13350iO       67299.0         20               129.1



NORTHERAST BRAZIL
PARAIBA, RURAL DEVELOPMIUNTMPOJECT -BOIEJO
TOTAL PROJECT COST BY TEAR AND ACCOUNT CATEGORURS
(Cr9$000)
No. of Units       Unit Cost           Py 1                 PT 2                PT 3               PT 4                PT S                TOTAL                 POREICN EXEHMAGE
%         AMURrI
C.CAPITAL ERPENDITREB
A.  Enstirntion
Enteneion  ffio- building                                                                   1,350.0                                                                                             1,350.0               30               405.0
Ree..rsoo  ond d-on n-ntr                                                                     679.7                                                                                               679.7               20               135.9
Sinrsgs snd marketing fnnOlitine                                                            1,460.0              1.890.0            4,120.0             1,690.0             i,00O.O            10,160.0               40             4.064,0
Rads                                                                                       86,362.0             82,118.0                                                                      168,480.0                35           58,968.0
SnhooR boildiegs                                          74              311.1             3768,473.6                               7,785.0            4,048.2                  -             23,043.6               20             4,608.7
Eomofytnna373 .0                                                                                                   488.0               450.0               225.0                 -1,538.0                             30               46U.4
RoaRER Enniens                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~25    73.0               450.0                485O.o             325.0               450.0                 .               1,730                 20              375.0
Wells                                                     25               100.0              600.0                600.0               700.0               6100.0                               2,500.0               21               500.0
Water -opply fsnlllire.                                   25               1780O            I, 060.0             1,068.0             1,246.0             1,068 .0                               4,450.0                20              890.0
Rat-ieo  of elntoin Rhi..e                                25              137.o               822.0                82-.o               959.0               822.0                 -3,425.0                              20              685.0
H non                                                     30              245.8              ,2902,43812,4381                                            1,229.0                 -7,374.2                              20            1,474.8
Sits claveloparet                           24               46.7               340~~~4            li080175471-3,4535.8                                                                                 2069.
Nobt.tot1                                                                                  98,692.9             98,488.5            19,410.6           111,739.3            U,ooo,o           228,331.3                32           73,258.0
Physinol nontiegnonin  (107.)                                                               9,869.3              9,848.8             1.941.1            1,073.9               100.0            22,833.1               20             4,566.6
Nob-total                                                                                 108,562.2            108,337.3            21,351.7           11,013.2             1,0000            251,167014.4             31           77,825.6
PrOne.. natlngenole                                                                        11,507.6             22,317.5            6,490.9             4,819.8                573.1           4370.90                               9141,8
Total                                                                                     120,069.8            130,654.8_           27,842.6           16,633.0             1,673.1           296,873.3                29           86,967.4
0.VohinlOn
Polkeangro   1300                                         10            60.2/78.1             601.0                                                                                                691.0               20              207.3
Volkw.'gnn  B- N ilio                                      U                  68.0             68.0                                                                                                 680                30               20.
Jeep                                       ~~~~~~~~                          ~~~~~~~~~41  70.0  1,950.0  1.248.o                                                                  3,198.                30959.
Iob-total                                                                                   2,709.0              1,248.0                  -                                       .3,957.0                             30            1,187.1
Physi-al  -tniegr-ire (10%)                                                                   270.9                1284.8                 -                                                         95.7               20               79.1
lob-totl                                                                                    2,79.9               1,372.8                  ---4,352.7                                                                   29            1,266.2
Pelno o-tiog-nins                                                                             28.1                 249.9                  ---530.o                                                                     20               IW6O
Total                                                                                       3,260.0              1,622.7                  ---4,882.7                                                                   28            1,372.2
C.  EnoiP ..et nod Pe-aEt-
Ble_tnin gnner-tr                                          1                  50.0             50.0                                                                                                 50.0               30                15.0
RntroP-oJ.ot-r                                             5             5.0/6.5               39.0                                                                                                 39.o               30                11.7
Pbntogrophio nonhinr                                       6             4.5/25.0              38.5                   9.0                                                                           47.5               30                14.2
Movie nod elid ,.projontore                                5            6-10/15.0              43.:0                                                                                                43.0               30                12.9
Offino eqaipeieet                                                                             145.5                 61.0                                                                           206.5               30                62 .0
P-nps, eatr diateibotio eqoip .nne, rio.                  25                  20.0            120 .0               R2  0               140.0               120.                   -                500.0               30               1500
Portable palvenienr                                       50                                                        206.0                                   206.0                                   52.0              100                52 .0i
0 anion  agninotonsl  qolp-t                                                                                  27.0                                    23.0                                    54.0              100                54.0
Cold storage oqoOpont                                                                                                                1,000.0                                                     1,200.0 07                              0
Markertes  qoipa..nte                                                                         910.0              1,170.0             1,350.0               600.0                                 4,050.0               70             2,821.0
Rond naitn-nenoeqnipoeot                                                                    7,081.0                                                                                              7,081.0               45             3,186.5
Pontnead prennoon  naterials                                                          1,067.3              1,303.9             1,289.6               663.7                23.0             4,347.5               38             1,6363.2
Idoentineal natenoels                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                    ~~3,398.4  157.9  171.6  97.2  R8.0           3,843.1               30  -          152.9
Mieoellsonona nainriala                                                 276,~       ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8 27.0  27.0              27.0                27.0o8.82                                                96.1
Sob-total                                                                                  13,169.5              2,901.8             3,978.2             1,540.9                68.0            21,478.4               46             9, 96.5
Phyeinn1 n..nti  ...neilee(10%)                                                             1.316.9                290.2               397.8               156.1                 6.8             2.167,8               20              4,33.5
Sub-totl1                                                                                  14,486.4              3,192.0             4,376.o             1,717.0                74.8            23,846.2               44            10,395.o
Prior tot1onioR361.7                                                                                               580.9             1,164.0              6096M                 33.6            3,249.0                20               75o.0
Toto1                                                                                      15,848.1              3.772,9             5.540,0             2,326.6               100.4            27,596.0               40           11,450.0
N.  TelAnh alA.eistoen.. dnaion an  Trainine
ToobIcA Aniso-o  General                                                                   1,153.4                728.6             1,178.6               628.6               973.2             4,662.4               14               633,2
Rood D..nigo an   oprie                                                                    10,630.0             10,120.0                   ---20,750.0                                                                 10             2,075.0
Rood1 lfalti.n...e Training                                                                 1,458.0                701.0                   -                  -                   -              2,1 59.0              20               431.8
Fanne  Tr inieg                                                                               996.5                967.6               850.0               557.0               252.0             3,623.1                7               256.8
O-opotioal  tinn  (intl. atitoa. and norkintg,                                                574.2                463.9               663.6               293.4                  -2,215.1                              5               120.8
Eot-arion Agent TroinOog                                                                       62.5                  54.0              154.0                  --275,5                                                   7                1.
Sta ff Tenlinig                                                                               63.                1,964.3               356.91 32.                              5390             4,243                   6               2587.1
Stndiee ned RS-oy.                                                                          2,105.5               .28,               127.3              1156                1,74.0             631315                                  980.5
lob-total                                                                                  13,618.9             16,326.3             4,630.4             3,148.9             2,838.2           44,544.7                II             4,774.0
Phyeinal ...niogeoniee  (10% of rod nnp-nets                                               1,208.8              1,002.1                  --.2290,9                                                                    20               458.2
sob-total                                                                                  18,027.7             17,410.4             4,630.4             3,140.9             2,038.2           46,855.6                10             4,860.4
oPi-ne. tningan..las                                                                        1,769.8              3,168.7             1,231.7             1,117.9             1.274,3            8,562.4                19             1,642.0
Total                                                                                      20.597,5             2o,579.1             5,662.1             4,266.8             4,112.5           55,410.0                11             6,442.4
F/ Po  the porpoee of Bank fioneing t.EnU proj net ..oats oleolatad for yanro 1 throgh 5.  (POLONORDOESTE fia..al y-n  Be April 1 rhroogh Mar0  31).  y-a  1 -Apr61, 1978 to Mar04, 1979.



NORTHEAST BEAZIL
PARAIBA RURAL DEVELOPMNET PROJECT - BREJO
TOTAL PROJECT COST BY YEAR AND ACCOUNT CATEGORIES
(Ce. $000)
No. of Units      Unit Cost          PY I               py 2                PY 3               PY 4               yY 5               TOTAL                FOREIGN EXCYIANME
'                AMEUNT
E. Credit and SPeciel FPnds
On-fore. Working Capital                                                                5,200.0           39,600.0            62,500.o          44,000.0            25,100.0          176,400.0           11             19,404.0
On-fern Inve-stLent                                                                    lo,700.0           20,900.0            39,400.0           30.400.0           24,400.0          125,800.0           23             28,934.0
SnOll-acile Enterprise                                                                  2,973.0            3,585.o            4,596.o            3,939.0             3,880.o           18,973.0          10               1,897.0
Revolving Marketing Vond                                                                  180.0                 -                   -                  -                  -               180.0            5                   9.0
EShibition Fair Fund                                                                       48.o               36.o                24.o               12.0                 -               120.0            5                   6.0
S.b-totn1                                                                              19.101.0           64.121,0           Lo6,520o0          78,351.o            53,380.0          321,473.0           16              50,250.0
pri-e contingencie-                                                                     1,795.5           11,670.0           28.334.3           27.814.6            23,967.6           93.582.o           20              18 716.4
Totel                                                                                  20,896.5           75,791.o           134,854.3         106,i65.6            77,347.6          415,055.0           17              68,966.4
F.  Dopr.c.iti-o Allpvence                                                                     90.0               95.0                95.0               95.0               95.0              470.0            5                  23.5
Prior contingencies                                                                         8.5               17.3                25.3               33.7               42.7              127.5            5                   6.4
To.lt                                                                                      98.5              112.3               120.3              128.7              137.7              597.5            5                  29.9
TI.  INCREMBNTAL OPERATING EXPENSES
A.  Per2onnol                                                                             24,893.4           27,669.1            27,408.5           26,748.6           26,666.6          133,386.2            9              11,892.3
B.  Vehicle Operation ond Moin.nt nc                                                       1,782.6            2,161.8             2,218.8           2,273.8             2,268.4           10,705.4           17               1,773.9
C.  office Sopplins -nd Other Cons.optive                                                    971.3            1,002.7               972.8             935.6               889.7            4,772.1           12                 590.1
Materias I
D.  Tertiary Service                                                                       1,429.6            1,630.0             1,734.0           1,588.0             1,692.0            8,073.6           16               1,309.8
E.  Oth-r                                                                                    945.8              937.6               934.1             933.1               929.6            4.680.2            9                 406.5
Sub-total                                                                             30,022.7           33,401.2           33,268.2          32,479.1             32,446.3          161,617.5           10              15,972.6
Phynic-1 c-etingencins (10% of S-E)                                                      512.9              573.2               586.o            573.0                578.0            2,823.1           20                 561.6
Sob-ItoSI                                                                             30,535.6           33,974.4            33,854.2         33,052.1             33,024.3          164,440.6           10              16,534.2
Phycicel contingencies                                                                 2.870.4            6,183.3            9.005,2          11,733.5             14,827.9           44,620.3           19               8,359.7
Totol                                                                                 33,406.o           40,157.7            42,859.4         44,785.6             47,852.2          209,060.9           12              24,893.9
TOTAL RASELINE COSTS                                                                 181,404.0          216,583.8           167,902.4         126,374.2            89,827.5          781,091.9           20             155,427.7
2/
Total Phynicol Continfennies                                                          13,178.8           11,919.1             2,924.9           1,803.0               684.8           30.510,6           20               6.099.0
Sub-title                                                                            194,582.8          228,502.9           170,827.3         128,177.2            90,512.3          812,602.5           20             161,-526.7
3/
Total Price Contingencies                                                             19,593.6           44,187.6            46,251.4         46,129,1             40,719.2          196,880.9           20              38,772.3
TOTAL PRO7ECT COSTS                                                                  214,176.4          272,690.5           217,078.7         274,306.3           131,231.5        8,009,483.4           20             200,249.0
2/ Physicol con -ingctciee coicolalod at 10% on oTt con-c-cti-on and on nLeciola ond equipsent.
3/ Price ccntinfnnicon calcolated en total baseline COst plun physienl contingeccie- on the folloWing banio
1978/79   1979/80   1980/81   1981/82   1982/83
Civil Works
Anno I.                      9         9         8          8         8
Ca.alative                10.6      20.6      30.4      40.8       52.1
Equipment ond Seharo                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ||
Annuel                       8         8         7          7          7                                                                                                                                                                    sIll
Cunulltive                 8.8      18.2      26.6       35.5      44.9 10                                                                                                                                                                      1



NORTNEAST BRAZIL
9pAgAIBA RULAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - EREJO
TOTAL PROaECT COST BY ACTIVITIES ASS ACCOLNT CATECORIES
(Cr.$OOO)
No. of                Ag.       Soc.       Applied     M-tk.ti.g &  Land Ten-re  s,-I.-Ocale  Uroslop-ent                        Water      Edec-ti-o &   Project   Monitoring &                 Foreign Roohangs
Units   Unit Cost E.Len.-oi  Extension  Ag. R.se.tch    Storage       Services    Eterprio-      Credit       Roads     H.aith   Sapply      Tr-ingig    Managemen-t   E-luattin       Total        E    Aaonnt
I. CAPITAL EXPENDITURE
A. C-nntr-etion
Enten.i.n office, -esnareh                           1,350.0                                                         679.7                                                                                             2,029.7    27          540.9
00d de-onstratie ceoters
Storage and  -krtieg                                                                      10,160.0                                                                                                                    Ll&160.o   40         4,064.o
ftcilitic-
Roads                                                                                                                                         168,480.0                                                              168,480.0    35       58,968,0
School boildings                  74      311.1                                                                                                                              23,043.6                                 23,043.6    20        4,608.7
Cor.onity -nd hRolth centers                                     I,538.0                                                                                 1,875.0                                                       3,413.0   25           836.4
Seila                             25      100.0                                                                                                                    2,500.0                                              2,500.0    20         500.0
Water nopply iaeilitieo           25      178.0                                                                                                                    4,450.0                                             4'450.0    20          890.0
Ext-ion  f eI-ic lines            25      137.0                                                                                                                    3,425.0                                             3.425 0    20          685.0
Senses                            30      245.8                                                                                                                               7,374.2                                  7,374.2    20        1,474.8
Site de-nlop-ent                  74       46.                                                                           _                                                    3      455.8                             3.4558    20           691 .
ab-itntl                                            I,350.0      1,538.0                  10,160.0                   679.7                    168,480    1,875.0  10,375.0   33,873.6                                228,331.3   32        73,259.0
Physt.ol roecingencies                                135.0       153.8                    1.016.0                    68.0                     16,949.0    197.5   1,037.5    3,387.4                                 228.33.2   20         4.566.0
Sob-total                                           1,485.0      1,691.8                  11,176.0                   747.7                    185,329.0  2,062.5  11,412.5   37,261.0                                251,164.5   31        77,9825.6
Prioen ontingnecies1.                                                                                                 79.3                     20,677.7   532.0   2,943.5    9_605.4                                  45,708.9              9.141,8
Total                                               1,642.4      2,o97.6                  14,483.8                   827.0                    214,005.7  2,594.5  14,356.0   46,866.4                                296,873.4   29        86,967.4
8. Vehieles
Volkw-gen                        11  6o.2-78.0       180.6       390.0                                              120.4                                                      .68.o                                     759.0   30          227,7
Jeeps                             41       79.0     2,Zo8.0       390.0                                                                                                                                                3190        095.
S.b-total                                           29988.6        780                                               120.4                                                       68.o                                  3,957.0    30        1,198.1
Physical rontinge-cies                                298.9        78.0                                               12.0                                                        6.8                                     395.7   20           79.1
IoA-iotal                                           3,297.5       858.0                                              132.4                                                       74.8                                  4.352,7    29        1,266.2
Pnies contingncies                                    414.7        92                                                                                                             2.0                                     530.0   20          106.0
Total                                               3,7o2.2        953.8                                             144.9                                                       81,8                                   4,882.7    28       1,372.2
C.  goinnent and Furnitote
Oleenric generator                 I       50.0        50.0                                                                                                                                                                50.0    30          15.0
Intro-pr-o.ctor-                   5   5.0/ 8.5        34.0                                                                                                                        5.0                                     39.0    30          11.7
Photographic -rhi-.es              6   4.5125.o        47.5                                                                                                                                                                47,5    30          14.2
10vie and slds p-tjtc-rs           5 6-10/15.0          18.0                                                                                                                      25.o                                     43.0   30           12.9
Offien eqoipseot                                       194.5        12.0                                                                                                                                                  206.5   30           62.0
Posaps, eater distrib.tion        25  20.0                                                                                                                           50.O                                                 300.0   30          150.0
equip eDt, ettc.
Poeshble pIl.e.i.ere              50                                          52,0                                                                                                                                         52.0  100           52.0
V_.o.s agri.ultoroL. equip.ent                                                54.o                                                                                                                                         54.o  lo0-.          54.0
Cold ntcrage oqoip-sot                                                                     1,000.0                                                                                                                      1,0000,   70          7o0.0
garketing equip=ert                                                                        4,030.0                                                                                                                      40300      70        2,210
Road eOintesnee eqoipnnt                                                                                                                        7,081.0                                                                 7o081.0    45       3,186 .5
Funtitureecnd permanent
eatetiolo                                             377.1                                  830.0                   148.5                                 187.5              2,757.1         47.3                      4,347.5    38       1,633.2
danational -a-eri.lo                                                                                                                                                           3,843.1                                  3,843.1    30       1,152.9
M_iseellan ocs  atert.l.                .                           10.5                                              178.6                                                                  192.7                        384.8   25            96.1
Sub-total                                              721.1        22.5     L06.U         5,860.0                   327.1                      7,081.0    187.5    500.0    6,633.2         240.0                     21,678.4   46        9,961.5
Physical eo_tige_cies         _                        72.1         2.2       10.4           586.o                    32.7                        708.1     18.8      50.0       663.3        24.0                      2,167.8   20          433.5
Sub-tctal                                              793.2       24.7      116.6         6,446.o                   359.8                      7,789.1    206.3     550.0    7,296.5        264,0                     23,846.2    44       10,395.0
Pri   - nonringr-cies                                  92.2         2.9      31.3          1,446.7                    82.o                        732.2    46.6      124.2    1,166.9         24.8                      3,749.8_    0         750.0
Tntal                                                  885.4        27.6     147.9         7,892.7                   441.8                      8,521.3    252.9      674.2    8,463.4       288.8                     27,596.0   40        11,450.0
D. Tnchnical Aesiatanc-.
Edocation sod Traintg2
Te-hie.l. AsOint--co g-net1                                                                  300.0       37o,10.0                                                               1602,900.0                              4 7°       14       23075.0
Rcad De-ign and Scporrtsios                                                                                                                    20,7.0
Rood Mintnanee Trat-ing                                                                                                                         2,159.0                                                                2 159.0   20           431.8
Paent Tesining                                       1,103.1                                                                                                                   2,520.0                                 3 623,1      7         256.8
O_opation l Trainiog (icI.                                                                1,880.0                                                                               335.1                                 2,215.1      5         120.8
artits and -erketiog)
EIte.sini  Agent Tr-i.iag                                          175.5                                             loo.0                                                                                               275.5      7          18.8
StaWf Training                                                               770.0                                                                          63.8               1,489.5    1,925.0                      4,248,3      6         257;1
St.die- and S.ntoy                                                           700.0                      200.0                                                         225.0    1,906.3                   3,600.0       6.631.3    15          990.5
S.b-total                                            1,103.1       175.5   1,470.0         2,180.0     570.0          100.o                    22,909.0     63.8      225.0    7,853.3    3,415.0        4,50o.o      44,564.7    11        4,774.0
Phyai-al contingencie-
(10, of mad  motponets)-                                                       -                -         -             - _2.2909                                                              -              -        2,290.9   20           458.2
0ub-total                                            1,103.1       175.5  1,47o.0          2,180.0     570.0          1oo0.                    25,199.9     63.8      225.0    7,853.3    3,415.0        4,500.0      46,855.6    10        4,870.4
Prim c ontingne incs                             _    163.4        30.5      395.9           457.3      88.4          26,6                      3.416.3     14.4       21.2    1.843.5      919.3        1.185.7       8.,62,4    19        1.642.0
Total                                                1,266.5       206.0   1,865.8         2,637.3     658.4          126.6                    28,616.2      78.2    246.2    9,696.8    4,334.3         5,685.7      55,418.0    11        6,442.4



NORTHEAST BRA.ZIL
ARA IBA RURAL SDEVELOPI8RNT ~PROJECT - ~BREJO
TOTAL PROJECT COST BY ACTIVITIES AND ACCOUNT CATEGORIES
(Cr .  ' 0001
No. of                 Ag.       Sot.        Applied      Ma-keting &  Land Ten.re  Stooll-Senle  Developnettt                           Wuter    Educ . i.n &   P-oject    Monitoring &                  Foreign Enthtange
Units   Unit Cost Exten-io-  Exteatot Ag. Rerearch    Storage            Servicer    Enterprise      Credit        Noada      Health    Supply    Training    Management   Evaluation          Total          %     Anotnt
E. Credit and Spei.l Ponds
Ot-fort Woiking Copital                                                                                                                176,400.0                                                                                176,400.0    11        19,404.0
On-Onto Invesennto                                                                                                                     125,800.0                                                                                125,800.0    23        28,934.o
Sooii-stain Ent-rpeite                                                                                                                  18,973.0                                                                                 18,973.0    LU         1,897.0
Revolving Marketing Fund                                                                                                                                                                180.0                                       lOgo       5            9.0
C,d,fbition Fair Fund                                                                                                                                                                   120.0                                       120.o      5            6.0
Sub-total                                                                                                                              321,173.0                                        300.0                                   321,473.o    16        50,250.0
Price tootingentio_                                                                                                                     93,543.4                                         38.6                                    93.582.0    20        18.716.4
Total                                                                                                                                  414,716.4                                        338.6                                   413,055.0    17        68,966.4
P. Reornointion Allooto                                                                                                                                                                     470.0                                        70.0      5           23.5
Price  -ottingn.ti-s                                                                                                                                                                    127.5                                       127.5      5            6.4
Ttnl                                                                                                                                                                                   597.5                                       597.5      5           29.9
II. INCREMENTAL OPERATING EXPENSES
A.  P-eaoni                                               66,032.9   11,070.1    9,650.0           3,350.0   4,050.0         12,047.2                                                    6,300.0       14,742.0      6,144.0       133,386.2      9       11,892,3
B.  Vehiele op-tatitn and                                  7,505.8       997.0      300.0                                       569.8                                                    1,182.0                       150.0        10,705.4    17         1,773.9
Maint Onante
C. Office Supplie- and Oth-r                               1,677.0                                             150.0            352.1                                 69.6               1,878.4          620.0          25.0        4,772.1    12           590.1
Canetpti_et  _tetrialt
D. Tertiaty Servicts                                       6,201.6                                                              997.0                                                                                  875.0          8,073.6    16        1,309.8
E.  Oth_r                                                                         2 25o.0                                       575.2                                                                   1.605.0                      4.680.2      9          406j
sub-tutal                                             81,417.3   12,067.9   12,450.0          3,350.0   4,200.0          14,541.3                                 69.6               9,360.4       16,967.0      7,194.0       161,617.5    1D        15,972.6
Phyntial tontingnntiea 1107.                           1,538.4        99.8      280.0               -       15.0            249.3                                  7.0                 306.0          222.3        101.0         2,823.o    20           561.6
of B-E)  _ _-
lub-tutaE                                             8,955.7   12,167.7   12,730.0           3,350      4,215.0         14,790.6                                 76.6               9,666.4       17,189.5      7,299.0       164,440.5    10        16,534.2
Prien tattinge-tie-                                   22,836.4    3.484.6    3,426.9             678.7   1.134.7          3,703.1                                 24.5               2.583.3        4,725.7      2,022.4        44.620.3    19         8,359.7
Total                                                105,792.1   15,652.3   16,156.9          4,028.7   5,349.7          18,493.7                                101.1              12,249.7       21,915.2      9,321.4       209,060.8    12        24,893.9
TOTAL RASELINE COSTS                                  87,580.1   14,583.9   14,026.0         21,550.0   4,770.0          15,768.5    321,173.0   198,470.0  2,195.9   11,100.0  58,558.5           20,622.0    11,694.0        782,091.9    20       155,427.7
Total PhysicaI C.atinncgni-                           2,o44.4       333.8      290.6          1,602.0      15.0            362.0            -      19,847.0    213.3    1,087.5   4,363.5             246.5       705.0        30,530.6    20         6,099.0
Total Prite Cant igent..s                             23,664.1    4.019.6    3,854.0          5,890.5   1,223.1           3,903.5      93,543.4    32.826.2    617.5    3.088.9  15,372.2           5.669.8      3,208.1       196,880.9    20        38,722.3
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                  113,288.6   18,937.3   18,170.6         29,042.5   6,008.1          20,034.0    414,716.4   251,143.2  3,o26.7   15,276.4  78,294.2           26,538.3    15,007.1    1,809,483.4    20         200,249.0



ANNEX 13
Table 1
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PARAIBA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BREJO
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
(US$'000)
Estimated        Cumulative        Balance of
Project Year       Bank Fiscal Year      -Disbursement       Disbursement         loan
1978/79            FY 1987
1st Quarter        4th Quarter                                                   24,000
FY 1979
2nd Quarter        1st Quarter *                                                 24,000
3rd Quarter        2nd Quarter                 500               500             23.500
4th Quarter        3rd Quarter                 700             1,200             22,800
1979/80
1st Quarter        4th Quarter               1,000             2,200             21,800
FY 1980
2nd Quarter        1st Quarter              1,500              3,700             20,300
3rd Quarter        2nd Quarter              1,000              4,700             19,300
4th Quarter        3rd Quarter              1,300              6,000             18,000
1980/81
lst Quarter        4th Quarter              1,600              7,600             16,400
FY 1981
2nd Quarter        1st Quarter              2,500             10,100             13,900
3rd Quarter        2nd Quarter                800             10,900             13,100
4th Quarter        3rd Quarter              1,100             12,000             12,000
1981/82
Ist Quarter        4th Quarter              1,300             13,300             10,700
FY 1982
2nd Quarter        1st Quarter              2,100             15,400              8,600
3rd Quarter        2nd Quarter                 600            16,000              8,000
4th Quarter        3rd Quarter                 800            16,800              7,200
1982/83
1st Quarter        4th Quarter              1,100             17,900              6,100
FY 1983
2nd Quarter        1st Quarter              1,700             19,600              4,400
3rd Quarter        2nd Quarter                 500            20,100              3,900
4th Quarter        3rd Quarter                 600            20,700              3,300
1983/84
1st Quarter        4th Quarter                 800            21,500              2,500
FY 1984
2nd Quarter        1st Quarter              1,300             22,800              1,200
3rd Quarter        2nd Quarter                 700            23,500                500
4th Quarter        3rd Quarter                 500            24,000
* The project starts in April, 1978. An average lag of six months is assumed between
expenditures and disbursements.



ANNEX 14
Page 1
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PARAIBA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BREJO
LIST OF KEY EARLY ACTIONS
Items                      Agencies Responsible    Due Date
1.  Convenios among the respective agencies.    Management Council   prior to
and agencies          August 1978
2.  Special team for land tenure.                 SAA                   April 1978
3.  Designs and specifications for mini-          SUPLAN                 August 1, 1978
markets.
4.  Construction of first cold storage            CIDAGRO                April 1978
facility.
5.  Plans etc. for second   facility.                do.                 December 1980
6.  Agreement on list of feeder roads to be
improved under the,project.                   UCT/DER               March 1978
7.  Completion of study on curriculum             Sec. Ed.              June 1978
improvement.
8.  Master plans for school buildings to be       Sec. Ed.              August, 1978
sent to the Bank for comment.
9.  Site plans, proof of site acquisition         Sec. Ed.               During FY
and relevant municipal decrees on the                                1978-79
school construction program for FY
1978-79.
10.  Special convenio between Management           Management             April 1978
Council and Secretary for Health              Council/Secretary
regarding the allocation of                   of Health
responsibilities between PIASS and
POLONORDESTE regarding the health
component.
11.  Selection of sites for establishment          SES/UCT                April 1978
of 25 health posts.
12.  Feasibility studies on the 25 water           CAGEPA                 Early 1978
supply schemes and preparation of
construction program for FY 1978-79.



ANNEX 14
Page 2
Items                     Agencies Responsible    Due Date
13.  Establishment of health associations          EMATER                First half of
and water user associations in the                                  FY 1978-79
village selected for FY 1978-79
annual program.
14.  Appointment of Assistant Project             UCT                    April 1978
Coordinator - Monitoring and
Evaluation.
15.  Creation of the Fundo Rotativo and           SEPLAN                 August 1978
placing of initial deposit.
16.  Submission of annual operating plans         UCT/Executing          November 1978
for 1979-80 to the Bank.                     agencies/GRPN/GECA
17.  Procurement of maintenance equipment.        DER                    During 1978
18.  Furnishing of copies of quarterly            UCT/Executing          Report for first
progress reports to Bank with                agencies               quarter before
comments of Management Council.                                    October 1, 1978
19.  Appointment of additional staff to           CEPA/SAA               July  1978
CEPA - Evaluation Unit.
20.  Completion of baseline survey.               CEPA                   September 1978



ANNEX 15
Page 1
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PARAIBA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - BREJO
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.        Selected Reports on Brazil on the Rural Sector:
Al   Rural Development Issues and Options in Northeast Brazil,
Report No. 665A-POR, June 23, 1975
A2   Northeast Brazil Rio Grande do Norte Rural Development Project,
Report No. 921-POR, November 11, 1975
A3 Northeast Brazil - Appraisal of Ceara Rural Development Project -
IBIAPABA, Report No. 1580A-POR, August 22, 1977
A4   Economic Memorandum on Brazil No. 1665-BR, October 13, 1977
B.        Selected Reports on the Project:
B1   "Projeto de Desenvolvimento Rural Integrado do Brejo Paraiba"
Project Preparation Report by CEPA-Pb, in four volumes,
April 1977
B2   "Estudo de Viabilidade Tecnico Econ6mico e Financeira do Projeto
de Implantacao do Mercado do Produtor de Campina Grande - Pb",
prepared by COBAL-DF, January 1978
B3   "Projeto de Armazem Frigorifico de Esperanca", prepared by
CIBRAZEM, February 1978
B4   "Decreto-Lei N.0 200", containing law on procurement,
February 25, 1967
C.        Working Papers for Project Implementation:
Cl   (Working Paper No. 1)   Project Objectives and Composition
C2   (Working Paper No. 2)   Agricultural Development
C3   (Working Paper No. 3)   Credit for Agriculture and Non-farm
Enterprises
C4   (Working Paper No. 4)   Agricultural Research and Experimentation
C5   (Working Paper No. 5)   Agricultural Extension



ANNEX 15
Page 2
C6   (Working Paper No. 6)   Marketing and Storage
C7   (Working Paper No. 7)   Assistance for Small-scale Non-farm
Enterprises
C8   (Working Paper No. 8)   Rural Roads
C9   (Working Paper No. 9)   Social Extension
C10  (Working Paper No.10)   Education and Training
Cll  (Working Paper No.11)   Nutrition
C12  (Working Paper No.12)   Health and Sanitation
C13  (Working Paper No.13)   Organization and Management
C14  (Working Paper No.14)   Monitoring and Evaluation



1BRD 13107
YP  O .ro  _   ~   S P R   P. 11 0D   L o  O"' >, t p,                                         j                               33- 30        NOVEMBER 1977
\4Rx~~C                         /,. 7'                r''L!                                                                  K  
\  0TH                 L            P  A   R  A        B  A                       50''                                    .       .           -        ,
'AlR CA 
W68EEC  _A1 A,  N  A N  F S  A7 5;  /   .   9                              -BEEN
/BANANEARAS                             I
BRAZIL                                                                            NEA
BREJO PROJECT AREA                                                                                                                        P /  P R                             _
\ 9 <\ / v B~~~~~~~~~~~~ORBO/S _A 
A                                    50/i BORBOREMA' OREMA
K ILETERS                                                                                 A AREA
I-             BE-PEB A  gA       R      A             ,% -
I                   }\                    t           S B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                        ~            ~          ~ R R A R /A  J/
#,, / X - I / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CUITEG                                                              eRAB PA
EXTESLAGO N EA
,r   /X  \RGA R    A                                         o O \
MONTADA           , P            .       ALAQA  ARE A                                     j                                         CoIl f/  
POCINHO       2            S  P O NT    As                        -f      t                                                    0                 'v0   AgoAoo S ohoolc
>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P,, A-  '-  > SE6A@. ,,    /\/
ALAG OA                                                 t                   )               A       GRANDE        /      TEAON        CII ooRK
)\L 9/    MONTATNAS    ~ ~~~~ \  &     A Z A G O A      /      O VAg        (t _.                                         agclo  codhm,s
POCINH05   3      VM OtWRAs4~~5,  SF,NZA               5.SEBA-Tl   DE  LO    NOV'A                 i                      =L, A-11-tuo Res-rh C-o,e
N             p Df i*50t3eT  LAGDA E ROCA                 /                                                MARKETING a 'TORAGE
C'   Cod S-oSgoF-o R lEhT ob--o,Id)
W         M-_'-DoIo   io|/ Dopoochg C.-,op
/                         ~                          1 ~/ | | >SBANKING N ORK
E tOr I NAIA                                                               f-d E d 7d.  -Bo                                                    o T
SC B-AR GAAN
ROADS
'~~~~~~~~~-                                                              -- - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MUNICIPAL BOUNDARIES






