Document of
pIL E C  pJvy                    The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.P-2207-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR THE
PARAIBA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
March 15, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1977         February 17, 1978
Currency Unit     -      Cruzeiro (Cr$)        .  Cr$
US$1              '      Cr$14.10              -  16.395
Cr$1              -      US$0.07               -  0.06
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BB            Bank of Brazil
BEP           Bank of the State of Paraiba
BNB           Bank of the Northeast of Brazil
CAGEPA        Paraiba Water and Sanitation Company
CEBRAE        Brazilian Center for Assistance to Small and Medium
Enterprises
CEPA-PB       Paraiba State Agricultural Planning Commission
CIBRAZEM      Brazilian Storage Company
CIDACRO       Paraiba Agricultural Development Company
DER           State Highway Department
ENATER-PB     Paraiba Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Company
EIBRAPA       Brazilian Agricultural Research Company
MVR           Maximum Reference Value
NAI-PB        Nucleus for Assistance to Industries - Paraiba
PIASS         Program for the Integration of lHealtlh and Sanitation
POLONORDESTE  Development Program for Integrated Areas in the Northeast
SENAC         National Service for Commercial Training
SENAI         National Service for Industrial Training
SES           State Secretariat of Health
SSE           Small-Scale Non-farm Enterprise
SUDENE        Northeast Development Superintendency
SUPLAN        State Department of Public Works
UCT           Technical coordination unit (project unit)
FINANCIAL, YFAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BRAZ IL
PARAIBA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               Federative Republic of Brazil
Amount:                 US$24 million equivalent
Terms:                  Payable in 15 years, including 3 years of grace at 7.45%
interest per annum.
Project Description:   The project would consist of:
Agricultural Production Services (18% of project costs),
including rural extension and training, research and
farm trials, marketing and storage, and a land tenure
service;
Non-farm Production Services (2%), including extension
and technical assistance, research and demonstration,
access to credit services, and training;
Credit (41%), including investment and seasonal credit
to improve and expand agricultural production by 7,400
small farmers, and credit for investment and working
capital to expand or establish 580 small-scale non-farm
enterprises;
Infrastructure (35%), including upgrading, improvement
and maintenance of feeder roads, nutrition support,
improved health services, simple water supply schemes,
improved quality of and access to primary education
and training.
Project Administration (4%), including project manage-
ment, monitoring, and evaluation. One possible risk
in a multi-sectoral project such as this one is that
the coordination required to implement it may not be
fully achieved. However, measures taken to establish
an annual review mechanism, strong project management
and an effective monitoring and evaluation system,
reduce the risk and make it acceptable.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost: 1/                                 ----------(US$ Millions)--
% of
Baseline
Local    Foreign   Total    Costs
Productive Support              8.94       1.61    10.55        20
Rural Extension                 5.95       0.86      6.81       13
Agricultural
Support Services             2.04       0.65      2.69        5
Small-Scale Enterprises        0.95        0.10      1.05        2
Development Credit             18.06       3.35    21.41        41
On-farm Seasonal               10.47       1.29    11.76        23
On-farm Investment              6.46       1.93      8.39       16
Small-Scale Enterprises         1.13        .13      1.26        2
Infrastructure                 12.84       5.18    18.02       35
Roads                           8.92       4.31    13.23        25
Health & Education              3.92       0.87      4.79       10
Project Administration          1.93       0.22      2.15        4
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS           41.77      10.36    52.13       100
Physical Contingencies          1.63       0.41      2.04        4
Price Contingencies            10.50       2.63    13.13        25
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS           53.90       13.40    67.30      129
Financing Plan:
US$ Million
Participating Banks                                1.3
Government                                        42.0
IBRD                                              24.0
TOTAL                                        67.3
Estimated Disbursements:                  -------US$ Million by Fiscal Year------
1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984
Annually                         2.2    5.4    5.7    4.6    3.6    2.5
Cumulative                      2.2    7.6   13.3   17.9   21.5   24.0
1/   Project costs have been calculated on the basis of the exchange rate as of
the end of September 1977 (US$1 = Cr$15).



- iii -
Rate of Return:               The economic rate of return is estimated
at 32% for the parts of the project with
directly quantifiable benefits (i.e.,
agricultural and non-farm develop-
ment; physical infrastructure) such parts
representing 90% of the total cost of the
project.
Appraisal Report:              Report No. 1814-BR, dated March 10, 1978.






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR THE PARAIBA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Federative Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$24 million to
help finance the Paraiba Rural Development Project. The loan would have a
term of 15 years, including 3 years of grace, with interest at 7.45% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A report, entitled "Economic Memorandum on Brazil" (1665a-BR), dated
October 13, 1977, was distributed to the Executive Directors on October 21,
1977. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I to this report.
3.        The late 1960s and early 1970s were years of remarkable economic
growth and development for Brazil. The 10% average annual rate of growth
in GDP during this period was accompanied by a strong balance-of-payments
performance. The dollar value of exports rose by 300% from 1967 to 1973 and a
process of export diversification significantly reduced Brazil's dependence
upon coffee as the single primary source of foreign exchange earnings. At the
same time, inflation was brought progressively under control. During the
early 1970s prices rose at less than 20% per annum on average -- a considerable
improvement upon the inflation of a decade earlier. The crawling peg exchange
rate combined with widespread monetary correction and indexation of financial
instruments helped to minimize the distortions which often accompany inflation
(although indexing makes it more difficult to reduce the level of inflation).
4.        The world economic crisis of 1974 marked a turning point in the
recent economic performance of Brazil. Although growth continued at 9.5% in
that year, it proved impossible to maintain the good balance-of-payments
performance that had accompanied growth in previous years. The continuation
of expansionary policies during 1974 in the context of a sharp deterioration
in the terms of trade resulted in a trade deficit amounting to US$4.7 billion.
The elimination of that deficit has been a major objective of economic policy
since that time. To this end the Government fortified simultaneously its
policies of export promotion and of import substitution. As a result of these
policies, the trade gap closed progressively year by year. In 1977 excep-
tionally high coffee prices contributed towards a strong increase of export
revenues and the trade gap was eliminated entirely in that year. It is pro-
jected that the trade gap will remain closed even though coffee prices have
1/   This part is substantially the same as the corresponding part of the
President's Report on the Sao Paulo Sewage Collection and Treatment
Project (P-2208-BR, dated February 8, 1978) except for the addition
of paragraph 8.



- 2 -
already rolled back significantly from the high levels prevailing in early
1977. This expectation is predicated on a major effort to expand other
exports, particularly of manufactured goods.
5.        Inflation is another problem that has become a focus of attention
in recent years. Sharp rises in the prices of petroleum and other imported
goods in 1974 gave an added impetus to inflationary pressures which were
already building up in the Brazilian economy even prior to the world economic
crisis. Inflation increased in 1974 and continued to accelerate in the sub-
sequent two years reaching a peak of 46% in 1976. The Government has employed
a wide range of monetary and fiscal instruments to combat inflation. Partic-
ularly significant is the much greater control now exercised by the Federal
Government over the investment programs of public sector decentralized agencies.
There is evidence that these policies are having effect. Inflation for 1977
was some 39%, and in the second half of 1977 inflation slowed to a rate of
some 30% on an annual basis. If the Government continues to exercise careful
control over monetary and fiscal policy, further headway against inflation
is likely.
6.        Brazil's economic performance since 1974 has been deeply affected
by balance-of-payments constraints. Growth fluctuated sharply from 4.2% in
1975 to 8.7% in 1976 and down again to 6% in 1977 as the Government searched
for an appropriate balance between expansion on the one hand and, on the other
hand, the need to resolve difficulties in the balance of payments and in the
domestic inflationary situation. The Government recognizes the need for con-
tinued moderation in growth during the next two or three years if inflation
is to be kept under control, the balance of payments is to be further improved
and a sound basis for longer term development is to be preserved. It is
projected that growth may average little more than 6% during the remaining
years of the decade. Beyond that, however, there is every indication that
Brazil has the potential to sustain higher levels of growth provided (a) that
reasonable expansion of output and trade takes place in the industrial coun-
tries, and (b) that sound economic policies are consistently pursued in Brazil.
In this respect the Government's development strategy provides a sound frame-
work for future development.
7.        The second National Development Plan (1975-79) was published in the
wake of the world petroleum crisis and incorporates a sectoral development
strategy which focuses sharply upon relieving Brazil's balance-of-payments
constraints in the longer term. The export potential of agriculture received
explicit recognition in the development plan and the results achieved over
the past several years (particularly in soya production) justify the priority
given to this sector. Agriculture constitutes a vehicle for raising the
living standards of the rural poor and fcr developing the vast frontier lands
of Brazil's interior. In the case of industry, sophisticated incentive schemes
have been introduced to encourage exports. However, Brazil's industrial devel-
opment strategy now concentrates upon import-substitution programs in steel,
non-ferrous metals, petrochemicals, fertilizers and capital goods. Brazil
aims at self-sufficiency in many of these products by the early 1980s. Beyond
that point these same industries may develop a good export potential.



- 3 -
8.        Public sector investment accounts for more than half of total
fixed investment in the Brazilian economy. It is heavily concentrated in
infrastructure and basic industry. These two areas together account for
about 70% of total investment by federal Government agencies and enterprises.
Regional development and social programs absorb most of the remaining 30%.
Until 1975, the rapid expansion of public investment reflected a heavy
emphasis on road construction and regional development. The 2nd National
Development Plan (1975-79) added a massive program of import substitution in
basic industrial inputs, and an acceleration in the pace of social programs.
Since 1977, however, severe restraints have been placed on public investment,
in order to reduce a growing public sector savings gap and the accompanying
balance-of-payments deficit. The sectors most affected are road and rail
transport, whose ambitious expansion plans have been cut back sharply. In-
vestments in electric power, on the other hand, are maintained at a high
level, and in basic industries such as steel, non-ferrous metals and petroleum,
are being stepped up considerably. The share of regional development programs
in total federal investment has now stabilized at about 7%. The percentage
allocated to social investment is increasing gradually, reflecting continued
expansion of public investment in housing, water supply and sewerage, and
other urban development programs.
9.        Despite its impressive growth performance and vast future potential,
Brazil is still a country with extensive poverty. The present Government
acknowledges the country's poverty problem and accepts responsibility for its
alleviation. While, like the previous Government, it believes that a high
rate of growth is necessary to increase the incomes of the poor, it does not
believe that the "trickle down" effects of rapid growth are enough and has
formulated a new policy which could be labeled as "redistribution with growth."
To implement this policy, in addition to pursuing some of the social programs
initiated by its predecessor, the Government is taking new measures in three
broad areas: (a) regional development; (b) provision of social services; and
(c) wage policy. In addition, recent tax changes have tended to have a
favorable, albeit marginal, impact on income distribution.
10.       As one of its measures to help promote development in poorer regions,
the Government has formulated a program known as POLONORDESTE for rural devel-
opment in the Northeast. The program which covers the 1975-79 period is
designed to raise the productivity and incomes of small farmers through inter
alia, formulation and execution of integrated rural development projects,
which in some cases include changes in land tenure. POLONORDESTE is based
on the assumption that the rural Northeast cannot be regarded as a homogeneous
whole. Therefore, the Government has identified 31 sub-regions covering large
portions of the Northeast on which POLONORDESTE funds would be used initially.
The Bank has made loans for integrated rural development in two of these sub-
regions, and, in addition to the proposed project, various others are in
preparation.
11.       In the area of social services, the Government has created a new
Ministry of Social Security in order to consolidate its social benefit pro-
grams and to extend these programs to a larger share of the population. The
Government is also strengthening the nutrition program which, under the



- 4 -
previous Government, got off to a slow start. Greater emphasis is being given
by the National Housing Bank to low-income housing, the beneficiaries of which
will enjoy better financial terms than in the past. The Housing Bank is also
developing a site and services program to encourage construction of self-help
housing by families that cannot afford builder-constructed units. In agri-
culture, the recently reorganized rural extension agency will expand and
strengthen its activities directed specifically toward the small-scale farmer;
and the new federal agriculture research institution is defining its program
to include a selection of crops and farming systems which will ensure that
small-scale farms benefit from research efforts. In November 1974, the
Government revised the formula governing the adjustment of the union wage
scale and the real minimum wage was increased in 1975 and again in 1976.
While in 1977 the Government restricted wage increases as part of a policy
package designed to control overall demand and to combat inflation, this
does not signify any basic change in its longer term goal of improving in-
come distribution.
12.       In order to achieve the twin goals of high growth and an improved
distribution of income, Brazil will continue to require large inflows of
capital in the medium-term future. These inflows should be less than in the
recent past, however. Compared with a US$6 billion annual average for 1974-76,
it is estimated that the annual net inflow of medium- and long-term capital
(that is, direct foreign investment and net disbursements from official and
private sources) may be in the order of US$4.5 billion for 1977-80. This
projection assumes that it will be possible to sustain and subsequently
improve upon the trade balance achieved in 1977, with export volume rising
at an average rate of 11.5% annually in 1977-80, and import growth held down
to only 2.8% a year in real terms during this period. The outlook for
Brazil's principal export commodities is quite favorable for the next several
years, and it is expected that the good overall export performance projected
here can be achieved, provided that the country continues to follow present
exchange rate policies to ensure the competitiveness of manufactured exports.
On the import side, several major import-substitution programs are already
having a notable impact. The further development of these programs should
enable Brazil to continue to restrain imports without jeopardizing growth.
13.       On December 31, 1977, Brazil's estimated public external debt
amounted to about US$16.6 billion and the public debt service ratio for 1977
is estimated at some 19%. This is somewhat higher than the 15% average public
debt service ratio estimated for the first half of the 1970s and reflects a
higher proportion of medium-term financial credits within the overall debt
structure. Total external debt (both public and private) registered by the
Central Bank at end-1977 is estimated at US$29.5 billion and somewhat over
two-thirds of this debt (some US$20 billion) is in the form of financial
credits. The net debt service ratio on total external debt during 1977 was
about 41% compared with an average of 38% during the early 1970s. However,
net foreign exchange reserves at the end of 1977 were about US$7.0 billion,
equivalent to some six months' imports of goods and non-factor services and
sufficient to cover nearly one quarter of the total outstanding external debt.
Despite Brazil's heavy debt service burden the substantial level of foreign



-5-
exchange reserves ensure that the country will have the liquidity to meet its
debt service obligations in the short term. The breakdown between public and
private debt in the longer run can be projected only tentatively. Much will
depend upon the extent to which the Government will extend its guarantee to
loans contracted externally by non-government entities. Even assuming that
a government guarantee will be granted in an increasing number of cases, it
is projected tentatively that the public debt service ratio will peak in the
late 1970s at about 20%. Subsequently, a fall to about 16% by 1985 is
projected, assuming that Brazil can increase the value of its exports by an
average of 17% per annum and that the average maturities of new financial
credits gradually improve from six to eight years. The country's record of
financial and economic management provides grounds for confidence in the
maintenance of creditworthiness over the longer run. Nevertheless, there can
be no doubt that very careful management of the external accounts will continue
to be necessary.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
14.       By January 31, 1978 the Bank had approved 74 loans for Brazil,
amounting to US$3,199.4 million, of which 38 were not yet fully disbursed.
During FY65-69, disbursements averaged only US$10 million per year, increasing
to an average of US$136 million per year during FY70-74, reaching US$225
million in FY74, US$248 million in FY75 and US$202 million in FY76.  US$267
million was disbursed in FY77 and US$129 million in the first half of FY78.
The decline in disbursements in FY76 was due primarily to the reduced level
of lending in FY73-74. Disbursements are expected to increase during the
next few years. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans as of
January 31, 1978 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
15.       Since FY75, new loans to Brazil have amounted to between US$400 and
US$500 million per year. In FY75, five loans were made totalling US$426.5
million; and in FY76 ten loans totalling US$498 million. In FY77, seven
loans totalling US$425 million were approved: US$40 million for a second
water supply and sewerage project in Minas Gerais, US$83 million for a second
agro-industries credit project, US$82 million for power transmission in the
South, US$42 million for an integrated rural development project in the State
of Minas Gerais, US$64 million for a nitrogen fertilizer project, US$82
million for a phosphate fertilizer project, and US$32 million for a vocational
training project. So far in FY78, two loans have been approved: a loan of
US$17 million for a rural development project in the State of Ceara, and a
loan of US$110 million for a sewage collection and treatment project for Sao
Paulo. A loan of US$130 million for an electric power distribution project in
the south and southeast is expected to be considered by the Executive Directors
at the same meeting as the proposed Paraiba rural development loan. Work is
relatively well advanced on the preparation of an agricultural extension
project; another rural development project in the Northeast; a highways
maintenance and rehabilitation project; an aluminum project; a petrochemicals
project and an urban transport project.



-6-
16.       Of Brazil's external public debt outstanding and disbursed at the
end of 1977, amounting to nearly US$16.6 billion, the Bank held about 8.5%.
The Bank's share of the service on this debt was about 4.5%. If present
trends continue, as expected, the Bank's share of total external public debt
outstanding would increase to 12% by 1980. The Bank's share of public debt
service would rise in 1980 to about 6% while its share of Brazil's total
(public and private) external debt service would remain at the present level
of 2.8%.
17.       IFC has committed more financial resources to Brazil than to any
other country. As of January 31, 1978, IFC had made commitments to Brazil,
totalling US$332 million, of which US$203 million had been cancelled, repaid,
or sold. Of the balance of US$129 million, US$102 million is in loans and
US$27 million in equities. A summary of IFC's investments up to January 31,
1978, is given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
18.       In its lending to Brazil, the Bank has sought to help the Government
achieve a number of important development objectives which are interdependent
and complementary. An important lending objective in Brazil is to help to
intensify the efforts of the Government to identify and develop projects that
will increase productivity and incomes of the lowest income segment of the
population, to broaden the economic opportunities open to those groups, and
to improve their living conditions. The proposed Paraiba Rural Development
Project is addressed to this objective. It would provide credit, productive
services, and social and physical infrastructure to low-income farmers and
small-scale enterprises in the Brejo area of the State of Paraiba. The
recently approved loans for nutrition research and development, vocational
training, agricultural research and polder construction in the Lower
Sao Francisco Valley, as well as for integrated rural development in the
States of Rio Grande do Norte, Minas Gerais and Ceara were all designed to
assist low-income groups in rural areas. Additional integrated rural
development projects directed at low-income farmers are also in preparation,
as are projects to reach low-income groups in urban areas, including a
sites and services project, sewerage and water supply projects in several
northeastern states, a medium-sized cities development project, and an urban
transport project.
19.       A second Bank lending objective in Brazil is to support institutional
development and policy reform designed to develop rational policies and pro-
cedures, establish adequate coordination and control, and help maximize public
savings and ensure that they are used economically. The institution-building
objective has been important in Bank assistance for vocational training, and
for the transportation sector where emphasis has been given to the rational
selection of investments, the strengthening of railway operations, and the
improvement of the railways' financial performance. Loans for electric power,
industrial finance, highways, agricultural research and extension, and urban
development also have important institution-building objectives.



20.       Another lending objective is to ease the foreign exchange constraint
on development, a constraint that has become more critical since the increase
in petroleum prices, by supporting projects designed to increase Brazil's
export capacity and, where economical, to substitute domestic production
for imports. As a result of the deterioration in Brazil's terms of trade
and balance of payments which took place at the time of the 1974 energy
crisis, this objective was placed in the forefront of the Government's economic
policy. Bank support of fertilizer projects is assisting Brazil to substitute
imports with large-scale efficient domestic production and aid its balance-
of-payments position. Bank lending for agro-industries in the Center and
South of Brazil is also supporting this objective and much of the Bank-assisted
investment in the transport sector -- railways, ports and highways -- is
designed to facilitate the smooth and economical flow of exports. Support
of the steel expansion program is helping Brazil to expand domestic output
of a traditional import commodity which can be produced efficiently in Brazil
due to the country's ample supply of high-grade iron ore and the scale of
its internal markets. A similar objective would be achieved through the
petrochemical and aluminum projects now being prepared.
21.       A final objective which applies to all Bank lending to Brazil is to
provide part of the very large volume of medium- and long-term capital inflows
that Brazil has needed and will continue for some years to need in order to
sustain rapid growth and achieve its employment creation and regional develop-
ment objectives. Continued active lending by the Bank in Brazil is regarded
by the international financial community as an important sign of confidence in
Brazil and encourages them to continue their own programs there. In some
sectors, especially in electric power and industry, Bank participation is
helping Brazil obtain additional resources in greater amounts and on more
favorable terms from bilateral credit agencies and private financial
institutions. Five co-financing operations for Brazil, totalling US$204
million, have been concluded since 1976 with private financial institutions
and several others are in preparation.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Agricultural Products
22.       The most important agricultural products for Brazil's domestic
market include manioc, maize, rice, wheat, beans, potatoes, vegetables,
bananas, citrus fruit, dairy products, poultry, beef and swine; and coffee,
sugar, soybeans, cotton, and cocoa which are important for both the export and
domestic market. Coffee, soybeans, and sugar generated 42% of the country's
total export earnings in 1976. Brazil is still the largest exporter of coffee
in the world, although its share of the world market has declined from 50% in
the early 1950s to about 25% at present. The severe frosts of 1975 drastically
reduced production to about 6.5 million bags in 1976 from 22.2 million bags in
1975.  Production recovered to about 15 million bags in 1977, some land in



in frost-prone Parana has been switched from coffee to other crops, but there
have been important new plantings farther north in Minas Gerais. With the
decline in Cuban production since 1970, Brazil is now the largest producer of
cane sugar in the world. Due to a combination of unfavorable market con-
ditions and unusually bad weather, production declined in 1975, and although
production increased in 1976 and 1977 it is still well below the 1974 level.
The production of soybeans has increased from less than one million tons in
1968 to over 11 million tons in 1976 and was close to 12 million tons in 1977,
making Brazil the third largest producer in the world. This expansion has
been instrumental in restructuring agriculture in southern Brazil, and
production is expected to reach 18 million tons by 1980.
Recent Sectoral Performance
23.       Over the 1967-74 period, the agricultural sector performed well in
supplying domestic demand for food and fiber as well as a rising volume of
export commodities, with output growing at 5.7% annually despite adverse
climatic conditions in three out of seven years. The agriculture sector's
contribution to GDP has declined from 20% in 1967 to about 11% at present,
but its contribution to exports has remained significant (about 56% of the
total value in 1977). Until the 1970s growth in agricultural production
resulted almost entirely from expansion of land under cultivation and rela-
tively little effort was made to improve productivity.
Government Policy
24.       The agricultural development strategy of Brazil's Second National
Development Plan (1975-79) aims at more efficient exploitation of Brazil's
agricultural potential by increasing agricultural output by 40% in real terms
during the 1975-79 period. This goal reflects the government's intention to
provide for an increasing share of Brazil's growing domestic requirements for
food and fiber, as well as to increase the volume of agricultural exports. In
addition, the government has acknowledged the gravity of the country's income
distribution problems. Major measures include (i) substantial public resources
to incorporate new areas into production; (ii) significant expansion in the
supply of agricultural credit; (iii) reorganization of federal research and
extension services; and (iv) special regional programs such as POLONORDESTE.
In the Northeast, the POLONORDESTE program repesents an important shift in
Brazilian agricultural policy, to give emphasis to the development of programs
to raise the productivity, incomes and quality of life of the rural poor.
Northeast Agriculture 1/
25.       The nine states of Northeast Brazil have a total population of about
30 million, of which some 60% live in rural areas. Agricultural productivity
is low and rural per capita incomes are roughly estimated at only one quarter
the national average (which was about US$1,140 in 1976). Much of the North-
east has a semi-arid climate, with periodic serious droughts, and generally
1/   Readers are directed to "Rural Development Issues and Options in
Northeast Brazil" (Report No. 665a-BR dated June 23, 1975).



- 9 -
poor soils. The problems of reducing the incidence of poverty in the region
are further compounded by a highly skewed distribution of land ownership.
Less than 1% of the total number of farm establishments account for 40% of
the area, and in some areas up to 80% of the rural labor force owns no land
at all, though this proportion varies considerably within the Northeast.
Numerous government programs in the past have been directed at speeding eco-
nomic development in the Northeast. Past programs directed to the rural
population have often been public works such as small dams and ponds in
drought-prone areas or social services. Other initiatives by the government
include the establishing of a Northeast development superintendency (SUDENE)
in 1958 to act as the principal coordinating agency for development activities
in the region, a Northeast Development Bank (BNB) for financing investment in
agriculture, industry and certain public utilities, and substantial fiscal and
other incentives for developing both industry and agriculture. However, new
employment opportunities have not kept pace with population increases, and
the gradual emigration from rural to urban areas has been coupled with con-
siderable emigration from the Northeast to the more industrialized Center-
South of Brazil.
26.       The POLONORDESTE program, which was established in 1974, is helping
to finance: (i) preparation and initial implementation expenditures for new
integrated rural development projects in subregions selected for their expected
development potential, and (ii) the continuation or completion of projects
(particularly land settlement and irrigation) begun or planned before the
creation of POLONORDESTE. By the end of 1976, around US$370 million had been
allocated to these various efforts, with much of the expenditure actually
being made for projects in the second category. The establishment of programs
such as POLONORDESTE has helped to direct the energies of various government
bodies toward improving the agricultural productivity of the rural poor.
Nevertheless, at both the state and regional level, the institutional capacity
to plan, coordinate and execute the program requires strengthening, and as a
result, some of the projects are suffering execution delays. It was origin-
ally expected that, after financing two or three individual projects in
micro-regions, the Bank might make available a large loan to the regional
organization, SUDENE, in order to finance a considerable number of micro-
regional subprojects for whose appraisal and supervision SUDENE would be
responsible. Unfortunately, SUDENE has not reached a level of competence that
would justify the Bank to delegate responsibility for distributing Bank funds
and supervising their use. As a result, continuation of individual project
lending is planned, at least for the next two or three years. This has the
advantage of providing Bank assistance in project preparation, organization
and implementation at the state level, where a very intensive institution-
building process is taking place. In the meantime, Bank staff is continuing
to give advice on building up the POLONORDESTE organization at the regional
level.
Bank Participation in Brazil's Agricultural Sector
27.       The proposed loan for the Paraiba (Brejo) Rural Development project
would be the Bank's twelfth loan for the development of Brazil's agricultural
sector. The Bank has made two loans, totalling US$66 million, for livestock



- 10 -
development; three amounting to US$167 million in support of agro-industry
and grain storage credit programs; one of US$6.7 million for the Alto Turi
Land Settlement project in the State of Maranhao; one of US$23 million for the
Lower Sao Francisco Polders project; one of US$40 million for agricultural
research; one of US$42 million for the Minas Gerais Rural Development project
and two under the POLONORDESTE program (US$12 million for the Rio Grande do
Norte Rural Development project and US$17 million for the Ceara Rural Develop-
ment project). The proposed loan would be the fourth loan made for an inte-
grated rural development project in Brazil, and other rural development
projects are under preparation in several other Northeast states. Implemen-
tation of the Rio Grande do Norte and Minas Gerais projects is progressing
satisfactorily after slow starts due principally to delays in the transfer of
federal funds and marketing problems in the principal crop (cotton) for the
Rio Grande do Norte project, and administrative delays in the release of
credit funds for the Minas Gerais project. The Ceara project was approved
last September, and implementation is only just commencing. Under the pro-
posed Paraiba project, a revolving fund would be set up to ensure timely
availability of funds. The Government plans to establish a similar mechanism
for the existing projects.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
28.       A report entitled "Appraisal Report:  Northeast Brazil Paraiba Rural
Development Project - Brejo" (No. 1814-BR dated March 10, 1978) is being cir-
culated separately to the Executive Directors. The project was prepared by
the Paraiba State Agricultural Planning Commission (CEPA-Pb), with the
assistance of the Bank. It was appraised by a mission which visited Brazil
in May 1977. Supplementary appraisal work was carried out in October-November
1977. Negotiations with the Federal Government and the State of Paraiba were
held in Washington during February 21-24, 1978. The federal delegation was
led by Maria Regina Bastos de Oliveira of the Ministry of Planning, and the
state delegation was led by Humberto Manuel de Freitas, State Secretary of
Agriculture.
The Project Area
29.       Paraiba is one of the smaller states in the Northeast with a popu-
lation of 2.7 million, 58% of which is rural. Of the total area (56,000 km ),
about two-thirds fall within the semi-arid region (Sertao). In spite of the
fact that during the 1970s there has been a rapid increase in industrial
activity and a parallel build-up of infrastructure, the state has lagged behind
the rest of the Northeast in development. The economy of Paraiba is mainly
dependent on agriculture with beans, corn, pineapple, banana, manioc, rice,
cotton, sisal and sugar constituting the major crops. Livestock and fishing
are also important.
30.       The project area (the Brejo) is located in the eastern part of the
State of2Paraiba, and covers 14 municipalities with a total area of about
1,580 km . The Brejo is an elevated region (600 m on average) which benefits



- 11 -
from favorable climatic conditions with rainfall well distributed over a six-
month period, but suffers from serious problems of soil erosion. The project
area can be divided into three sub-areas according to the main crops. The
potato sub-area (20% of the total area) receives 800 mm to 1,000 mm of annual
rainfall and has very sandy soils; the second sub-area (also 20%) has similar
physical conditions, but is less specialized, and cotton and traditional food
crops are grown; and the third sub-area (60%) in which citrus is the major
crop benefits from higher rainfall (between 1,100 mm and 1,400 mm) and has a
more broken topography and a more diversified cropping pattern.
31.       The population of the project area in 1976 was estimated at 187,000
or some 31,300 families. Of these about 77% lived in rural areas, and the
rest in thy 14 small municipal centers. Population density is around
118 per km , nearly three times the state average. Population grew at 1.4% p.a.
during the 1960s, and towns grew faster as a result of out-migration from
villages. High incidence of endemic diseases and water-borne diarrheal
ailments, and high malnutrition levels among the vulnerable child and mater-
nal groups are symptomatic of a very unsatisfactory health situation. The
infant mortality rate, 117 deaths per 1,000 live births, is very high. Only
12.5% of homes (rural and urban) have satisfactory drinking water and only 25%
of the homes have sanitary facilities. Illiteracy, especially among the
higher age groups, is extremely high, being 70% among males and 60% among
females. Most schools in the rural area are housed in unsatisfactory
deteriorated buildings and lack qualified teachers, the majority of those in
service having completed only the primary level.
32.       Of the total project area of 158,000 ha, about 75% is under agricul-
ture including pasture, about 11% is potentially cultivable and the remaining
14% is unsuitable for agriculture. Two-thirds of the cropped land is devoted
to subsistence crops, such as manioc and beans, and the remainder to cash
crops, mainly sugar, sisal, cotton, potato, citrus and banana. While the
project area has substantial agricultural potential with a large range of
possible crops, existing productivity is low. A few large farmers, and some
of the potato farmers working small areas, have adopted advanced technology
and achieved high yields. Most small-scale producers, however, have little or
no access to extension, credit, inputs, and marketing services, and get
consistently low yields. The limited extension staff in the area deal with
the larger farmers, who are also the chief beneficiaries of agricultural
credit. Until recently little applied research applicable to the area had
been carried out.
33.       About 2,500 small-scale enterprises provide full-time employment to
over 10,000 people in a range of off-farm activities, while many small
farmers and landless agricultural workers also supplement their earnings
from this source. The range of products and services provided is very
broad and includes construction, carpentry, metal work, food processing,
textiles, commerce and services.



- 12 -
Project Objectives and Strategy
34.       The Brejo area with its high population density, low income, and
favorable development potential is suitable for a broadly based development
effort. The project would be oriented towards a target group of about 11,700
producers with up to 50 ha (25 ha in the potato sub-area), most of whom have
incomes well below the relative poverty level for Brazil (US$380). They
consist of: (a) 8,600 small- and medium-scale owner-operators representing
the large majority of landowners (94%), but who only control 36% of the
total cultivated land in the project area, and (b) 3,100 landless producers
who rent or sharecrop land, mainly contracted from large owners outside the
target group. About 7,400 producers (63% of the target group including 6,150
owner-operators and 1,250 landless) would fully apply the new technologies and
would be assisted by credit and supporting services. The project would also
indirectly benefit some 5,400 farm workers through increased employment
opportunities, and some 4,300 other producers of the target group who, while
not applying the new technology, would benefit from access to improved infra-
structure and support services. Some 500 large farmers would also indirectly
benefit from the results of agricultural research. An additional group of
about 1,800 landless workers would be reached through a non-farm production
component. The project would be multi-sectoral and would consist of the
following five principal components: (i) agricultural production services,
including agricultural extension and training, research and farm trials,
marketing and storage, and land tenure services; (ii) non-farm production ser-
vices, including extension and technical assistance, research, demonstration
and training; (iii) investment and seasonal credit to improve and expand
small-scale farm and non-farm enterprises; (iv) infrastructure improvement
through upgrading and maintenance of feeder roads, improved health services,
simple water supply systems, nutrition support, improved quality of and access
to primary education and literacy training; and (v) project administration,
including a sound monitoring and evaluation system.
Agricultural Production Services
35.       Agricultural Extension (US$6.8 million).  The project would support
a major reorientation of agricultural extension activities of the State
Extension Agency (EMATER - Pb). It would finance the cost of increasing the
size of the present extension staff in the project area sevenfold, to about
60. The agricultural extension workers (specialists in credit, crops, and
dairy cattle) would provide a range of extension services, primarily to
smaller farmers through farmer groups.  The field staff would be supported by
five specialists stationed in the area, four for crop husbandry and one for
dairy cattle. Community centers provided under the project would serve as a
focal point for community participation and group action. Social extension
agents would assist in the development of farmer associations. In addition, a
regional office would be established in Areia to coordinate agricultural
extension under the project, and seven sub-regional branch offices would be
established, in which local extension staff would be located.
36.       Agricultural Research, Field Experiments and Farm Trials (US$0.9
million). The project would finance research on crops suitable for the
Brejo -- e.g., citrus, banana, and pasture -- to supplement existing adaptive



- 13 -
research on potato, beans, manioc and cotton. EMBRAPA, which is responsible
for coordinating agriculture research in Brazil, has re-equipped a state-level
research station in Alagoinha, at the edge of the Brejo region, under a
Bank-financed research project (Loan No. 1249-BR), and has set up a National
Center for Cotton in nearby Campina Grande. The research activities at both
places would support the project. A research program in soil conservation to
be conducted by the agricultural college of the Federal University of Paraiba
in Areia under EMBRAPA coordination would also be included in the project.
37.       Land Tenure Improvement Services (US$0.3 million).  Although the
existing pattern of land distribution would not be affected under the project,
an initial step would be taken toward rectifying certain anomalies in land
tenure and ownership, by providing a nucleus land redistribution and tenancy
reform service with a team of three specialists. During the first six months,
this team would survey existing tenurial conditions and review the adequacy of
state land legislation. They would submit recommendations for (i) upgrading
land tenure contracts by improving the terms (i.e., longer tenure, better
housing); (ii) providing legal assistance in drawing up subcontracts; (iii)
determining the most effective means by which properties can be acquired by
the state for parcelling and sale among small producers; and (iv) redefining
the scope and functions of the state Secretariat of Agriculture's land depart-
ment to enable it to provide land tenure services for the entire project area
and subsequently to the state as a whole. Prior to January 1, 1979 the
government would furnish the Bank with the findings of the land tenure survey
and with recommendations for action to implement such findings, and the Bank
would be given a reasonable opportunity to comment (see Section 3 of the draft
Project Agreement).
38.       Marketing and Storage (US$1.4 million).  The existing inadequate
arrangements for marketing and storage of agriculture produce would be re-
formed and expanded. A network of about 50 village marketing centers would be
constructed to provide: (a) mini-markets for sale of produce; (b) warehouses
to store produce (mainly beans and manioc flour); and (c) retail stores for
farm inputs. Standard designs for the marketing centers would be transmitted
to the Bank for comment prior to August 1, 1978 (see Section 4 of the draft
Project Agreement). Every producer would have a marketplace within a maximum
of 4 km from his farm and at full development, approximately 60% of the
production would go through this channel. This network would be initially
operated by CIDAGRO (the Paraiba Agricultural Development Company), which
is one of the best marketing companies in the Northeast. Eventually, farmers'
associations would take over the operation of the mini-markets on a coopera-
tive basis. The proposed marketing system is designed to ensure fair producer
prices while permitting CIDAGRO to cover operating costs of the marketing
centers, and eventually to recover the investment cost of these centers
(see Section 5(f) of the draft Project Agreement). The project would also
finance the cost of constructing a cold store of 1,000 ton capacity in 1981,
to supplement one of the same size presently under construction. Cold storage
is essential for preservation of seeds until planting time and is essential if
the project is to achieve the sizeable increase expected in potato production.
Detailed plans for the cold store would be furnished to the Bank for its
approval, before disbursement for this sub-component would be allowed (see
Schedule 1, para. 2(iii) of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 14 -
Assistance to Small-Scale Non-Farm Enterprises
39.       Non-Farm Production Services (US$1.1 million).  This component would
be an innovative step in focussing on poverty in semi-urban and rural areas,
by assisting a variety of small-scale non-farm enterprises (SSEs) in the
project area, as a means of increasing employment and earning opportunities.
These enterprises largely supply inputs and services to small farmers and
goods and services to the local urban population. Technical advice in basic
production, financial and managerial techniques and assistance in obtaining
credit would be given by the Nucleus for Assistance to Industries (NAI-Pb),
which is the Paraiba agency of the Brazilian Center for Assistance to Small
and Medium Enterprises (CEBRAE). NAI-Pb staff would be reinforced under the
project. This component would also include support for the construction,
equipping and staffing of a research and demonstration center in the project
area, which would be operated by the Federal University of Paraiba, and
would develop techniques for packaging and processing.
40.       Credit to Small-Scale Non-Farm Enterprises (US$1.3 million).  To
complement the off-farm production components, the project would include
credit for small-scale enterprises located in the area. About 580 SSEs would
benefit from this component.  With assistance from NAI extension agents,
non-farm credit would be provided through the Bank of Brazil (BB), the Bank of
the Northeast (BNB) and the Bank of the State of Paraiba (BEP). The interest
rates at which credit would be made available (currently 16% for small loans
up to US$6,000 equivalent) are determined by the government's current lending
policy to industry and commerce in the Northeast, and they are negative in
real terms, given the current inflation rate and the fact that such loans are
not indexed. Loans would be closely supervised to ensure that they are used
for the purposes intended. Credit would be extended to finance working
capital (short-term) and investment (long-term) for expansion and modernization
of existing enterprises, and establishment of new enterprises. The funds to
be lent under this program are included in project costs, but the Bank loan
would not be disbursed against this component.
Credit
41.       Agricultural Credit (US$20.1 million).  The project would provide
funds for incremental credit, coupled with technical assistance, to help
achieve the projected increases in agricultural production. A total of 7,400
small-scale target farms (see para. 34) would benefit from agricultural credit.
In 1976, roughly US$4 million equivalent was extended in agricultural credit
to about 1,200 farmers in the project area, but three-fourths was absorbed by
farms over 50 ha and 85% of the borrowers that year were repeat clients from
previous years. Hence, the large majority of the expected project participants
would be receiving credit for the first time. Seasonal production credit
would be used to finance farm inputs to increase production of potatoes,
beans, cotton, manioc, sugar and bananas. Investment credit (medium- and
long-term) would be made available to finance the establishment of citrus
crops and pastures, and to purchase equipment, tools and livestock. Credit
would be channelled by the Central Bank through local branches of BB and
BNB.



- 15 -
42.       The agricultural credit terms to the farmer would be those estab-
lished by the Government for the POLONORDESTE program, which include a nominal
interest rate of 7%, without any adjustment of principal for inflation, for
both investment and seasonal credits. Credit for fertilizer purchase carries
no interest charge. Credit for "semi-fixed" investments (work animals, light
equipment, etc.) has a final maturity of up to 8 years, including up to
4 years grace, and for "fixed" investments (land clearing, establishment of
permanent crops, small-scale irrigation, etc.) up to 12 years, including up to
6 years grace. Given Brazil's inflation rate, the interest rates adopted by
the Government for POLONORDESTE projects are highly negative in real terms.
The potential disadvantages of these negative rates would be mitigated in
the proposed project by the requirement that the great majority of benefi-
ciaries would be small farmers, at present well below the poverty level, and
by providing a mechanism to ensure that the credit is used only for the
purposes for which it is extended. These safeguards include a ceiling of
100 MVR 1/ (about US$6,000) on the total indebtedness of any beneficiary
farmer, close supervision of credit by special credit extension agents and
monitoring of credit disbursements. The Bank would be informed of any modi-
fications in credit terms (see Section 3.03(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Infrastructure and Related Services
43.       Rural Roads (US$13.2 million).  The project's road component would
upgrade 72 km of state roads to the DER's (the state highway department's)
basic standards, and make spot improvements along another 73 km; reconstruct
92 km of main municipal feeder roads to an improved standard and provide
essential drainage and surface improvement for another 85 km. No new road
construction is proposed as the existing road network would be adequate to
meet project requirements once it is upgraded and well maintained. The DER
would be responsible, with appropriate assistance from consultants, for
preparation of detailed engineering, supervision of construction and carrying
out of small improvements on force account. Prior to initiating improvements
of the project roads, the state government would secure the agreement of the
muncipalities concerned to provide for their adequate maintenance and would
make DER technical assistance available to these municipalities. The project
includes purchase of maintenance equipment for DER consisting chiefly of
motor graders, road rollers and trucks, to maintain roads in the project area
in accordance with annual maintenance programs. Training of municipal foremen
in road maintenance would be conducted by DER, who would also supervise the
work for two years.
44.       Education and Training (US$3.9 million).  The project would include
reorganizing several aspects of the primary education system in the Brejo
area. The distribution of schools would be rationalized, and improved accom-
modation provided by constructing, furnishing and equipping 74 primary schools
1/   Maximum reference value (MVR) is a unit periodically adjusted in
accordance with inflation, equivalent to the minimum monthly wage, which
at present is about US$60.



- 16 -
with a total of 5,280 student places for 10,560 rural primary pupils in
double shifts, at grades 1 to 8, and by providing 30 houses for primary
teachers in areas where adequate housing does not exist. The project would
include the services of consultants to the State Secretariat of Education for
the elaboration of a new curriculum and textbooks, and also printing seven
basic textbooks for 21,200 pupils. The project would also provide for up-
grading 28 teacher supervisors and 1,124 teachers. The State of Paraiba would
enter into agreements with the respective municipalities assuring priority
placement for teachers upgraded under the project, appropriate salaries for
such teachers and minimum standards for their recruitment (see Section 5(e) of
the draft Project Agreement). A regional center would be established by the
Education Secretariat at Areia. The State Government would provide master
plans for school and teacher house construction to the Bank prior to August 1,
1978 (see Section 5(d) of the draft Project Agreement). Disbursement for
civil works for each school under this component would be conditional upon the
acquisition of the land required, receipt of a site plan for such school, and
a municipal decree providing for the closure of any sub-standard existing
schools which would not be needed after the construction of the new school
(see Schedule 1, para. 2(ii) of the draft Loan Agreement), in order to ensure
that new schools will not be underutilized.
45.       The project would actively support non-formal training, particularly
to complement the productive services to agriculture and SSE's. A literacy
program for the families of nearly 8,200 illiterate target group farmers
would provide teaching materials, salaries and subsistence for training of
70 literacy instructors. EMATER would be given assistance in organizing
specialized farmer training courses, eventually covering about 11,700 target
group farmers. The project would include purchase of transport, equipment and
furniture, and part of the incremental recurrent expenditure for vocational
training programs in the project area conducted by the national agencies for
industrial and commercial training (SENAI and SENAC). In addition, the
project would include equipment, fellowships and operating costs of an artisan
training program operated by the Federal University of Paraiba.
46.       Health, Sanitation and Nutrition (US$0.9 million).  The project
would provide an improved rural health delivery system and sanitation facil-
ities in the project area. The national program for integrated health care
in the rural areas (PIASS) would strengthen the delivery service through
health centers in rural municipalities, and under the project POLONORDESTE
would complement PIASS activities at the village level by financing con-
struction of 25 health posts and 25 simple water systems. The health posts
would be manned by trained health workers. Community health assocations,
formed under the initiative of EMATER social extensionists, would select
candidates for training as health workers and organize community participation
in the operation and maintenance of centers. The project would also finance
the cost of training the health workers. The water supply systems would be
constructed in the same villages where the health posts are to be located.
The water users' associations would cover the operating costs of the systems,
and the project would finance the cost of vehicles, equipment and spare parts



- 17 -
for a maintenance service to be operated by CAGEPA, the State Water Supply
and Sewage Authority. The project would support a program to improve the
nutritional status of the rural target population through a social extension
program run by EMATER. This would include instruction to women's groups
in home-gardening, nutrition education, improved food preparation and home
economics. Severely malnourished children would be screened in the health
posts for clinical attention in health centers located in the municipal
centers. The project area as a whole would be an early candidate for the
extension of a pilot food supplementation program now being tested in one
project area municipality under the Bank supported nutrition project (Loan
No. 1302 BR).
47.       The effectiveness of the project's health component would depend
on the active interest taken in it by the health agencies, including overall
coordination by the State Secretary of Health (SES), and the extent to which
communities participate in the operation of health posts and water supply
systems. Health posts and water supply systems would be constructed only in
locations where a minimum of 100 families would be served directly and where
communities had established water user associations to contribute labor,
materials, or both, for construction of water supply systems, and to collect
charges from their users to cover their operation and maintenance costs.
Disbursement for this component would be conditional upon the receipt of
satisfactory feasibility surveys for the water supply schemes (see Schedule I
para. 2(iv) of the draft Loan Agreement). The improvements in the health
delivery system and in sanitation would benefit about 25,000 people living in
the rural areas.
Administration, Monitoring and Evaluation (US$2.2 million)
48.       The project would be executed by existing state and federal agencies.
However, in view of the complex nature of the project and the multiplicity of
agencies involved, a POLONORDESTE project coordinating unit (UCT) would play a
vital role in coordination and monitoring. The unit, already operative since
May 1977, would be staffed by a Chief Program Coordinator, a Coordinator for
the Brejo project, an Assistant Coordinator for monitoring and evaluation and
seven technical advisers with specific responsibilities for coordination of
project execution, technical support to the executing agencies and monitoring
of project progress. The Bank would be notified of any proposed appointment
to these positions (see Section 8 of the draft Project Agreement). Equipment,
vehicles, consultancy services, training and incremental salary support for
UCT during the project execution phase, as well as the costs of project
monitoring and evaluation are included in project costs. The UCT would be
directly responsible to the State POLONORDESTE Management Council, which is
chaired by the Secretary of Agriculture and includes the other state secre-
taries. The state would enter into satisfactory contractual and operational
arrangements with executing agencies under the project (see Section S(a) and
(b) of the draft Project Agreement.)
49.       The project would have a management information system built into
the project management structure, including a progress reporting system for
each of the executing agencies. Quarterly reports to UCT would form the basis
of a quarterly review by UCT monitoring staff and technical advisers, who would



- 18 -
bring to the attention of the Management Council and the implementing agencies
any problems needing corrective action. Copies of the review, with comments
of the Management Council on action needed or taken, would be forwarded to
the regional and federal POLONORDESTE groups, and to the Bank. Evaluation
of project impact would be handled by a special unit of CEPA, the State
Agricultural Planning Agency, which would have responsibility for completing
a baseline socio-economic survey undertaken during project preparation, surveys
of the effects of the project on the target groups, and mid-term and ex-post
evaluation of project achievements. Data obtained would serve as bench-marks
for measuring project impact.
Project Cost and Financing
50.       The total project cost over the five-year project period (April 1978
to March 1983) is estimated at US$67.3 million which includes physical contin-
gencies equivalent to 4% of baseline costs and price contingencies equivalent
to 25% of baseline costs plus physical contingencies. Baseline costs have
been estimated at September 1977 prices. The estimated foreign exchange com-
ponent is US$13.40 million or about 20% of the total project cost.
------US$ Millions------
Foreign   Local    Total         %
Productive Support                1.61      8.94    10.55      15.7
Development Credit                3.35    18.06    21.41       31.8
Infrastructure                    5.18    12.84    18.02       26.7
Project Administration            0.22      1.93     2.15       3.2
Contingencies                     3.04    12.13    15.17       22.6
Total                            13.40    53.90    67.30    100.0
51.       The proposed Bank loan of US$24 million would finance 35% of total
project costs, representing 100% of foreign exchange costs (US$13.4 million)
together with 19% of local currency costs (US$10.6 million).  The balance
would be financed by the Federal Government under the POLONORDESTE program,
except for SSE credit needs, which would be met by participating banks. The
Federal Government would ensure that adequate financing would be available to
cover recurring costs for each of the components under the project.  A revolv-
ing fund would be established to ensure the regular flow of funds to the
project, and the Federal Government would replenish it quarterly as required
to meet forecast project expenditures (see Section 3.10 of the draft Loan
Agreement). An initial deposit equal to the first three months expected
expenditures would be a condition of effectiveness of the loan. Funds would
be made available in accordance with annual operating plans, which would be
submitted for Bank review at least four months prior to each POLONORDESTE
fiscal year (see Section 3.05 of the draft Loan Agreement).  In a country like
Brazil, which is making a vigorous effort to mobilize domestic resources, it
appears appropriate for the Bank to give some assistance in the=-financing of
local currency expenditures on projects which, like the present one, have very



- 19 -
high priority and yet have a very low foreign exchange content (in the present
case, 20%). If the Bank is to be effective in supporting projects of this
kind, it seems reasonable for it to contribute at least 35% of the costs even
though this entails financing some local currency expenditures.
Procurement
52.       All materials and equipment would be procured in accordance with
government procurement and bidding procedures, which are acceptable. Con-
tracts for equipment and materials in excess of US$300,000 equivalent (i.e.,
5,000 MVR) would be procured through competitive bidding advertised nationally.
These would be mostly vehicles for road maintenance. Although foreign
suppliers could participate, they are unlikely to do so since Brazilian
manufacturers of equipment required by the project are competitive. Other
materials and equipment (totalling about US$1 million) would be procured
locally. The value of road improvement contracts would be about US$11.2 mil-
lion and the small-scale civil works about US$3.9 million. Brazil has a
competitive local construction industry capable of carrying out project civil
works.  Since the individual construction works are relatively small, foreign
contractors are not expected to be interested, though they would not be
excluded from bidding. Contracts with consultants would be awarded on terms
and conditions approved by the Bank (see Section 3.02 of the draft Loan
Agreement). The cost per man-month of foreign consultant services would be
about US$4,700.
Disbursement
53.       The proposed loan would be disbursed at the rate of 36% against all
project expenditures except non-farm credit. Disbursements would be made to
the Central Bank of Brazil, the fiscal agent for the POLONORDESTE program,
against withdrawal applications covering statements of expenditure initiated
by the various implementing agencies under the project and certified by the
UCT and the Central Bank in the case of credit. Supporting documentation for
credit, salaries, administrative expenses and minor construction on force
account would not be submitted to the Bank but would be made available for
inspection by the Bank during project supervision.
Accounts and Auditing
54.       Each participating agency would maintain accounts of its project
expenditures, which would be audited annually by government auditors according
to standard government practice for POLONORDESTE projects. Both BB and BNB
are audited by the Central Bank's auditing unit and BNB is also audited by
satisfactory independent auditors. The state POLONORDESTE coordinating unit
would maintain accounts of its own project expenditures as well as statements
of expenditures by each participating agency. Copies of the audited state-
ments of project accounts would be provided to the Bank within six months
following the end of each fiscal year (see Section 4.02(c) of the draft Loan
Agreement).



- 20 -
Cost Recovery
55.       Project investments in the productive sectors, including roads,
during the five-year period would be approximately US$3,500 per benefitting
family. Social and physical infrastructure provided by the project would
amount to roughly US$750 per family and would benefit most of those living in
the rural parts of the project area. Direct recovery of project investments
would take place only where this would be within the financial capacity of the
beneficiaries, such as for marketing and storage. Beneficiaries are also
expected to contribute directly to the operation and maintenance of some
infrastructure investments, such as water supply. The extent to which on-farm
project costs will be recovered in real terms is, however, very difficult to
estimate because of the current inflationary environment in Brazil and the
Government's policy to provide unindexed agricultural credit. After the
initial five-year investment period, the continuing recurrent cost burden
arising from project improvements would amount to approximately US$2.1 million
per annum. These would be mainly the costs of maintaining the extension
service (at a reduced level of intensity), operating and maintaining the
health and education infrastructure and maintaining rural roads. The develop-
ment of producer associations, as envisaged in the project, should facilitate
the eventual transfer of some of the burden of maintaining the extension
service to the farmers themselves. Under the prevailing arrangements the
local municipalities which are expected to meet the brunt of these costs are
assisted through federal government grants. These are now 6% of local budgets
but will increase by one percentage point per annum, until a total federal
contribution of 9% is reached.
Benefits and Risks
56.       The project envisages substantial increases in the output of the
main cash crops commencing fairly early in the implementation period, as the
main thrust of extension would be to propagate the available technology among
small- and medium-scale farmers. Over a period of 13 years gross output from
agriculture would increase by some US$26 million, or 180% of current levels,
mainly from increased production of potatoes, citrus, manioc, banana, beans,
cotton, milk and meat. The financial rate of return to the project's target
farmers, based on 9 representative farm models was found to be extremely
favorable, exceeding generally 50% in every case, reflecting the present low
levels of production and the considerable agricultural potential. The effect
of the project on the incomes of beneficiaries has been measured on the basis
of these 9 illustrative farm models which cover 63% of the target group, or
those farmers adopting fully the proposed technical packages. The current
farm incomes of this group are at or below the poverty level; in the case of
farmers owning less than 5 ha substantially so. However, some small-scale
farmers do augment their incomes by sharecropping additional land rented from
larger owners, and from other non-farm sources. At full development (1983)
for the potato and cotton sub-areas fully 37% of the beneficiaries in those
areas would have incomes exceeding the poverty level estimate for that year
(US$564) (22% would substantially exceed the poverty level and would have



- 21 -
incomes about double the poverty level). Another 10% would be just below that
level. In the potato-area, both small and medium-scale farmers would increase
their incomes about four-fold. In the cotton area, where the increase in
yields and output would be the least, the ability to increase income for both
the non-owner and owner with small holdings would be more limited. Cotton
area small-scale farmers' incomes would approximately double. However, those
medium-scale farmers, who would be able to take up dairying could treble their
incomes. In the citrus sub-area, non-owners would for some years be re-
stricted to traditional subsistence agriculture because of the long gestation
of citrus tree crops and their incomes would initially not increase as rapidly
as incomes in the other areas. Full production in the citrus area would only
be reached after about 14 years, and, based on a highly tentative estimate of
per capita incomes for 1992, only medium-sized farmers would be able to exceed
the poverty level (estimated at US$753). Sharecroppers (who are landless) in
all three areas would, on average, double their incomes, with those in the
potato area improving most. However, their actual incomes would depend on the
terms of the tenurial contracts, which currently preclude them from growing
pasture or long-term crops like citrus. Their incomes from farming can
improve even further if project actions are successful in bringing about more
secure and favorable tenancy conditions.
57.       Project actions under the non-farm development component would
encourage further investment by small entrepreneurs and the adoption of new
and improved methods of production. In addition, a substantial group of
unskilled semi-urban and rural landless persons who form the most needy group
in the area's population would be benefitting from opportunities to acquire
skills and find employment in a variety of small industry, commerce and other
services. The output of the SSEs receiving assistance directly from the
project is expected to double within the five-year project period. Improved
job opportunities are expected to accrue to about 1,800 unskilled laborers.
58.       An economic rate of return was calculated only for the agricultural,
non-farm, and physical infrastructure investments under the project, as the
return to social investments, though qualitatively significant, is not quan-
tifiable. The economic rate of return to the components (which account for
90% of project costs) for which benefits can be quantified, is estimated at
32%. For the non-farm component alone the rate of return was tested for a
range of possibilities and is expected to reach 58%; for agriculture it would
be 30%. The economic rate of return on the three quantifiable components would
be reduced to 27% with a cost overrun of 20% and would be 26% if benefits fell
short by 20%. Lags in implementation would have a similar effect, with a one-
year lag reducing the rate of return to 26%; this would be equivalent in
economic terms to a 24% cost overrun or a 20% benefit shortfall. The economic
rate of return on the non-farm component would drop below 50% under similar
situations, with a one-year lag causing a drop to 43%.
59.       The development of social infrastructure under the project would
supplement the development of the productive sectors and substantially contri-
bute to meeting the basic needs of the rural population. The network of rural



- 22 -
health posts would extend village primary health care services which are now
available only in a few urban centers. Pure drinking water, environmental
sanitation and nutrition improvement promoted by the project social extension-
ists are expected to considerably improve the health status and productivity
of the rural people. In education, project actions are expected to increase
attendance in rural primary schools and greatly improve the quality of instruc-
tion. The adult literacy program would benefit the families of about
8,200 target group farmers.
60.       An inherent risk in multi-sectoral projects of this type is the
possibility of failure to achieve the necessary coordination in implementing
the various components. In this project such a situation could arise if, for
example, farm credit were not made available as anticipated, cold stores were
not ready in time or delays occurred in setting up the marketing system.
Safeguards built into the project include the annual review mechanism for
approving the implementation program of each participating agency, and a strong
project management mechanism including a well organized monitoring and evaluation
system, which would allow for early identification of problems and action by
the government.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
61.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Federative Republic of Brazil
and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the State of Paraiba and the
Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. Special conditions of the project are listed in Section
III of Annex III.
62.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
63.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
March 15, 1978
Washington, D.C.



- 23 -
ANNEX i
Page I
It41tl, .                  SOCIAL  INDICATORS DA4T   SMEET
'4tD  AREA  (THtOU  9831t                     ,                                         .a   .--..  
~~~~~~~~~~~~~............... ..................9kr _RNC OtTl (70
-                              906711~~~~~~PZI  syRC  I                     REFERENCE COUNTRIES  (19701
TOTAL        Ass2.O                                                 M7sT RECEsT
5RTt.         2029.6                            1960         1970    ESTIMATE                MEXICO             URUGUIY           JAPAN*
aND PER lmPITT * t51 )o0o,                                     s 5o,0*     ; 4O o   a *             690.0 *       ;94o .O       26 30.0
....................
POPJLATTIN  AND VITAL  STATISTISC
'DRDULAT1I   (cyD-Pe, MILLION)                  69.8         92.6        010.0 /a                  50.4            2.7         104.3
'ORULATTIN OENSITY
'E                                             I           110          1 3.0  /a               2b.0           15.0         280.0
PER  STB  Wm. ASOICJLTIIRAL  LAN)             44.0         U9-0          54.0 7I                52a0           It.0        1744.0
VITAL STATTSTTCS
CRi%OF RTPTA rATE  1/0T'3u.  AV)               r0,         18.46        77.1                    13.5           22.1          17.5
011.108  IpATA  RATE  1/TN1u.evA              11.7          D.           9.D                    10.2            92             7.1
%P.qT MORALITY  lAIr  I/THOu)              lAO.)n        t1o.0            .I. 8.5                               ,.          03.1
*LOFE  EYPC!A6Cv  *T  191R' (YRS)             Sb.0         59.4         616                     6246          6b9,3          71.1
GRnsA  0FPQ9lUCTTIN RATF                       2.6          2.t6         25                      3.i            1.4            1.0
'tPULATI IN rGQO'T' RAt (R
TnTAL                                          n.0          2.9          2.q                     3,4            0.7            1.0
IRMAI                                         S.C           5.          4.0                     A.R           1.2            4.0
JORAN DDPJLTT`I    (t 19 TOTAL                 46.0          6b.n         5. 1                    s.7    7F       . l          84.4
ASF qSTJ(TU!F  PPFRCEoU l
0 TI IU YEARs                               41.0          a242 0        tl7                    4h.2          28.3           24.0
IS  TI    PYEAQS                             S4.             . 55. o    5 1                    50.4           b3.5          68.c
bS  yF,PR   640  3,E                           l 31.0 3.)                3.2                      3.T7          0.2           7.1
CSE rOE0E'NCv  RAT53                              0.9          0.8          0.9                     t.n )0.6                     O.S
ECONO.!  OFD OFENCY  RATfl                      I .6          1.5          1.4 lb                  2.0           1.0            0.6
= twTI w LANTNS
OCCEPTIOS  C0J4ULAT7YF. TWJtI)                 .          50.0            ,,                   55.0             .. 
I.. FRI  It r..   wiP E 401 MN)                 ..          1.6           ....
OTT A    41 ,b0 FoPCE  (rT4'S'IT)             72T00.    29400 0        34100 0                llOOOn          1I(20.0      53300.0
'A Jc Fr3F  T0l AGRTCJLT'71E  (t)              52.0         40 4          37 8                   45.0           17.0          19.0
pEFPOLIYF   tX OF LATVR F'PCE) 0                               7.5          5.0                                   6 * 0 /a       I .2
INC:OME OOSTIJ8jTITN
X IF PRTVATp ICT01E RECO) RY.
4Is7c9T   SS O1r HOJSLHrLO!                   39,9 Ia      15 OI /                              31.A           19.0 /b       14 .2
IITFST  20% Or MOJSEHOLDS                      R.1 E       6e2 .07          .                   63.?          u7.5 7b        37.6
L62EMT   20X  Or H3J3EHJ0L.9                   3.57 /       1, oIa /H                            4.             4 U/b         2ib
LI.EST   uot OrF HTJSEWOLS                    I.3/         i0.o Ia                              10 .2          162  b        2 22.3
1IRTItIITTIN fiv LAN) ).NF9STP
...... ........,._.......
t 0-F.   qr TOD  100  OF O'pFRS                    ..        45.0             I.                  3,.1
X I-,F' ly %.ALLEST  1J0 J).ERS                    ..          1.5            .                     0T              ,             ,
4E'LTA   A4T NUTPTTIln
,.....................
7,Ji AT To  PDF    wvY!0C1A,                17n.0       lqo*0        1650.0 /c               14An.n         880.0          880.0
ODA   IL A[TT7I, PEP \I  sIq. prF9fl.                      3220 0 /b  202n.n /d                 lP10,  /a   33U0,0            24 00
'OPJLATIION  PEA  sI?AF0TA[ PFO                             20.0o         260.0                  960 ,0         I70 o          8 a0
PER `A'T   SJpP Y IF -
!tAL,MIS  rt 10    !OJIAN'F70                102.,        loq.o        115.0                    10.0         107.o         106.0
zPAOT;I  (lAo';  09    II. II                              hLA.0        67.0                   SS,             6h.0          76.0
-       O -Trw  AlT. Al0( P OLqE           3AS0         so.0            ,,                   2.0  /b       NA.?            5 .0
TEATw PATF  (ITIU)  .r.Es  I .4                    ,,           ,,           ,,                                  13             1.0
EDJCATT[)0
'A ld5TF) FcAT)LL.E 'T RATIO
'ATHAry  SrOY   L                             95.0         87.0         86,                   1 4.           1 06.0        100.0
sErTO oY  PrT7%L                              11.0             .         264 n                  2n            57.o          91.0
YE&VI S F Srw'OLIN    PRJvIlEv
(FTPRT &0  qE:'14T  LEVFL)                   11.0 I.0                   11.0                     2.n          12.o          12,n
V-1h477),AL FDN.%L9E4T
(0  00 SFTCnrNAy)                             19.0         17.0         10.0 /d                ?A.0           2 .      0        o0.0
AJLT  4T1FDACY lATE   x 16                      ,1.)         64.0            ..                   76.0          91.0           99.0
H0JSI'.I
'ERSI,q PDF   RlOm  (JR9MA,)                       ,,          1 0          1 .1 /c                22              * .          1.0
lCJPTIFT OVFLLINGS rITVOUT
'ORbN  WATER  (0t1                                        7T3.0/c       66.2 /a                61   Ic           . .          5.0
ACrESS Tt FLFCilICTTY
I1  iF ALL 0,FLLINSS)                           ,,        49.0          55.6                   59.n
?JPAl )jFe LOOTS CONNECTED
T0  ELEPTRTCTTY  (01                            ''                      1 2.5                  28.0
CtN 'i -0T T )1,
........
TaTT 'I-  TIEPS   AP 'E   I..i  'P)             060          400           62.0                  276.         36.o0         551.0
AAscc  2;  C       (PEP T'l7  POP)              7.0         25.0         35.0                   2?.0           'S .o          t1U0
ELFCoT17TT   (c.r4/y! PEP CaP)                 02,.0n      uAl.)         6A4.0                   567.0         762.o        3391 0
IeSAT 7T  rtKGY4 PE4 ZAP)                       A.0          2.7           2. 5                   31.           7,o           18.9
SEE   boTCS b9-    --r--T-IJ\.r  09  -EVERSF



- 24 -
ANNEX I
Page 2
NOTES
Unless other-iae noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 end 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970 and for Most Recent Estimate between
1-73 snd 1975.
*   GNP per capita data are based an World Bank Atlas methodology (1974-76 basis).
Japan has been selected a. an objective country since the Brazilian Governament has shoen particular interest in Japan's development experience,
lso the two governrents have conducted joint studies to identify possible future economic problens of Brazil on the basis of the experience in
lopOn
BRAZIL      1960    /a  Economically active population.
1970    /a  EcosoMmically active population;    /b  Hospital personnel;    /c  Inside only.
MOST RECENT ESTDITE         a  1976;       /b  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and ever to total labor force;    /c  1972;    Id  1971;
ae  Inside only
MEXICO      1970    /a  Including assistant nurses;    lb  1964-66;    /c  Inside only.
URUGUAY     1970    Ia  Montevideo only;    /b  1967.
R13, August 2, 1977
DlFINITIONS OF SOCIAI IlDICATOUS
Land Are-  (thou k.2)                                                                        Population per nursing person - Population divided by nssber of practicing
Total - Total surface ares conprising land area and inland waters,                             male and female graduate nurses, "trained" or "certified" nurses, and
Agric  - Most recent estinate of agricultural area used temporarily or pe-ma-                  auxiliary personnel with training or experience.
nently for  -ropa, peatures, market & kitchen gardens or to lie fallow.                    Population per hospital bed - Population divided by -nsber of hospital bed.
available in public and private general and specialieed hoapital sad
GNP por capita (5S$) - GNP per capita estimates at current market prices,                       rehabilitation centers; excludes nursing homes and establismsenta for
calculated by same conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1973-75 basis);                    custodial and preventive care.
1960; 1970 and 1975 data.                                                                  Per capita supply of calories (Y, of requirmenets) - Computed frot energy
equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita per day;
Population and vital statistic                                                                 available supplies comprise domestic production, iports less a-ports, and
Populati-n (nid-year million)   As of July first:  if not available, average                   changes in stock; net supplies exclude animel feed, seeds, quantities used
of two end-year estioates; 1160, 1970 and 1975 data,                                         in food procersing and losses in distribution; requirements were eatirated
by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity and heslth conaid-
Popolacion density - par 5quare kr - Mid-year population per square kilometer                  ering envirosmental temperature, body weights, age and sex distributions of
(100 heotares) of total ares                                                                 population, and allowing 10% for waste at household level.
opulation density - par square km of agtic  land - Computed  os above for                    Per capita supply of protein (arame par day) - Protein content of per capita
ofnicu tonsl land only.                                                                      net supply of food per day; net supply of food is defined as above; require-
ments for all co-ntries established by USDA Economic Research Services
Vital statistics                                                                                provide far a miaimias allowance of 60 groms of total protein per day, and
Crode birth rate per thousand, average - Annual live births per thousand of                     20 grams of animal and pulse prstein, of which 10 grams should be animal
nid-gear population; ten-year arithaetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970,                   protein; these standards are lower than those of 75 grams  of total protein
and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent eatiuste.                               and 23 grans of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by FAO
Crude death rate per thousand overage - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-year                  in the Third World Food Survey.
population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970 and five-                 Per capita protein supply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of food
year average ending in 1975 for cosat recent estimate,                                        derived from animals and pulses in grams per day.
Infant mortality rate (/thou) - Ansual deaths ef infants under one year of age               Death rate (,/thou) ages 1-4 - Annual deaths per thousand in age group 1-4
per theusand live births.                                                                    years, to children in this age grSop; suggested as an indicator of
Life pe.ctancy at birth (yre) - overage number of years of life remaining at                   mlnutrition.
birth; usually five-year average. ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
ing countries                                                                              Education
Gr-s0 reproduction rate - Average number of live daughters a woman will bear                  Adjusted enrollment ratio - primary school - Enrollment of all ages as per-
in her nonnal r-produrtive period if ahe experiences present age-specific                    centage of primary school-age population; includes children aged 6-11 years
fertility rotes;  .sually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                   but adjusted for different lengths of primary education; for countries with
for develeping coantries                                                                     universal education, enrolllent may exceed 1007. since some pupils are below
Population growth rate (%) - total - Compound annual growth rates of mid-year                   or above the official school age.
ppoplati-n for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                               Adiuated enrollment ratio - secondary school - Compated as above; secondary
poulctiosn growth rate (7,) - urban - Computed like growth rate of total                      education requires at least four years of approved primary inatruction;
populatica; different definitions of urban  areas may affect comparability of                provides general, vocational or teacher training instructiona for pupils
data  uenog countries                                                                         of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondance courses are generally ecludsd.
Jnb-n population (7. of total) - Ratio of urban to total population; different               Years of schooling provided (first and second levels) - Total years of
definitions  of urban areas may affect conparability of data among countries.                 schooling; at secondary level, vocational instruction my be partially or
completely excluded.
Age structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age (15-64 years),                  Vocational enrollment (7. of secondary) - Vocational institutions inclde
sad retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-year population,                        technical, indu trial or other programs which operate independently oa  as
Age dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to those                    departmenta of secondary institutions.
of ages 15 through 64.                                                                      Adult literacy rate (%) - Literate adolts (able to read and write) as per-
Ecosomlo dependency ratio - Ratic of population under 15 and 65 and over to                     centage of total adult popuation agd 15 years and ovr.
the labor force in age group of 15-64 years.
1amilv planning - acceptors (cumulative, thou) - C(eulative somber uf acceptors               Housing
of birth-castro) devices under auspices of national family planning program                 Persons per rpoo  (urban) - Average number of persons per room in occupied
since Inception.                                                                              conventional dwellings in urban areas; dwellings exclude non-permanent
Tasmily planning - users (7. of oorr(ed women) - Pernentages of married women of                structures   d unoccupied part.
child-bearing age (15-44 years) who ose birth-control devi-ee  to all married               Occupied dwell nocg ithout pined wate          0- pied nveional dwelings
women  -t: same age group.                                                                    in urban and rural areas without inside or outside piped water facilities
F.pi.-,t                                                                           :.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s ecetge of all o.ccupied dwellings..
fosployment                                                         Access to elec~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 trcity (.of all dwellings) - ou inldwellings with
Total laor forte (thousand) - Ecosnoically active persons, including armed                      el    ectricity in liing qurfters as prcen t of tetal dwellings win tubn ad
tortes and use=ployed bat -e1cuding husewives, students, etc.; definitions                    rural areas
in various con. r ttea are sot comparable.                                                  Rural dwellings connected to electricity (7) - Compated as above for rural
Labor force in agriculture (%) - Agricultcral labor force (in farming, forestry,                dwellings only.
hunting and fishing) as percentage of total labor force.
Unemployed (7 of labor force) - Unemployed are  susally defined as persons who                Consomption
are able and willing to take a job, out of a job On a given day, remained out               Radio receivers (per thou pop) - All types of receieers for radio broadcasts
of a jeb, and seeking work for a specified mini.mu  period mot exceeding one                  to general public per thousand of population; excludes unlicensed receivers
week; may not be comparable between countries due to different definitions                    in countries and in years when registration of radio sets use in effect;
of unemployed and source of data, e.g., employment office statistics, sample                  data for recent years may not be comparable since most countries abolished
surveys, compulsory unemployment insurance.                                                   licensing.
Passengr cars (per thou pop) -P Paseger cars c-opriar not or tars seating
ITcome distribution - Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind)                         sthen night persons; ecl udes aanbn1 crs, hearses  nd militarya
received by richest 57., richest 207, poorest 207., and poorest 407 of house-                 vehicles.
holds.                                                                                      Electricity (kwh/yr per cap) - Anou-I conaeasption of industrial, commercial
public an-rvt   lcrct   nklwtt hours per capita, generally
Distributioc ci land ownersbip -  Percentages of land owned by wealthiest 107.                  based on production data, without allowac  for losses in grids bt g       all-
and pooreat 107 of land  wners.                                                                ing for imports and exports of electricity.
Nwpit (kg/y pe a)- Per capita annual cosnomption in kilogr-u
Health and Nutrition                                                                            estimt   fyr per cap )pduction pur net impocta of nemprint
Population per phYsician - Population divided by nurber of practicing
physicians qualified from a medinal school at university level.



ANNEX I
- 25 -                                                              CPge 3
ECONAMIC IDEVELOPMENT DATA SHEET2
Prelimi-srd
__  _Arr.al__            _____                      rsetiees     Pre ecacd -   Proeeteres          teemeeud Avrerge Areath Rats
1973            1917             1975             1976                  1927          1980            198a          1974-7T    1977-80    1981-85         1973         1976          19870          198
A.     NATIONAI. ACCOUNTA                               Ml11-- US$ at 1973 Prices and ErAaeap Rate                                                                                                                         As Per-e-t of GDY
1.  GDP (Market Pracee ,                             77,h91          85,361           88,934           96,693           102,195         124,172          L88,849          7.5          6.5         8.7         100.0        lAo.7         102.3           102.2
2.    -,, Pt rom T-me af Trade                                         -791           -1,794           -1,499              -777          -2,746            -4,056          _            -           -             -          -1.5           -2 .3          -2.4
3   Cress Demestat 1etect                            77,891          84,370           87,140           95,153           101.1E8         11,426           184,793         T.A          6.3         8.8         100.0        100.0         100.0           100.0
A   Import.                                            ,577           8,757             ,7U6            8 239             8, 097          8,705            14,184         2.8          2. a          d           9.7          8.7            7.6            7.7
5.  Experta - Helmee                                  6,596           6,306             7,305           7313              7,953          11,286            18,515         3.1         115         10.4          8E5           7.7            9.3           1O,0
6.  Heperr-- TT Ad,eeled                              6,596           5,515            5,511            3,904             7,187           8,557            14,455         .5           9.9        11.0           8.5          6 2            7.0            7.8
7.  Reseerte Aap (4-6)                                  981           4,242            3,196            2,335               910             648              -275          _            _           -            1.2          2.5           0.5            -0.2
8   Cqnslnmprn 1-61,529                                              66,866           69,835           76,196            79T514            3,690          139,407         7.4          5.3         8.3          79.0         80.1           77 .           75.4
I. Iestnt                                            17,343          21,946           20,501           21,423            23,010          28,385           45.111          7.5          5.8         9.7          227.         22.5           23.4           24.4
in.  Narlemal Icceega                                 15,655          16,953           16,042           17,458            20,366          25,718           43,213          31,         10.2        10.9          20.1         18.4           21.2           23.4
11.  Deti         _ Seatage                          16,362          77,714           17,310           19,087            227,10          27.736           45,386          5.3          9.8        10,3          21.0         20.1           22.8           74.6
R.    MIRC13A8NTS- TRADtE                               Mli-ca US$ at C..t,,t1 Pai-ra                                                                                                                                      Ac Per-e-L at Sees1 Imeerts
1.  Imperts
CenSuRer Geede                                  1,175           1,620            1,358           1,510              1,585           2,036            4,228         10.3          7.7        15.8          18.2         12.3          11.2            11.1
Petreleuam  -d D-erai-ahla                        711           2,847            2,873           3,585              1,853           5,250            9,254         71.4         10.0         9.5          11.5         29.2          28.9            21.6
.itr,e_date Ceede                              2,214            5,073            4,006           3,664              3,855           5,024           11,029         18.3          8.2        17.0          35.8         29.8          27.7            28.8
Cspitel Goeds                                  2,143            3,108            3,912            3,517             3,_96           9,860           14,733         18.5         13.5        20.3          34.6         28.6          32.2            38.5
Tetal (FOB)                              6,192          12,641            12,169          12,277            12,690           18,151           38,242        18.7          10.3       16.0          100.0        100.0         100.0          108,0
2.  tEports                                                                                                                                                                                                             As Perce-- af Total Exports
Coffee                                          1,344             980              934            2,308             3,492           2,736             2,969        21.0          3.4        -0.7          21.7         23.7          14.5             6.9
Other Agrirettaral Goods                        2,490           3,415            3,481            3,029             3,948           6,315            14,783         6.8         20.2        18.5          40.2         29.9           33.4           34.3
Maneralc                                          430             641            1,027            1,085             1,082           2 433             5,941        39.5         22.4        19.5           6.4         10.7           12.9           13.8
Semi-Praceesed Goeds                             476              634              645              789               969           1,269             2,753        98.3         12.6        16.8           7.7          7.8           6.7             6.4
..mufactered Gqodc                              1,328           2,086            2,179            2,449             2,948           5,574            15,723        22.3         22.8        23.1          21.4         24.2           29.5           36.5
Other                                             161             195              209              381                97             595               930        33.0         11.8         9.4           2.6          3.8            3.1            2.2
Tols                                    6,199           7,951             8,670          10,130            12,936          18,922            43,099        17.8         16.9         17.9         100.0        100.0         IO1.0          100.0
C.     08C708 007P07                                    P--ete  af N8?a   atrCsta   93PataPa   ehmtdt
1.  AgrI-eltere                                          I1.3            15.1              15.0            14.3            14.4              14.4            12.2         5.4          6.5         5.3
2,  Industry                                             35.3             32.8             32.8            33.5            33.4              32.8            34.7         7.7           5.9         9.6
3.  Sercices                                             51.5            57.0              52.2            52.1            52.3              52.8            53.6         7.9          6.8         9.1
D.     PRICES (1973 = 1001
1.  Emport Pratt Index                                  100              135              126             146                172             179               251         9.9          5.2         7.0
2.  Impart Price l7d-e                                  100              156              171             184                192             242               328       16.5           7.1         6.3
3. Te=s af Trade  Indcx                                 100               86               74              80                 90              74                 76
4.  .t.eral Price Itdte                                 100              129              164             232                 -               -                  -
5.  Acecage  rExhangt Race                              10U              112              134             178-6
E.     SELECTED INDICATORS                              1949-73          1974-76          1977-83         1981-85                                        P.        EPLLOYMF.NT                         1970       1975       1980
1,  1408                                             1.80            3,60              3.50            2.63                                                1.  LabL r Porce (elli-e)                29.4       34.1       39.4
2.  Impart Plasnacaty                                1.93           -0.03              0.46            1.03                                                2.  OeeNpleyceet                          7.5        5.0        6.9
i.  Actrage Ntetral  Ra-ctt late                     3.21            0.13              0.27            0,23                                                       17, at P.1.l
4.  Marglt_l Sateemal slearge Rate                   0.31            0.03              0.29            0.72                                                 3.  Replaymey-t  (ealle-)               27.2       32.4       36.7
5.  Imp-rtt/GDP                                      0.075           0.099             0.076           0.074                                                     (X thaeos)
6.  Ieaetme-t/GDP                                    0.229           0.237             n.225           0.235                                             3.1.  Agrae-ltArc                          43.8       39.5       37.6
7.  R--esrte Gap GDP                                 0.01            0.04              7.01           -0.02                                              3.2.  Indut-ry                             18.0       19.8       18,8
3.3.  itreetcs                            33.2       40.7       43.6
C,     P08L15 P1NA3Lt 61
1.  Crtent ReIe---                                  11.0            11.2              11.2            12.1
1.1.  T'K ReaeueI 10.4                                                11.0              10.5            11.4
2.  C-prent Etpsedit-ccs                             6.1             5.8               6.2             7.9
3.  CGrrett Saaemga                                  4.9             5.4               5.0             4.8
4.  Capital REpea,dit-ree                            4.6             4.9               5.4             4.8
4.1.  Cverenment Pened Capital PFr--aci                3.9              4.2              .8
8.     CURRENT FEDERAL GOVERNMENT EXPENDITURE           Prcent af Total
1973            1974             1975
1.    EdetatSic                                       8.6              9.0              9.8
2.    Other Serial Scevrt s                          25.6            24.0              24.0
3.    Agrie-ltlre                                     2.1              1.5              2.1
4.    Other E--nomit S-traita                        11.7             12.5             15.0
5     Admemaatraoi-e -od -fe-ts                      35.9             IS.9             33.3
6.    Other                                          16.3            16.7              19.4
Total Correct Ecpend1t,are                  100.0G           100.0            100.0
a!  Details       a my -LotnsumltotClt Seca lraunding.
b/  Peder-l  ac-ern-net.
r/  Inclediti state and    ...aatapa l oa.erq7--ts.



- 26 -
ANNEX I
BALANCE OF PAY>DiNTS AND EXTEIRNAL ASSISTANCE                                            Page 4
(Million US$)
A C T U A L                       Preliminary Estimate             P R O J E C T E D
1973           1974            1975            1976             1977           1978            1979           1980             1985
A. Summary of Balance of Payments
1.    Exports (incl. NFS)                                          6,596           8,471           9,255          10,657          13,583         15,464          17,374          20,232          46,766
2.    Imports (incl. NFS)                                           7,577         14,678          14,296          14,435          14,902          16,829         18,948          21,276          44,809
3.    Resource Balance                                             - 981          -6,207          -5,037          -3,778          -1,319          -1,365         -1,574          -1.043            1,957
4.    Net Factor Service Income                                     - 734           - 916         -1,735          -2,288          -2,624          -3,051          -3,383          -3,791          -5,416
1.  Net Interest Payments                                       - 514           - 652          -1,463          -1,758         -2,159          -2,533          -2,810          -3,155          -4,336
2.  Direct Investment Income                                    - 198           - 248           - 235           - 380          - 415           - 468           - 523           - 586          -1,030
3.  Other Factor Service Income                                 -  22           -  16           -  37           - 150          -  50           -  50           -  50           -  50           -  50
5.    Current Transfers (Net)                                          27               1            -                 4              10              10              10              10              10
6.    Balance on Current Account                                  -1,688          -7,122          -6,772          -6,062          _3,933          -4,407          -4,948          -4,825          -3,449
7.    Private Direct Investment                                       940             887            895           1,016           1,050           1,100           1,265           1,455           2,340
Medium and Long Term Loans
a. Official Sources
8.    Disbursements                                                   562             979            856              768          1,024           1,234           1,404           1,585           2,722
9g    Amortization                                                   -217          - 191           - 273           - 384           - 367           - 391           - 488           - 597          -1,519
10.    Net Disbursements                                               345             788            583              384            657              842             915            988           1,203
b. Private Sources
11.    Disbursements                                                 3,993          6,080           5,974           7,388           5,218           6,354           7,416           7,370           9,215
12.    Amortization                                                -1,455          -1,716          -1,868          -2,488          -2,992          -3,892          -4,649          -4,989          -7,024
13.    Net Disbursements                                             2,538          4,364           4,106           4,900           2,226           2,462           2,767           2,381           2,191
14.    Use of IMF Resources                                            -                 7             -               -               -               -               -              -                -
15.    Short-term Capital and Capital NE]                              424           - 123          - 142           1,961              255                                                             -
16.    Change in Reserves (- = increase)                           -2,559              953          1,046          _2,193            -255              -               -              -            -1,706
17.    Foreign Exchange Reserves                                     6,551          5,598           4,552           6,745           7,000           7,000           7,000           7,000          11,202
(End of Period)
B.  Grant and Loan Commitments
1.    Total M&LT Loan   .                                          4,770       .   7,034           6,946           8,687
11.  IBRD                                                            199             140            426              486
1.2.  1DB                                                              86            203             167              186
1.3.  Governments                                                     529             518            512            1,251
1.4.  Suppliers                                                       857          1,088           1,376            1,300
1.5.  Bonds                                                            37              25            -                139
1.6.  Financial Credits                                            3,146           5,103           4,515           6,076
C.  Memor.and,,m Items
1.    Gront EIement of Total Commitmenits                               2.5             2.5            2.5              2.5
2.    Average lnterest (Percent)                                        8.8             9.5            9.5              9.4
3.    Avcrage, Maturity (Yeairs)                                        7.2             9,0            9.9              8.3
Januarv 1978



-27 -
ANNEX I
DEBT AND CREDITWORTHTIESS al                           Page 5
1973             1974           1975            1976
A. Medium-and Long-Term Debt
(Disbursed only)
1.  Total Debt Outstanding (end of period)                         12,571           17,166         21,171          25,985
1.  Financial Credits                                           7,848          11,211          14,561         18,194
2.  Others (Bit., Multi., Bonds, Suppliers)                    4,723            5,955           6,610          7,791 .
3.  Public and Publicly Guaranteed                             6,496            8,533          11,461         14,852
4.  Private                                                    6,075            8,633           9,710         11,133
2.  Net Debt Service                                                2,186           2,572           3,583          4,668 -
1.  Total Interest                                                840           1,370           1,o28          2,039 -
2.  Net Interest                                                 514              652           1,463          1,758
3.  Public Debt Service                                              --             1,287           1,550          1,990
B.  Debt Burden
1.  Net Debt Service Ratio                                             28.6             30.4           38.7           43.3
2.  Total Net Debt Service Ratio _/                                    36.1            33.3            45.1           46.5
3,  Public Debt Service Ratio                                           --             15.2            16.7            18.7
4.  Liquidity Ratio c/                                                 19.4             24.7           35.0           33.6
5.  Net Debt Service/GDP d/                                             2.8              2.5            2.9            3.4
6.  Public Debt Service/GDP d/                                          --               1.2            1.2             1.4
7.  Total DOD/GDP  /                                                   16.1            16.4            17.2           19.1
C.  Terms
1.  Interest on Total DOD/Total DOD                                     8.8            10.9            10.5           10.6
2.  Net Debt Service/Total DOD                                         17.4            15.0            16.9           18.0
D. Dependency Ratios for M&LT Debt
I.  Gross Disbursements/Imports (ind. NFS)                             60.2            48.1           47.1            56.5
2.  ;et Transfer/Imports (ind. NFS)                                    27.0            25. 7          19.4            22.5
3.  Net Transfer/Gross Disbursements                                   44.9            52.6           41.3            39.8
E.  Exposure
1.  IBRD Disb./Gross Total Disb.                                        4.2             3.5            3.7             2.1
2.  IBRD DOD/Total DOD                                                  5.1             5.1            5.2            4.7
3.  IBRD Debt Service/Net Debt Service                                  3.2             3.3            2.6            2.9
F.  External Debt (Disbursed Only)                                                      Outstanding December 31, 1976
Amount                             Percent
1.  IBRD                                                                      1,217                                4.7
2.  Other Multilateral                                                          557                                2.1
3.  Governments                                                               2,862                               11.0
4.  Suppliers                                                                 2,414                                9.3
5.  Bonds                                                                       289                                1.1
6.  Financial Credits                                                        18,194                               70.0
7.  Other                                                                       452                                1.7
8.  Total M&LT-Debt                                                          25,985                              100.0
9.  Total Public M&LT Debt                                                   14,852                               57.1
G.  Debt Profile
1.  Net Debt Service 1977-80/Total DOD end of 1976                                   108.5
a/  Details of debt for end 1977 are not vet available; 1977 figures quoted in text are prelIminarv estrmaree.
b/ Including Net Direct Investment Income.
c/  Net Debt Service as a percent of exports plus reserves in excess of 3 months imports.
d/  In constant 1973 Prices.                                                                                     January 1978
--  Not Available



- 28 -
ANNEX 11
Page 1
TlHE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPEUATIONS IN BRAZII,
A.  SUMMIARY STATEMIENT OF LOANS
(As of January 31, 1978)
Amount less
Loan #  Year                Borrower              Purpose       Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
Thirty-six loans fully disbursed                                    982.8
677    1970  Furnas - Centrais Eletricas        Power                80.0           3.3
Marimbondo
728    1971  Centrais Eletricas do Sul          Power                70.0           4.3
do Brasil - Salto Osorio
755    1971  Brazil                             Education             8.4           1.5
756    1971  Brazil                             Ports                45.0          19.6
786    1971  Rede Ferroviaria Federal           Railways             46.0           5.0
797    1972  Coimpanhia Siderurgica Nacional  Industry               64.5            .4
813 1/ 1971  Brazil                             Roads                89.0             .2
828    1972  Companhia Siderurgica              Industry             64.5           2.0
Paulista
829    1972  Centrais Eletricas de Minas        Power                60.0             .4
Gerais - Sao Simao
853    1972  Brazil                             Land Settlement       6.7           4.6
887 1/ 1973  LIGHT - Servicos de                Power                20.0           2.2
Eletricidade S.A.
923    1973  Furnas Centrais Eletricas -        Power               125.0          60.3
Itumbiara
924    1973  Brazil                             Agro-Industry        54.0          32.1
1008    1974  Cia. Hidro Eletrica do Sao         Power                81.0          44.4
Francisco-Paulo Afonso IV
1009    1974  Banco Nacional de liabitaco        Water Supply         36.0          10.2
1067    1974  Brazil---                          Education            23.5          22.9
1074    1975  Rede Ferroviaria Federal           Railways            175.0          61.6
1075    1975  Brazil                             Roads               110.0          65.8
1151    1975  Companhia Siderurgica Nacional  Industry                95.0          92.2
1152    1975  Companhia Siderurgica Paulista  Industry                60.0          58.1
1153    1975  Brazil                             Agriculture          23.0          18.2
1171    1975  FEPASA - Ferrovia Paulista         Railwzays            75.0          55.5
1195    1976  Brazil                             Rural Developmenit  12.0           11.5
1/   Fully disbursed during February 1978.



-29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
A.  SUMMIARY STATEMENT OF LOANS (Continued)
(As of January 31, 1978)
Amount less
Loan # Year                Borrower               Purpose      Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
1206   1976  Brazil                           Development Bank       85.0           79.7
1207   1976  Brazil                           Feeder Roads           55.0           55.0
1249   1976  Brazil                           Agriculture            40.0           39.1
1256   1976  Petrobras Fertilizantes          Fertilizer             50.0           39.2
1257   1976  Compalhia Parahaense de          Power                  52.0           48.3
Energia Eletrica - COPEL
1300   1976  Eletrobras                       Power                  50.0           48.8
1302   1976  Brazil                           Nutrition              19.0            18.6
1309   1976  Banco Nacional de liabitacao   Water Supply             40.0           37.6
1317   1976  Brazil                           Agro-Industry          83.0           83.0
1343   1977  ELETROSUL                        Power                  82.0           72.4
1362   1977  State of Minas Gerais            Rural Develop.         42.0           39.9
1406   1977  Petrobras Fertilizantes          Fertilizer             64.0           62.0
1411   1977  Fertilizantes Vale do            Fertilizer             82.0           76.6
Rio Grande S.A.-VALEFERTIL
1452/1 1977  Brazil                           Vocational Training  32.0             32.0
1488/1 1977  Brazil                           Ceara Rural Develop. 17.0              17.0
Total                                               3,199.4 /2
Of which has been repaid to the Bank                  435.3
Total outstanding                                   2,764.1
Amount sold                            45.6
of which has been repaid             27.4            18.2
Total held by Bank                                  2,745.9
Total undisbursed                                                  1    .5
/1   Not yet effective.
/2   No IDA Credits have been made to Brazil.  On February 28, 1978, the
Executive Directors approved a loan of US$110 nmillion for a sewage
collectioni and treatmuent project for Sao Paulo (see Report No. P-2208--BR
dated February 8, 1978). The loan was signed on March 10, 1978 (Loan
1525 BR).



- 30 -                                     ANNEX II
Page 3
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (As of 4-a tyrscy31,1 1978)
Fiscal Year                             Oblig-r                                         Type of Business                                            Aioent in US$ million
Leans    Equity    Total
19S7             Siemens do Brosil Cia. do Elotricidade                            Electrical Eqeipnnnt                                         2.00      -        2.00
19SS            Olinkr-ft, S.A. Celulose e Papel                                   Pulp and Paper                                               1.20       -       1.20
1958             D.L.R. Plestices do Brasil, S..                                   Automotive Parts                                             0.45      -        0.45
1958            Wiliys-O-erlaod do Brasil, S.A.
Ind-strie e Conercio                                            Motor Vehicles                                              2.45       -        2.45
1959            Coopanhia Mineira de CiFests Portland, S.A.                        Cement                                                       1.20      -        1.20
1959             Champion Celuloe1 , S.A.                                          Pulp                                                         4.00      -        4.00
1966/1968/
1972            Ares Villares, S.A.                                                Steel                                                        8.0      1.93     9.93
1966/1969        Papal a Celoeine Ca-arinano., S.A.                                Polp and Paper                                               3.78      3.41     7.19
1967/1972        Eltra-ettil, S.A. - Indascria a Comoocs
do Fretilizances                                                F-rtiliz-rs                                                 8.22      3.03    11.25
199q             Perroqainica Poise, S.A.                                          Petrorke-hicals                                             5.50      2.88      8.38
1970             Polielefines, S.A. lndostria a Caarsio                            Petr-chenitals                                               5.50     2.88      8.38
1971              nit-eno, S.A. Tod-cutria e  Comarcio                             Potrookehsicals                                             4.60      1.44      6.04
1971             Ind-stria do Calalose Borregaaod, S.A.                            Pulp                                                        4.90       -        4.90
1972/1975       Compeohia do Ci-ntoo N-cional do Mines                             Cement                                                     29.14      3.20    32.34
1973/1974/1977  Cempa-hia Sidarsrgica do Goen.bora - COSIUA                        Steel                                                      76.96      7.50    84.46
1973            Capitol Market Development Ford - FUMCAP                           Cepital l'arkert Dovlompmt                                  5.00       -        5.00
1973            Empresa do Deseovolvime-oo do R-c-rsos
7/in..eis - CODEMIN, S.A.                                       Nickel Mining .od Refining                                 26.00      4.40    30.40
1974            lods,rns  Villares, S.A.                                           ElevatorG and Indostciol Eqoip-ent                          6.00       -        e.00
1974            Fabei-a do Tecido- Tatnape, S.A.                                   Iextiles                                                   31.00       -       31.00
1979             a apeac  CFrbonos Ind.. tri.is Lad.                               Ca-b-o Black                                                6.18      1.08      7.26
197'            Oxitree  Nrdesce, S.A.                                             Pt-roche-icels                                             11.00       -       1O.O9
1976             Santista Ind-stria - Te-til do Nordeste, S.A,                     Textiles                                                    6.45      1.80      7.45
Teconor S.A. - Tencil  aarlnenee do Norde-Lt                       Tereil,s                                                   6.00       -        6.00
1977             FMB S, A. Predeotos M-9.ol-rgic-s                                 Iron sod Alemisc-  Cas-tigs                                20.00       -       20.00
1977            Minreraca  Rio do Norts S.A.                                       Mining                                                     15.00       -       15.00
1978             Cim-tal Siderorgia S.A.                                           Iron and St-el                                              7.0        3.0     10.0
Total Gross Commsitmensts                                                                                                   296.53     35.75   332.28
Lena Caocellatio-s, Terminations, Repayments and Slons                                                                     194.74        8.43   203.17
Total Cemmitmentr Ne. Held by IFC                                                                                          101.79      27.32   129.11
Total Unodiskersed                                                                                                          28.13       3.08    31.21



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
There are now 34 effective Bank loans under disbursement:
Loan No.
677       Marimbondo Hydroelectric Project:  US$80 million loan of May 25,
1970; Effective Date: September 29, 1970; Closing Date:
August 31, 1978. The Marimbondo hydroelectric station and the
bulk of the related transmission lines were completed on schedule,
and the Marimbondo power plant (1440 MW) was inaugurated on May 28,
1976. The project has been successfully implemented by FURNAS, the
consultants and the contractors, in spite of a cost overrun of
about 43%. In part, the cost overrun resulted from an increase in
the scope of the transmission system component to allow for the
construction of a more economical and reliable system, and from
larger civil works as a result of unforeseen geological problems.
The cost overrun, however, does not affect the economic justif-
ication of the project.
728       Salto Osorio Hydroelectric Project:  US$70 million loan of April 5,
1971; Effective Date: July 19, 1971; Closing Date: May 31, 1978.
The physical component of the project has been successfully com-
pleted. Two of the four generating units are now in commercial
operation. A cost overrun of about US$120 million, 79% of the
original cost estimate, has not significantly affected the economic
justification of the project. This cost overrun was financed by
loans from ELETROBRAS and a commercial bank.
755       Education Project:  US$8.4 million loan of June 21, 1971; Effective
Date: October 28, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1978. Progress on
the construction and equipping of the project schools is now proceed-
ing satisfactorily, and 80% of the project has been completed. A
20% cost overrun, mainly for civil works, is being financed by the
Government. Project implementation is behind the original schedule
due to initial delays in establishing and staffing the project unit
and because of subsequent changes in project content.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not mirport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 32 -                      ANNEX II
Page 5
Loan No.
756       Santos Port Project:  US$45 million loan of June 21, 1971; Effective
Date: October 29, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1979. After long
delays, project execution is now proceeding satisfactorily. Con-
struction of the railway access Paratinga-Pereque by FEPASA is
completed. The inability of RFFSA to pay its share of the costs for
the left bank rail access was overcome by PORTOBRAS which obtained a
loan from Banco do Brasil for this purpose. Because of insufficient
increases in tariffs to compensate for inflation, Santos port is
experiencing financial difficulties.
786       Railway Project - MBR:  US$46 million loan of August 25, 1971;
Effective Date: February 4, 1972; Closing Date: March 31, 1978.
The project is now completed, except for the construction and equip-
ping of the Borrower's main workshop at Jaceaba. The purchase of
equipment for this workshop was delayed because of a change in the
location of the workshop resulting from the Government's decision to
build a new railway line between the cities of Belo Horizonte and
Volta Redonda.
797       CSN Steel Expansion Project, Stage II:  US$64.5 million loan of
February 8, 1972; Effective Date: August 31, 1972; Closing Date:
March 31, 1978. Although one year behind schedule and with a
significant increase in cost, the project is now physically complete.
Final payments on equipment contracts are being made now and are
expected to be completed by March 31, 1978.
828       COSIPA Steel Expansion Project, Stage II:  US$64.5 million loan
of June 14, 1972; Effective Date: October 5, 1972; Closing
Date: June 15, 1978. The latest cost estimate is US$862
million, an increase of about 60% over the appraisal estimate
due primarily to increased local construction costs. This will
not significantly affect the economic justification of the project.
The project is now expected to be completed by June, 1978, about
24 months behind the original schedule.
829       Sao Simao Hydroelectric Project:  US$60 million loan of June 14,
1972; Effective Date: September 20, 1972; Closing Date:
September 30, 1979. Construction of the project is proceeding
according to schedule. An anticipated 50% cost overrun, which
does not affect the economic justification of the project, is being
covered by local and foreign borrowing.
853       Alto Turi Land Settlement Project:  US$6.7 million loan of July 24,
1972; Effective Date: February 15, 1973; Closing Date: December 1,
1978. The settlement agency, COLONE, has prepared revised farm
development plans whose credit component, to be financed by public
financial institutions, will be significantly higher than originally
estimated, although still low in comparison to other settlement



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Loan No.
projects. Administrative delays in the release of public funds for
farm credit, road construction and COLONE working capital require-
ments and difficulties in recruiting project staff delayed the start
of project execution. COLONE continues to be hampered by lack of
assured financing, and this problem is compounded by cost overruns
presently amounting to 130%.
923       Itumbiara Hydroelectric Project:  US$125 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: October 30, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1982. Construction of the earth-fill dam was delayed by about
nine months due to very heavy rains. However, construction of the
cDncrete ia- and power house is ahead of schedule. FURNAS expects
to complete the power plant in Decembe.- 1981, about four months
behind schedule. The present cost estimate is about 88% over the
appraisal cost estimate, 13% of which is due to the need for
increased physical quantities due to geological problems. The rest
of the increase is due to a substantial increase in the size of the
transmission works and to an increase in the cost of civil works.
However, the project remains economically justified.
924       Agro-Industries Credit Project:  US$54 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: March 11, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1978. Disbursements for sub-loans totalling US$14.7 million were
made during 1975-76 under procedures which were not in accordance
with the Loan Agreement. These funds have now been prepaid by
the Government, reducing the effective loan amount to US$39.3
million. During the second half of 1977, the Government
restricted the funds available for sub-loans under this project
in line with its policy of restricting credit expansion to control
inflation. However, budgetary allocations for 1978 will allow
commitments to continue at the rate envisaged in earlier forecasts.
1008      Paulo Afonso IV Hydroelectric Power Project:  US$81 million loan of
June 17, 1974; Effective Date: April 15, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978. Resettlement of the 9,700 families being dis-
placed by the Sobradinho reservoir is nearly completed, and new
towns to house the urban portion of the population have been
constructed. The rural population is being offered the opportunity
of resettlement in a promising new agricultural area in the Corrente
River region in the western part of the State of Bahia. Those who
prefer to remain near their present houses are being resettled in
new villages on the edge of the future reservoir. The construction
of the underground power station and Sobradinho Dam is proceeding
on schedule. Construction of the transmission lines and sub-stations
is about 12 months behind schedule.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 7
Loan No.
1009      Minas Gerais Water Supply Project:  US$36 million loan of June 17,
1974; Effective Date: January 9, 1975; Closing Date: August 15,
1979. Difficulties in subproject preparation, which are now
resolved, caused disbursements to fall behind schedule. However,
the loan is now fully committed to 41 subprojects of which 29 are
under construction and 12 completed.
1067      Second Education Project:  US$23.5 million loan of December 27,
1974; Effective Date:  April 17, 1975; Closing Date:  December 31,
1979. Project execution is proceeding reasonably well, and is ex-
pected to be completed by the target date. Project implementation
units have been established in all eight project states and these,
together with the main project unit, PREMEN, are working well. The
pre-investment studies in the Northeast, financed under the loan,
have been completed and have yielded useful information for future
sector investment planning.
1074      Second Railway Project:  US;175 milion ioan ot January i/, i.7;
Effective Date: June 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Project execution is progressing satisfactorily and appropriate
steps are being taken to strengthen project management and control.
Cost estimates for the Investment Plan, of which the project is a
part, have increased substantially on several items. Therefore,
the Plan has been revised and several items have been deleted or
postponed. This revision is not expected to affect significantly
the items included under Bank financing. Although the financial
situation of the borrower improved in the first nine months of
1977, further improvement is necessary for it to be able to effec-
tively carry out its investment program. The Government recently
decided to deregulate most freight tariffs. Beginning in 1978,
it will make payments to the railways to meet deficits on uneconomic
services which it wishes to remain in operation. These actions
should significantly improve the borrower's financial position.
1075      Fifth Highway Project:  US$110 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: May 15, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. Roadworks are
progressing well, and detailed engineering studies for road con-
struction and road rehabilitation are now completed. Implementation
of the road maintenance component is making progress.
1151      CSN Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$95.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: April 30, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. The latest cost estimate is US$3,025 million, an
increase of about 67% over the appraisal estimate due to a slower
than expected start of ;-oject implementation, higher than expected



- 35 -                      ANNEX II
Page 8
Loan No.
construction costs, difficulties in holding the scope of the project
to its essentials and some problems in the management of the expan-
sion program. At the request of the Bank, a thorough review of the
project was made. Substantial changes were made resulting in better
management and control of the project.  The project is now progress-
ing satisfactorily in line with the revised cost estimate and
schedule.
1152      COSIPA Steel Expansion Project - St-ge Ill:  U'S$60.0 mill  n loan
of August i,, 197., zftective Date:  March 4, 1976; Closing  Date:
June 30, 1980. The project is about two years behind schedule. The
cold mill has been deleted from the project, due to changes in
forecast demand. The effect of this change on the economic jvistif-
icat4cn -' the project aacd its financial implications is presently
being investigated.
1153      Lower Sao Francisco Polders Project:  US$23.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: November 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979. CODEVASF made only limited progress on
construction for this project during 1977 because of heavy rains
in the project area. Physical completion of the project will
probably extend to 1980, and postponement of the closing date may
be required. Current cost estimates show an 80% increase over
the appraisal estimate of US$56.5 million. These increases have
resulted from design changes, rapid increases in the costs of
civil works and equipment, and in the cost of land expropriation.
Modifications in the design of emergency and irrigation works are
being studied by CODEVASF and its consultants with a view to
limiting further cost increases. Project implementation has
encountered certain opposition from the population of the Project
area, which disagreed with the principles and procedures for land
expropriation, settlement, future land tenure and the structure of
the proposed cooperative system. The implementing agency CODEVASF
is revising the social strategy to be followed under the project
by improving communication and relations with the area population.
1171      Third Railway Project (FEPASA):  US$75.0 million loan of November 12,
1975; Effective Date: March 24, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. The Transport
Master Plan Study for Sao Paulo is presently under way and the first
results are expected shortly. The technical assistance program
which is intended to improve FEPASA's operations, marketing and data
processing systems is showing results. Although FEPASA's financial
position has improved, it is still not satisfactory. The Government
recently deregulated most freight tariffs. Beginning in 1978, the
state government will make payments to the railways to meet deficits
on uneconomic services which it wishes to remain in operation.
These actions should assist in significantly improving FEPASA's
financial position.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 9
Loan No.
1195      Rio Grande do Norte Rural Development Project:  US$12.0 million loan
of March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 30, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981. Progress is being adversely affected by funding
delays and marketing problems in the principal project crop, peren-
nial cotton. Means of resolving the problem are under discussion.
Implementation of the research and credit components of the project
has been particularly successful. Disbursements are behind the
original appraisal schedule, partially because of funding delays.
1206      Development Banking Project:  US$85.0 million loan of March 1, 1976;
Effective Date: August 26, 1976; Closing Date: March 31, 1979.
Project implementation is behind schedule. The major reasons are:
(i) an initial delay in the commitment of funds under this project
because of differences between the relending terms of the agencies
concerned and those required under the Loan Agreement. These
differences are now resolved; (ii) a leveling off of the industry's
demand for investment financing; and (iii) resource constraints of
the National Development Bank (BNDE). Measures to accelerate
commitment of the loan are under study.
1207      Secondary and Feeder Roads Project:  US$55.0 million loan of
March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 13, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. After some initial delays, project execution
is now progressing satisfactorily. Three sub-loans totalling
US$12.6 million of Bank financing have been approved and two more
are expected to be approved soon.
1249      Agricultural Research I Project:  US$40.0 million loan of April 27,
1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. The project is progressing well and in some
areas ahead of schedule. Implementation of the civil works program
is actively in progress at 21 research stations. Facilities and
research programs at seven experiment stations in the three priority
regions (North, Northeast and Central-West) are proceeding in
accordance with project goals. Staffing is in advance of project
goals.
1256      Araucaria Fertilizer Project:  US$52.0 million loan of May 19, 1976;
Effective Date: July 20, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The project is proceeding according to schedule.
1257      COPEL Power Distribution Project:  US$52.0 million loan of May 19,
1976; Effective Date: August 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1979. Project execution is on schedule and about 30% completed.
Disbursements are considerably behind appraisal forecast, mainly
because of delays in procurement of major subtransmission equipment.
The Borrower is updating the 1976-79 distribution expansion program,
and the adjusted program should bring disbursements closer to the
original schedule by year-end 1978.



ANNEX II
Page 10
Loan No.
1207      Secondary and Feeder Roads Project:  US$55.0 million loan of
March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 13, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. After some initial delays, project execution
is now progressing satisfactorily. Two sub-loans totalling US$8.2
million of Bank financing have been approved and three more total-
ling US$10.6 million are expected to be approved soon.
1249      Agricultural Research I Project:  US$40.0 million loan of April 27,
1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. The project is progressing well and in some
areas ahead of schedule. Implementation of the civil works program
is actively in progress at 21 research stations. Facilities and
research programs at seven experiment stations in the three priority
regions (North, Northeast and Central-West) are proceeding in
accordance with project goals. Staffing is in advance of project
goals.
1256      Araucaria Fertilizer Project:  US$52.0 million loan of May 19, 1976;
Effective Date: July 20, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The project is proceeding according to schedule.
1257      COPEL Power Distribution Project:  US$52.0 million loan of May 19,
1976; Effective Date: August 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1979. Project execution is on schedule and about 30% completed.
Disbursements are considerably behind appraisal forecast, mainly
because of delays in procurement of major subtransmission equipment.
The Borrower is updating the 1976-79 distribution expansion program,
and the adjusted program should bring disbursements closer to the
original schedule by year-end 1978.
1300      Northeast Power Distribution:  US$50.0 million loan of August 27,
1976; Effective Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30,
1980. The project is proceeding according to schedule.
1302      Nutrition Research and Development:  US$19.0 million loan of
October 1, 1976; Effective Date: December 30, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980. Disagreements, now resolved, on nutri-
tional and technical criteria have delayed BNDE participation in
the project. The INAN project unit is staffed with seven pro-
fessionals out of the ten needed. The nutrition delivery system's
field tests are proceeding reasonably well. The other components
of the project are proceeding on schedule.
1309      Second Minas Gerais Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$40.0
million loan of August 27, 1976; Effective Date: January 31, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1980. The Bank has approved 30 sub-
projects under this loan, the majority of which are for communities
with less than 5,000 inhabitants. 15 additional sub-projects are
being reviewed. Disbursements are underway.



-38 -                        ANNEX II
Page 11
Loan No.
1317      Second Agro-Industries Credit Project:  US$83.0 million loan of
September 22, 1976; Effective Date: March 25, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Because of commitment delays under the First
Agro-Industries Credit Project, commitments for the second loan
are not expected to begin until later in 1978. Budgetary allocations
for 1978 will allow commitments to continue at the rate envisaged
in earlier forecast.
1343      ELETROSUL Transmission Project:  US$82.0 million loan of February
23, 1977; Effective Date: June 13, 1977; Closing Date: December
31, 1981. Procurement and construction are now underway and pro-
ceeding according to schedule, with no major problems encountered.
Disbursements are lagging behind the appraisal forecast because of
delays in preparing bidding documents which resulted in delays of
contract awards. However, disbursements are expected to be on
schedule by year-end 1978.
1362      Minas Gerais Rural Development Project:  US$42.0 million loan of
February 23, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. Organization of this project is progressing
well. However, because of the agricultural credit restrictions
imposed by the Government during the second half of 1976 and in
early 1977, as part of its program to control inflation, credit
for this project was delayed. However, Banco do Brasil has recently
agreed to release the necessary funds, and the credit program is
expected to resume according to the agreed schedule. Due mainly to
administrative difficulties, participation in this project by land-
less producers is significantly lower than originally envisaged,
but the Government and the participating banks have given assurances
that this would be corrected in the future. Both the health and
education components have advanced significantly.
1406      Sergipe Fertilizer Project:  US$64.0 million loan of April 29, 1977;
Effective Date: August 31, 1977; Closing Date: November 30, 1981.
The Project is proceeding according to schedule.
1411      VALEFERTIL Phosphate Fertilizer Project:  US$82.0 million loan of
April 29, 1977; Effective Date: July 29, 1977; Closing Date:
May 31, 1980. The Project is proceeding according to schedule.



- 39 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
BRAZIL
PARAIBA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by country to prepare project: approximately
12 months (from April 1976 - April 1977)
(b) Project prepared by: CEPA-PB
(c) First presentation to the Bank: April 1975
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission: April 30, 1977
(e) Completion of Negotiations: February 24, 1978
(f) Planned Deadline for Effectiveness: July 31, 1978
Section II - Special Bank Implementing Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) Prior to January 1, 1979 the government would furnish the Bank
with the findings and recommendations of a land tenure survey,
and the Bank would be given an opportunity to comment (para. 37).
(b) As a condition for disbursement for the cold storage sub-component,
the Bank would be furnished with satisfactory detailed plans for
this facility (para. 38).
(c) Market prices for produce marketed under the project would be
sufficient to cover operating costs and eventually to recover
investment costs of the marketing centers (para. 38).
(d) In order to ensure that credit is used only for the purposes
for which it is extended, a ceiling of 100 MVR (about US$6,000)
would be placed on the total indebtedness of any single benefi-
ciary, close supervision of credit requests and monitoring of
disbursements would take place, and the Bank would be informed
of any modifications in credit terms (para. 42).



- 40 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(e) As a condition for disbursement for construction of any school
in the education component, the Bank would be furnished with
satisfactory evidence that the land and site plan for such
school had been obtained, and provision made for closing any
existing sub-standard school deemed unnecessary (para. 44).
(f) In order to ensure that adequate teachers are utilized under
the project, the state would enter into agreements with the res-
pective municipalities assuring priority placement for teachers
upgraded under the project, appropriate salaries for them and
minimum recruitment standards (para. 44).
(g) As a condition for disbursement for the health component, the
Bank would be furnished with feasibility surveys satisfactory
to the Bank for the water supply schemes included in this
component (para. 47).
(h) A revolving fund would be established, and would be replenished
as required to meet forecast expenditures under the project
(para. 51);
(i) Each participating agency would maintain accounts of its project
expenditures as would the project unit, and such accounts would
be audited annually and provided to the Bank within 6 months
following the end of each fiscal year (para. 54).



IBRD 13107
. .-s R D -j: P _ N t) ' D 1. C I I E l .5- 30' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NOVEMBER 1977
N .; S*TW               ' 1          P  A  R  A  I  B  A
A PyRI CA     0        ,                                                                                                                                                         ,
c /                                               T
A .f 4 IL X hT'> , ,.O 0 2 os ,- ontw  N                                                   A    N F I   R   A  
BRAZILS.
BRAZIt~~                        ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I AlS -RPI RI                          A
BREJO PROJECT AREA                                                                                                                      PIRP,RTU
C~~ S             IJ O  OM 
R LQOETERS                                                                      SERRARI
\  4R A   FT A 
3 E R R A R/A                  )/
7>z.                                  REM15   O        X      0                       \            '         KK          X~~PMIG 
f - - /  \     /                                X         '           /            -AG~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OINHA
/            t    >                   %   sR~~~~~~~~~EIA 
) ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -. Oo.o .o,S ESToEbTc> '                                                      , -   \
. - - R            U A                   -'           , <     
A 9 E, 0 *s t-                   ,                             \\\                                                        oec  e Bndy
V   S  0                              $)               __)  \<GOA GRANDE                    s ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W~,SOIre oe=  OSfcD,oSlogcef
XTEANKING NETWORK
CA GRND t   _   .   _ <t  &/   i  Eonco do fr-sI
/  1 iy /-/t&A/9ST  t   q   { E  -  tt/             t                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~* R.onodoEtd,R oda To,,,..
/   /    -    r   t                                   /                                             EU9 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ITAREAS
4AT4,:e,  / ' - ' ' d5 /4 - |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~z~1                                              ,'                                   CGro
{     \ '  t    "    ,  z A G O A    /S  f C~~~~~~~4 1A GO       NOV                                                 A     eru Aq,1d- C-1
0'st   \   t|    i   ')) /   _              >                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ROADS
~~~~_   $1  t   rLA;                                                                            -   End~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SSer Poses
.t                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  -  MUNICIPAL BOUNDARIES
ESOMPIA 00555CR
TACOTDE             NO                                                            A,        T- SO.3



