Document of
The World Bank
Report No.:    21536 NI
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR22.0 MILLION (US$28.7 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
FOR A
SECOND RURAL MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FEBRUARY 21, 2001
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 2001)
Currency Unit = Cordobas
Cordoba I - US$0.08
USSI - 12.90C
FISCAL YEAR
July I June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADR                    Altemative Dispute Resolution
AMUNIC                 Nicaraguan Association of Municipalifies (Asoclaci6n de Municipios
Nicaraguenses)
CAM                    Municipal Environmental Commission (Comision Arnbiental Municipal)
CBA                    Atlantic Biological Corridor (CorredorBioldgico delAtfdntico)
CAS                    Country Assistance Strategy
CDM                    Municipal Development Committee (Comite de Desarrollo Municipal)
CSD                    Decentralization Sector Commission (Comisijn Sectorial pare la
Descentralizacion)
DIRAC                  Altemative Conflict Resolution Office (Direccion de Resoluci6n Altemativa
de Contlictos)
DGAF (MARENA)          General Administrative Financial Office (Oireccidn GeneralAdministrativa
Financiera)
CG                     Central Govemment
DANIDA                 Danish Agency for Intemational Development
EIA                     Environmental Impact Assessment
EMP                    Environmental Management Plan
FODES                  Decentralization Stregthening Project (financed by GTZ and implemented by
CSD)
FONAFIFO               National Forestry Financing Fund (Fondo Nacional de FinanciamienSo
Forestal)
FAM                    Municipal Environmental Facility(Facilidad Ambiental Municipal)
FAN                    National Environmental Fund (Fondo Ambiental Nacional)
FINNIDA                Finnish Agency for Intemational Development
FISE                   Social Emergency Fund (Fondo de Inversion Social de Emergencia)
FONDEM                 Municipal Development Fund (Fondo de Desarrollo Municipal
GDO                    Operations Management Department (Gerencia de Operaciones)of INIFOM
GEF                    Global Environment Facility
GTZ                    German Agency for Technical Cooperation (Geselischaft fir Technische
Zusammenarbeit)
IDR                    Institute for Rural Development (Instituto de Desarrolo Rural)
INIFOM                 Nicaraguan Institute for Municipal Development (Instituto NicaragCense de
Fomento Municipal)
IDA                    Intemational Development Association
LED                    Local Economic Development
LACI                   Loan Administration Change Initiative
LG                     Local Government (municipal and regional govemments)
MARENA                 Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources (Ministerio del Ambiente y
Recursos Naturales)
MHCP                   Ministry of Finance (Ministerio de Hacienda y Credito Publico)
MPP                    Micro Participatory Planning (Micro-Planircacion Paricipativa)
PANIF                  Environmental Program Nicaragua-Finland (financed by FINNIDA)
PASMA                  Environmental Sector Support Program (Programa de Apoyo al Sector
Ambiental)
PIU                    Project implementation Unit
PMR                    Project Management Report
PPF                    Project Preparation Facility
PRODEMU                Municipal Development Project (financed by DANIDA)
PROTIERRA              Rural Municipalities Project (ongoing World Bank-financed project)
SINIA                  National Environmental Information System of Nicaragua (Sisterna Nacional
de Informacion Ambiental de Nicaragua)
SOE                    Statement of Expenses
UNCDF                  United Nations Capital Development Fund
UTI                    Institutional Technical Unit (Unidad Tecnica Institucional) in INIFOM
Vice President:   David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:   Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Manager/Director:   John Redwood
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Maurizio Guadagni



NICARAGUA
SECOND RURAL MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                      2
2. Key perfornance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project     3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  5
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                 6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       7
3. Benefits and target population                                                      7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       8
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          12
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         14
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                           16
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   18
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        18
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                          18
2. Financial                                                                          18
3. Technical                                                                          18
4. Institutional                                                                      19
5. Environmental                                                                     20
6. Social                                                                             20
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 22
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                    23
2. Critical risks                                                                     23
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     24



G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            24
2. Other                                                                              24
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         24
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        25
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         26
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                   32
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        47
Annex 4: Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary                                            48
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                              52
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      53
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     63
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   64
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 65
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            66
Annex 11: Summary of Social Assessment                                                  68
Annex 12: Environmental Analysis and Mitigation Plan                                    74
Annex 13: Evaluation and Policy Development                                              77
Annex 14: Summary of Institutional Assessments                                           80
MAP(S)
IBRD 31119



NICARAGUA
SECOND RURAL MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and Caribbean Region
LCSER
Date: February 21, 2001                          Team Leader: Maurizio Guadagni
Country Manager/Director: D-M Dowsett-Coirolo    Sector Manager/Director: John Redwood
Project ID: P055823                              Sector(s): BD - Decentralization, BI - Institutional
Development
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Rural Development
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
[ ] Loan    [XI Credit    [ ]Grant    [ IGuarantee      [ ] Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 28.7
Proposed Terms: Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                             Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.5%                                 Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan:    Source                                  Local         Foreign        Total
BORROWER                                                      3.00           0.00          3.00
IDA                                                          24.80           3.90         28.70
LOCAL GOVTS. (PROV., DISTRICT, CITY) OF BORROWING             4.00           0.00          4.00
COUNTRY
U.N. CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT FUND                                 4.40           0.60          5.00
Total:                                                       36.20           4.50         40.70
Borrower: THE GOVERNMENT OF NICARAGUA
Aesponsible agency: INIFOM AND MARENA
Implementating agencies: Nicaraguan Institute for Municipal Development (INIFOM) and Ministry of Natural Resources
WMARENA)
Address: INIFOM, Camino para la Refineria, entrada los Arcos, Managua. MARENA, Km. 12 %/2 Carretera Norte
Apdo. 5123-1631, Managua. Nicaragua
Contact Person: Dr. Jose' Rizo, President of INIFOM; Dr. Roberto Stadthagen, Minister of MARENA
rel: 505-266-6413, 505-263-2835              Fax: 505-266-6336, 505-263-2157
Email: Presidencia de INIFOM <prinifom@tmx.com.ni>, dgamarenagtmx.com.ni
_stimated disbursements ( Bank FY/USSM):
FY         2002       2003       2004      2005
Annual    6.00       11.10      8.00       3.60
Cumulative    6.00      17.10      25.10     28.70
.'roject implementation period: 2001-2004
-xpected effectiveness date: 06/30/2001  Expected closing date:  12/30/2004
ZS PALD F- R.. M-  2)X






A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project development objective is to improve the performance of rural municipalities, by building their
capacity in three major areas in which municipal governments can make a critical contribution to
sustainable rural development:
(a)   the provision of local public infrastructure and the delivery of municipal services;
(b)   the protection of the environment and the sustainable management of natural resources; and
(c)   the promotion of local economic development.
The project would seek to build municipal capacity by strengthening their planning, administration,
monitoring, and evaluation. The project would foster not only the organizational efficiency of municipal
governments, but also their legitimacy, accountability and transparency, enabling greater community
participation in municipal development planning and management.
The project would build on the experience of the ongoing Nicaragua - Rural Municipalities Project
(PROTIERRA,) enhancing its design on the basis of the lessons leamed during implementation (a
comparison between the ongoing operation and the new proposed project is available in section D.3 on
lessons learned.)
Specifically, the new project would support the institutional development of rural municipalities through:
*  the development and piloting of a decentralized municipal financing system, including technical
assistance and training to municipalities, and the strengthening of the Nicaraguan Institute for
Municipal Development (INIFOM), the central government institution responsible for support and
supervision of municipal authorities; and
*   strengthening of municipal environmental management, through decentralization of environmental
responsibilities, the development of an environmental information system, and the establishment of
a Municipal Environmental Facility.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Measuring municipal performance is a difficult task, and there is little practical experience in this field in
Nicaragua. Meaningful and locally relevant indicators must first emerge from the planning process of
each municipality. These indicators should measure the effort and achievements of the municipality
against the development and service delivery targets agreed with local communities and other
stakeholders within the frame of the municipal planning process. The project therefore would assist
municipalities to develop performance indicators and citizen satisfaction measures as tools for reporting
against their strategic plans.
As checklists to aid in the development of accurate and useful reporting measures for each municipality,
the following categories of indicators of municipal performance (indicators of the Project's
outcomeslimpact) would be used:
*   Municipal services delivery indicators would track actual vs. planned improvements in coverage,
quality and cost-effectiveness of municipal services. The percentage of completion of the 5 year
Municipal Development Plan would reach at least a 15 percent per year, on average, among the 40
target municipalities. Under the ongoing project in 2000, the first year that this indicator was
measured, it reached 10 percent (the optimal: annual implementation of a five year plan should be
20 percent.)
*   Municipal environmental management would track municipal performance in (i) enforcing local
environmental policies; (ii) establishing and strengthening of municipal environmental commissions;
(iii) promoting the use of environmental information at the municipal level; and (iv) utilizing
environmental criteria in municipal planning.
*   Local govemance indicators would track municipal performance in (i) promoting community
- 2 -



involvement and participation in local decision-making; (ii) increasing tax revenue of target
municipalities from the current $9.5 million to $12.5 million; and (ii) increasing the perception of
accountability and transparency of municipal administration. The share of population consulted by
the municipality would increase from 60 percent to 75 percent. (These estimations are based on the
experience of the ongoing project. Prior to project implementation, only 38 percent of rural
inhabitants of Le6n and Chinandega polled in a 1995 survey said they were consulted by municipal
govemments on issues that affected them. After four years of project implementation, a 1999 survey
of a similar sample population revealed that 68 percent indicated that their elected official consulted
them on issues affecting their livelihoods.)
* Indicators of performance of INIFOM would track institutional performance in terms of (i) perception
of beneficiaries, as revealed by regular surveys of municipal staff and other municipal actors; (ii)
number of INIFOM staff de-concentrated to departmental offices (from the current 40% to 45% by
project completion); (iii) ratio of technical and professional staff versus administrative and directive
staff (from the current 15% to 25% by project completion), and (iv) subjectively, on the basis of
technical contribution to the national policy debate on municipal development.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 17496 - IDA/R 98-32; IFC/R 98-44      Date of latest CAS discussion: 04/8/98
The project is consistent with both the CAS core themes and the areas of concentration of IDA's
assistance to Nicaragua, through:
(i) the focus on the development of rural areas, where poverty is concentrated;
(ii) the contribution to the development of municipal/rural infrastructure and local services delivery;
(iii) the recognition that environmental protection must be an integral part of any sustainable approach to
rural development, and its contribution to local level natural resources management; and
(iv) the support to municipal capacity building and the establishment of inter-governmental partnership
between the State and the municipalities, as key conditions for further advancement of the national
decentralization process.
The project is also consistent with the findings of the Nicaragua Poverty Assessment, currently being
finalized. The following findings are relevant to the proposed project:
(i) poverty in Nicaragua is concentrated in rural areas, where economic growth and the prospects of
poverty alleviation depend on few agricultural commodities, characterized by volatile international
prices;
(ii) aid flows bias government spending towards new investments, and lead to under-funding of
maintenance and operations expenditures;
(iii) a common feature of rural poverty is the marginality and sense of exclusion felt by the poor; and
(iv) service delivery mechanisms need to be results-driven, rather than supply-driven.
Rural municipalities could play an important role in all of the above aspects. Because of their
geographical distribution, municipalities are in a favorable position to provide operation and
maintenance, particularly to small investments. In addition, by promoting participation and inclusion of
the poor in the local political and social life, they can coordinate the demand for services and induce
important behavioral and cultural changes.
By integrating poverty and environmental management concerns and addressing them within the
unifying institutional framework of municipal development, the project is also consistent with the
Regional Environmental Strategy which aims to integrate environmental concerns into all poverty
alleviation and economic development efforts.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Nicaragua has two autonomous regions (North and South Atlantic Autonomous Regions, namely RAAN
and RAAS), 15 departments and 150 municipalities. Recently, the municipality of Managua has been
- 3 -



divided into three separate municipalities. The term Local Governments (LGs) refers to both
municipalities and the governments of the two autonomous regions of the Atlantic. Municipal assemblies
and mayors are elected for a 4-year term of office. Municipal populations range from 270 in San Juan del
Norte (RAAS) to 930,000 in Managua (before the separation), with an average population size of 29,600.
Existing legislation (the Municipal Laws 40 and 261) assigns a broad range of responsibilities to
municipalities, both as "own" and "shared" mandates. However, most municipalities do not have the
capacity to carry out all of these responsibilities (capacity is used in its broad sense, which refers to both
technical and fiscal capacity.) Small, rural, and remote municipalities tend to have less fiscal and
technical capacity than large and more urban municipalities, even when fiscal capacity is measured in
per capita terms. As a consequence, different municipalities have assumed their legal responsibilities at
different levels, often leading to confusion in the division of responsibilities between central and
municipal governments.
The Central Government (CG) has been supporting municipalities with several programs which seek a
partnership with municipal governments, and support them with both technical and financial assistance.
For instance, through the Social Investment Fund (FISE), the Government is developing municipal
capacity to provide social infrastructure and the delivery of social services demanded by communities.
The Institute for Rural Development (IDR, in its Spanish acronym) is another example where a
governmental program is developing a partnership with municipalities in the area of local economic
development.
The current system of municipal support is still missing two essential mechanisms to: (i) develop a
partnership between central and local governments in environmental protection and natural resources
management; and (ii) improve the capacity of local governments to develop their own policies, allowing
local choices to be made. The latter requires a system of support to municipalities which is not sector
specific.
Municipal Development. There is an ongoing discussion on the most appropriate modalities to support
municipal govemments across the sectors. The "municipalista" position considers that the major
bottleneck to municipal development in Nicaragua is the absence of a regular system of municipal
transfers to address the disparity between municipal responsibilities and fiscal capacities (the so-called
"vertical fiscal imbalances"). This position points to the need for fiscal transfers, an automatic
mechanism to transfer a fixed percentage of national income to municipalities with no a prioff controls (to
avoid the risk of political interference). Fiscal transfers to municipalities are required by the 1995
Constitution. Others caution that municipalities should increase their capacity before receiving fiscal
transfers. They tend to be concerned about the risks associated with such transfers, including (i) limited
municipal technical capacity; (ii) disincentives to municipal efforts for local revenue generation; and (iii)
the reduction of governmental flexibility to steer macroeconomic stabilization.
The discussion raises two major policy questions: (i) the issue of municipal capacity and how to
create/strengthen it, and (ii) the issue of how much central government support and supervision of
municipalities is required, and through which mechanisms this should be provided. Many agree that the
issue in Nicaragua is not whether or not to have fiscal transfers or decentralization as such but the
strengthening of the inter-govemmental relations between central-level public administration and
municipalities. For this, an improvement in both central and local governments is needed.
Environmental Management. Nicaragua is rich in natural resources and one of the most biologically
diverse countries in Central America. Although 18.2 percent of Nicaragua's land area is included in
protected areas, natural resources exploitation is still a problem. The effects are clear: the country has
suffered from extreme deforestation at the rapidly advancing agricultural frontier, agro-industrial water
pollution, and soil erosion. The trend in natural resources exploitation is a result of poor environmental
management. According to the latest state reform legislation, the central government should limit its role
to the design of regulatory and other policies, leaving most of the implementation responsibilities to other
actors: LGs, civil society, private sector, and Judicial Power. In 1998, Nicaragua approved the State
Modernization Law (Law 290) with the objective of reorganizing competencies and procedures of the
- 4 -



Executive Power. This law set both "de-concentration" and "decentralization" of environmental
management as policy priorities under the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resource's (MARENA)
new mandate*. Since 1998, MARENA initiated the de-concentration of functions to its Departmental
Delegations. However, local actors, and particularly municipal governments, have been playing a limited
role in implementing environmental policies, due, in part, to limited capacity and lack of incentives from
the central government. Traditionally the Government, and MARENA in particular, addressed
environmental problems using command and control policies that in many cases created the wrong
incentives. MARENA is aware of the need to develop new mechanisms to create a constructive dialogue
and collaboration with the local level and with communities. However, currently there are limited
incentives for partnership between the central government and municipalities on environmental
management.
* Although at times used interchangeably, de-concentration and decentralization differ significantly. Under
de-concentrated arrangements, a central body delegates technical autonomy to a regional body to carry out
limited jurisdiction over part of the territory. The regional body is dependent on the central body since it does
not have a legal status or its own source of revenue. Under a decentralized arrangement, instead, the regional
body is autonomous from the central body, since the regional body represents, through local elections, a local
constituency, and it has its own source of revenue, such as local taxes.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project would pilot a fiscal transfer facility, and a conditional matching-grant mechanism for
environmental protection. The pilot fiscal transfer facility would promote leaming-by-doing, where both
investment resources and technical assistance would be provided to municipal governments. In other
words, it would build capacity through direct implementation of municipal activities. The project would
gradually enable municipalities to face the responsibilities entrusted to them by the Municipal Law, while
providing a balance of financial incentives and technical assistance for capacity building purposes.
The decision to combine the two separate issues described above in one single project - multi-sector and
environmental municipal support - was based on the need for both issues to be addressed under a
comprehensive framework. Although separating these components under two separate projects would
likely have involved less ambitious implementation arrangements, the proposed approach would
promote the acceptance of environmental management as an integral aspect of municipal
responsibilities.
To balance the increased complexity of such a comprehensive approach, it was decided not to expand
significantly the project's area of action from that supported under the ongoing project, but rather to
concentrate on those municipalities for which some strengthening/assistance has already been provided
and to include only a limited number of additional municipalities. The criteria to select the project area
were the following: (i) to continue to work in the same municipalities where the ongoing project has been
implemented to build on the existing experience and institutional capacity; (ii) to work in municipalities
where both project components could be implemented; and (iii) to add contiguous groups of
municipalities, possibly departments. See Chapter D.1 on Project Alternatives for further details. A list of
covered municipalities is available in Annex 2.
The project would address the variation of capacity among municipalities (horizontal imbalances) rather
than the disparity between municipal responsibilities and capacities (vertical imbalances.) This decision
was made because vertical imbalances are difficult to assess in the current situation, where
responsibilities are unclear. Conversely, horizontal imbalances are relatively simple to measure. For
instance, the variations of fiscal revenue among municipalities represents an easily accessible and
reliable indicator of fiscal capacity (the per capita fiscal capacity of Nicaraguan municipalities ranges
between $0.6 to $60 per year, with an average of $11). The project would not aim to achieve a
comprehensive strategy on decentralization, including commitment to a sustainable fiscal transfer policy.
Rather, the proposed project would pilot mechanisms to strengthen municipal capacity.
- 5 -



To address the issue of inadequate inter-governmental relations, the project would not limit its objectives
to those of developing municipal governments. Instead, it would focus on the development of both
central and local level institutions. The project would thus support also the institutional development of
the two central level agencies involved in project implementation: INIFOM and MARENA. See also
Chapter D.1 on Project Rationale.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The proposed project would include two distinct components:
*  A "Municipal Development" component executed by INIFOM, and
* A "Municipal Environmental Management" component executed by MARENA.
The INIFOM-executed "Municipal Development" Component would include four sub-components:
(a) decentralized financing; (b) strengthening of municipal institutions; (c) strengthening of INIFOM; and
(d) evaluation and policy development.
The MARENA-executed "Municipal Environmental Management" Component would include three
sub-components: (a) decentralization of environmental management; (b) environmental information
systems; and (c) municipal environmental facility (FAM).
Indicatlve            Bank-     % of
Component                  Sector       Costs    % of    financing   Bank-
I____________  (US$M)   Total    (US$M)  financing
1. - MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT    Institutional                     0.0                 0.0
Development
L.A - Decentralized Financing -   Decentralization  16.73      41.1     11.00      38.3
Municipal Development Fund
(FONDEM)
1.B. - Strengthening Municipalities  Institutional   7.84      19.3      4.37      15.2
Development
1.C. - Strengthening of INIFOM    Institutional      3.29       8.1      3.12      10.9
Development
1. D - Evaluation and Policy     Institutional       1.09       2.7      0.98       3.4
Development                       Development
2. MUNICIPAL ENVIRONMENTAL   Environmental                      0.0                  0.0
MANAGEMENT                        Institutions
2.A. - Decentralization of        Environmental      5.16       12.7     3.77       13.1
Environmental Management         Institutions
2.B. - Environmental Information  Environmental       1.77      4.3       1.61       5.6
System                            Institutions
2.C. - Municipal Environmental    Decentralization   4.82       11.8     3.85       13.4
Facility (FAM)
Total Project Costs                 40.70     100.0    28.70      100.0
Total Financing Required                  40.70     100.0    28.70      100.0
-6 -



Implementation period. The project would be implemented over a period of three years (2001-2004).
This limited implementation period was selected to reduce the risks to the project of significant policy
changes after the next Presidential and General Assembly elections. The three year period would
provide "bridge" financing which might be followed by a follow-up if commitment to project objectives is
sustained after the transition. However, longer-term assistance will be required to fully achieve the
sustainability of project interventions.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project would support the development of national policies on municipal strengthening and
decentralization. In particular, it would support the development of: (i) a national fiscal transfer policy,
including incentives for municipal environmental management (FONDEM and FAM); and (ii) a municipal
planning and financial management policy. Within this framework, the project would promote the
development of the following legislation:
* Municipal Budget Law;
* Municipal Administrative Career Law; and
* National Cadastre Law.
The project would not attempt to achieve a comprehensive decentralization strategy but rather to build
momentum from the bottom-up that would promote an agreement on a workable model.
The project would also support the institutional reforms of INIFOM and MARENA to implement the Law
for the Reform of the Executive Power (Law 290) and the Organic Law of INIFOM (Law 347).
As for municipal environmental management, the project would concentrate on the implementation of
the existing legal framework rather than on its revision.
3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits. The proposed project would have an impact at three levels: community, municipal and Central
Government. At the community level, the expected benefits are: (i) services provision focused on
community priorities; (ii) improved natural resources management and environmental sustainability; (iii)
increased community organization and involvement in municipal management; (iv) greater accountability
of municipal authorities to their constituencies; and (v) greater access to government services of the
most rural, isolated, and poor communities, and reduced sense of marginality. A biannual survey similar
to the one recently carried out to evaluate the effects and potential sustainability of the ongoing project
would be carried out every two years to assess the increase in community organization and community
perception of municipal performance.
At the Municipal level, the main expected benefits are (i) improved local govemance and greater
coordination among public and private agencies and civil society; (ii) increased local revenue generation,
and financial capacity; (iii) increased administrative capacity for service delivery, including
environmental services; (iv) increased ability to identify, and respond to, local service demand,
particularly from rural communities; and (v) increased natural resources management capacity. Annual
surveys and audits would be used to asses benefits at this level.
At the Central Govemment level, the project would improve the capacity of INIFOM and MARENA to
provide services for municipalities, thereby enhancing the system of intergovernmental relations.
Specifically, the project would improve managerial and administrative capacities of INIFOM and
MARENA. Annual surveys would also provide feedback on the municipal perception of the performances
of INIFOM and MARENA.
Target population. The final target population are rural communities, both in the countryside and in
small rural towns. Following the positive example of the ongoing project, poverty targeting would be
based on two mechanisms. First, inter-municipal targeting would be effected through the formula used to
allocate FONDEM and FAM funds among municipalities. Second, intra-municipal poverty targeting
- 7 -



would be supported through the participatory planning procedure to be adopted by municipal
governments. In developing techniques for intra-municipal targeting, the project would build on the
positive experience of the ongoing project, whose results in this respect were significant (see the
"Evaluation of Effects and Potential Sustainability of the Protierra project"). The new project would
further improve mechanisms for participation in the municipal planning system through their
institutionalization in municipal activities.
The formula to distribute FONDEM transfers would be substantially different from the one utilized by the
ongoing project, which is based on "indicators of need" such as poverty and population. The new formula
would instead use two separate windows: 60 percent of the funds would be distributed with a fiscal
equalization objective, while the remaining 40 percent would be distributed as an incentive to improve
municipal revenue performance (local tax effort). According to initial simulations (which INIFOM is still
negotiating with the Association of Municipalities, AMUNIC, and the General Assembly), the equalization
window would bring all targeted municipalities to a minimum per capita total revenue of around $9 (below
the average per capita municipal revenue of the 151 municipalities of Nicaragua, which is around $1 1).
This formula would distribute most funds to the fiscally weaker municipalities. Although fiscal weakness
and poverty are different sets of indicators, they have a strong positive correlation. As a result, the
correlation between the ratio of people below the poverty line and the FONDEM per-capita transfers
would be even higher than in the ongoing project (33 percent versus 31 percent.) See Attachment 1 of
Annex 2 for more details on the proposed FONDEM design.
Participatory municipal planning would develop specific mechanisms to foster indigenous communities
and women's organizations to contribute in the process.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
A key feature in the design of the institutional arrangements for implementation of this project, is the
choice not to establish separate Project Implementation Units within the two executing agencies (INIFOM
and MARENA). Instead, the line departments of INIFOM and MARENA would execute the two project
components. Besides aiming to promote the institutional sustainability of the project's activities, this
choice is also dictated, in the case of the "Municipal Development" component, by an explicit attempt to
facilitate a strategic restructuring of INIFOM.
Given that environmental and municipal affairs cut across all sectors, the coordination among INIFOM,
MARENA, and other governmental agencies is essential. An example is the coordination that is required
between FISE and INIFOM. This coordination will be achieved through: (i) an inter-institutional
aareement which clarifies specific responsibilities and complementarities, and defines mechanisms for
coordination and collaboration; (ii) FlSE's participation in the INIFOM Steerina Committee; (iii) INIFOM's
participation in the FISE steering committee; and (iv) the activity of an inter-institutional working groug to
address specific technical aspects. Finally, recently FISE became a member of the Decentralization
Sector Commission (CSD, its acronym in Spanish). Annex 14 elaborates on the potential
complementarity of INIFOM and FISE.
The INIFOM-executed Municipal DeveloDment Component
The institutional arrangements for implementation of the "Municipal Development" component of the
project would reflect two circuits of: (1) financial assistance and (2) technical assistance. (See diagram
below.)
-8 -



FONDEM Steering Committee
(MHCP, INIFOM, AMUNIC)
replenishment
,of FONDEM          *     Ministry of
W   Finance 
FONDEM
cerfication of     Account
rdisbursements Po
_ Credit    _ 
Disburseent     INIFOM
World Bank      mngret          Office of         A
and financial  Management                 disbursements
Compliance with
conditions of access
and reporting
INIFOM        requirements
Departamental
Divisions                      if
i  Management         Mncp.te
I  tv  Assistance        Municipalities
and Monitoring
of performance
procurement and
disbursement
Guidance and
Certificabon
Suppliers of
v-----------e  Works, Goods
A                         ~~~~~~~~~~and Services
Project/PolicySi
Evaluaton
CSD
The financial assistance circuit refers to the operation of FONDEM, which would be managed by
INIFOM, under the guidance and supervision of an Inter-Institutional Committee composed of
representatives of the Ministry of Finance, INIFOM, AMUNIC, and the Municipal Committee of the
National Assembly. With respect to the operational aspects of the FONDEM, the project's execution and
implementation responsibilities would be distributed as follows.
(a) INIFOM would be responsible for: (i) requesting the disbursement of IDA's credit replenishing the
FONDEM and producing the required management and financial reports (quarterly Project
Management Reports (PMR), and annual financial statements) on its operations; (ii) communicating
to participating municipalities the respective annual planning ceilings, based on the FONDEM
resource allocation formula; (iii) establishing the conditions of access to the FONDEM (e.g.
permissible uses and procedural requirements) and ensuring compliance with FONDEM
requirements and applicable regulations; (iv) reviewing and approving the Municipalities' financial
-9-



reports, and processing the quarterly transfer of FONDEM resources, requested by Municipalities to
INIFOM and transferred through the Ministry of Finance into municipal FONDEM accounts; (v)
establishing, and extending to municipalities, appropriate tools, controls and procedures for financial
management, and monitoring the physical and financial progress of all FONDEM-financed activities;
(vi) effecting random inspections to assess municipal performance in the implementation of
FONDEM-financed activities; and (vii) contracting external audits of the FONDEM-financed
activities. (See Annex 2 Attachment 1 for FONDEM detailed description.)
(b) The Ministry of Finance would be a cooperating agency, responsible for making disbursements of
FONDEM resources to participating municipalities, according to their quarterly financial program
submissions certified by INIFOM. Funds from the project Special Account would be transferred by
INIFOM to the Ministry of Finance on a quarterly basis, into a separate bank account.
(c) Municipalities would be the implementing agencies of FONDEM, responsible for: (i) complying with
all conditions of access to the FONDEM, including the adoption and implementation of participatory
planning, and financial management procedures; (ii) reflecting all FONDEM-supported activities in
the annual budget approved by the Municipal Council; (iii) submitting quarterly financial programs
and disbursement requests to INIFOM for review; (iv) procuring all works, goods and services
financed from FONDEM resources; (v) maintaining separate bank accounts, project records, and
monitoring systems of the FONDEM-supported activities; and (vi) providing INIFOM with timely
physical and financial reports of all FONDEM financed activities.
The technical assistance responsibilities for the Municipal Development Component are distributed as
follows.
(a) INIFOM would be responsible for: (i) assisting participating municipalities in the development and
adoption of an appropriate and participatory municipal planning technology; (ii) assessing, informing
and responding to the municipal demand for services and systems that improve local resources
mobilization, internal organization and local personnel management; (iii) promoting and certifying
potential suppliers of technical assistance services to the municipal sector, from the public, private
and non-profit sectors; (iv) providing, through its departmental divisions, a wide range of
management assistance services, particularly to smaller and weaker municipalities, including
appropriate guidance in the selection, contracting and supervision of suppliers of technical services.
(b) INIFOM would also be responsible for contracting technical assistance to support its own
restructuring efforts. Specifically, INIFOM would be responsible for the selection and evaluation of
management consultants, and implementation of adopted policies (such as personnel management,
financial management and procurement, etc.).
(c) The Decentralization Sector Commission (CSD) would be a cooperating agency, responsible for:
(i) designing and implementing a system of external, policy-oriented, evaluation of key project
activities. This evaluation system would comprise a baseline study against which to evaluate project
impact; and (ii) communicating and disseminating lessons leamed in order to translate them into the
development of decentralization policy papers and draft legislation and regulations (see Annex 13.)
The MARENA-executed MuniciDal Environment Comoonent
The diagram below summarizes the institutional arrangements for implementation of the "Municipal
Environmental Management " component of the project. The diagram reflects both financial and
technical assistance circuits between MARENA and external beneficiaries.
- 10-



FAM
Account
Board
crach            ~~~~~~~~~~of FAM
DWbursfl5fl  MARENA                   FAM
World Bank           Headquarters  ----        Directorate -
miratri                                i S
MARENA~~~~~~~~~~~~
MARENA  Planrkng and        Other Local
Departmeental   TAsetvices EonMunicipalities  ActoMr
Units
ditbwrequests  t
Suppliers of
works, goods and services
CSD
The financial assistance refers to the Municipal Environmental Facility (FAM), earmarked to finance
environmental management activities identified, selected and prioritized within the framework of the
municipal planning process.
(a) MARENA, through the Decentralization Office, would be the agency responsible for the execution of
this project component. In particular it would be responsible for: (i) requesting the disbursement of
IDA's credit, replenishing the FAM and producing the required management and financial reports; (ii)
providing, through the relevant line departments, technical assistance to the FAM Technical Unit for
the review and approval of project proposals submitted by participating municipalities; and (iii)
monitoring, through its Regional Delegates, the implementation of FAM-supported municipal projects
and the environmental impact of municipal investments.
(b) The FAM Technical Unit would draw on the capacity of the existing Small Projects Technical Unit
financed by the Danish Agency for International Cooperation (DANIDA). This Technical Unit would
be responsible for: (i) appraising all project proposals for FAM support and recommending their
approval by the FAM Committee; (ii) managing the FAM account and disbursing the resources to
municipalities; (iii) monitoring the FAM operations and providing MARENA with the required
management and financial reports; and (iv) acting as an executive secretariat for the FAM
Committee.
- 11 -



(c) The FAM Committee would steer and supervise FAM activities. The Committee would be composed
of representatives of MARENA (chairperson), INIFOM and AMUNIC, and would be responsible for:
(i) setting the FAM policy, including conditions of access and implementation and reporting
procedures, and monitoring its implementation, as detailed in the MARENA operational manual (as
defined in Section 3.01 c. i. of the Development Credit Agreement); and (ii) approving all municipal
requests for financial support, upon the recommendation of the FAM Technical Unit.
(d) Municipalities would be the implementing agencies of the FAM-financed projects. Municipal
authorities would be responsible for: (i) complying with conditions of access to FAM, such as creating
Municipal Environmental commissions (CAM) as multi-actor, specialized bodies, with consultative
functions and the responsibility to recommend municipal environmental actions; (ii) building up a
minimum capacity for local environmental management; (iii) certifying and submitting all funding
disbursement requests to the FAM Technical Unit; (iv) monitoring the implementation of all FAM
projects and providing the FAM Technical Unit the required quarterly financial and physical progress
reports.
Local promoters of environmental management activities, belonging to the private or community sectors
would be able to participate as co-executors with municipal governments in FAM projects, but always
under the Municipalities' supervision and approval.
The technical assistance responsibilities for the Municipal Environmental Management Component are
distributed as follows.
(a) MARENA would be responsible for: (i) assisting participating municipalities in the development and
adoption of land use plans; (ii) assessing, informing and responding to the municipal demand for
services and systems that improve environmental and natural resources management; (iii) providing,
through its departmental divisions, a wide range of environmental management assistance services,
including appropriate guidance in the selection, contracting and supervision of suppliers of technical
services.
(b) MARENA would contract consultants for the development of the National Environmental Information
System (SINIA), and coordinate with other relevant government agencies.
(c) MARENA would also be responsible for its own institutional development efforts. Specifically,
MARENA would select and evaluate management consultants, and implement adopted policies
(such as personnel management, financial management and procurement, etc.).
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The rationale of project area selection. Project coverage was selected on the basis of institutional
criteria, considering the pilot nature of the project, and the limited institutional capacity of INIFOM and
MARENA. As a consequence, the criteria to select the project area were the following: (i) to continue to
work in the same municipalities where the ongoing project has been implemented to build on the existing
experience and institutional capacity; (ii) to work in municipalities where both project components could
be implemented; and (iii) to add contiguous groups of municipalities, possibly departments. Working with
contiguous municipalities would facilitate exchanges and horizontal learning among municipalities,
encourage the creation of association of municipalities; and facilitate the articulation between
municipalities and the de-concentrated agencies at department level.
Although the ongoing project is covering the Atlantic region under the MARENA executed Mesoamerican
Biological corridor, the project team decided to withhold interventions in this area because the
Inter-American Development Bank (IADB) just completed the preparation of the "Atlantic Coast Local
Development Program". The IADB program will invest an approximate US$9.3 million to strengthen the
capacity of Atlantic Coast institutions to manage the regional sustainable development. Specifically, the
IADB-financed program intends to develop the institutional capacity of communities, municipal and
regional govemments in the Atlantic Coast. As this objective is similar to the proposed project, the team
decided to avoid duplication of efforts.
- 12-



On the basis of the above criteria, the project preparation team decided to concentrate project activities
in 40 municipalities: the 32 municipalities currently covered by the ongoing project, and 8 new
municipalities in the department of Chontales. This department does not represent a significant increase
in institutional effort since the INIFOM field office in Juigalpa, Chontales, has already been strengthened
under the ongoing project. (For a list of municipalities, see Annex 2.)
Although the project area was not selected on the basis of poverty criteria, the average poverty level in
the project area is slightly higher than the national average (for poverty targeting within the project area,
see the chapter C.3 on target population.)
In exceptional circumstances, project coverage could be modified during implementation. One of these
circumstances could be an emergency, similar to what occurred as a result of Hurricane Mitch in
November 1998. If the proposed municipalities found it more difficult than expected to comply with FAM
and FONDEM conditions of access, the possibility of expanding the project area could be considered to
avoid delays in disbursements. Any modification of project coverage would, however, require the mutual
agreement of the Borrower and IDA.
The rationale of the project's support to INIFOM. Considering its current institutional weakness and
the mixed performance record, questions have been raised on the strategic value of an organization like
INIFOM. The alternative to support another existing, strong institution -- such as FISE-- was discarded
because an articulated system of inter-governmental relationships requires a multi-sector institution,
dedicated to policy development on municipal issues. FISE is an implementing institution. (For an
explanation of the complementary roles of FISE and INIFOM see Annex 14). Still, a strong policy
management capacity of the central government is critical for successful decentralization reforms.
The Organic Law of INIFOM supports the development of a central institution to assist municipalities.
Such Law has clarified the formerly unclear (half government, half municipal) nature of INIFOM and
brought the Institute closer to what elsewhere would be a "Ministry of Local Governments". The
Nicaraguan association of municipalities (AMUNIC) has welcomed this change and has been a firm
supporter of the legislation, repeatedly expressing the interest of its members in a stronger INIFOM as
their main interlocutor when dealing with the central Government.
The strategic relevance of INIFOM is evident considering that the majority of Nicaraguan municipalities
(and the target beneficiaries of this project) are small, weak and mostly rural. These municipalities can
benefit more from a direct and intense assistance from a central government agency like INIFOM, than
their larger/urban counterparts. This is what this project aims to do, through the strengthening of INIFOM
and the implementation of the FONDEM.
With respect to the provision of technical assistance, INIFOM will need to strike a realistic balance
between a supply and a demand-driven approach to capacity building in small and rural municipalities.
The premise is that INIFOM should perform an overall regulatory function. For example, INIFOM should
be responsible for setting the conditions of access to the resources of the FONDEM. Having set such
conditions, INIFOM should also provide (develop and be ready to extend) to municipalities the tools
(procedures and systems) to comply with them. However, as long as municipalities do comply with the
required conditions, they should be free to do what they consider appropriate, including the use of
FONDEM resources to purchase technical assistance services and contract private and non-profit
providers.
Decentralized versus de-concentrated approach. The project chooses to strengthen municipalities as
an institutional strategy for rural development and poverty alleviation. This approach is different from a
program that delivers rural development though central line agencies or directly through community
groups, or, as it is often the case, through a combination of the two. By contrast, this project would
strengthen the autonomous capacity of municipalities to design and implement locally-relevant
development policies, developing the capacity of municipal authorities to be involved in the definition,
and not only in the implementation, of poverty alleviation programs.
- 13-



Rationale of FONDEM and FAM. FONDEM responds to the need for improving the current system of
fiscal transfers, through a pilot case. FONDEM would not attempt to tackle the vertical fiscal imbalance,
but rather the horizontal fiscal imbalances. (While "vertical imbalances" refer to the discrepancy between
municipal responsibilities and capacity, "horizontal imbalances" refer to the difference of capacity across
municipalities.) This is consistent with Art. 177 of the Constitution (as amended in 2000), which
established the central govemment's obligation to allocate a percentage of the General Budget of the
Republic to the municipalities, giving priority in the distribution formula to those municipalities with lower
fiscal capacity. The FONDEM would effect regular and transparent (formula-based) transfers of funds to
municipalities for the financing of a broad range of activities prioritized through a municipal participatory
planning process and reflected in the annual municipal budget. The general-purpose grants financed
under FONDEM would be complementary to the earmarked/conditional funds provided under FAM as
well as to other earmarked funds (such as FISE, IDR, and other). See Attachment 1 of Annex 2 for more
details on FONDEM.
- 14-



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
CteV0A00-V:00V;Setor Issuet0S0;    ;   Predpct     I       (PSR) Ratings:
E_:______._______________________   ___________:______________... j  n fnanced    p ojed son lyL
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                    Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Development of rural municipalities    Rural Municipalities Project  S             S
(PROTIERRA), approved
FY97
Support of environment and land use   Atlantic Biological Corridor   S            HS
plan for the Atlantic Region to   (GEF), approved FY98)
consolidate the Nicaraguan portion on
the Mesoamerican Biological Corridor
Provide technical assistance for state  Institutional Development    S             S
modernization                      Credit
Provides small-scale infrastructure,    Third Social Investment Fund  HS           S
mainly in education, health, and water  Project (FISE), approved
supply and sanitation             FY99)
Strengthen local capacity and develops Sustainable Forestry Investment  S          S
alternatives to address long-term  Promotion Project, approved
forestry issues.                  FY99
Increase and diversify agricultural  Agricultural Technology and
output and exports, while preserving   Technical Education Program,
the country's natural resource base  approved FY01 
Other development agencies
Strengthening of the decentralization    Fortalecimniento a la
process through the Sectoral       Descentralizacion
Decentralization Commission (CSD)   (FODES-GTZ)
Develop local institutions in the Atlantic Atlantic Region Development
Coast                              Project (IDB-FISE)
Municipal Development in Las       PRODEMU - DANIDA
Segovias
Local Environmental Management     PANIF - FINNIDA
Rural Development in Leon and      PROCHILEON (IDR)
Chinandega
Municipal Development and support to United Nations Capital
decentralization                   Development Fund (UNCDF)
Develop municipal cadastres and    System of Cadastre (SISCAT)
improve municipal revenue generation  UNDP-DANIDA
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
The relationships and complementarities between INIFOM and the Social Investment Fund (FISE) are
detailed under the institutional analysis summarized in Annex 14.
- 15-



The project to be financed by the United Nation Capital Development Fund (UNCDF), currently under
preparation, would be an operation parallel to the proposed IDA project. If approved, this project would
provide a $5.0 million grant to pilot the FONDEM ($3 million) and provide technical assistance to both
municipalities and INIFOM. The experience of UNCDF in Local Development Funds constitutes an
important technical contribution of this institution.
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The main lessons reflected in project design were learned during the implementation of the ongoing
project (Credit No. 2918-NI). A series of evaluations of the ongoing project were summarized in the
report "Local Governments and Sustainable Rural Development" (Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sustainable Development Working Paper No. 11, December 2000). The Working Paper concludes that
the ongoing project helped reduce marginalization of poor communities, created infrastructure and local
institutional capacity considered essential for long-term poverty alleviation, and contributed directly to
improving quality of life through emergency reconstruction measures. However, the prospects for
sustainability of specific project interventions are mixed. Potential sustainability at the local level is good
due to significant gains in institutional development at the municipal level, but potential sustainability of
interventions at the central government level is less likely because of unsatisfactory institutional
development within INIFOM. This situation is not unusual: experience from other countries shows that it
is difficult to strengthen national govemment institutions responsible for building and maintaining
multisectoral relationships with sub-national governments.
INIFOM recognizes that these deficiencies hinder the overall sustainability of the system of
intergovernmental relationships on which the project is based, and is taking positive steps to address key
problems. The following table summarizes the differences between the ongoing project and the proposed
operation, designed in part to address the conclusions of the 1999 evaluation of the ongoing project.
Ongoing Rural         Proposed Second Rural Municipal Development
Municipalities Project                      Project
Project             Project Implementation    Consultants hired under the ongoing project would be
Management          Units in INIFOM and       responsible for the performances of the whole
MARENA                   institution (not only "the project") and they would be
placed directly within the line units of INIFOM and
MARENA to build capacity within those units. The
project would also finance salary increases for
permanent staff
Municipal           One single fund managed     * Clear separation between the equalization and the
Development Fund   by INIFOM and often not        incentive facilities
part of the municipal budget   * Flow of funds through the Ministry of Hacienda,
similar to fiscal transfers.
* Municipal Development Fund is part of the
municipal budget
Environmental       Non existent              Created under the National Environmental Fund
Municipal Fund
Municipal Focus     Environmental             Municipal Environmental Management Component
management component    would focus on implementing existing legislation at
focused to improve national  municipal level
legal framework
Technical           Mostly contracted by      Certified and trained by INIFOM, but mostly hired by
assistance to       INIFOM                    the municipalities themselves
Municipalities
Local Economic      Financing of credit allowed   Financing of credit NOT allowed (as specified in the
Development                                   INIFOM and MARENA Operational Manuals)
Policy implications   Carried out by INIFOM (with  Carried out by the Sectoral Commission for
of Evaluation       IDA support)              Decentralization (CSD)
-16-



An important lesson learned from the implementation of the ongoing project concerns municipal action
for promotion of local economic development (LED). This is an area where the main challenge is in the
design of innovative, yet transparent, institutional arrangements that allow municipal government to
respond to strong pressures from their constituency and play an active role in promotion of local
economic activity.
Under the ongoing project, municipal personnel, in cooperation with beneficiary communities, were given
the flexibility to identify and design small income-generating sub-projects. Local identification and design
resulted in most cases in revolving funds for investments in poultry, livestock and basic grain production,
which were managed and technically supported by local NGOs, acting as Funds Administrators. The
nature of investments was rather uniform, although results were mixed. This was due to the following: (i)
municipal governments. as other government agencies, are not in a good position to provide - and
recuperate -- credit; (ii) municipal personnel often do not have the appropriate technical skills for
evaluating and monitoring investment proposals; and (ii) fund administrators do not have a financial
stake in the outcome of sub-project investments.
The experience of the ongoing project shows that municipalities tend to get directly involved in fixing the
problem, instead of seeking collaboration with other actors. For instance, the private sector may be
better positioned to provide financial services, but municipalities rarely seek their collaboration.
Municipalities often consider "participation" as the collaboration with communities and civil society, but
do not consider the private sector as a viable ally.
Nonetheless, municipalities have a potentially important role to play in LED. Their comparative
advantage is in the local coordination of public, private and civil society actors. That is, municipal
governments should help to mobilize human, financial and information resources to increase private
investment and economic activity rather than directly providing these resources. The typical market
failures that, if overcome, can promote rural-urban linkages are in:
(a) information; e.g., generation and dissemination of up-to-date market information on goods and
services, including labor, skills available locally etc;
(b) stable and dependable business environment, e.g., through enforcement of contracts that encourage
sub-contracting by urban-based firms, enforcement of law, order, and security;
(c) economic infrastructure, including telecommunications.
Following the lessons with LED under the ongoing project, credit for productive subprojects would no
longer be eligible. By excluding credit, municipalities would have an incentive to forge constructive
relationships with private sector providers for this purpose.
The experience of the ongoing project has also shown that without specific incentives, municipalities
tend to under-invest in environmental protection and natural resources management as opposed to
local infrastructure. Therefore, the proposed project introduced an earmarked facility (the Municipal
Environmental Facility, or FAM) to create a financial incentive for municipalities to be more active in this
area.
The main lesson learned with respect to project management relates to the experience on individual
consultant performance evaluation. The system developed has already achieved important results and
reduced the influence of non-technical factors in consultant evaluations.
Finally, important lessons were learned with respect to monitoring and evaluation. Since these two
activities are extremely challenging in a decentralized project, the preparation team decided to separate
their management between two different institutions. While INIFOM's Gerencia de Monitoreo would be
responsible for monitoring, the Sectoral Commission for Decentralization (CSD) would be responsible for
evaluation. The new institutional set-up would reduce complexity and also increase the credibility of
evaluation results. See annex 13 for more details.
- 17-



4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Current borrower commitment to the project is evident. Both MARENA and INIFOM understand this
project as an essential component of their corporate strategy. INIFOM in particular has already taken
advantage of the preliminary discussions about this project to launch a major initiative of internal
programmatic and organizational restructuring. Other demonstrations of borrower commitment are the
inclusion of the project in the GON program presented at the Consultative Group meeting in May 2000,
the approval of the Organic Law of INIFOM as fulfillment of a pre-condition for this project's preparation,
repeated requests from the President's Office, and the Government's requests for a Preparation Finding
Facility (PPF) advance of US$1.5 million, which was signed on January 8, 2001.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
IDA adds value through its extensive experience in the areas of local development, natural resources
management, and local capacity building, both inside and outside Nicaragua. The specific regional
experience in demand-driven Rural Investment Funds and biodiversity conservation was critical from the
beginning of the ongoing project. The value-added of IDA support includes the availability of in-house
natural resources management expertise, the ability to mobilize global experts with long experience in
the field, technical support for preparation, supervision capacity, and development of linkages with other
sources of expertise and funding. Finally, IDA adds value in cross-sector and donor coordination.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
o Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
o Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
The institutional nature of the proposed project makes it difficult to quantify expected benefits. Although
the local investments financed by the project are a means to achieve institutional and policy change,
rather than ends unto themselves, they would produce quantifiable benefits. To determine the potential
economic benefits of the proposed project, the economic benefits of local investments made under the
ongoing project were quantified. The analysis was based on a stratified sample drawn from the
experience of the ongoing project, although the results are based on assumptions about future
financing. The resulting weighted average Internal Rate of Retum is 24%. However the sampling error
is significantly high and the 95% confidence interval is between 6% and 54%.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
na
Fiscal Impact:
The fiscal impact on the national budget during the three years of project implementation would be
positive. Project financing of the FONDEM pilot (totaling $11 million in three years) would reduce the
Government's need for budgetary allocations to finance fiscal transfers.
3. Technical:
Choice of technology for all local investments financed under this project would be selected through the
municipal participatory planning process. During this process, technical options would be assessed in
relation to the level of available budget ceilings, the ability of municipalities and communities to
contribute to the capital cost and to meet the operation and maintenance costs. Appropriate procedures
for projects' preparation for financing under the FONDEM and FAM would be specified in specific
INIFOM and MARENA operational manuals. In the case of environmental investments, appropriate
technical packages for each item in the "menu" of the FAM would be specified and technical agents
- 18-



either from MARENA or from MARENA-certified intermediaries, would provide technical support for
their implementation.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
A comprehensive institutional analysis of MARENA and INIFOM was carried out during project
preparation. The findings revealed that neither of the two institutions would be able to implement project
activities without proper technical assistance and training. Based on this finding, adequate project
financing was assigned to support the two institutions (see Section C4 on Institutional Arrangements and
Annex 14 on Institutional Capacity Assessment.)
4.2 Project management:
See section C4 on Institutional Arrangements and Annex 14 on the Institutional Capacity Assessment.
4.3 Procurement issues:
An assessment of the procurement capacity of INIFOM and MARENA has been carried out. A plan
proposing specific actions to be addressed before effectiveness has been discussed with the
Government and has been agreed upon during negotiations. (See Annex 6 for details.)
Under the ongoing project, both INIFOM and MARENA established Implementing Units (PiUs) which
have a procurement and financial management capacity. The proposed project would mainsterream
these PlUs in their respective institutions. The procurement consultant currently hired by the INIFOM-PIU
would be integrated into the INIFOM Administration and Finance Department, handling the IDA credit at
the same time as other administrative responsibilities of the institution. In MARENA, the procurement
consultant would not be immediately integrated, but rather, the consultant would strengthen MARENA by
training its permanent staff on IDA requirements.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The project financial management (FM) assessment concluded that INIFOM and MARENA do not have
yet in place a system satisfying IDA's financial management requirements. Action plans in this area were
agreed upon with each institution, as explained in Annex 6. Substantial completion of the FM action
plans would be a condition of effectiveness.
MARENA and INIFOM would maintain adequate financial management systems, compatible with Project
Management Reports (PMR) as required by IDA under the Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI).
The financial management system would include internal control systems, reliable records and report of
project assets, accounting, financial reporting, reconciliation of project records with the Special Account
statements, monitoring of physical progress of agreed project indicators, procurement management, and
auditing systems to ensure the provision of accurate and timely information to the World Bank regarding
project resources and expenditures, in accordance with: (i) the Financial Accounting, Reporting, and
Auditing Handbook (World Bank, 1995); (ii) the Bank's Operational Policy (OP) and Bank Procedure (BP)
10.02 dated July 1996; and (iii) the revised Bank financial management standards to comply with OP and
BP 10.02, dated August 1997.
- 19-



MARENA and INIFOM would maintain separate project accounts, retain strict financial controls, review
and approve disbursements of funds to the municipalities under the FAM and FONDEM, ensure that the
municipalities keep separate bank account and records for the FAM and FONDEM funded activities,
consolidate quarterly financial and progress reports submitted by the municipalities, conduct annual
project reviews, including contracting of a firm for the audit of the project financial statements, as well
as preparing periodic reports on performance against agreed monitoring indicators. (See Annex 6 for
details.)
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The project is expected to have a positive environmental impact. However, the demand-driven aspects
of the project may pose modest environmental risks at the subproject level. Following the experience of
the ongoing project and similar projects which finance many small subprojects (such as FISE), the
project would execute an environmental screening mechanism and create the institutional capacity to
carry out the screening, propose and implement effective mitigation measures where appropriate, and
monitor the effectiveness of these procedures. The mechanisms and procedures would be outlined in
the two Project's Operational Manuals (one for INIFOM and one for MARENA) which will be finalized
before project effectiveness. (See Annex 2 for typology of projects to be financed under FONDEM and
FAM, and Annex 12 for the Environmental Analysis and Mitigation Measures).
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Given the potentially positive environmental impact, an EMP is not applicable.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: January 29, 2001
An Environmental Analysis (EA) was finalized in August 2000. The EA is based upon the findings of the
ongoing Rural Municipalities Project and a detailed project cycle (potential environmental risks and
mitigation measures) to be followed by the targeted municipalities in the implementation of subprojects.
(See Annex 12).
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environmnent management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Selected NGOs, among which the association of Nicaraguan Municipalities (AMUNIC), MARENA and
INIFOM staff, and other donors were consulted during project preparation. On-going consultations
would be held during project implementation as part of the municipal participatory planning and
budgeting process.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Some types of sub-projects to be financed through FONDEM and FAM may pose environmental risks.
Although these risks are minor, all subproject proposals would be subject to an environmental review
process. The INIFOM and MARENA Operational Manuals would specify a "negative list" of subprojects
which cannot be financed by the Credit (see Annex 12 for details).
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The project would support decentralization and local governance by promoting a process of
democratization and participation at the municipal level. Through participatory planning, the project
would increase transparency in the allocation of municipal resources and would contribute to reduce the
- 20 -



sense of marginality and exclusion that is common among the poor (as reported in the Nicaragua
Poverty Assessment.)
Key social issues are: (a) effectiveness in the use of municipal resources and fiscal transfers; (b)
responsiveness and accountability of municipal governments to their communities and constituencies; (c)
citizen's empowerment and responsibility with regard to the public domain; (d) services delivery
mechanisms that are results-driven rather than supply-driven; (e) environmental protection as an integral
part of rural development; (e) gender imbalance in municipal decision making processes and the
inclusion of procedures to enhance more balanced participatory mechanisms and more equitable
outcomes; and (f) presence in the area of the project of the Sutiava indigenous peoples (see below.)
Key expected social development outcomes are: (a) better quality of life and better governance as
measured by a combination of accountability and responsiveness from the part of municipal
governments; (b) citizen empowerment; and (c) more equitable participatory processes and outcomes for
men and women in their gender roles.
Indigenous Peoples. The project developed a specific action plan to enhance the capacity of the Suitivas
toarticulate demands which can be addrees by the municipal government of Leon. The number of the
Sutiava population is uncertain because the definition of who is Sutiava is unclear. In fact, the majority
live in an urban area and speak only Spanish. As a result, most residents of the Suitiavas neighborhood
share the same cultural values and identity and are considered Sutiavas, even though they do not share
the same ethnic background. This has made their number vary from 35,000 to 53,000, with 71 percent
urban and 29 percent rural.
The Sutiavas have their own organizational structure, based on an elderly council (Consejo de Ancianos)
and its executive branch, the Directiva de la Comunidad. The elderly council is not part of the municipal
government but it has a strong community influence. However, the relationship between the Consejo de
Ancianos and the municipal government has at times been conflictive. One of the objectives of the
proposed project is to make possible, through participatory decision making, the reconciliation between
Sutiavas organizations and the Municipality of Leon. The project will strengthen the Sutiava group by
providing them with technical assitance and trainning (as identified in the INIFOM and MARENA
Operational Manuals) in order to train such group in management of local projects and community
participation. Guidelines to ensure the participation of indigenous group representatives in the planning,
programming, budgeting and monitoring of the FONDEM and FAM subprojects will be outlined in the
INIFOM and MARENA operational manual. (see Annex 11 for a Summary of the Social Assessment)
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Preparation. The project stakeholders' views, expectations and values with respect to local governments,
provision of local services, and involvement in community life, have been sought through two beneficiary
assessments and one gender assessment undertaken during the last two years, and several workshops
and community meetings held in a sample of municipalities as part of the supervision process of the
ongoing project. The proposed project's design is based largely on results developed during this process.
Additionally, a social assessment was prepared during the design phase, including an analysis of the
extension in which the ongoing project was able to reach the Sutiavas and a participatory action plan
designed to promote their inclusion as beneficiaries but also as part of decision making processes.
Municipal governments with representation from all political parties have been strongly involved during
preparation through AMUNIC. The final beneficiaries of the project - residents who will benefit from more
effective municipal governments - will also be consulted through a base line study that will be conducted
as a condition of effectiveness of the project. Considering the different types of municipalities involved,
the views expressed by the project's beneficiaries would guide the design of specific tools to promote
civil engagement. Key indicators will be assessed two years after effectiveness to monitor the project's
performance, provide adjustments and speed the expected outcomes.
Specific mechanisms to consult the Sutiavas have been set up during preparation. The result of this
- 21 -



process resulted in the design of both special activities aimed at strengthening their organization and
specific monitoring indicators to measure project performance.
Implementation. Under project design, the funds available to municipal government through FAM and
FONDEM would be allocated through participatory planning. Monitoring shall also be participatory and
will include beneficiaries' views.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
The concept guiding the project is that municipal strengthening intrinsically implies civil engagement.
Thereby, a key project goal is to strengthen municipal capacity for planning, budgeting, implementing
and enforcing policies through the involvement of all main local actors, including residents, interest
groups, NGOs that are active in the area, community groups and local institutions.
An action plan to address the specific situation of the Sutiavas was designed through consultation with
community members and leaders. The project also include actions to promote more balanced
participation of all citizens, regardless of their gender roles.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
FAM and FONDEM conditions of access are the main incentive for municipalities to adopt improved
planning and administrative procedures. Monitoring through beneficiaries' evaluation would ensure
social development outcomes.
The action plan for the Sutiavas includes monitoring indicators that are part of project monitoring and
evaluation. Exclusion of indigenous peoples would be addressed with the technical assistance provided
to the Municipality of Leon.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
A base-line study would be conducted as a condition of effectiveness. The base-line study would assess
two aspects: the relationship between beneficiaries and local governments from the view point of the
former; and governance issues from the view point of municipal staff and local political representatives.
An assessment of the Sutiavas has been prepared, and suggested monitoring indicators to measure
their participation have been developed. During project implementation, specific assessment with this
group would be conducted to evaluate whether the objectives of the action plan are reached and
whether additional measures are needed.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the followin safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                   Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)          0 Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                  0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                   0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                     * Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                 0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                  * Yes O No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                            0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                             C Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)        0 Yes 0 No
- 22 -



7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
See environmental analysis and mitigation plan described in Annex 12.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Through the ongoing project, target municipalities have experienced significant gains in their
sustainability. Nonetheless, institutional sustainability of the proposed project interventions would depend
upon a stronger commitment to decentralization and a significant increase in municipal tax generation.
Environmental sustainability would depend upon improved coordination between municipal and central
governments in natural resources management and environmental protection.
The experience of the ongoing project demonstrated that promoting lasting improvements at level of
central agencies is more challenging than at municipal level. The project aims to strengthen
municipalities to create a bottom-up demand of services from INIFOM and MARENA, thereby increasing
the potential sustainability of these two institutions.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Correct and stable macro-economic          M
incentive structure
Political stability and support to         S         Reduction of implementation period to three
decentralization and municipalities                  years
through national elections
From Components to Outputs
Constructive political relationships       H         Technical assistance to the CSD to provoke a
between municipalities and CG                        technical discussion between the two
governmental levels
Effective management and leadership of     H         Technical assistance and capacity building to
INIFOM and MARENA                                    both institutions. Limited project area.
Commitment to NRM  and                     M         Awareness campaign
environmental protection
Inter-institutional coordination           S         Clear definition of INIFOM and MARENA
roles
Capacity and commitment of                 S         FAM and FONDEM constitute a specific
municipalities to build                              incentive to sinergies
synergies with CG, civil society, and
private sector.
Overall Risk Rating                        s
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
The project faces three levels of risks. At the central level, support for decentralization and municipal
development is not entirely unanimous. With this in mind, project scope was reduced, and the project
- 23 -



does not aim to achieve a comprehensive decentralization strategy but rather to build momentum from
the bottom-up that would promote an agreement on a workable model. To address the risk of changing
political support, the project team undertook a participatory project preparation to build constituencies at
different levels: within municipalities and particularly their association (AMUNIC), with the General
Assembly, and among the civil society. In addition, the differentiation between the two aspects of
sustainability at the local level - institutional and environmental - and the implementation by two central
level institutions (INIFOM and MARENA) would help build broader support for the project.
At the municipal level, similar risks exist in terms of political support. If support for decentralization
increases, and substantial fiscal transfers are implemented, the project may face a reduced support from
municipalities who would otherwise receive unconditional resources. Although this scenario is unlikely,
the role that INIFOM plays within the GON policy dialogue would in any event reduce this risk.
At the community level, the ongoing project demonstrates that a purely demand-driven approach may be
affected by lack of technical capacity. To address this risk, both INIFOM and MARENA developed a new
emphasis on intergovernmental relationships and shared responsibilities, which would significantly
increase the emphasis on participatory investment design. A system of cross monitoring would be pivotal
to reducing the risk that shared responsibility would potentially dilute specific municipal responsibilities.
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
*  Completion of a baseline study satisfactory to IDA
*  Compliance with either A or B disbursement conditions, as specified under paragraph G.2.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Disbursement conditions:
A. Before the "Municipal Development Component" implemented by INIFOM could disburse, the
following conditions should be satisfied:
(i) the INIFOM Operational Manual, comprising FONDEM Manual and INIFOM Institutional
Implementation Plan, has been submitted to and approved by IDA;
(ii) the procurement system submitted and approved by IDA and a financial management system
has been established; and
(iii) the INIFOM Subsidiary Agreement has been entered into and a copy of it has been submitted to
the Association; and
B. Before the "Municipal Environmental Management Component" implemented by MARENA could
disburse, the following conditions should be satisfied:
(i) the FAM committee has been satisfactorily created;
(ii) the MARENA Operational Manual, comprising FAM Manual and MARENA Institutional
Implementation Plan, has been submitted to and approved by IDA; and
(iii) the procurement system submitted to and approved by IDA and a financial management system
has been established.
H. Readiness for Implementation
C 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
- 24 -



1 1. b) Not applicable.
C 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project irnplementation.
El 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
Z 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
* Operational Manuals for INIFOM and MARENA. A draft of both manuals has been reviewed and
found to be realistic and of satisfactory quality
* Implementation of an action plan for procurement and financial management.
Both Operational Manuals and action plan are effectiveness conditions
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
13 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Ma Lrzio Guadagni           (      linRedwood                     D-M Dowsett-Coirolo
Te   Leader                     ectorManager                      Country Manager
- 25 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
NICARAGUA: SECOND RURAL MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives       Indicators        Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:   Sector) country reports:   (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Sustainable rural poverty  Improvement in life quality  Living standard  Political and
alleviation.            indicators as specified by   measurement survey  macroeconomic stability
rural communities;      (LSMS);
Reduced perception of    Nicaragua - Qualitative
exclusion of the rural poor. Poverty and Exclusion
Study (Similar to 2000
survey).
Project Development     Outcome I Impact        Project reports:        (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:              Indicators:
Improve municipal capacity 1.   Improved local  Baseline, mid-term and   Correct and stable
in service delivery,    governance indicators in 40 completion surveys   macro-economic incentive
environmental           project municipalities: (a)                      structure
management, and local    community involvement   INIFOM and municipal
development coordination  and participation in local   monitoring systems  Political support to
decision-making (32                             decentralization and
municipalities of                               municipal development
PROTIERRA 1 from 68%   Survey of the Instituto de
to 80 %, 8 new          Estudios Nicaraguenses    Effective management and
municipalities from 30% to                      leadership of INIFOM
60%); (b) perception of
transparence of municipal                       Timely and coordinated
officers by the general                         implementation of FISE
public increased (from 50%
to 70%); and (c) increasing
tax revenue of target
municipalities from the
current $9.5 million to
$12.5 million;
- 26 -



2.    Actual vs. planned
improvement in coverage,
quality and cost
effectiveness of: (a)
municipal services; (b)
municipal infrastructure; (c)
local natural resources
management; and (d) local
economic development
(Because municipal services
are different for each
municipality and because the
focus of the project is to assist
municipalities to identify and
define their local needs, it is
impossible to aggregate
municipal performance results
for specific indicators at the
project level. Therefore, the
evaluation of the municipal
performance would be based
on individual Municipal
Development Plans.)
3.    Implementation of at
least 15% per year of the 5
year Municipal
Development Plan
including environmental
management aspects;
4.    The difference
between urban/rural
investments ratio and
population ratio is inferior
to 20% in 90% of
municipalities;
- 27 -



5. Improved institutional
performace of INIFOM in
terms of: (a) perception of
beneficiaries, as revealed
by regular surveys of
municipal staff and other
municipal actors; (b)
number of INIFOM staff
de-concentrated to
departmental offices (from
the current 40% to 45%);
(c) ratio of technical and
professional staff versus
administrative and directive
staff (from 15% to 25%),
(d) subjectively, on the
basis of technical
contribution to the national
policy debate on municipal
development; and, (e)
allocation and productive
efficiency of LG and CG
compared and measure in
relative terms;
6.   Improved municipal National Environmental    Effective management and
natural resource and urban Information System (SINIA) leadership of MARENA
environmental
management: (a)
Municipal land use plans
approved in at least 60% of
target municipalities:
(b) at least 10
municipalities contribute to
the management of
protected areas in their
territory; (c) 90% of
Municipal Environmental
Commission (CAM)
established and 60% active
with participation of public
and private municipal
entities: (d) EIA performed
and consulted for 100% of
investment projects; and,
(e) 60% agricultural and
industrial producer are
aware of their
responsibilities and
environmental duties.
Output from each        Output Indicators:       Project reports:        (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
- 28 -



Municipal Development  1.1a Average annuai US$4 INIFOM Monitonng         Constructive political
1.1 Municipal Development    per capita is transferred System (SAFIN)    relationships between
Financing Mechanism        through FONDEM to                             LG and CG
developed and piloted in    municipalities;
targeted municipalities  1.1b Municipal real estate
tax collection increased
by 20%;
1.1 c 90% of municipal
development
committees, as a
participatory planning
plafform, established
and meeting regularly;
1.1d 100% of FONDEM
and FAM subprojects
pass environmental
screening;
1.2 Municipal planning and 1.2a Municipal       INIFOM Monitoring System  Appropriate municipal fiscal
management improved        Development Plans                             policy.
(MDP): 95% prepared  Municipal staff survey
and 70% being                                Inter-institutional
implemented with                             coordination, specifically:
participation of                             among different CG
communities, civil                           institutions (INIFOM,
society and 30% with                         MARENA, FISE, IDR,
private sector;                              MAG-FOR).
1.2b Multi-actor Municipal
Development
Committees
(CDM)/Municipal
Planning Commissions
(COPLAM) established
by Municipal
Ordinances and
operational;
1.2c Participation of civil
society and COPLAM
in budget planning in
80% of targeted
municipalities;
1.2d Budget commissions
established and
consulted on budget
decisions;
1.2e Municipalities
implement improved
personnel management
systems;
1 .2f Municipal Staff trained
and equipped with
improved accounting,
financial reporting,
investment projects
cycle and Municipal
Information System
(SIM) systems.
- 29 -



1.3 INIFOM management  1.3a Improved perception  INIFOM Monitoring System  Capacity and commitment
improved                   of beneficiaries;                             of municipalities to build a
1 .3b Number of INIFOM    Municipal staff survey  partnership with CG and
staff de-concentrated to                     civil society, and private
departmental offices                         sector.
(from the current 40%
to 45%);
1.3c Ratio of technical staff
versus administrative
staff increase from
current 15% to 25% at
project completion;
1.3d INIFOM technical
contribution to the
national policy debate
on municipal
development.
1.4 Policy Evaluation &    1.4a Annual evaluation    INIFOM Monitoring System
dissemination mechanism    studies completed in a
established and operational   timely manner;
1 .4b Workshops carried
out with high level
participation and good
press coverage;
1.4c CSD meets quarterly.
Decentralization of     2.1a Municipalities enforce National Environmental    Awareness of NRM and
Environmental              and apply 80% of     Information System       environmental issues
Management                 decentralized
environmental norms   Institutional analysis of    Sustainable intensification
2.1 Municipal technical    and instruments;     MARENA                   of agricultural production
capacity for environmental 2.1 b Basic technical                         Commitment of CG to
management increased       environmental capacity                        sound environmental
achieved in each                             management
municipality;
2.1c Fifty natural resource
management conflicts
resolved with
alternative conflict
resolution mechanisms;
2.1d Technical assistance
to the municipality of
Leon and to Suitiva
organization carried
out.
2.2 National Environmental 2.2a Data base, meta data, National Environmental    Pro-active collaboration
Information system         networks, Esteli     Information System       among MARENA, INIFOM,
established and operational    regional node,                            and Municipalities
training/user manuals
and user centers
established;
2.2b All of MDP incorporate
environmental
information and
planning;
- 30 -



2.3 Environmental       2.3 Environmental        FAM Monitoring system   Municipalities demand
investments are identified  subprojects:                                 environmental investments
and funded              (a) at least 1 subproject
per year in 80% of
participating
municipalities;
(b) at least 100
implemented
subprojects;
(c) average transfer of
$1.5 per capita per
year;
(d) all subprojects pass
environmental
screening.
Project Components /    Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:    (from Components to
Sub-components:         component)                                       Outputs)
Decentralized financing    $11.00 M             Project reports          Political will at both local
system (FONDEM)                                                          and central level
Municipal Stregthening  $4.37 M                                          INIFOM capacity and ot0er
agency's coordination
INIFOM strengthening    $3.12 M                                          Political will at central level
Evaluation and policy   $0.98 M                                          CSD institutional strength
development
Municipal environmental   $3.77 M                                        Sustained commitment of
management                                                              local government.
MARENA's capacity
Coordination among
different agencies
Environmental information  $1.61 M                                       Awareness of
system                                                                   environmental issues at
local level
Municipal Environmental   $3.85 M                                        Municipalities demand for
Facility                                                                 environmental investmeits
- 31 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
NICARAGUA: SECOND RURAL MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The proposed project includes two distinct major components:
* A "Municipal Development" component executed by INIFOM
* A "Municipal Environmenta/ Management" component executed by MARENA
While different inputs, activities and outputs apply to the two components, they both contribute to the
same development objective of improved municipal performance for rural development. The municipal
perspective provides the unifying frame for the two components. However, the two components require
different design in terms of funding instruments and institutional. The experience of the ongoing project
has clearly shown that without dedicated financial incentives and access to specialist technical advice,
municipalities tend to under-invest in environmental management as opposed to local infrastructure.
- 32 -



Project Area
Municipality       Level of Poverty   Population (2000,  Number of    Number of
estimates)       PoorA      Extreme PoorA
1 Achuapa                      Medium                  15,286        9,860           4,018
2 Acoyapa*                       High                   19,571      11,264            5,634
3 Chichigalpa                    Low                   47,638       19,978            6,,169
4 Chinandega                     Low                   135,678      55,212           17,394
5 Cinco Pinos                  Medium                   7,211        4,618            ' ,758
6 Comalapa*                    Extreme                 12,682        8,554            4,668
7 Corinto                        Low                    19,913       5,179            1,073
8 El Almendro                    High                   13,674       8,309           $:, 862
9 El Castillo                  Extreme                 11,265        7,332           $,985
10 ElJicaral                    Medium                  11,634        7,509           2,915
11 El Rama (And El Ayote)         High                  72,516       30,819           14,471
12 El Realejo                     Low                    9,453        4,424            1,452
13 El Sauce                     Medium                  29,901       18,429           7,405
14 El Viejo                     Medium                  80,054       44,519          17,899
15 Juigalpa* (and Cuapa)          Low                   64,658       26,385           11,046
16 La Libertad*                   High                  11,377        6,942           3,574
17 La Paz Centro                  Low                   31,890       16,393            5,972
18 Larreynaga-Malpaisillo         Low                   34,544       20,082            7,443
19 Leon                           Low                  187,258       67,393          20,892
20 Morrito                        High                    7,063       4,206            2,076
21 Muelle De Los B Ueyes        Medium                  26,955       14,590            6,575
22 Nagarote                       Low                   33,851       14,394            4,071
23 Nueva Guinea                   High                  91,883       56,800           26,479
24 Posoltega                     Medium                  17,773      11,010            4,524
25 Puerto Morazan                Medium                  13,228       7,988            3,214
26 Quezalguaque                   Low                     8,989       5,325            1,944
27 San Carlos                     High                   33,309      19,874            9,991
28 San Francisco Del Norte      Medium                    6,932       4,551            1,858
29 San Juan Del Norte             High                     314          181              87
30 San Miguelito                Extreme                  15,690       9,980            5,368
31 San Pedro De Lovago*         Medium                    8,260       4,340            1 990
32 San Pedro Del Norte           Medium                   4,693       3,227            1 406
33 Santa Rosa Del Pefion        Medium                   10,583       6,960            2 952
34 Santo Domingo*               Extreme                  14,541       8,986            4,686
35 Santo Tomas Chontales        Medium                   18,545       9,082            4 015
36 Santo Tomas Del Norte*       Medium                    7,869       7,988            3 214
37 Somotillo                    Medium                   28,712      17,473            6 858
38 Telica                        Medium                  26,407      15,569            6 124
39 Villa Sandino* (and El Coral)  High                   30,539      14,044            6 640
40 Villanueva                    Medium                  25,899      16,784            7 100
TOTAL PROJECT AREA                                 1,248,239     626,553          252,802
TOTAL COUNTRY                                      5,014,184    2,225,293         909,571
Project Coverage                            25%             28%           28%
* Eight new municipalities of the department of Chontales
A Nicaragua Poverty Map (2000)
- 33 -



By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$28.95 million
This component would include four sub-components: (a) decentralized financing; (b) strengthening of
municipal institutions; (c) strengthening of INIFOM; and (d) evaluation and policy development.
Sub-component 1 (a)  Decentralized Financina
Activity I (a) (i) The Municipal Development Fund (FONDEM)
The project would support the establishment of a Municipal Development Fund (FONDEM, Fondo de
Desarrollo Municipal). The FONDEM is just one (currently missing) component of a well developed
municipal finances system. Designed as a "general-purpose grant" mechanism, the FONDEM aims to
complement existing municipal own-source revenue and various ongoing programs with negotiated,
purpose-specific transfers (one of them supported by another project sub-component, the Municipal
Environmental Facility). The specific features of the FONDEM would be covered in the Operational
Manual and are summarized in Attachment I of this annex.
Activity I (a) (ii). Local Revenue Generation
In addition to the establishment of the FONDEM, the project would strengthen municipal capacity to
generate local, own-source revenue through better assessment and collection of local taxes and fees. To
this effect the project would assist INIFOM in:
*  The revision of the legal framework of local government finances and the drafting of appropriate
policy, legal and regulatory texts; and
-  The development and extension to all municipalities participating in the project of: (i) improved
systems and manuals of local fiscal administration, (ii) standards and procedures for financially
sustainable delivery of municipal services, and (iii) the system for land and property
registration/Cadastre (Sistema de Cadastro, SISCAT)
Sub-component 1 (b) Strengthening of Municipal Institutions
This sub-component would contribute to strengthen municipal institutions, by providing assistance in
three complementary areas: (i) municipal planning, (ii) municipal organization and management, and (iii)
municipal supervision and monitoring.
Activity I (b) (i) Municipal Planning System
The first activity would be to develop and extend an improved municipal planning system. Drawing on
the experience accumulated by the ongoing project, as well as other relevant efforts (most notably the
PRODEMU-DANIDA experience with municipal strategic planning in the "Las Segovias" region and the
work of PADCO-USAID on municipal "budgets by programs"), such system would define and link, within
an annual cycle of statutory planning tasks and deadlines:
*  A strategic planning exercise including the set up of multiple stakeholders around municipal
objectives and the elaboration of related operational plans and indicators;
*  The preparation and review of a multi-annual "rolling" municipal investment program; and
*  The preparation and approval of an annual budget "by programs".
Institutions and techniques for community participation in local planning and decision-making would be
refined and adopted, based also on the INIFOM-PROTIERRA and FISE experience with "participatory
micro-planning" (MPP). Also, based on efforts already initiated under the ongoing project, departmental
forums/workshops for coordination of municipal plans with the sectoral programs of both government
agencies and NGOs would be set up and strengthened.
- 34 -



Activity 2 (b) (ii) Municipal Organization and Management
This activity would develop and extend municipal organization and management systems, covering both
the internal aspects of organizational structures, work planning and personnel management and the "
extemal" aspects of efficient delivery of services. This is an area where considerable experience has
already been accumulated by INIFOM, often with help from external assistance. Nevertheless,
simplification, focus and innovation in capacity building approaches and techniques are required. It is
also an area where existing municipal capacities differ widely. To allow the necessarily differentiated
approach to capacity building a classification of municipalities in 4 categories (A to D) of decreasing
administrative capacity is being developed by INIFOM. Based on such classification, the project would
therefore support INIFOM to: (i) service and complement selectively the existing manuals and guidelines
for municipal administration and services delivery management, focusing on the linkages between the
improved municipal planning system and internal organizational and personnel management changes;
and (ii) develop financial and other incentives for municipalities to demand capacity building services
and create a network of certified suppliers of such services, including universities, training institutions,
and public and private sector consultants. Specific emphasis would be provided to:
*  financial management and internal controls. Specifically (i) budgeting, (ii) accounting, and (iii)
auditing; and
*  management of municipal personnel, and specifically selection, remuneration, performance
evaluation, and removal. This would be regulated by the Municipal Administrative Career Law;
Activity I (b) (iii) Municipal Supervision and Monitoring Systems
This activity would develop and extend municipal supervision and monitoring systems. Here the project
would help INIFOM and participating municipalities to:
* monitor inputs, process, results and impact of the Municipal Strengthening Program;
* facilitate technical improvement and transparency in municipal administration; and
* manage municipal information.
There are two principle objectives in strengthening INIFOM and municipalities' capacity for monitoring
and managing information. These are to: (i) improve the existing system to allow monitoring at the
municipal level; and (ii) provide target municipalities with the instruments for using technical information
and thus improve the efficiency and transparency of municipal management.
The basis for the development of this activity is the existing information systems which consists of: The'"
Sistema Informaci6n Gerencial del Proyecto" (SIGP) (developed under the ongoing project), the "Sistema
de Catastro Municipal' (SISCAT) the "Sistema de Recaudaci6n Municipal' (SISREC) "Sistema de
Informaci6n Financiera" (SAFIN) and other initiatives developed by INIFOM and other projects that have
been working at the municipal level. The goal is to improve, expand, and integrate all these
sub-systems.
The municipal monitoring and management system would consist of the following subsystems:
(i) Monitoring and Financial Management. The goal is to develop and implement a subsystem integrated
by the Budget, Treasury and Accounting, in the management of resource administration by the
municipality. This system aims to consolidate the summary of information collected in the monitoring of
municipal finance; (ii) Monitoring of Procurement and Physical Management; (iii) Municipal Information
System and Planning Cycles, linking the database of subprojects (this includes the National
Environmental Information System being developed by MARENA under the other component of this
project), with socio-demographics, economic and environmental information at the municipal level, which
supports the process of planning for the municipalities; and (iv) a feasibility analysis for the development
of a system that would allow systematization and monitoring of management of the municipal planning
cycle.
The resulting database would collect, organize and publish on the internet, in addition to other
appropriate fora, municipal information which increase the knowledge of policies and laws in relation to
municipal functions and experience. The principal beneficiaries of this component are municipalities,
governmental institutions, National Assembly, civil society, and the general public.
- 35 -



Sub-comgonent 1 (c)  Strengthenina of INIFOM
The INIFOM "Organic Law", strengthens the identity of the Institute as the main national organization
responsible for articulating the State support to municipalities. INIFOM has autonomously initiated a
process of (a) re-definition of its core activities and (b) re-design of its organizational structure. This
process is centered on the formulation of a broad "Municipal Strengthening Program" (PFM) which
INIFOM aims to develop as its main corporate program and as the unifying framework for all
INIFOM-executed external assistance to the municipalities.
The project recognizes the strategic importance of this process. In fact, project preparation has already
been fully integrated within the INIFOM restructuring initiative and has brought several donors together to
support it, specifically DANIDA, GTZ, UNDP, UNCDF. The project is therefore explicitly designed to (i) to
assist in the implementation of selected major components of the INIFOM Municipal Strengthening
Program and (ii) to facilitate the corporate restructuring of the Institute.
All the project-supported municipal strengthening activities listed in the preceding paragraph are parts of
the INIFOM corporate program currently being developed (called Plan de Fortaleciemiento Municipal). In
addition, the project would provide a mix of technical and management consulting services, financial
incentives and minor equipment to support:
* INIFOM's organizational restructuring at both central and regional/departmental levels, including
personnel selection, remuneration, motivation, redeployment and performance evaluation;
*   Monitoring of INIFOM performance and business practices, through periodical client (municipalities)
and staff surveys;
*   Strengthening of INIFOM's administrative and financial management capacity; and
* Strengthening of INIFOM's capacity to monitor and evaluate municipal performance,
Since the execution of this component presented serious difficulties in the ongoing project, three major
improvements would be introduced: (i) increased coordination among various donors; (ii) the proposed
project would finance intemational technical assistance to support INIFOM's efforts, and (iii) activities
related to evaluation and policy development would be separated from monitoring and would be
implemented by the Sectoral Commission for Decentralization.
The sub-component would finance (i) technical assistance, by way of individual consultants and
consulting firms, (ii) recurrent costs to operate INIFOM, comprising also of salary increase for existing
staff; (iii) equipment, such as vehicles and information technology (computers, etc.); (iv) training; and (v)
minor works to improve existing offices, particularly in the covered departments.
Sub-component 1 (d)  Evaluation and Policy Development
The experience of the ongoing project demonstrated that monitoring decentralized and disperse
intervention is complex. Nonetheless, the ongoing project already achieved several important steps. It
has supported:
*   a decentralized project management information system which is mostly maintained by the
municipalities;
*   annual surveys where municipal officers anonymously express their opinion on institutional
performances of INIFOM and MARENA;
*   biannual survey of final beneficiaries (rural communities) on the performances of municipal
governments;
*   periodical survey of INIFOM staff about the perception of institution and management
performances.
One of the main challenges for the proposed project is to improve data quality of such systems, and
utilize them to design national policies. Because of the difficulty of transforming the data provided by
the monitoring system into technical evaluations which could produce a policy discussion, it was
decided to separate monitoring from evaluation, and assign the latter to a different institution. On the
basis of this, the Sectoral Decentralization Commission (CSD) would be responsible for designing and
- 36 -



implementing a system of external evaluation and policy development. This is an activity in which their
technical secretariat has already developed a significant capacity (with support from the German
Technical Cooperation. See www.csd.gob.ni). The CSD would evaluate the project's impact for the
design of a national decentralization policy. The Logical Framework (in Annex 1) would serve as a
basis for both evaluation and monitoring of the project. See annex 13 for more details on this
sub-component.
Project Component 2 - US$11.74 million
This component would include three sub-components: (a) decentralization of environmental
management, (b) environmental information systems, and (c) Environmental Municipal Facility.
Sub-component 2 (a)  Decentralization of environmental management
This sub-component would strengthen the capacity of target municipal governments to more effectively
implement their environmental functions. The sub-component would provide training and technical
assistance to MARENA and the target municipalities to operate in a context of more decentralized
environmental policy implementation. It is expected that this would increase the role of municipalities in
the implementation of environmental policies, and also strengthen the accountability of MARENA to local
constituencies. This would complement MARENA de-concentration effort (supported by DANIDA and
FtNNIDA).
To improve the capacity of municipalities to formulate, implement, monitor, and evaluate environmental
policies and enforce environmental legislation, the sub-component would support the following activities.
Activity 2 (a) (i) Improving the municipal legal framework
According to national legislation, municipal governments have the competence to regulate the protection
of the environment and to manage natural resources within their geographical jurisdiction. However,
most of the municipalities do not count with the appropriate instruments and capacity. The
sub-component would support MARENA to draft legal and technical norms in agreement with
municipalities. Among other technical assistance inputs, this activity would finance permanent staff to be
assigned to the specific departments of MARENA to cover existing capacity gaps.
Activity 2 (a) (ii) De-concentration of MARENA
The activity would support the Departmental Delegations of MARENA (only in part supported by DANIDA
and FINNIDA) to improve MARENA's capacity of coordinating with municipalities. The activity would
provide technical assistance and training for MARENA officials in different aspects of decentralized
environmental management, covering both general issues of local environmental management and
specific technical, institutional, and legal aspects. Given the modest level of experience in Nicaragua
with decentralized environmental management, some training would focus on familiarizing Nicaraguan
officials with similar experiences in other parts of the world.
Activity 2 (a) (iii) Municipal environmental planning
The activity would finance training and technical assistance to develop municipal environmental plans.
The municipal environmental plans would be coordinated with the Nicaragua Environmental Plan
(PANIC) recently updated in 2000. The central element to institutionalizing municipal environmental
management involves the creation or strengthening of municipal environmental commission (CAMs).
The activity would also provide equipment and technical assistance to the Sutiavas indigenous group in
order to train such group in environmental management and participation in municipal planning.
Activity 2 (a) (iv) Environmental awareness
Supporting specific environmental educational campaigns to increase environmental awareness
addressed to economic agents that affect the environment, through (i) technical assistance to these
economic agents on environmental beneficial technologies and clean production, (ii) public
dissemination campaigns and agreements between the municipalities and private entities to achieve
improved environmental management.
- 37 -



Activity 2 (a) (v) Conflict Resolution Program
This activity would seek to strengthen the role of municipalities in Nicaragua's formal and informal
Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) mechanisms. It would provide technical assistance and training for
policy development, institutional strengthening, dissemination, and pilot municipal ADR centers. The
activity would focus on enhancing the effectiveness of ADR institutions as a means for resolving
environmental policy issues as well as local conflicts over natural resource use and access. Specifically,
the activity would finance: (i) Policy develoDment to produce and disseminate manuals to clarify the
administrative and ADR channels for resolution of natural resource and environmental disputes; (ii)
Institutional strengthening to the Environmental Attorney Office (Procuradoria Ambiental) on Alternative
Conflict Resolution. It would also support the creation of a body of ADR specialists in the country whose
focus would be on assisting in the resolution of national and environmental conflicts at municipal level;
and (iii) Dissemination to broaden the base of government officials, private sector representatives and
civil society actors who understand the purpose and appropriate use of ADR mechanisms. Target
audiences would include representatives of key government agencies involved in natural resource
management, local officials, civil society organizations, indigenous groups and private sector leaders. As
part of the dissemination strategy, the activity would build on Nicaragua's important tradition of using
community-level negotiations and mediation to resolve conflicts over natural resources by supporting
development of case studies on key recent dispute resolution efforts focusing on natural resources.
The sub-component would finance (i) technical assistance, in form of both individual consultants and
consulting firms, (ii) recurrent costs to operate MARENA, comprising of salary increase for existing staff;
(iii) minimal equipment; (iv) training; and (v) minor works to improve existing offices, particularly in the
covered departments.
Sub-comoonent 2 (b)  Environmental Information systems
This sub-component would finance the establishment of the National Environmental Information System
of Nicaragua (Sistema Nacional de Informaci6n Ambiental de Nicaragua, SINIA). The SINIA would
provide access to all data and information related to the environment and natural resources existing in
different governmental and non-governmental organizations. Although the SINIA would be an electronic
network, it would also be responsible for the collection of data and the dissemination of information in
non-electronic form. The electronic network would have a distributed architecture with electronic nodes
in all the participating organizations.
The SINIA would be based on standards and operational rules to facilitate the integration and analysis of
data and information, in order to generate information products for a variety of users. In general, the
development of the SINIA would be done utilizing the physical infrastructure that is already present.
Following is a description of the different activities that would be carried out under this component.
Activity 2 (b) (i) SINIA Administration
This activity would finance a small SINIA Coordination Office, which would be responsible for managing
all activities under this sub-component. The SINIA Coordination Office would be part of the Planning
Division of MARENA and would be constituted by a small number of MARENA staff (financed with
decreasing share as recurrent/operating costs of the project): a Coordinator, and a few technical
specialists (webmaster, a metadata specialist, a database specialist, a system administrator, and a
technical assistant). The technical staff would be responsible for the implementation and maintenance of
the whole network and would provide assistance to all participating institutions as needed, including
training.
Activity 2 (b) (ii) SINIA Design
The design of the SINIA would be carried out during the first six months of the project. The design would
be based on several studies that have been carried out recently or are being carried out during the
project preparation phase. An international consultant would be hired to address data standardization
issues.
- 38-



Activity 2 (b) (iii) SINIA Promotion and Dissemination of Information.
The activity would finance: (i) Development of Educational Materials and Training. Technical training
would be provided to the staff at each of the participating nodes in the network. The training would be on
system administration, metadata development, database management systems, and other special areas
as needed. Technical training of users would also take place to insure that they are proficient at using the
basic information tools provided by the SINIA. Decision-makers would also be trained on how to use
information products in the decision making process; (ii) Establishing Public Access Centers. Public
Access Centers would provide computer terminals to access the SINIA, as well as printed information on
certain topics and programs. Each center would be staffed with one specialist who would provide
individual training and advise users on request. (iii). Outreach Activities. The activity would finance two
publications: the SINIA monthly bulletin, and the bi-annual State of the Environment.
Activity 2 (b) (iv) SINIA Infrastructure
This activity would finance the development of the physical infrastructure of the SINIA. Specifically, the
activity would finance: (i) Equipment for the SINIA: one server, one large image printer, and one scanner
and an Intemet access system; (ii) Operation and Maintenance of Reaional Nodes. Regional Nodes are
expected to play a key role in the decentralization and de-concentration process. They are the main
mechanism by which MARENA interacts with local communities. Currently, MARENA has one Regional
Node in the Central Region in Nicaragua. This node has been very successful, and the concept would
be replicated in the project area.
Activity 2 (b) (v) Content Development
This activity would develop a System of Environmental Indicators and Information Products and Tools
for Decision-Making. This activity, with the help of a national and an international consultant over a
period of three years, would identify the environmental indicators of importance at the local and national
levels. These indicators would be prioritized, and utilized in a progressive manner. Information products
and tools for decision-making would be provided at the municipal level.
Sub-component 2 (c)  Municipal Environmental Facility (FAM)
This sub-component would finance a Municipal Environmental Facility (Facilidad Ambiental Municipal,
FAM) to provide a financial incentive for local actors, and particularly municipalities, to increase their
engagement in local environmental management activities and investments. The specific features of the
FAM would be covered in the Operational Manual and are summarized in Attachment 2 of this annex.
- 39 -



Attachment I of Annex 2
The Municipal Development Fund (FONDEM)
This attachment summarize the main features of the Municipal Development Fund (FONDEM). A
detailed definition of FONDEM regulations is the main objective of the pilot, and would be developed
during project implementation. These details would de specified in the FONDEM Operational Manual,
whose acceptance by IDA is a condition of disbursement of the Municipal Development Component.
Concept and Justification of FONDEM
FONDEM responds to the need for improving the current system of fiscal transfers, through a pilot
case. The current Nicaraguan system of intergovemmental transfers is weak: the distributions and
supervision arrangements of the current fiscal transfers are still under definition. The current level of
fiscal transfers -- equivalent to less than one percent of the general budget of the Republic - is
relatively low by international and regional standards. It is however difficult to quantify the fiscal gap
between responsibilities and fiscal resources of municipalities (vertical fiscal imbalances). because of
the unclear separation of responsibilities between central and municipal governments. However, the
fiscal differences across municipalities (horizontal fiscal imbalances) are easily quantifiable and
substantial. FONDEM would not attempt to address the horizontal fiscal imbalances rather than the
vertical fiscal imbalance. This is consistent with Art. 177 of the 1995 National Constitution, which
gives priority to those municipalities with lower fiscal capacity.
Managed by INIFOM, the FONDEM would effect regular and transparent (formula-based) transfers of
funds to municipalities for the financing of a broad range of activities prioritized through a municipal
participatory planning process and reflected in the annual municipal budget. The general-purpose grants
financed under FONDEM would be complementary to the earmarked funds provided under FAM as well
as to other earmarked funds (such as FISE, IDR, and other), as graphically shown in the following
graphic.
Multi-sectoral           Infrastructure and    Environment and NRM  Economic
capacity-building          services cluster       cluster        development cluster
;Other              Other               Other
SAS                                    MAG-
PONOEM           ~~~~~~FISE          VAIOR
-   ------- -------- ----          --- -----           ---  C entral
X~U                2^level
General-Purpose
Grants               Conditional / Earmarked Grants and Other contractual arrangements
"Ad Hoc"                     . 
Transfers           t                                      --------------------- Mu iia       e e
(Constituency                                                                         uncipal level
Funds, etc.)           d-
Other Grants    Own-Source
(Decentralized Cooperation, etc.)  Revenue
FONDEM main objectives are to:
*   Foster autonomy in the design of local policies for municipal development and poverty reduction.
*   Support municipal institutional development, especially strategic investment planning, programming
and budgeting, to ensure local policy implementation.
- 40 -



*   Strengthen participatory local investment planning, independently of financial sources and sectors.
*   Complement the existing municipal financial mechanisms of the Central Government that, through
inter-institutional agreements, support national policies for sustainable development and poverty
alleviation.
In particular, FONDEM would pilot a system of fiscal transfers which is financially and politically
viable, and hence would provide inputs for policy development on municipal fiscal transfers. Specifically,
the technical improvements to the system of fiscal transfers aims to:
*  Achieve a more economically efficient determination of the pool of resources and a more equitable
distribution formula.
*   Promote a better articulation between the objectives of the system (i.e., inter-jurisdictional fiscal
equalization and incentives for local tax effort) and the actual design of the distribution formula.
*   Strengthen local institutional capacity in general and financial management in particular, as means
for a more effective implementation of a municipal policy for local development and local poverty
reduction.
Magnitude and Distribution of FONDEM Resources
The FONDEM annual transfers would be relatively modest, in the order of US$4 per capita. This would
(i) correspond to sustainable fiscal transfers of 3-5% of domestic income, well within the regional range
(ii) be comparable to similar transfers effected by other Bank-supported demand-driven funds in the
region (US$3-6) and (iii) be significantly below the level of transfers of existing sectoral / earmarked
grants programs (e.g. FISE).
Two broad objectives have been identified as part of FONDEM's concept: (i) attain fiscal horizontal
equalization across those municipalities below a minimal standard of per capita income; and (ii)
encourage local revenue mobilization. FONDEM would allocate 60% of its resources for its fiscal
equalization policy goal and 40% to encourage local revenue mobilization. The distribution of FONDEM
resources would be done via formula with two main policy objectives:
(a) Fiscal Equalization. The objective of fiscal equalization is a compensation to close the gap between
a set standard and the potential per capita revenue of the particular municipality, so that the
horizontal imbalance across municipalities is eliminated for those that fall below the standard. The
magnitude of the compensation is determined as the difference between the standard and the fiscal
potential of the particular municipality. Note that it is not the difference between the standard and
their actual revenue performance, so that poor performance would not be rewarded. For those
municipalities whose fiscal potential (or fiscal capacity) is greater than the minimum standard, there
would be no need, or justification, for a compensation. Given the substantial differences across
municipalities they have been grouped in three categories, with a different standard for each group.
In other words, the objective would be to ensure that all municipalities in each group are in principle
equipped with no less than the standard of minimum fiscal capacity for that category.
(b) Local Revenue Mobilization. As mentioned above, the second policy objective of FONDEM is to
encourage local revenue mobilization (i.e., tax effort). Forty percent of FONDEM resources are
allocated to this end. Specifically, the relative revenue performance of the property tax is used as the
indicator of local tax effort. Revenue performance is measured as the taxes actually collected as a
proportion of the minimum potential that might be collected. The transfers for tax effort have a
ceiling to avoid that potentially a few municipalities, due to an exceptional performance, might take
over a disproportional amount of the total pool of resources allocated to this goal. This need has
been identified as a result testing the formula with actual data. Simulations and sensitivity analysis
are currently being carried out to fine tune the formula for the distribution of FONDEM resources.
Fiscal Potential. The fiscal capacity of the local governments is measured in terms of the minimum
potential of the property tax, which is common to all local governments and is also a good indicator of
the potential generation of other local taxes.
Use of FONDEM Resources
- 41 -



The FONDEM is meant to support the entire range of municipal responsibilities for local development.
Up to 20% of the FONDEM resources may be used to cover the increase in administrative costs that
municipalities would face to manage these transfers. The FONDEM Operation Manual, to be provided
to participating municipalities at the outset of the program implementation, would define in detail eligible
expenditures under this category and the related reporting requirements that municipalities would need
to comply with. Not less than 80% of FONDEM resources shall be used by recipient municipalities to
finance, in full or in part, the cost of preparing and implementing local investment projects, including the
design, construction, rehabilitation, and repair of: (a) local infrastructure, (b) environment protection
works and natural resource management activities and (c) activities to promote local economic
development. The following is an indicative list of the activities and projects to which FONDEM
resources may be applied. A separate detailed "negative list" would be covered in the Operational
Manual. The negative list would contain (among other): purchase of land, credit or other financial
operations, opening of new roads, construction or reconstruction of dams, supply of guns or illegal
drugs, and activities of any type classifiable as category A for environmental purposes pursuant to
Annex B of the IDA's December 1998 policy document titled Good Practices (GP) 4.01.
Subprojects financed by both the FONDEM and FAM must undergo an environmental screening or
checklist procedure at the time of project approval. The procedure is a similar scheme used by
MARENA which classifies projects in three categories. The FONDEM Operational Manual would
include a checklist of basic project characteristics, environmental analysis classification requirements,
and required processes. The procedure is a similar scheme used by MARENA which classifies projects
in three categories. The Operational Manual would include a checklist of basic project characteristics,
environmental analysis classification requirements, and required processes. (See also Annex 12 for
Environmental Analysis and Mitigation Plan).
Typology of FONDEM-Financed Activities
Economic Infrastructure
* Transmission and Distribution networks for Rural Electrification
* Power Supply and Distribution systems: (i) Street lighting; (ii) Low Voltage Local Distribution Networks
and grid expansion; (iii) off-network, back-up and emergency power plants
* Transport Infrastructure: (i) Rehabilitation and spot improvement of Rural Roads; (ii) Urban streets
and sidewalks; (iii) Bridges, crosswalks and fords; (iv) Transport Terminals (Passengers and Cargo);
(v) Bus Stops; (vi) Roads and Street Signs and Traffic Signaling
Social Infrastructure
*  Public Health and Hygiene such as: (i) Collection and disposal of solid wastes; (ii) Storm water
drainage systems; iii) Health Posts and Health Centers; (iv) Market facilities; (v) Slaughterhouses; (vi)
Public Lavatories (vii) Cemeteries
* Water Supply and Sanitation systems: (i) Dikes, source improvements, and reservoirs; (ii) Wells and
Water Treatment plants (iii) water distribution systems; (iv) Piped sewage collection and disposal
systems; (v) Wastewater treatment plants; (vi) Latrines and septic tanks.
* Education, Tourism , Culture and Sport Facilities: (i) Training centers; (ii) Sport fields and facilities;
(iii) Museums, Public Libraries, and public Exhibitions facilities; (iv) Tourist facilities; (v) Public Parks,
Playgrounds, Gardens. and Public Squares
* Administrative Infrastructure: (i) Municipal office facilities; (ii) Community Centers
* Other social facilities and programs: (i) Nurseries; (ii) Nutrition centers; (iii) Social Emergency
response schemes
Environmental protection and Natural Resources Management
-42 -



* Soil and water conservation works
* Reforestation and tree nurseries
* Water head works and source protection
* Water pollution control
* Illegal logging control facilities
* Ecological Parks and Ecoturism
Local Economic Development promotion
* Market information and facilitation services
* Local Fairs and exhibitions
* Support to technical assistance and business promotion services
* Primary and Secondary Connections of Micro-Irrigation schemes
* Vocational training workshops
* Agricultural Storage and Processing Facilities
Institutional Development
* Technical design of subprojects
* Technical assistance and training
FONDEM resources would need to be matched by locally generated funds, at a variable rate, depending
on projects' types and municipal/beneficiaries capacities. If and when necessary, municipalities can in
tum choose to use FONDEM resources to co-finance purpose-specific matching grants programs that
address local priorities, such as funds from the Municipal Environmental Fund (FAM), FISE and/or
others.
Local Economic Development (LED). Municipalities could also use FONDEM resources to promote LED.
However, municipalities would not be allowed to provide credit for productive activities (as it is the case
in the ongoing project). If municipal action in this area were to go beyond the traditional provision of local
economic infrastructure, considerable capacity building and experimentation would be needed. For most
Nicaraguan municipalities, participation is limited to engaging communities and civil society; however,
private sector engagement still represents a challenge. Stimulating LED could focus on the creation of:
(i) involving the private sector in the municipal participatory participatory planning process; (ii) municipal
development plans which incorporate LED priorities; (iii) information flows on market conditions and
opportunities; and (iii) instruments and incentives to mobilize productive investments and increase local
economic activity.
The FONDEM would create incentives for Municipalities to plan, in collaboration with private, other
public and community actors, and develop and implement LED strategies. The municipal planning
process would incorporate a LED strategy covering of the following four areas: (i) economic infrastructure
investments, not limited to transport infrastructure but extending to stalls for trade fairs and markets; (ii)
administrative and regulatory reform priorities such as zoning, licensing, and transaction costs; (iii) flow
of information and publicity to facilitate networking among local and external firms; and (iv) specific
interventions such as tax breaks, use of public land, incentives to create a local chamber of commerce,
etc.
The following are some practical examples of products within the four areas described above that were
drawn from Nicaragua and other countries: (i) parking areas with basic sanitation and other services at
crossroads of main transportation routes and local access roads, to encourage local-external commerce;
(ii) business service windows with information, applications and status updates available on construction
permits, business licenses and local tax rules/payments; (iii) facilitating competitive assessments for
local business clusters or small and medium enterprises, and providing connections with NGOs, donors
and central government agencies to improve standards, take advantage of technical assistance or
cooperate with other area enterprises to gain access to markets or equipment, for example; (iv)
economic maps with local businesses, structure of production, transportation routes; providing public
land rent-free for a limited time for the privately financed construction of storage or processing facilities.
- 43 -



FONDEM Access Conditions
All selected municipalities would be eligible to access FONDEM resources. However, in order to
create an incentive for performance and promote accountability, municipalities would have to meet the
following two access condition. Legal representatives of selected municipalities would sign a legal
binding agreement (which would have to be approved by the Municipal Council) detailing that the
municipal government would agree to:
(i) establish a participatory planning, programming, and budgeting system (as specified in the manual
for municipal planning); and
(ii) introduce an administratve system, comprising an internal control system, and accounting system,
comprising of a financial and physical reporting system. This would cover at least to: (i) open an
account in a commercial bank exclusively for the management of FONDEM resources; (ii) report to
the Central Govemment (i.e., INIFOM) on the executed and estimated budget (revenues and
expenditures) on a quarterly basis; (iii) develop a minimal procurement capacity; (iv) allow extemal
auditing of FONDEM municipal accounts by a private firm authorized by the General Controller
offices (Contraloria General de la RepOblica) and acceptable to IDA; and (vi) provide to INIFOM all
financial and physical information on the implementation of activities financed even in part by
FONDEM.
Administration of FONDEM
An inter-institutional commission, denominated as the Transfers Commission, has been recently created
to provide oversight to municipal finances and the policies to administer FONDEM. The Transfers
Commission is comprised by representatives of the Finance Ministry, INIFOM, the Association of
Municipalities (AMUNIC) and a representative of the municipal commission of the General Assembly.
The Transfer Commission would be presided by the representative of the Finance Ministry. This
Commission would oversee both FONDEM and the national fiscal transfers system (i.e., the transfers
from the Central Government to the municipalities).
In compliance with the function of overseeing the municipal finances, INIFOM would keep up-to-date the
municipal database and would provide the Finance Ministry with the relevant information. The Finance
Ministry would incorporate the information provided by INIFOM to the distribution formula.
-44 -



Attachment 2 of Annex 2
The Municipal Environmental Facility (FAM)
Background and Justification
The experience of the ongoing project illustrates that, given the choice, most municipalities focus their
spending on local infrastructure development, a traditional area of their concem and where they have a
comparative advantage. Also, given appropriate institutional arrangements, municipalities have an
interest in supporting local economic development initiatives, strongly demanded by their constituency.
Without incentives, however, municipalities tend to under invest in environmental management
initiatives. The Municipal Environmental Facility (FacilidadAmbiental Municipal, FAM) would provide a
financial incentive to municipalities for environmental investments. The FAM would also strengthen links
between MARENA and municipal governments.
The FAM would be designed as a conditional matching fund. It would finance earmarked
matching-grants to stimulate municipal governments to develop local environmental initiatives and
assume greater responsibilities in the implementation of national environmental policies. Municipalities
would be required to make an up-front cash, in-kind, or labor contribution of a specified share of project
costs (20% or higher according to the investment type and municipal classification). Technical assistance
would be contracted by municipalities to assist municipalities in the design and implementation of
environmental investments.
Municipal government would have to meet minimum environmental capacity criteria to gain access to
funds for environmental subprojects through FAM. Most of the larger municipalities and a handful of
smaller municipalities already meet these basic requirements. In other cases, the project would
contribute to create such capacity. In some cases the magnitude of municipal environmental activities
would not justify the creation of a permanent environmental unit in each municipality. In these cases, the
project would favor the creation of a joint environmental unit serving more than one municipality.
Magnitude and Distribution of FAM Resources
The FAM would make available to municipalities an average of US$1.5 per capita per year for
environmental investments. All 40 municipalities in the project area would be eligible for FAM financing.
Only 40% of total annual FAM budget would be distributed equally to all participating municipalities
based on an environmental needs indicator to be defined in the FAM Operational Manual (part of the
MARENA Operational Manual). The remaining 60% would be available to all participating municipalities
which would compete on the basis of the quality of their proposals and efficiency. Further explanations
will be detailed in the FAM Operational Manual, to be provided to participating municipalities at the
outset of the program implementation.
Use of FAM Resources
The FAM is meant to support the entire range of municipal responsibilities for environmental local
management. As in the case of FONDEM, up to 20% of the FAM resources may be used to cover the
increase in administrative costs that municipalities would face. The FAM Operation Manual would define
in detail eligible expenditures under this category and the related municipal reporting requirements. Not
less than 80% of FAM resources shall be used by recipient municipalities to finance, in full or in part, the
cost of preparing and implementing local environmental investment subprojects.
As in FONDEM, subprojects financed under FAM must undergo an environmental screening or checklist
procedure at the time of project approval. The FAM Operational Manual would include a checklist of
basic project characteristics, environmental analysis classification requirements, and required
processes. (See also Annex 12 for Environmental Analysis and Mitigation Plan). The FAM negative
list would build on the FONDEM negative list (described in Attachment 1 of this annex), adding all
those investments which are not directed to local environmental management.
-45-



Requirements for FAM Eligibility. The MARENA Operational Manual would detail a set of subproject
eligibility criteria, based on the following. Subprojects must be:
(i) identified within framework of municipal participatory planning, and incorporated under the Municipal
Investment Plan;
(ii) intended to produce an environmental benefit, both local or global.
(iii) requested by the Municipal Government (although its execution could be outsourced);
(iv) co-financed by direct executors at least 20% of total investment requirements (monetary or in-kind
contributions);
(v) presented with a financial application and a project profile that would justify and identify the nature of
the proposal, environmental and social impact, financial investments and an execution timeline,
along with co-financing specifics and implementing agency information.
The FAM would finance those investments which are specifically target for local environmental
management. Below is a sample list of projects that could be financed under the FAM depending on the
local demand as revealed by the local participatory planning process.
Typology of FAM-Financed Activities
Brown environmental subprojects
* Clean Technologies such as: (i) pollution control; (ii) industrial decontamination; (iii) water treatment
systems for coffee mills and cheese production facilities; (iv) and methane gas production
* Facilities and Environment Programs: (i) institutional development, such as rehabilitation of municipal
environmental offices, technical assistance and equipment for municipal technical units; (ii) technical
assistance to Municipal Environmental Commissions and Municipal Technical Units; (iii) municipal
ecological brigades; (iv) environmental awareness and education campaigns
Green environmental subprojects
* Natural Resources Management: (i) soil erosion control, (ii) prevention and control of forest fires; (iii)
reforestation and tree nurseries, (iv) municipal natural protected areas management or administration;
(v) watershed management, particularly for the supply of drinking water
* Environmental Economic Activities: (i) sustainable use of wild flora and fauna, including fisheries; (ii)
ecotourism; and (iii) sustainable forest use
Environmental institutional development subprojects
* Technical design of environmental subprojects
* Environmental technical assistance and training
* Institutional development of the Municipal Environmental Commissions (CAMs)
FAM Administration
The FAM would be managed by MARENA, through the unit for small projects created by DANIDA. An
independent Board of Directors would be responsible for defining and supervising FAM policies. The
Board of Directors would be composed of two representatives from MARENA, one from INIFOM, and
one from AMUNIC.
-46-



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
NICARAGUA: SECOND RURAL MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Local    Fore!g         Toa
c Cost00 B0i;-;0y Component               US million    US $miilion    US $million
A. MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT                                    0.00         0.00          0.00
1. Decentralized Financing (FONDEM)                     16.32         0.00         16.32
2. Municipal Strengthening                               6.11          1.39         7.50
3. INIFOM's Institutional Strengthening                  2.15         0.93          3.08
4. Evaluation and Policy Development                     0.70         0.30          1.00
B. MUNICIPAL ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT                       0.00         0.00          0.00
1. Decentralization of Environmental Management         4.02          0.89         4.91
2. Environmental Information System (SINIA)             1.02          0.65          1.67
3. Municipal Environmental Fund (FAM)                   4.58          0.00         4.58
Total Baseline Cost                                       34.90          4.16         39.06
Physical Contingencies                                     1.05         0.22          1.27
Price Contingencies                                       0.25          0.12          0.37
Total Project Costs              36.20         4.50         40.70
Total Financing Required              36.20          4.50         40.70
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 40.7 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 70.52%vo of
total project cost net of taxes.
-47-



Annex 4
NICARAGUA: SECOND RURAL MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY OF ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
The economic analysis was based on the quantification of the expected costs and benefits of local
investments - or subprojects - to be financed by FONDEM and FAM. The analysis was based on a
stratified sample drawn from the experience of the ongoing project, basing the results on assumptions
about future financing.
Sample selection. The range of the subprojects financed under the ongoing project is large and
diverse. The ongoing project implemented more than 950 economic and social infrastructure, productive,
environmental and institutional development subprojects. Previous analysis demonstrated the economic
results vary greatly, from extremely profitable to complete failures. Therefore particular attention was
given to the selection of a representative sample of subprojects.
To improve sample representativeness without excessively increasing its size (and consequent costs),
the sample was stratified on the basis of four investment categories (see Table 1). In addition, each
category was separated into two strata according to the evaluation of the monitoring system maintained
by municipalities. According to this system, each subproject is classified as highly satisfactory (HS),
satisfactory (S), unsatisfactory (U), and highly unsatisfactory (HU). Each strata provided a minimal
sample of two subprojects, to allow an estimation of variability. In September 2000 (moment of the
sample selection), the ongoing project had implemented 933 subprojects. Of these, 352 had been
completed at least one year before (on or before September 1999). The sample was selected from this
universe of 352 subprojects, thus guaranteeing that all sampled subprojects had been under operation
for at least one year.
Table 1-4 - Sample Stratification
FTasl
Number of               Number of                  nvotas
Investment Category   HS and S   Sample      HU and U     Sample    (USiv,rsU   Total Sample
subproiects              subrobects                 , ,
Economic infrastructure    145       5   3%           5      2  40%          150      7   5%
Environmental Projects      41      2   5%            2      2 100%           43      4   9%
Social Infrastructure        9       3  33%           2      2 100%           11      5  45%
Productive Investments     142      4   3%            6      2  33%          148      6   4%
Total                      337      14   4%          15      8  53%          352     22   6%
A team visited each subproject in the selected sample and collected information on costs and benefits
and calculated the Economic Internal Rate of Return and Net Present Value for the 22 sampled
subprojects. The economic analysis of sampled subprojects was based on the following assumptions:
* Discount Rate: 12%
*  Shadow price of labor and land: 100% of market price;
* Shadow Price of tradable: 130% of market price;
-48 -



Table 2-4 - Results of the Economic Analysis in the Sampled Subprojects
Economic   Net Present
Subproject             Location        Category  Internal Rate of   Value
Return (EIRR) (US$ '000)
1  Rural Electrification     Santa Teresa de Tolap Ec. Infr           -6%       -5,879
2  Rural Electrification     El Comejen         Ec. Infr              24%       6,718
3  Rural Road Rehab.         Rio Chiquito       Ec. Infr              40%     149,055
4  Rural Road Rehab.         Nagarote - La Trinidad Ec. Infr          84%     513,086
5  Bridge                    La Cuitanga        Ec. Infr              12%         143
6  Rural Road Rehab.         Lagartillo-Pajarito    Ec. Infr  Negative          -2,248
7  Rural Road Rehab.         Lagartillo-Guanacaste Ec. Infr  Negative          -14,223
8  Pine                      San Pedro          Environ.               9%        -316
9  Pine                      San Francisco      Environ.               9%        -316
10 Forestry                  Santo Tomas         Environ.             12%          26
11  Silvopastoril            El Castillo         Environ.             17%          99
12 Silvopastoril             El Limonal          Productive           57%       26,777
13 Irrigation                Jicaral             Productive            9.1         -5
14 Productive                La Paz Viejo        Productive  Negative          -26,351
15 Silvopastoril             El Bonete           Productive  Negative          -55,986
16 Chicken Production        Malpaisillo         Productive  Negative           -3,378
17 Chicken Production        Telica              Productive  Negative           -8,892
18 Health center             Copaltepe           Soc. Infr.            -2%      -3,099
19 Nursery                   Posoltega           Soc. lnfr.           88%         947
20 Water supply              San Martin, El Sauce Soc. Infr.          59%          133
21  Latrines                 Somotillo           Soc. Infr.   Negative         -14,223
22 Water supply              La Mesa             Soc. Infr.   Negative         -14,223
The analysis revealed that subprojects classified as unsatisfactory or below (less than 5% of cases),
present serious design or implementation problems. In all of those cases there were minimal benefits,
and the rate of return was highly negative. There were also two cases of subproject with a slightly
negative Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) even though the municipal monitoring system
classified them as satisfactory. EIRR of satisfactory and highly satisfactory subproject ranged between
-6% and 88%. This high variability of results caused a high sampling error.
In calculating the average resulting from weighting the results of the sample, future demand was
estimated to change in comparison to the ongoing project. It was assumed that FISE would finance a
larger share of the social infrastructure, while the decision that financing of credit would not be fallowed
would curb the demand for productive subprojects. Additionally, separate financing for environmental
subproject under the Municipal Environmental Facility (FAM) would increase demand for environmental
subprojects. On the basis of these assumptions, future demand was estimated with the following relative
share.
-49 -



Graphic 1-4. Estimation of future demand share for local investments
Environ.
Invest.
Economic
Infr.
Producti 
e Invest. V
Social]
Infr.
Table 3-4 - Summary Results of the Economic Analysis
Economic      95% Confidence    Net Present    95% Confidence
Investment Category   Internal Rate    Interval (%) c      Value       Interval (US$ '000)
of Return (%)     Inevl()(US$ '000)
Lower     Upper                   Lower      Upper
Economic Infrastructure    31.1         -0.2      62.5       71,535      -351,888    494,958
Social Infrastructure      20.4        -10.7       51.6      21,273        -31,976    74,523
Productive Investments      18.7       -18.7       56.0      -20,548    -1,004,041    59,308
Environmental Investments   18.5       -13.8       50.8       -57            -578       464
Weighted average            22.7        10.5       34.8      19,537        -78,578    117,544
The estimated Economic Internal Rate of Return for the investments in municipal subprojects (FONDEM
and FAM sub-components) which resulted from the above analysis is quite satisfactory: the average of
23% is significantly higher than the discount rate, and also the lower Confidence Interval is slightly lower
than the discount rate (12%). The Net Present Value is, however, slightly more problematic: although
the weighted average for one subproject is almost $20,000, the confidence interval is extremely broad,
with a lower value significantly negative: -$78,600. This is a consequence of the high variability of results
in the sample and consequent high sampling errors.
Institutional Development
The above analysis did not consider investments in institutional development, such as technical
assistance and training. Although the major expected gains of the proposed project are in terms of
institutional development, to quantify the return of such investments is extremely difficult. Therefore the
preparation team carried out a sensitivity analysis which considered two hypothetical scenarios:
*  the institutional development would produce no benefit. In this scenario, the Economic Rate of
Return of the whole project, comprising the cost for investments in technical assistance and training,
would still be slightly positive (weighted average EIRR=5.7%); and
*  the institutional development benefits were estimated on the basis of the amount of resources
managed by municipal governments. Considering that the 40 municipalities covered by the project
manage around US$16 million per year, a conservative estimate increased efficiency of 8.8% after
project completion would produce an EIRR equal to the opportunity cost of capital (12%).
Neither of the two scenarios attempted to quantify institutional development benefits at community level.
Nonetheless, participatory implementation of local investments is expected to foster the creation of
social capital thus reducing transaction costs. However, transaction costs reduction has been quantified
only in few anecdotal examples, without a statistical significance, thus the team decided to not account
for such benefits.
- 50 -



Finally, there is a last benefit expected from the participatory planning exercise which was not quantified:
the complementarity among subprojects. Within the framework of a sound municipal planning, the many
small investments financed by FONDEM, FAM, municipal taxes, and other financing sources, are
expected to produce significant synergy, thus increasing the benefit of each investment alone. Again,
given the difficulty in quantifying such benefits, they were not accounted for.
Cost-Effectiveness Analysis. The Evaluation of Effects and Potential Sustainability of the ongoing
project analyzed cost-effectiveness of subprojects. The analysis quantified the unitary costs of
municipalities in implementing small-scale infrastructure projects as compared to other central
government agencies.
The analysis confronted significant methodological problems in defining the comparators because even
the most simple infrastructure (as in the case of latrines) was found to be difficult to compare. This is
mainly due to the difficulty of defining quality in quantitative terms. In fact, the technical design of
municipal investments is very flexible and does not follow any specific standard. In addition, record
keeping is very poor at municipal level.
Findings from the cost-effectiveness analysis show that the efficiency of the project's decentralized
mechanism is comparable to that of the most efficient central level institutions, sometimes slightly
higher. The decentralized mechanism has the additional benefit of building local capacity through a
learning-by-doing methodology. Building local capacity is essential for increasing the participation of
rural communities (often poor and isolated) in their own development.
- 51 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
NICARAGUA: SECOND RURAL MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Years Ending
IMPLfEMENTATION PERIOD
| Year 1    Year 2  | Year 3  | Year 4  | Year 5       Year 6  | Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs          10.1       11.9       8.6        3.9       0.0        0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs            1.0        2.1        2.0       1.1        0.0        0.0      0.0
Total Project Costs         11.1       14.0      10.6        5.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Financing             11.1       14.0      10.6        5.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                  6.7       10.8        7.6       3.6        0.0       0.0       0.0
Government                0.2        0.9        1.5        0.4       0.0       0.0        0.0
Central                0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
Co-financiers             0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Municipalities            0.8        1.3        1.1       0.8        0.0       0.0       0.0
Others                     3.4       1.0        0.4       0.2        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing    11.1       14.0      10.6        5.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
- 52 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
NICARAGUA: SECOND RURAL MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Procurement
Procurement of goods financed by IDA under the project would be carried out in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, published in January 1995 (revised
January/August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999). Consultant services would be procured in
accordance with the Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
published in January 1997 (revised in September 1997 and January 1999), and the provisions stipulated
in the Credit Agreement.
Assessment of agency's capacity to implement procurement
An assessment of the capacity of INIFOM and MARENA to conduct procurement indicated in the project
design has been completed. A corrective plan that proposes specific actions to be addressed before
Credit Effectiveness has been agreed upon with the Government. This action plan includes:
* Adoption of the Code of Ethics (Decree 124-99 published on December 10, 1999) by employees of
INIFOM and MARENA.
* Integration of current INIFOM-PIU with INIFOM's structure.
* Recruitment or reallocation of administrative staff in MARENA, in particular a procurement and a
disbursement specialist, to work with PIU staff.
* Specific procurement training to municipalities on national procurement law.
* Preparation of chapter on procurement and disbursements in the Operations Manuals for INIFOM
and MARENA (comprising FONDEM and FAM), describing clearly the procedures, methodologies,
coordinating arrangements and control mechanisms.
* Adoption of a personnel management system in INIFOM and MARENA for its restructured
organization, including viable performance appraisals and a scheduled compensation improvement
plan, would be a condition to access IDA financing for salaries.
The ongoing project has created a capacity within MARENA and INIFOM to conduct procurement of
goods, works and consultant services in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. This capacity is
concentrated in the Project Implementing Units (PlUs) but under the proposed projects INIFOM's PIU
would be transferred to the institution in an effort to institutionalize this capacity. However, pursuit of the
decentralization strategy would also require the implementation of procurement at and below the
municipal level, as vehicles of capacity building. Government agencies and IDA will need to agree on
the application of suitable community-based procurement procedures for municipal and community
subprojects under the Municipal Development Fund (FONDEM) and Municipal Environmental Facility
(FAM). The subproject procurement procedures would be designed to be consistent with the
Government's recently passed Public Procurement Law (Law 323) dated January 2000. Based on the
thresholds set in Law 323 for different procurement procedures and the average size of the subprojects,
it is expected that procurement in most of the subprojects would be carried out under shopping
procedures. The average size of individual subprojects is expected to be below US$25,000. The
average in the ongoing project is US$20,000.
As a pilot within the FONDEM resources transfer mechanism, and to help accelerate implementation of
the new Public Procurement Law, the project proposes to support and monitor financing of fiscal
transfers to municipalities with an ex-post procedures review mechanism. Municipalities that might be
allowed to use this pilot funding would need to show a stronger capacity in planning, procurement
administration and managing their resources in order to qualify for the somewhat expanded procurement
authorities. This financing procedure would be an incentive for other municipalities to improve
administratively and be able to qualify for this program. To implement this approach and support a more
rapid application of the new Public Procurement Law at the municipal level, the Government and IDA will
- 53 -



agree on the specific procedures to be followed (e.g., Shopping and/or community-based procedures). A
suitable procurement audit mechanism will also be formulated within the INIFOM / Municipal Operations
Manual to assure that the pilot funds transfers will be used for: (i) eligible investments, and (ii) in a
manner satisfying IDA procurement requirements.
Procurement activities would be carried out as follows:
(a) Municipal Development component (US$28.9 m). INIFOM through its Administrative and Operations
Departments would carry out procurement activities to support decentralization and institutional
strengthening of INIFOM. INIFOM units would also coordinate the transfer of funds to municipalities
to finance subprojects and would train and monitor INIFOM's central and field administrative staff,
which would support and oversee the implementation of program procurement at the municipal and
community levels. Municipalities would have management responsibilities for implementing the
subprojects, including procurement of, as appropriate, consultant services, materials, works and
supervision activities, processing of associated contract payment documentation, reporting, and the
maintenance of related records.
(b) Municipal Environmental Management component (US$11.7 m.). MARENA would carry out
procurement activities for this component using existing, experienced staff. FAM subprojects would
be implemented directly by the municipalities, under supervision of INIFOM and MARENA. The
existing PIU would initially carry out all procurement and it would also train procurement staff hired
by MARENA which would help institutionalize improved procurement procedures within MARENA's
administrative departments. PIU and the augmented staff would also coordinate and supervise
procurement actions for the subprojects where procurement activities are carried out directly by
municipalities. Municipalities would be responsible for procurement under FAM-funded subprojects
and administration and record-keeping responsibilities related thereto.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Procurement methods are described below and their estimated amounts are summarized in Table A.
Threshold estimated contract values defining applicable procurement methods are indicated in Table B.
Procurement of Works
The Project would finance small civil works for remodeling of several office buildings estimated to cost in
total US$144,000. The contracts would be procured under lump-sum, fixed price contracts awarded on
the basis of quotations obtained from at least three qualified domestic contractors in respond to a writen
invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications,
the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to IDA, and relevant drawings,
where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for
the required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Standard documents for this procedure would be agreed before the first invitation is issued.
Procurement of Goods
Goods to be procured under the project include computers, printers, videos, publications, promotional
material, vehicles, communications and office equipment and furniture. To the extent practicable, goods
would be grouped in packages of US$150,000 or more that would be procured though ICB procedures.
NCB is not contemplated but, if any, goods that are estimated to cost more than US$25,000 per contract
up to US$150,000 would be procured under NCB procedures. Publications, promotional materials, office
equipment and furniture, etc., estimated to cost less than US$25,000 per contract would be procured
using Shopping procedures based on a model Request For Quotations satisfactory to the Association, up
to an aggregate amount of US$500,000.
Selection of Consultant Services and Training
- 54 -



Consulting services include technical assistance, studies and provision of staff and program training.
Most of these services are expected to be carried out by consulting firms. These services are required
to: (i) support decentralization and training activities of INIFOM and MARENA, (ii) improve the legal
framework of local government financing, (iii) strengthen municipalities' capacities in administration and
management of subprojects, preparation of annual plans and budgets, manuals, (iv) establish integrated
information systems, comprising an environmental information system and a municipal system, (v)
establish an evaluation and policy development system, (vi) provide technical assistance to decentralize
environmental management; and supervise and monitor municipalities, comprising procurement and
financial audit, in the implementation of FONDEM and FAM subprojects. Individual consultants would be
hired for capacity building, and for specialized services and training.
a) Firms
Consultant services carried out by a firm would be hired using QCBS procedures, in accordance with
consultants' guidelines, as indicated in the procurement schedule.
b) Individuals
Individual consultants would be used for two main objectives and would be selected in accordance with
the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of Chapter 5 of the Consultant Guidelines. The first
objective would be to maintain the capacity created during the ongoing project. There is currently a
group of more than 30 individual consultants who are supporting the regular staff of INIFOM and
MARENA in carrying out their activities. This group of consultants developed a significant set of skills on
municipal development and decentralized environmental management. Such skills are rare in Nicaragua,
and one important objective of the proposed project is not to lose the already developed capacity.
Although it is expected that some of these individual would be hired as permanent staff by the two
institutions, for most of them the change from individual consultant to permanent staff would significantly
reduce their remuneration, and would be therefore difficult to accept. Although incentives such as job
stability could be important in the electoral period during project implementation, it is expected that most
would maintain their consultant status. Therefore some 50% of the proposed allocation for individual
consultants would be used to assure the continuity of already hired consultants. This implies that most of
these individual consultants' contracts would be for a long period, possibly more than one year. Existing
termination clauses would be maintained, together with the already created performance evaluation
system.
The second objective of individual consultants is to have access to specialized advisory services and
provision of training for specific topics where there is limited availability of consulting firms. For
example, monitoring and evaluation of decentralized projects is particularly complex, and little
experience has been developed in the Central America region. Since the capacity of consulting firms is
insufficient, the project would utilize the remaining 50% of the proposed allocation to hire individual
consultants. However, the operational manual would define selection criteria, together with a
comprehensive consultant management aspects such as objective and technical evaluation of results.
Subproiects
Subproject financing would be implemented under the following two funds:
a) The Municipal Development Fund (FONDEM) under the Municipal Development component consists
of grants to finance subprojects proposed by municipalities. These subprojects cannot be defined in
advance as they would be demand-driven. A Negative List would be included in the FONDEM
Operational Manual. The manual would describe in detail selection criteria, the process for identifying,
developing and approving subprojects, and applicable procurement procedures. The average cost of a
subproject is expected to be below US$25,000. A subproject could consist of goods, works or services,
or a combination of the three.
b) Municipal Environmental Facility (FAM) under the Municipal Environmental Management component
- 55 -



would provide grants to finance municipal environmental projects which meet IDA-approved criteria.
Somewhat differently from FONDEM, MARENA has developed a "positive list" of local environmental
investments which would be specified in the approved MARENA Operational Manual.
Procurement for subprojects would be done by target municipalities following national
procurement procedures. Because of their small value, it is expected the majority of subproject inputs
would be procured under the national procedures using Shopping-equivalent procedures. In exceptional
cases, where the estimated subproject contract would exceed the National Procurement procedures
Shopping-equivalent category, NCB or comparable procedures as agreed by IDA would be applied.
Procedures to be used by the municipalities and/or the direct community beneficiaries would incorporate
community-based concepts, where appropriate, and would be agreed to by IDA and included in the
Operations Manuals prepared prior to Credit Effectiveness.
Operating Costs
Operating Costs comprise expenditures for incremental costs associated with the implementation
of the Project, such as: (i) operation and maintenance of vehicles, repairs, fuel and spare parts; (ii) office
equipment and computer maintenance; (iii) office supplies, rentals and office facilities and utilities
associated with INIFOM, MARENA and their regional offices involved in project implementation; (v)
transportation costs, travel and per diem cost for technical staff to carry out training, supervisory and
monitoring activities, as previously approved by IDA and (vi) salaries of INIFOM and MARENA staff. The
salaries would be financed only after the responsible institutions will have developed and made
operational a system of personnel management comprising of a selection, remuneration policy and
performance evaluation acceptable to IDA has been made operational.
Prior review thresholds
The prior review thresholds are summarized in Table B.
Bank's prior review would be required for a) All ICB; b) the first two contracts under NCB and National
Shopping-equivalent procedures; and d) contracts with individuals consultants above $50,000, and for
consultant firms above $100,000. Contract amendments which would exceed these levels would
likewise be subject to prior reviews. Prior reviews for procurements implemented under the municipal
funds (FONDEM and FAM) would have review procedures as specified in the approved Operational
Manuals. In addition to prior reviews of designated procurement actions, annual INIFOM and MARENA
Operating Plans and budgets, including their procurement plan updates, as appropriate, would be
reviewed and approved by IDA.
Procurement Plan
INIFOM and MARENA have initiated the preparation of an indicative Procurement Plan which shall be
discussed at negotiations. A detailed Procurement Plan is expected by April 2001. Annual Procurement
Plan updates would also be submitted to and reviewed by the Bank as part of the Annual Operations
Plan approval process.
Frequency of Procurement Supervision
In addition to indicated prior reviews, it is recommended that a full project launch mission be
implemented and an extended procurement supervision mission be effected within the first six months of
Credit Effectiveness to ensure administration preparedness and functioning. Full procurement missions
should be conducted thereafter at midyear on an six-month basis to monitor progress and carry out post
reviews of procurement actions. Such post-review field analyses would assess the efficacy and
relevance of procurement audits (See below.)
Procurement Audits
- 56 -



It has been agreed that procurement audits of the subprojects would e carried out, along with the
financial audit of the project. Such audits would cover a sample of not less than 10 percent of contracts
signed and subprojects funded during the prior year. TORs would be reviewed and approved by IDA by
negotiations.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Exe00ndture Category          ICB           NCO          Other 2       N.B.F       Total Cist
1. Works                          0.00          0.00          0.14          0.00          0.14
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.10)        (0.00)       (0.1 O)
2. Goods                          1.10          0.00          0.59          0.00          1.69
(1.00)        (0.00)        (0.44)        (0.00)       (1.44)
3. Services                       0.00          0.00          9.60          0.00          9.60
Including training               (0.00)        (0.00)         (7.31)        (0.00)       (7.31)
4. Subprojects                    0.00          0.00          21.54         0.00         21.54
(0.00)        (0.00)       (14.85)        (0.00)       (14.85)
5. Operating Costs                0.00          0.00          6.23          0.00          6.23
(0.00)        (0.00)        (3.50)        (0.00)       (3.50)
6. PPF                            0.00          0.00          1.50          0.00          1.50
(0.00)        (0.00)        (1.50)        (0.00)       (1.50)
Total                          1.10           0.00         39.60          0.00        40.70
(1.00)        (0.00)       (27.70)        (0.00)       (28. '70)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies
2t Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and operating
costs related to managing the project.
- 57 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Consultant                                Selection   Method
Services
Expenditure    QCBS      QBS       SFB       LCS       cQ      Other    N.B.F.  Total Cost'
Category
A. Firms           4.95     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     4.95
(3.08)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (3.08)
B. Individuals     0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      3.68      0.00     3.68
I (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (3.33)    (0.00)    (3.33)
Total   4.95     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      3.68     0.00      8.63
(3.08)    (0.00)      (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (3.33)    (0.00)    (6.41)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
- 58 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
L0, :~~~~~~~~~~.                                         con  cts " ut     eipic; "tW
E)ppen.dlture Categoy     (S  huad)RIohd(S   ilos
1. Works                        <150              Lump-sum fixed price           None
contracts
2. Goods                        >150                     ICB                      All
25-150                   NCB                   First two*
<25                   Shopping                First two*
3. Services
a) Firms                      >100                    QCBS                      All
<100                    QCBS             Only TORs and budget
>50             Consultant Guidelines,           All
b) Individuals                 <50               Chapter 5, para 5.1     TORs and terms c,f
employment
4. Training                      N/A                     N/A                      None
5. Subprojects                   >50            Municipal and community          None
<50            procurement according to
I   Operational Manual
6. Operating Costs               N/A                     N/A                     None
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
* For INIFOM and MARENA
IThresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 59-



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Expenditure Category       Amount In US$million         Financing Percentage
1. Works
a) Municipal Development               0.05                        80%
b) Municipal Environmental             0.05                        80%
Management
2. Goods
a) Municipal Development               0.60                  100% FE/ 85% LE
b) Municipal Environmental             0.60                  100% FE/ 85% LE
Management
3. Consultant Services and Training
a) Municipal Development               4.80                        100%
b) Municipal Environmental             2.15                        100%
Management
4. Subprojects
a) FONDEM                             11.00                100% of INIFOM's share
b) FAM                                 3.30               100% of MARENA's share
5. Operating Costs
a) Municipal Development               2.20          80% up to an aggregate of US$1.0 m,
60% up to US$2.0 m., and 40%
thereafter
b) Municipal Environmental             1.20          80% up to an aggregate of US$0.8 m,
Management                                          60% up to US$1.0 m., and 40%
thereafter
6. PPF                                    1.50                        100%
7. Unallocated                            1.25
Total Credit Amount                      28.70
Financial Management Responsibility
Both INIFOM and MARENA would be responsible for the implementation and maintenance of a financial
management system of their respective components, to efficiently manage the Project's funds and timely
prepare the Project Management Reports (PMR). The financial management system would include
policies, norms and procedures for Planning, Budget, Procurement, Accounting, Reporting, and Auditing,
to ensure the provision of accurate and timely information to the IDA, regarding Project funds resources
and expenditures, as required by OP/10.02.  The system will provide information on physical
performance, according to Project's out-put and indicators included in Annex 1.
Although the UTI established within INIFOM under the ongoing Rural Municipalities Project has the
capacity to comply with IDA's financial management requirements - except generating PMR - INIFOM's
Administration and Finance Department (Gerencia de Administracion y Finanzas - GAF) does not have
this capability. INIFOM is currently undergoing a process of organizational change to institutionalize the
UTI into its line departments. As part of the change process, a consultant would be hired to evaluate and
revise staff qualifications and responsibilities. Additionally, as recommended during the financial
management assessment carried out for this project's preparation, an external audit of the INIFOM
internal controls would be conducted. Recommendations from these two evaluations would have to be
implemented within the frame of the Institute's organizational re-engineering and through the enactment
of a specific action plan. This action plan has already been agreed upon and includes key actions to: (a)
restructure the INIFOM budget control and accounting system, to meet INIFOM's and its clients' needs;
(b) improve the INIFOM 's accounting software; (c) up-grade and complete the accounting and
monitoring systems of the municipalities; (d) establish modalities and schedule for incorporation of the
- 60 -



temporary special financial management unit (SFMU) corresponding to the current UTI Finance and
Administration Unit , within the INIFOM's new organizational structure; (e) update the administrative
procedures manual; (f) draft an operating manual for the management of FONDEM; (g) improve the
INIFOM's monitoring system; and (h) hire external auditors.
MARENA is facing a similar situation. The General Directorate for Finance and Administration (DAGF)
does not have the capability to implement the project according to IDA requirements. The institution
needs to strengthen the financial areas, including planning, budgeting and accounting systems, as well
as to improve the system for physical and financial monitoring of its annual projects implementation
plans. The DAGF does not have experience in procurement of goods and services in accordance with
IDA requirements, nor has a procurement specialist or division. The PIU established within MARENA
under the first phase of the Rural Municipalities Project would therefore assist MARENA by hiring and
training the staff assigned to the project financial management. Until an accounting system that meets
MARENA's and its clients' needs, is implemented, the PIU's accounting system would continue to be
used, with some improvements, for the accounting of the proposed project.
Action plans have been agreed with both institutions, which provide the necessary guidelines to ensure
that by project effectiveness an adequate financial management system, internal controls, monitoring
systems, and trained staff, are in place to achieve the certification of the project's financial management
system under the Bank's Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI), and in accordance with (i) the
Financial Accounting, Reporting, and Auditing Handbook (World Bank, 1995); (ii) the Bank's Operational
Policy (OP) and Bank Procedure (BP) 10.02 dated July 1996; and (iii) the revised Bank financial
management standards to comply with OP and BP 10.02, dated August 1997.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
IDA and the Borrower have agreed that if by project effectiveness MARENA and INIFOM have not
implemented a PMR compliant system, but has in place a financial system that meets minimum IDA
requirements, the traditional disbursement procedures will be used for the first two quarters of project
implementation, in accordance with the guidelines set in the Disbursement Procedures Handbook. The
assessment of the institutions' readiness for disbursements under SOEs or PMRs will be independently
one of each other. The institutions for post-review and audit purposes will maintain SOEs documentation.
Use of Project Management Reports (PMRs)
By the end of the second quarter of project implementation, or earlier if the institutions are compliant and
request transition to a full Project Management Report (PMR) system, the PMRs would serve as
disbursement requests. Transition to PMR will be subject to the satisfactory results of new financial
management and procurement assessments. Once the borrower becomes PMR compliant,
disbursements would be in accordance with guidelines set in the Loan Administration Change Initiative
(LACI) Implementation Handbook. Each institution would submit separate withdrawal applications, and
would be supported by a PMR or such other documents and evidence as IDA may request. PMRs
should be submitted within 45 days from the preceding quarter. Upon receipt of each application for
withdrawal, IDA, on behalf of the Borrower, shall withdraw from the credit account and deposit into the
Special Accounts an amount equal to the lesser: (a) the amount requested; and (b) the amount the IDA
has determined, based on the PMR accompanying the application, is required to be deposited in order to
finance eligible expenditures during the six month period following the date of the report, but in no case
should exceed 20% of the total loan and grant funds, without prior authorization from the Loan
department. MARENA and INIFOM would be responsible for preparing withdrawal applications and the
related PMRs. All supporting documentation authenticating the expenditures reported in the PMRs
would be maintained by MARENA, INIFOM, and the municipalities and made available for review by
independent auditors and by the Bank supervision missions. Direct Payments and Special Commitments
should be clearly identified in the PMRs, as applicable, shall include the documentation required for
these types of payments.
- 61 -



Special account:
Two Separate Special Accounts in US Dollars will be established at a commercial bank in Nicaragua,
provided that this (these) bank(s) meet World Bank requirements. MARENA and INIFOM would be
responsible for submitting appropriate disbursement applications to request the transfer of funds to the
Special Accounts. One special account for the component to be executed by MARENA, and one Special
Account for the component to be executed by INIFOM. The authorized allocation(s) to the Special
Accounts, for Non-PMR disbursements will be set at a level sufficient to cover approximately four
months of estimated expenditures eligible for financing by the Bank, up to a maximum authorized
allocation of US$1.0m for MARENA, US$2.5m for INIFOM.
Disbursement Procedures
Replenishments of funds will be made on evidence of satisfactory utilization of the previous advance(s)
as evidenced by the documentation submitted in support of disbursement applications. Deposits into the
Special Accounts and their replenishments, up to the Authorized Allocations will be made initially on the
basis of Applications for Withdrawals (Form 1903) accompanied with the supporting and other
documentation specified in the Disbursement Handbook. Withdrawal applications will be fully
documented, except for expenditures under contracts costing less than US$150,000 equivalent for
goods, and US$100,000 and US$50,000 equivalent for consulting firms and individual consultants,
respectively, in which cases disbursements would me made against certified statement of expenditures
(SOEs).
Given the rural and disperse nature of the Municipalities receiving documentation on funds under the
FAM and FONDEM funded activities, funds advanced to the municipalities may be outstanding for a
period up to 90 days.
Auditing Arrangements
MARENA and INIFOM would contract external auditors, acceptable to the Association, to carry out an
annual financial audit of the project, as required by OP/BP 10.02. The auditor will be selected according
with the Bank's "Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of consultants by the World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 1997, revised in September 1997 and January 1999. The auditors should be
hired at project inception, to cover the whole period of project implementation, to perform three annual
audits and one final audit at project closing. INIFOM would contract extenal auditors to carry out annual
financial audits of the municipalities for the FAM and FONDEM funded activities. The project financial
statements, the Special Accounts, SOEs (if applicable), the PMRs, and procurement procedures, central
level and municipalities will be audited at the end of each fiscal year during project implementation. An
audited report of the project financial statements, along with the audited financial statements of the
municipalities, will be submitted to the Bank within 120 days of the close of the project's financial year.
The "Guidelines and Terms of Reference for Audits of Projects with Financing by the World Bank in the
Latin American and the Caribbean Region" should be followed by MARENA and INIFOM in preparing the
terms of reference for the audit and these guidelines should be provided to the selected auditors. The
audit terms of reference and short list of audit reports will be cleared by the Bank's Regional Financial
Management Department (LCOAA).
- 62 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
NICARAGUA: SECOND RURAL MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project000000n Schede                              Pn n7 I d                    Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       17                           19
First Bank mission (identification)             10/20/99                      01/20/2000
Appraisal mission departure                     08/20/2000                    10/15/2000
Negotiations                                    11/25/2000                    01/22/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   03/01/2001                    06/01/2001
Prepared by:
Nicaraguan Institute for Municipal Development (INIFOM) and Ministry of Natural Resources
(MARENA)
Preparation assistance:
PHRD: TF025621 and TF026314
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name    X    0                           Speciality
Maurizio Guadagni                 Rural Development Specialist
Gabriela Boyer                    Environmental Specialist
Leonardo Romeo                    Institutional Expert
Valeria Pena                      Social Scientist
Douglas Graham                    Biodiversity specialist
Mark Austin                       Project Management
Lisa Taber                        Economist
Teresa Roncal                     Procurement Analyst
Juan Pablo Ruiz                   Decentralization of Environmental Financing
Hemando Garzon                    Municipal Finance Specialist
David Kaimovitz                   Natural Resources Management Specialist
Mariangeles Sabella               Country Lawyer
Luz Zeron                         Financial Management Specialist
Francis Kenefick                  Procurement Consultant
Radha Seshagiri                   Research Associate
Vincent Abreu                     Environmental Information Specialist
-63 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
NICARAGUA. SECOND RURAL MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
1. INIFOM. Plan de Fortalecimiento Municipal
2. MARE NA. Borrador del Plan de Implementacion Institucional
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1. Pena, Valeria. Social Assessment
2. Roncal, Teresa, and Francis Kennefik. Procurement Assessment of INIFOM and MARENA
C. Other
1. Abreu, Vincent, 2000, El Sistema Nacional de Informaci6n Ambiental de Nicaragua (SINIA):
Evaluaci6n Rapida;
2. Boyer, Gabriela. Environmental Analysis;
3. Fernandez, Milton; 2000, "Informe Consultoria. Preparaci6n de un Plan para la Elaboraci6n de la
Estrategia para adaptar las Operaciones del Segundo Proyecto de Municipalidades Rurales a las
Necesidades Locales de la RAAS en Forma Participativa;
4. Fernandez, Milton; 2000, "Informe de Analisis Documental. Evaluaci6n Rapida. Capacidad
Institucional de las Delegaciones Territoriales del Ministerio del Ambiente y los Recursos Naturales
de la Rep0blica de Nicaragua (MARENA)", MARENA;
5. Garzon, Hernando. Diseno del FONDEM;
6. Gutierrez, Ivan, and Ivan Salinas. Disenio del Fondo Ambiental Municipal;
7. MARENA - DGCTOC; 2000, 'Evaluaci6n Rapida. Capacidad Institucional de las Delegaciones
Territoriales";
8. MARENA. Estrategia de MARENA para la descentralizaci6n de las funciones operativas de
protecci6n del medio ambiente y uso sostenible de los recursos naturales. Borrador para discusi6n
intema en la DGCT, Febrero, 1999;
9. MARENA. Plan Operativo Anual Institucional 1999, MARENA, Managua, Febrero de 1999;
10. Ministerio de Hacienda y Credito Pviblico. Presupuesto General de la RepOblica 1995, 1996, 1997,
1998, 1999 y 2000;
11. Parra, Jose. Analisis Institucional de MARENA;
12. Romeo, Leonardo. Analisis Institucional del componente Desarrollo Municipal;
13. Romeo, Leonardo. El Sistema de Planificacion Municipal;
14. Roncal, teresa. Project Costs Tables.
15. Zeron, Luz. Financial Management Assessment and Action Plan of INIFOM and MARENA.
*Including electronic files
- 64 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
NICARAGUA: SECOND RURAL MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
20-Sep-2000
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                               disbursements
Project ID     FY   Purpose                                        IBRD          IDA        SF        GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.         Orig   Frmr Revd
P084915        2000 AG TECHN & RURAL EDU                                0.00      23.63                             0.00      23.27       0.65       0.00
P040197        1999 FISE III                                            0.00      45.00                             0.00      18.50      -3.34       0.00
P052080        1999 FORESTRY                                            0.00       9.00                             0.00       7.00       2.07       0.00
P035080        1995 INSTITUTIONAL DEV CR                                0.00      23.00                             0.00       0.20       0.24       0.00
P049296        2000 NI ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT TAC                          0.00      20.90                             0.00      19.23      -0.80       0.00
P007783        1995 NI/Basic Education Project                          0.00      47.20                             0.00       1.95      -8.76       5.26
P035753        1998 NUHEALTH SECT II                                    0.00      24.00                             0.00      17.41       4.13       0.00
P050613        2000 NI/SECOND BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT                   0.00      52.50                             0.00      41.42     -10.00       0.00
P056087        2000 Pension and Financial Market Reform TA              0.00       8.00                             0.00       7.48       0.00       0.00
P007788        1996 ROADS REHAB & MAINT                                 0.00      25.00                             0.00       0.03       1.60       0.00
P007790        1997 RURAL MUNICIPALITIES                                0.00      30.00                             0.00       2.25      -4.37       0.00
P055853        2000 TELECOMMUNIC. REFORM                                0.00      15.90                             0.00      10.30       3.40       0.00
P053705        1998 TRANSPORT II                                        0.00      47.40                             0.00      25.36      -5.31       0.00
Total:        0.00     371.53                             0.00      174.40     -20.49       5.26
NICARAGUA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
20-Sep-2000
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                                    Disbursed
IFC                                         IFC
FY Approval                Ccnpany                                  Loan    Equity        Quasi    Partic         Loan    Equity        Quasi    Pk
2000                       Finarca                                   2.00        0.60       0.00        0.00       1.67        0.00       0.0C
1998                      Frutan                                     2.00        1.00       0.00        0.00       1.00       0.64        0.0(
1998                      La Colonia                                 4.00       0.00        0.50       0.00        2.00       0.00        0.5('
1999                       SEF Dicegsa                               1.00        0.00       0.00        0.00       1.00       0.00        0.0(1
Total Portfolio:                  9.00        1.60       0.50        0.00        5.67       0.64        0.5)
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval               Company                                       Loan        Equity         Quasi        Partic
Total Pending Commitment:                     0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
- 65 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
NICARAGUA: SECOND RURAL MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Latin
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         America      Low-
Nicaragua   & Carib.  Incomr      Developmnt diamond
1999
Population. rmid-vear(mDllions)                       4.9      509      2.417                Life expectancy
GNP per capita CAUss method, US$)                    430      3,840      410
GNP (Atlas method, US$billions)                       2.1     1.955      988
Averase annual growth, 1993-99                                                                     T
Population (%j                                        2.7       1.6       1.9     GNP
Labor force (%)                                       4.0       2.5       2.3      p                              Gross
per                           primary
Most recn t*stimatb (latest yeor avalable. 199399)                                capita                      enrollment
Povertv % of population below national poverty line)  48
Urban oopulation (% oftotal oopulation)               56        75        31
Life exDectancv at birth (years)                      66        70        60
Infant mortalitv (per 1,000 live births)              40        31        77
Child malnutrition (% of chidren under 5)             20          8       43                Access to safe water
Access to imDroved water source (% of population)     67         75       64
Illiteracv 1% ofpopulation ape 15+)                   20         12       39
Gross primary enrollment 1% ofschoool-ae opuletion)  101        113       96            -Nicaragua
Male                                               100                 102                  Low-income group
Female                                             102         ..       86
KEY ECONOMiC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979    1989       1998      1999
Economic ratioe
GOP (US$ billions)                           1.6      1.0       2.1       2.3
Gross domestic investmentJGDP               -5.7     27.5      33.4      42.4
Exports of goods and services/GDP           42.0    32.5       35.8      33.6                    Trade
Gross domesti savinqslGDP                    8.2    -5.2       -8.6    -12.6
Gross national savingslGOP                  -0.9   -26.1       -5.7      -7.2
Current accourt balance/GOP                  2.5   -53.2      -29.4    -36.9      Do/si
Interest oayments/GDP                        2.3      0.2       4.0       5.2      omestic                   Investment
Total debtWGDP                              97.8   952.5      280.7    281.0      Savings           ,
Total debt service/exports                   8.9      3.3      23.2      27.6
Present value of debt/GDP                     ..              246.4
Present value of debt/export                  ..       .      484.1
Indebtedness
19798t9 1919-ft    199S       1999   1999-03
(average annusJ growfh)
GDP                                -1.0      2.8      4.1       7.0       6.2             -Nicaragua
GNP Per capita                     -4.4      2.2      6.4       4.6       3.7                  Low-income group
Exportsofgoodsandservices          -7.4      7.9      0.2       6.7       4,2
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979    1989       1998     1999      Growth of Investment and GDP (i)
(% of GDP)
Aqriculture                                 28.3    32.0       33.0      31.6
Industry                                    28.6    22.3       21.6      22.8    20
Manufacturina                             24.6    17.6       15.1      14.4
Services                                    43.1    45.7       45.4      45.7           
94   95         97   r,   ss
Prvate consumption                          74.0    78.5       92.4      94.4    -20
General qovemment consumDtion               17.9    26.7       16.3      18.2             -GDI            0  GDP
Imports of goods and services               28.1    65.2       77.9      88.7
1979 89  11918949I   199       1999     Grow/th of *xports and imports(%
(average annual growth)
Aqgculture                                  -2.6      4.7       3.5       4.8    20
Industrv                                    -0.7      3.4       5.1      12.6    10
Manufacturng                               -1.4     1A        2.1       3.3
Services                                    -0.4      1.3       3.7       4.5     0
Private consumption                         -3.5      4.5      10.4       5.6                 09    9
General qovemment consumption                7.3    -3.0        0.1       9.6
Gross domestic investment                   -3.0    10.0       13.5      39.8   -20
Imports of goods and services               -0.6      9.0      12.9      19.8           -                    impons
Gross national Product                      -1.6      5.1       9.3       7.3
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estmates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 66-



Nicaragua
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979     1989       1998     1999       Inflation (Y)
Domestic prices
(1% chanoe)                                                                          30
Consumer prices                               48.1  4.709.3       13.0      11.2    20
Implicit GDP deflator                         31.7  4,709.3       13.0      11.2
Government finance                                                                   10
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                   o
Currant revenue                                   .       ..      26.2      25.1             94   95    96   97    9S    9
Current budqet balance                                             5.0       5.4             -     GDP deflator  -4CPI
Overail surplus/deficit                         ..        ..       4.8    -11.7
TRADE
1979     1989       1998      1999      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
i(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                            567      311        573       544     2,tO0
Coffee                                       159       90        173       135
Shrimp) and lobster                           22        1 1       79        8.6    1.500
Manufactures                                 118       48        125       109
Total imports (cifl                            360      615      1,492     1,846     1I000
Food                                          78       90        357       441       0
Fuel and eneryv                               76       94        144       1 61
Capital qoods                                 46      200        452       597                J
Export Price index (1995=100)                   65       78         90        83            03   94   95  96  97  98   9
lmportpriceindexf1995=100)                      56       81        112       109                 aExports      *Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      116       97         81        76
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979     1989       1998     1999       Current account balance to GOP (%)
(US$ millions)
Exports of ooods and services                  623      333        830       839
Imports of poods and services                  511      667      1,517     1.800
Resource balance                               112     -334       -687      -961
Nut income                                     -73     -205       -170      -176
Net current transfers                            0        0        232       300        I     i I
Cvr-ent account balance                         39     -539       -626      -837      40
Financinq items (net)                           42      471        620       955
Chanqes in net reserves                          3       68          6      -118    13 I
Memo:
Reserves includin oold (USS millions)          156      164        357       510
Conversion rate (DEC, localIUS$)            1.85E-9  3.02E-3      10.6      11.8
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989       1998      1999
(US$ millions)                                                                        Composition of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstandinq and disbursed         1,533    9,651      5,968     6.372
IBRD                                         85       221         15        9
IDA                                           23       60       487       598                  G: 750 A 9  B: 598
Totaldebtservice                                56       11        251       321          F:
IBRO                                           8        0         11         7
IDA                                            P        0          4         5
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                     D: 1.567
Official qrants                               45      173        345       310
Official creditors                            99      570        187       135
Private creditors                             -5       11        -13        18
Foreion direct investment                      3        0        184       143
Portfolio equity                               0        0          0         0             E: 2,990
Worid Bank proqram
Commrritments                                  0        0        238        91      A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                  8        0        105       120      B-IDA     D-Other mulslateral  F-Private
Principal repavments                           4        0         10         7      C - IMF                     G - Short-tem|
Netflows                                       5        0         95       14
Interest pavments                              5        0          5         5
Net transfers                                  0        0         90       108
Development Economics                                                                                                   9/12/00
- 67 -



Additional
Annex 11
Summary of Social Assessment
Key Findings and Recommendations
Background
1.    Poverty. Comparing the 1993 and the 1998 Living Standard Measurement Survey (LSMS)
results, the Poverty Assessment shows that poverty and extreme poverty remain overwhelmingly rural.
The rural population represents 46 percent of the national population; about 69 percent of this population
was living in poverty in 1998, compared to 31 percent of the urban population. Not only there were more
poor in rural areas, but the depth of their poverty was greater. In general, the rural poor are almost three
times further from the poverty line than the urban poor. Comparing the two LSMS, coverage of basic
services has generally increased, with gains in schooling, and health care. Nevertheless, large gaps in
access remain, with the rural population clearly lagging behind the urban.
2.     Municipalities plays an important role improving the quality of life of residents, helping to close
the gap with urban areas, and promoting a more inclusive pattern of development. However, the
prevalence of several and often non compatible legislation defining this role has made accountability,
responsiveness, and responsibility leaves important issues still pending.
Social Assessment Rationale
3.    Obmective. The objective of this social assessment is to ensure that the proposed project
contribute to poverty alleviation and at the same time strengthen social cohesion and reduce potential
adverse social impact.
4.     Organization of the social assessment. The social assessment has been structured in two
phases. The first phase was based on a desk review of quantitative beneficiary surveys, analysis of
qualitative information, and reports of participatory consultation carried out with direct and indirect
beneficiaries and institutional stakeholders. The second phase shall be based on a base line study to be
conducted as a condition of effectiveness, with residents in the area of influence of the new project. This
annex summarizes key results from the desk review and includes the main features of the base line.
5.     First Dhase. During the implementation of the ongoing Rural Municipalities Project, several
analysis were prepared to evaluate project results in reaching the poor as well as the strengthening of the
institutional capacity of municipalities. These analyses are useful for two reasons: first, since 32 of the 40
municipalities proposed under the new project are covered under the ongoing project, it provides
information about a large sub-set of the potential population of the proposed project; second, and more
important, they demonstrate the potential capacity of municipal governments to create a socially
inclusive decision-making processes reducing social conflicts.
6.    This assessment is also based on a recent base-line study conducted by the Central American
University (CASC/UCA) for the Municipal Development Project (PRODEMU/DANIDA) in twenty six
municipalities in the region of Las Segovias (Ortega Hegg, et al., 1999. Estudio de Linea de Base de 26
Municipios de Las Segovias. Centro de Analisis Cultural/DANIDA). Although this region would not be
covered by the proposed project, the study provides a relevant analysis on the role of municipal
governments. Results are based on twenty six surveys, including 950 variables and on 130
semi-structured interviews with mayors and staff of municipal governments. Its aim is to understand
participatory and democratic aspects of local decision making, and the role local governments play in
promoting local development.
7.    Second phase: base-line. The base-line for the second phase of the social assessment shall
support the monitoring and evaluation system of the proposed project. It would help provide quantitative
dimensions of outcomes and outputs such as improved governance and better well being of the poor.
- 68 -



The base line shall have the following characteristics:
Sample. The sample shall be selected in two stages. First, it shall be based on a random selection of
municipalities, stratified by population size, governing political party, newly incorporated by the new
project or already incorporated by the ongoing project and being or not head of a department (
cabecera departamentao. The second stage shall be a random selection of households within the
selected municipalities.
Household Interviews. In single headed households, the head shall be the one providing the information
to the survey. In half of the sampled conjugal households, the female co-head shall answer the
questionnaire and in the other half, the male co-head shall answer the questionnaire.
Key finding from the ongoing project
8.     Two beneficiary Assessments were conducted in 1998 and 1999 to evaluate the INIFOM
implemented rural municipalities development component. The following are the key results on the social
impact of the project:
There is evidence that the project strengthened municipal governments:
(i) Municipalities are better equipped. They have improved transportation routes which facilitates
access to remote communities. Some also have access to the internet: a significant achievement
considering that before the project a few of them did not have even a telephone connection;
(ii) staff is more professional and trained on both technical and administrative aspects;
(iii) cost-effectiveness and economic analyses demonstrate the contribution of the project in terms of
reducing poverty and improving public services, particularly in the aftermath of Hurricane Mitch;
(iv) by increasing local revenue generation of municipalities, the project increased their financial
sustainability and also stimulated the relationship between municipal government and taxpayers;
(v) the participatory planning supported by the project fostered the culture of consultation between
municipal governments and rural communities
(vi) formal links between local govemments and communities were enhanced. The 1999 survey of 1,200
rural dwellers living in the 32 municipalities covered by the project demonstrated that 76 percent of
those who benefited were informed about the project through formal asambleas comarcales,
whereas only 23 percent were informed through informal conversation. The role of the local media or
even religious organizations in disseminating information related to the project was statistically
irrelevant.
(vii)Participation is a self-reinforcing mechanism. Those who participated in one instance have a
tendency to participate in another instances. Indeed, one third of the direct beneficiaries of the
ongoing project, participates also in other groups or associations.
Although working with municipal governments yields several benefits, there are also some risks. The
most recognizable risk is political partiality. The municipal participatory planning supported by the
ongoing project was successful in reducing this risk. The survey of 1,200 rural dwellers living in the 32
municipalities covered by the project examined the perception of political partiality. Only 5.2 percent of
households have the perception that the project is primarily benefiting the "political friends of the mayor",
while 42.2 percent believe that it is benefiting the whole community. Predictably, direct beneficiaries
have a more positive view than indirect beneficiaries (see nest table for details).
- 69-



Answers to the question "Who Does Protierra Benefit?"
Respondents (percent)
Direct      Indirect
beneficiaries  beneficiaries  Total
The whole community             40.9         43.8          42.2
The richest                      9.3          11.7         10.5
The poorest                    41.9          23.1          32.1
Political friends of the         1.9          8.3           5.2
mayor
Other and no answer             6.0          13.1          10.0
Source: September 1999 Survey
Key findings for Las Segovias
9.    The study conducted by the Central American University (CASC/UCA) for the Municipal
Development Project (PRODEMU/DANIDA) has shown important results about municipalities which can
be useful for the proposed project. Among them:
Particigation. Attitude regarding participation is ambiguous. Although 96 percent of the surveyed agree
that participation is the only way to solve problems, more than 50 percent consider participation not
viable in Nicaragua. Accordingly, about two thirds of those interviewed evaluate that the mayor is the
sole decision maker, often disregarding the role of municipal councils.
MuniciDal councils. Ninety six percent of the interviewed have a positive evaluation of the potential role
of the municipal council, particularly as an instrument forconflict negotiations. However, less than
half of them have agreed on how to organize the relationship between the council and the mayor.
Fatalism. Organizational and governmental leaders display a religious and traditional vision about the
world, in which destiny and God takes a large share of responsibilities: 71 percent of those
interviewed believe that God governs the world, 77 percent that socioeconomic differences are
natural and thus inevitable and that to plan the future is worthless because at the end God's will
prevails. Surprisingly, when the sample is desegregated between civil and governmental leaders,
the latter show slight but consistent greater adherence to traditional thinking than the former. More
than civil leaders, governmental leaders believe that God governs world affairs (75 percent in
contrast with 60 percent); that socioeconomic differences are natural (80 percent in contrast with 68
percent); and that planning is a futile exercise because the future belongs to God (71 percent in
contrast with 63 percent). Accordingly, civil leaders are slightly more open to participatory decision
making than governmental leaders; they are also slightly more critical of municipal governments.
Less often than governmental leaders (41 percent), civil leaders (26 percent) consider civil
organizations and associations as trouble makers because of their strong allegiance to a political
party. Less often than governmental leaders (69 percent), civil leaders (only 20 percent) consider
that municipal decision making is independent from institutions that represent the rich.
Key Findings from the Nicaragua - Qualitative Poverty and Exclusion Study (2000)
10.   Although this study covers the entire country and its findings do not necessarily refer to the
proposed project area, they are useful to befter understand the poor. The poor see poverty as natural, or
at least, there is nothing much that can be done against the fate of being poor. One of them declared that
"the power of the rich has been transmiKted through generations, and so has deprivation: We have been
poor for generations." For the population, governmental institutions do not work for the poor and in
general they question how financial resources are managed. They also question decision-making process
which they consider biased with regard to the selection beneficiaries of basic services, and inefficient
with regard to the allocation of physical and human assets to make effective basic services.
- 70-



11.    For the poor, to be poor is to live under high levels of ill being (es estarmal). One of
characteristics of ill being is to be excluded, to be left apart. Being excluded means to be affected by
unemployment and economic crisis, but it also means to be affected by precarious social services.
Access to services is also felt as empowerment, a right that has been recognized and can be shown with
pride.
12.    For the poor, the existence of a variety of organizations and networks does not mean that they
function as social capital. There is awareness that participation in social networks secure benefits and
sometimes with cynicism this is translated as "it is not what you know, it is whom you knoW' that matters.
Not often are they aware that networking might function as social capital by reducing transaction costs;
on the contrary, they are fearsome that it might increase their degree of indebtedness.
Recommendations
13.   The social assessment validates the project design in its proposal to focus on increasing
governance capacity at the municipal level. It also validates: (a) the importance of using a participatory
decision-making process on how to plan municipal investments and activities; (b) the importance of
increasing participation in budgeting; and (c) having a participatory planning system as a requirement for
accessing both FAm and FONDEM. Other specific recommendations:
(a) To achieve sustainability of the whole system of government, it is necessary to develop institutions
at all levels, community, municipal, regional and national.
(b) Because of decentralized implementation, monitoring needs to include indicators that reflect changes
and impacts at the municipal level. The innovative feature of the project demands strong
accountability in this area.
(c) Local participation is not sufficient to guarantee more accountable governments but it is an essential
part of good governance. The project should assist municipalities in this regard since this is a new
practice in the country.
(d) Because municipalities are very diverse, the project should be flexible to promote incentives and
mechanism to different types of municipalities.
(e) The project should continue to work in the three municipalities of the RAAS which are covered under
the ongoing project: El Rama, Muelles de los Bueyes and Nueva Guinea. These three municipalities
do not share some important characteristics of the Atlantic Region, and indeed the are de facto part
of a department called Zelaya Central, whose official recognition is underway.
(f) The expansion to the remaining eight municipalities in the RAAS is not advisable because these
municipalities are already covered by a recently approved project financed by IDB and implemented
by FISE. The project has a considerable financing for development of regional and municipal
governments (total project cost is US$11 million, with US$8.5 million of IDB Credit). Thus INIFOM
and MARENA should look for opportunities to collaborate with FISE in the Atlantic Region, rather
than risking overlapping with it.
(g) Given that the proposed project area covers the municipality of Leon, where the Suitivas indigenous
people are located, the following attachment describes findings and recommendations for project
action in this specific municipality.
Attachment I to Annex II: Sutiavas Indigenous People
Background. The Sutiava indigenous group live in the municipality of Le6n, located in Pacific region of
Nicaragua approximately 90 kilometers from Managua, in an area covered by the proposed project.
Before the Spanish domination, the Sutiavas were a people belonging to the sociocultural sphere of the
Maribios, speaking Taplaneca- Yopi, a language original of the Guerrieiro state in Mexico Idiaquez,
(Marco Membreno, 1998. La estrucutura de las Comunidades EtnicasManagua). During the Spanish
period, the Sutiava community received from the Crown, as their land, an area comprised of all the
municipality of Leon, in addition to Quezalguaque and Telica, in the same department, and Chichigalpa,
in the department of Chinandega, approximately 537 square kilometers. Since 1902, the group settled in
an urban neighborhood of the city of Leon. However, the Sutiavas occupy a heterogeneous territory that
is bigger than that neighborhood, living in some middle class residential area but also in asentamientos
without service infrastructure (some created as a consequence of Mitch Hurricane) and in some rural
- 71 -



areas of the municipality of Leon.
The number of the Sutiava population is uncertain because the definition of who is Sutiava is unclear. In
fact, the majority lives in an urban area and speaks only Spanish. As a result, most resident of the
Suitiavas neighborhood share the same cultural values and identity and are considered by the Sutiavas
and by themselves as Sutiavas, even though do not share the same ethnic background,. This has made
their number vary from 35,000 to 53,000, with 71 percent urban and 29 percent rural.
In general, the urban population is well covered by the school system, with some attending private
Sutiava schools. However, in the 40 rural communities where they live, only one has primary and
secondary school. For instance, in Los Barzones and in Trohilo, about 35 percent of children do no
attend schools. In twelve communities, comprising 700 children, there is only one preschool, maintained
by the communities themselves. In eleven communities there is no school at all. Although this situation is
common to most rural communities, the Sutiavas are deeply critical for the lack of quality of multi-grade
classrooms and teaching. The same trend prevails regarding access to health services. The urban
Sutiavas have reasonable access to them - there is a Medical School located in Leon - and in the
Surtiava community in Leon there is a health center with three physicians, one nurse and two para
medicos. However, in rural areas, the Sutiavas have access only to one health center located in
Poneloya, with two physicians, one in Trohilo, one in Abagasca central, and one in La Gallina, with one
physician each. The rest of the communities depends on sporadic visits from the Ministry of Health
personnel and from the efforts of their own traditional medicine.
Organization. According to an indigenous interviewed for the social assessment, "en realidad, una forma
de gobiemo no tenemos; pero si tenemos una rebeldia para efrentar que nosotros creemos estar mal" (in
fact, we do not have a format of govern. What we have is a rebellious way to challenge what we believe
is wrong). Three organizations are crucial to understand how they are organized: the Consejo de
Ancianos, the Junta Directiva and the Fundaci6n Xochil Acatl, usually managed by women. Each two
years, the community vote for the Junta Directiva. The vote is universal and secret and extended to all
adult Sutiavas and all those who live in the community but might not belong to the same ethnic group. In
general, the Junta act as a neighborhood association.
Relation with the municipality of Leon. The Sutiavas describes as good their relationship with the
municipal government, stressing that their rights are not entirely disregarded - on the contrary, there is an
attitude of respect towards them, with one municipal counsel being himself a Sutiava. However, they do
not feel they participate in any aspect of municipal decision making processes and do not feel the
municipality is particularly responsive to their specific demands. There is no formal mechanism to assure
their participation which, when it comes, is occasional and unstructured. Moreover, there is a feeling the
they are consulted only when the solution is obvious and easy, or when their labor is needed, rather than
for more complex questions, that have more impacts.
Relation with the ongoing project. According to the views manifested by members of Junta Directiva,
their perception is that the project do not sufficiently understand community needs. They oppose one
subproject (the electrification of the Comarca Trohilo, which they found not providing electricity for most)
and they favor another subproject (the rehabilitation of the Puente Capulin -Trohilo project). Both
projects were visited during the beneficiary assessments and improvements in terms of communication
and ownership were discussed with local authorities. In part, the problems mentioned by the Sutiavas,
which are real, had taken to the new design of the proposed project.
Demands. The Sutiavas ask to be recognized in their specificity by the municipal decision making
processes. However, to be met, this demand needs to be accompanied by investments in their
community. Investments are needed for both physical infrastructure and capacity building to articulate
priorities. Other Sutiava demands do not differ from those of other poor: (a) access to financial services;
(b) technical assistance for productive activities, from producing to marketing; (c) maintenance of roads;
(d) health centers located at a close distance; and (d) an education system to improve quality in
multi-grade classrooms.
- 72 -



Environment. Two attitudes prevail regarding the environment. First, among urban Sutiavas the attitude
very often takes to environment degradation: this resource belongs to everyone and to nobody and thus
it belongs to oneself; to use it one does not need permission. Among the rural indigenous who still can
cultivate the land, conservation is a priority that they know how to care for; among the landless and new
fisherman, the attitude tends to be similar to those living in towns, pragmatic but shortsighted. The
perception of the Sutiavas is that they do not know about the existence of environmental regulations, and
they consider it important to receive information as well as capacity building.
Recommendations
The social assessment based on numerous participatory evaluations carried out with municipal
governments and beneficiaries of the ongoing project since 1995 validates the project design in its
proposal to focus on increasing governance capacity at the municipal level. It also validates: (a) the
importance of using the decision making process on how to allocate fiscal transfers as training on good
govemance; (b) the importance of moving to participatory budgeting from participatory programming;
and (c) the importance of having public involvement as a requirement for accessing the municipal fund.
Specifically:
The ongoing project has shown that to request participation in the allocation of funds may become a
formal procedure that does not guarantee ownership of the project and participation for the Sutiavas. The
FAM and FONDEM operational manuals would include specific guidelines to assure the participation of
Sutiava indigenous group representatives in the planning, programming, budgeting and monitoring of
FAM and FONDEM. Special funds would be provided for their capacity building, training and small
community equipment. The monitoring and evaluation system would include the following indicators: (i)
improved evaluation of the proposed project when compared to the ongoing project; (ii) defined rules on
decision making processes under FAm and FONDEM; and (iii) sponsor training workshop on community
management.
- 73 -



Additional
Annex 12
Summary of Environmental Analysis and Mitigation Plan
The Municipal Environmental Facility under the proposed project is designed as a vehicle for local
governments to improve their environmental capacity. Through the municipal participatory process
promoted by the local govemment, these projects would be included in the municipal development plan
and municipal investment plan (Spanish acronym PIM). In essence, the local government would be
responsible for overall approval of the projects in the PIM even if implementation is maybe carried out
through different mechanisms -- direct implementation, contracting, and delegation.
The project would ensure proper environmental screening of subprojects and enforcement measures, to
prevent certain types of infrastructure subprojects from producing negative effects on the environment.
The MARENA Operational Manual would specify key environmental criteria and screening and
enforcement procedures to be followed.
Sub-project categories to be financed through a decentralized financing facility (Municipal Development
Fund, FONDEM) and a municipal environmental facility (FAM) may pose environmental risks. Based on
specific criteria for different subproject types, each subproject proposal presented by the community
associations would include a simple environmental assessment in the form of a "checklist", following a
standard format. For standard subproject types environmental screening at the subproject approval stage
would be the responsibility of the municipal government. The criteria used for decision making would be
a short environmental review, an assessment instrument in which investments are likely to have
minimal impacts but should be reviewed with a simple and standardized checklist. The review process
would follow similar procedures that are already required by General Division of Environmental Quality
of MARENA and are currently followed by municipalities. Sub-projects would fall under two categories,
depending on their impact. Category 1 would not require a special study; and Category 2 would require
an environmental review which would be designed by a municipal employee with the assistance of
MARENA Regional Delegates when appropriate. Category 3 which would require a detailed
environmental impact assessment would not be allowed to receive financina under the FONDEM or FAM
Under the ongoing Rural Municipalities Project the environmental review of subprojects is carried out by
the Municipal Technical Unit (MTU) for all projects and by the MTU and MARENA for projects greater
than US$50,000. At the municipal-level technical unit staff review preliminary proposals against
predetermined inclusion and exclusion criteria and ascertain the proposal's coherence, and are checked
against municipal environmental and land use plans. Those that pass this stage are required to complete
a simple form which describes project activities, geographic location of each activity and the presence of
sensitive areas (rivers, protected areas, forests, etc) and how subproject interventions would be
maintained following subproject completion.
Prior to the project's mid-term evaluation, the project followed the procedures to meet requirements.
MARENA delegates often signed off on projects without careful review or analysis; the MTU often lacked
the technical expertise to prepare a thorough assessment. In addition, Environmental and Land Use
Plans were not operational. To address this problem, an environmental specialist was assigned per
department of coverage area to assist the MTU and coordinate with the appropriate MARENA
delegations. The presence of an environmental specialist at the municipal level improved consideration
of mitigation measures in environmentally risky projects (infrastructure, for the most part) and increased
demand for environmental projects. Local environmental priorities were included in the Municipal
Development Plans.
The Second Rural Municipal Development Project would involve a similar review process with the
exception that environmental expertise at the municipal level would be present from the beginning. In
addition, MARENA delegates would be supported financially by municipal funds (via the Second Rural
- 74 -



Municipal Development Project) to assist with screening of subprojects financed by FONDEM and FAM.
(See Annex 2: Project Description).
Targeting
Subprojects would surge from grassroots or institutional (Municipal Environmental Commissions, or
Municipal Civic Committee) demands specific to the environmental problems of a target municipality.
The Commissions ensure that subprojects match the environmental priorities firmed by the municipality
in its Municipal Investment Plan and recommend to the Mayor's Office and Municipality Council to
consider them as eligible for the FAM. Screening for FONDEM-financed projects would follow the
screening process followed under the on-going project.
Promotion
Under the FONDEM, environmental issues would be taken into account by applying screening
procedures, raising awareness through technical staff in the municipal government, training and capacity
building, local MARENA delegates, NGOs and other organizations, and through the FAM itself.
Project Formulation, Appraisal, and Approval
Project formulation may be undertaken at the municipal level including but not limited to local NGOs, the
Municipal Environmental Commission, the private sector, a local community group or a trade union.
Details and requirements for implementation of subprojects at the municipal level would be outlined in
the MARENA's Operational Manual. A typology of projects that may be financed by both FAM and
FONDEM, is available in Atachment 2 of Annex 2.
A thorough formulation process ensures that these proposals meet all eligibility and application criteria
and would be ready for appraisal. Negative and positive environmental impacts for the subprojects
financed by both funds are identified, and alternative sites and/or designs and mitigation measures
introduced. The analysis would be included and form the criteria of the project proposal. At this point, as
standard practice, and abiding by Nicaraguan environmental regulations, MARENA Delegates at the
regional level would be assigned funds by MARENA (via the proposed Second Rural Development
Project) to undertake initial environmental reviews or limited EA.
Table 1. Types of Environmental Analysis Required by MARENA
The MARENA and INIFOM Operational Manuals will include a checklist to classify subprojects into two
categories. There will be no projects financed by the FONDEM or FAM that fall under Category Ill
(environmental impact assessment) and will require and environmental impact assessment.
Category of Environmental Impact A      EA Response                  Requirement
detailed checklist of decision making criteria
on environmental categorization will be
provided in the MARENA operational
manual.
Category: I No impact.                                               Review by Technical
Environmental Unit
Category: II Subprojects that may create a    Environmental Review;  Review by Technical
few minor and easily recognizable        Limited Environmental       Environmental Unit;
environmental problems. Subprojects with                             MARENA.
minor environmental problems that require
site visits to include construction
modification to minimize or eliminate impact.
Category: IlIl Subprojects that may have  Environmental Impact       Not financeable under the
irreversible impacts                    Assessment                   FONDEM or FAM
- 75 -



The CAM would make recommendations on subproject approval, rejection, or adjustments based on
prescribed eligibility criteria, and consult with all the relevant parties, including regional MARENA
delegates and appropriate technical units in MARENA. The Municipal Council and the official technical
advisory board of the FAM thereafter would have final authority to approve the subprojects. The
subprojects would have to be reflected both in the Municipal Development Plans and in the Municipal
Investment Plans. See Graphic I for proposed project cycle.
The final approval for financing and disbursing would come from the Municipal Environmental Fund
Accounts committee set up at the national level. (See Section 4.2 Project Management.)
Project Implementation/Supervision:
Administrative procedures are required for management review, procurement, disbursement, contracting
and allocation of funds as per the legal contract signed between the municipal government and the
implementing agency. Also included in the legal contract would be the results of the EA, covering
mitigation measures, design specifications and supervision requirements.
Final Steps: Evaluation and Exchange of Information with other Municipalities
Project evaluation would assure that the implementing party met contractual obligations and that it
carried out appropriate financial management. Evaluation would begin prior to project completion with a
series of field visits to assess implementation progress. At the point of project completion, regional
MARENA delegates would assist in the evaluation and on a random basis some impartial evaluations by
outside consultants would be carried out. At this point, the knowledge base would remain at both the
regional and municipal level. Success stories may be promoted regionally or nationally.
Figure 1. Environmental Assessment Process of a municipal sub-project
Adapted from "Environmental Guidelines for Social Funds," by Graham, et al., December 1998, The
World Bank.
Targeting and Promotion                         Project Formulation                                    Project Appraisal
Objective: Ensure environmental issues are       O dctive: Ensure environmental impacts have
Objective: Ensure environmental iSsues are           introduced to project implementers.              Been screened, analyzed and proper
introduced to project implementers.                                                               mitigation measures have been addressed.
Project actions   : Provide training and            Project actions : Screen proposals to
Project actions Facilitate flow of information.   technical assistance in project to project         Categorize type of necessary review,
implementers. Ensure impacts and                  Limited Environmental Assessment or full
Responsible Agents: Local government             Mitigation measures are in place and in            Environmental assessment.
(Municipal environmental commissions,            compliance with operational manual.
technical specialist), Departmental            Responsible Agent  : Local government              Responsible Agent: Technical Unit and
MARENA delegations.                     MARENA Delegations, NGOs,
technical specialist) Municipal                   MARENA delegations.
environmental Units.
Project lmplementation/supervision:                         Project Approval
Project Monitoring and evaluation                 Project Actions : Prepare contracts for                ecve Sltprjtshaae
Project Actions : Site vais duing project        oompanieslorganizationscommunties toO                           S
execute projects.                    environmentally sound and those that reflect th
execution and operation to assess                                                                      munkipal development plan. .
environmental screening and mitigation  _
procedures. Meet with contractors at the              ApoabytcnalmiialProject Actions: Approval may be denied if
ciose of project to gather feedback.           environmental specialist required to pswero                    at   made dung      ect
final payment for project execution/lemedto   aedrn  rjc
Responsible Parties : MARENA delegates,                         construction.                            evaluation have not been included.
community leaders.                      Responsible Parties:. Municipal technical         Project Agents: Municipal Council.
unit, MARENA delegations.
The MARENA Operational Manual, which would refer specifically to already established Nicaraguan
environmental procedures, would include more detailed tables and examples of possible subprojects,
their likely impacts, mitigation measures and proper environmental review response.
- 76 -



Additional
Annex 13
Evaluation and Policy Development
Monitoring activities carried in several municipalities scattered in a large and difficult to access territory
has been challenging in the ongoing project. In addition the types of municipal investments, or
subprojects, span to all sectors (see annex 2 on FONDEM and FAM types of investments): from the
more traditional social infrastructure, to transport infrastructure, water supply and sanitation,
electrification, environmental management, and local economic development. However, the experience
demonstrated that with the right incentives it is feasible to collect information on these kind of
investments. INIFOM already has access to a substantial amount of data. However, the challenge is
twofold: (i) develop the capacity to analyze available information, and generating technical evaluations of
municipal performances; and (ii) translate these evaluations into policy development. Until recently,
most evaluations of municipal efficiency were based on anecdotal evidences. Recently, the Evaluation of
Effects and Potential Sustainability of the ongoing project (Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sustainable Development Working Paper No. 11, December 2000) provided a significant analysis of
evidence based on a statistically representative sample.
Because of the difficulty of the task to develop the data provided by the monitoring system into technical
evaluations which could produce a policy discussion, it was decided to separate monitoring from
evaluation, and assign the latter to a different institution. On the basis of this, the Sectoral Commission
for Decentralization (Comisi6n Sectonal para la Descentralizaci6n, CSD) would be responsible to
implement the sub-component 1(d): Evaluation and Policy Development. INIFOM, MARENA and the
municipalities would remain responsible for monitoring, while the responsibility for evaluation and
dissemination of evaluation results would be transferred to the CSD. In addition to reduce the burden of
this additional task from INIFOM and MARENA, the independence of CSD would increase the credibility
of the evaluations and therefore the possibility for constructive, policy development.
Evaluation
The mission of the CSD is to promote the establishment of the conditions and the normative-institutional
context that make possible the development of the decentralization process in Nicaragua (Act No. 13;
CDS, 9/10/98). The objective of CSD is to design, to propose and to promote plans and programs that
guarantee a fiscal, administrative and organized functional process, in regards to the deconcentration
and decentralization of activities and services towards the municipal govemments (Decree 44-94). This
Commission is presided over by the President of INIFOM and the Ministers of Education, Health,
Transport and Infrastructure, Environment and Natural Resources, and the Executive Presidents of the
FISE, the Rural Development Institute (IDR), and the Technical Secretary of the Presidency or its
respective delegates (Decree no. 102-2000).
The CSD would carry out the baseline studies (described also in the Social Assessment), a mid-term,
and project completion evaluation, dissemination of evaluation results, publishing evaluation studies and
organizing high level workshop to discuss the results. The principal objectives of the evaluations would
be to measure in a statistically relevant number of cases that municipal management causes production
and allocation efficiency as presented by most literature on decentralization.
The basic indicators for project evaluation (and monitoring) are described in the Logical Framework
(annex 1). CSD would evaluate municipal performances in relative terms, comparing performances of
the same municipality in two different moments, and also comparing the average performances of a
statistically relevant set of municipalities to the performances of the Central Government. For instance,
in terms of unitary cost (production efficiency), CSD would compare the unitary costs of a statistically
relevant sample of municipalities with a similarly statistically relevant sample of Central Government
agencies. The evaluations would not be limited to the unitary cost of inputs, but would also consider the
unitary cost in term of products (such as cost of the service provided).
- 77 -



Changes in efficiency would also be measured in terms of governance, even though its measurement is
often limited to perception (such as the traditional perception of transparency). Perception may differ
from reality but it is an important monitoring indicator nonetheless. After all, negative perception reflects
a feeling of exclusion from public activities. Testing for governance would be across different groups:
rural respondents would be separated from urban, representatives of the civil society would be separated
from government officials and the private sectors, and so on.
The evaluations would also cover the institutional performances of INIFOM and MARENA. Some
indicators would be quantitative (available budget, share of staff in regional offices) and others
qualitative (perception of municipal staff, of INIFOM and MARENA staff, etc.)
Evaluation Methodology. The three evaluations (baseline, mid-term and final) would be separated in
two parts (as described also in Annex 11 of the Social Assessment): a household survey and an
institutional survey. The household survey would have a sample size of around 2000 households and
would record basic data on access to services and governance perception. The institutional survey would
be carried out in a statistically representative sample of the 40 municipalities. Secondary data from
national sources would be used to complement information available at the local level.
Both surveys would also cover an area where the project has not intervened -- to act as a "control". This
control would attempt to isolate the project effects from changes due to other causes. Although this
isolation is not simple, this attempt would provide more elements for the evaluation, increasing in turn
the legitimacy of the whole effort.
The evaluations would use the following data sources: CSD's surveys, the Municipal Monitoring System,
INIFOM and MARENA Monitoring System, and other secondary information such as the 1999-2000
Nicaragua Environmental Plan, The National Institute of Statistics' Standard of Life Survey, The National
Public Investment System, and FlSE's Homes and Facilities Survey.
Dissemination
The principal mechanisms for dissemination both monitoring and evaluation information would be: (i) a
series of national workshops to present the advances of the decentralization experience; (ii) posting
information on the web pages of INIFOM, MARENA, and CSD; (iii) publishing evaluation studies in the
already existing CSD magazine; (iv) providing all monitoring and evaluation information in the Document
Center for Decentralization; and (v) presentation of results in international workshops.
The national workshops would have the added value of providing an excellent locus to develop policy
recommendations. Considering the recognized technical capacity of the CSD Technical Secretariat,
these workshops should be able to attract the key policy makers of Nicaragua.
- 78-



It is not expected, however, that CSD's main contribution would be the drafting of new decentralization
laws. The dissemination campaign and its workshops would rather contribute to generate a technical
discussion which would favor policy development.
Work Plan
Plan of Action               Activity                   Period             Cost (USS$)
Impact Evaluations         Baseline                  January - March 2001             140,000
Intermediate evaluation   June - August 2002              140,000
Final evaluation          January - March 2004            140,000
Studies                    Unitary costs             June - August 2001                40,000
(Consultations)            Allocation and production  March - June 2002               '50,000
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __   efficiency
Publications               Review, Bulletins         Biannual for 3 years             4.2,000
Web                       Continuous                       18,000
Studies' publication      Bimonthly                        18,000
Workshops                  National Forum on the     February 2001, 2002,              20,000
decentralization          2003, 2004
experiences
International Technical   One institutional expert  Consulting fees for 3 years      300,000
Assistance
Operating Costs           Two Institutional Specialists  Salaries for 3 years         110,000
Of the Technical Secretariat                        Other expenses                     72,000
of CSD
Total                                                                               1,090,000
- 79 -



Additional
Annex 14
Summary of the Institutional Capacity Assessments
The following annex summarizes reports prepared on the institutional assessments of the project's two
implementing institutions, INIFOM and MARENA, and describes the complementarities between INIFOM
and other institutions.
The Nicaraguan Institute for Municipal Develogment (INIFOM)
The following findings are based on an analysis of the institutional capacity of INIFOM prepared by
Leonardo Romeo for the preparation of the Second Rural Municipal Development Project. The
complete assessment can be found in the project files.
Institutional Responsibilities. Under the recently approved Organic Law, INIFOM is in charge of
assisting local governments in municipal management. The list of responsibilities assigned to INIFOM
can be summarized as follows:
(i) promote an integrated decentralized financing system assisting municipalities in (a) local tax
generation; (b) access to specific sources of financing - internal and external; (c) access to regular
fiscal transfers;
(ii) promote and regulate a municipal planning system, creating incentives and developing systems
such that municipalities may adopt participatory procedures and technically valid planning,
programming and budget preparation;
(iii) design and manage a national municipal training system; and
(iv) design and manage and integrated municipal information system aimed for statistical purposes and
to support local decision making.
Strengths. As an institution, INIFOM has a solid background in knowledge management and data
gathering of municipal management issues in Nicaragua. INIFOM still holds the support of the donor
community which has financed several of the programs aimed to strengthen the supply of quality
services to municipalities. In particular, INIFOM has been able to develop a municipal information
system which tracks municipal cadastre, resources transferred and programmed locally, and the
introduction of participatory municipal planning processes.
Weaknesses. Structural problems and limitations with INIFOM as an effective institution have been
documented in numerous published reports. Weaknesses include among others (i) fragmentation and
redundancy of different units; (ii) lack of planning , monitoring, and evaluation capacity; (iii) limited
coordination among projects financed by several donors. Many of the project units are known by their
funder's name rather than the institutional name; (iv) weak regional units; (v) limited understanding of its
institutional role and responsibilities; and (vi) limited technical capacity and motivation of staff. With
respect to personnel management, assessments have highlighted the following weaknesses: (i) weak
human resources policies, including unclear recruiting methods, and the absence of a transparent
evaluation system; (ii) low salaries and lack of financial incentives for qualified personnel; (iv) limited
number of technical professionals in mid-level management; and (v) mismatch between specialized
municipal assistance demand and services supply provided by INIFOM.
Opportunities. The recently approved Organic Law assigns INIFOM as the government's principal
institutional agent for the support and supervision of municipalities. Likewise, the donor community has
maintained "local development" as high in their list of priorities, which provides INIFOM with a strong
potential for leveraging international donor resources.
Threats. INIFOM's fragile reputation puts the credibility of the institutional reform process at risk. The
unclear institutional role risks overlapping with other institutions. An example is the case of the
coordination with FISE, which required a long dialogue before clarifying the respective roles. Please see
- 80 -



Attachment 1 of this Annex for a definition of the roles of the two institutions, as specified in a recent
inter-institutional agreement.
Proposed Plan of Action. In order to implement the "Municipal Development" component, INIFOM
would need to undergo a major institutional change, involving both the re-focusing of its business and
the re-engineering of its structure. The change process has already been initiated and the design of the
proposed project has played a catalytic role. Indeed, project financing would be critical to facilitate the
institutional change of INIFOM. However, completing the change process would take time, vision and a
sustained effort by the senior management of the Institute.
To account for the lack of capacity in INIFOM, the consultant currently hired in the project
implementation unit are being merged in the mainstream institution. The three main department of
INIFOM - Operations, Monitoring, and Administration -- would need substantial strengthening. Project
resources would therefore be applied to: (i) train existing staff, (ii) provide adequate remuneration and
financial incentives, and (iii) secure critical consulting and resident advisory services. Most importantly,
the re-deployment of most current staff of the PROTIERRA unit would be essential to capitalize on
already existing capacity, particularly at the departmental level. To increase salary remuneration,
INIFOM would need to adopt a personnel management system specifying selection and remuneration
criteria, and a transparent personnel evaluation system.
The Ministrv of Environment and Natural Resources (MARENA)
The following findings are based on an analysis of the institutional capacity of MARENA prepared by
Jose Parra Duhalde and Milton Fernandez for the preparation of the Second Rural Municipal
Development Project. The complete assessments can be found in the project files.
Strengths. MARENA's dedicated staff have strong technical qualifications and offer an institutional
memory on environmental protection and natural resources management. MARENA has a strong
record of coordinating efforts with NGOs and is beginning to develop a relationship with municipalities
through the municipal environmental commissions (CAMs).
Weaknesses. (i) weak field presence, particularly in rural areas, limits the institution's effectiveness and
leverage as an key natioral player; (ii) as with INIFOM, MARENA also receives funding from multiple
intemational donors, be,,ig home to several project units managing their own separate financial and
human resources. Many of the project units are known by their project name rather than the institutional
name; (iii) limited understanding of its new regulatory role, which does not anymore cover the difficult
issue of forest management (passed to the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry under the recently
approved Law 290); (iv) weak coordination with other institutions; (v) low administrative and financial
management capacity; (vi) weak communication between institutional levels, and local and municipal
stakeholders which limit the possibility of addressing local demands on environmental protection; and
(vii) absence of a proper personnel management system.
Opportunities. If well understood and properly implemented, the new institutional role of MARENA
places it in an optimal position to foster an effective collaboration with other institutional actors, such as
the civil society, local governments, and also the private sector. The potential benefits of these
collaborations are significant and quite well understood ai all institutional levels. MARENA's
constructive participation in the Committee on Decentralization, and agreements on de-concentration
and decentralization reached with INIFOM and AMUNIC sets the stage for the program's probability of
success.
Threats. An increased budget gap between the national financed "recurrent costs" and externally
funded "investment projects" may make MARENA more vulnerable and could result in further staff
rotation and loss of expertise, and, in turn, decrease institutional sustainability. Also, staff resistance
against decentralization of environmental management because of fear of job loss may jeopardize
project success.
- 81 -



Proposed Plan of Action. The findings indicate that MARENA's permanent staff do not have sufficient
capacity to implement the proposed project and that therefore substantial support would be financed by
the credit. Several options were explored to assess the most suitable institutional arrangements for the
project's execution. The analysis concluded that technical responsibility for project execution would be
distributed within the regular structures of MARENA (both headquarters and regional delegations) which
would in turn be strengthened by selected technical staff recruitment in a number of key line positions.
However, the existing Project Coordinating Unit, which is currently responsible for the implementation of
the Rural Municipalities Project and Atlantic Biological Corridor, would continue to be responsible for
administrative aspects such as procurement and financial management. With project co-financing,
MARENA would add permanent staff to the existing Project Coordinating Unit responsible for
procurement and financial management, in so that a permanent capacity would be developed within
regular MARENA staff.
- 82 -



Attachment I of Annex 14
Local institutional development: the complementary roles of INIFOM and FISE
In recent years, many "Social Funds" in the region have been actively involved in the institutional
development of local govemments. Often operating in the frame of incipient and uncertain
decentralization reforms and/or in the context of non-existent or weak institutions for State support and
supervision to municipalities, Social Funds have become, sometimes by default, very important agents
of municipal strengthening. The Nicaraguan FISE is a case in point.
Responsible for implementing a central government policy of poverty alleviation, FISE is increasingly
devolving to municipalities the tasks of planning and implementing the projects it finances. It has also
undertaken a parallel effort to extend to municipalities participatory planning procedures for broader
municipal investment programs.
Given its major role in both decentralized financing of municipal investments and the build up of
municipal planning capacity, legitimate questions may arise about division of labor, and risks of
duplication or cross-purpose interventions, with INIFOM.
However, a closer look at the two organizations reveals more potential for synergy than conflict between
their municipal strengthening programs. In fact, the two organizations are both distinct and
complementary in terms of (i) their general mandate, (ii) their funding instruments and (iii) the scope of
their effort, to promote local institutional development.
First, the two organizations have a different mandate, and degree of responsibility with respect to local
institutional development. FISE may indeed contribute greatly to local institutional development, by
realigning its operations with a decentralized environment and offering to municipal governments a
greater role (and technical support) in planning, implementing, operating and maintaining basic social
infrastructure.
Other central agencies and line ministries may also play a similar role as they restructure their operations
to promote, or respond to, decentralization reforms. This multiple organizational effort is essential,
because strengthening municipal institutions is a broad process that will require support from many
different institutions of the national public administration.
Yet this effort also requires a focal point, a dedicated organization embodying the State's commitment to,
and actual investment in, support and supervision to LGs. International experience suggests that the
stalling or failure of many decentralization reforms can often be attributed to the lack of such
commitment and investment.
In spite of its current weaknesses, INIFOM is such an organization in Nicaragua. The new Organic Law
stresses INIFOM's identity as the interface between the State and municipalities and confirms it as the
only unit in the Nicaraguan public administration that can claim strengthening municipal institutions as its
primary mandate.
Second, in supporting institutions for municipai planning and financing of local development, the two
organizations use different funding instruments, which are however perfectly complementary within a well
developed framework of local public finances.
FISE, pursuing central govemment's policy objective, offers to municipalities a "principal-agent" relation
in which the agents (the municipalities) assume responsibility for planning and monitoring the
investments financed and, to a varying degree, managed by the principal (FISE) and in some cases by
the municipalities themselves. The volume of resources transferred by FISE to municipalities is
comparatively large and has been restricted, so far, to a "menu" of basic social infrastructure facilities.
On the other end, INIFOM, aiming to support local choice and municipal policy-making operates a
- 83 -



Municipal Development Fund (MDF). With support from the ongoing Rural Municipalities Development
Project (PROTIERRA), during its first phase of implementation as a formula-based, matching but
non-specific, fiscal transfer mechanism. The facility covers a broad range of spending purposes including
social and economic infrastructure, environmental protection, and promotion of local economic
development as well as local capacity building. The amount of resources transferred is intentionally
modest, to be consistent with a sustainable system of regular fiscal transfers. It essentially provides a
minimum of "free" programmable resources as incentive to the adoption of a statutory process of
municipal planning, programming and budgeting, independent from national, sectoral or purpose-specific
grants programs.
The set up of both (i) substantial, purpose-specific grants that signal national policy objectives
(FISE-type) and (ii) more modest, but broadly unrestricted transfers that foster local choice
(INIFOM-type), is a common feature of well developed systems of inter-governmental fiscal
arrangements. Far from being contradictory or overlapping, the FISE and the INIFOM decentralized
financing instruments are essentially complementary, including the possibility that INIFOM-MDF
resources be applied, if necessary, by municipalities to co-finance FISE-supported projects.
Third, there is a difference in the scoge of the two organisations' efforts to build local institutions. Given
the difference of their mandate, such scope is obviously much broader for INIFOM than for FISE. Where
an overlap of activity seems to exist is in the area of planning and management of municipal investment
projects. This however should hardly be a motive for concern if looked at in an evolving, medium-term
perspective.
FISE's main effort has been so far to extend to municipalities the "Participatory Micro-Planning" (MPP): a
technique to prepare comprehensive Municipal Investment Plans. The technique, originally developed
jointly with INIFOM, has also been, and could continue to be, extended jointly by FISE and INIFOM.
INIFOM's approach to the development of municipal planning institutions, must, by necessity, be a
broader one. Through its Municipal Strengthening Program (MSP) and the assistance of this and other
externally-funded projects DANIDA is currently supporting the review and design of municipal-level
strategic planning practices., INIFOM aims at developing and gradually extending a comprehensive and
statutory municipal planning process, including strategic planning, capital programming and improved
budgeting techniques. While the MPP could be a key tool in such process, it would not, in and by itself,
address the need for a both strategic and statutory municipal planning process.
Moreover, as INIFOM, as per its mandate, assists municipalities to adopt comprehensive municipal
planning procedures, this would also serve the purpose of programming FISE-funded investments,
making FISE-specific planning exercises, unnecessary. This will obviously be a gradual and extended
process, requiring an agreed framework for action by the two organizations, but it is already a practical
possibility in several municipalities assisted by INIFOM under the first phase of the Rural Municipalities
Project (PROTIERRA).
- 84 -



Ic
cn1



IBRD 31119
NICARAGUA    8                                                         58                                                                                        3                                                        MUNICIPAL CAPITALS
-15z            SECOND RURAL MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                                                         "''-''DpniLpPl
RAARN                               CHINANDEGA                        96ASAYA
ADMINISTRATIVE DIVISIONS & PROJECT COVERAGEW                                                                                                                                                                                   I WaApo,,                           49 VA-PaAAAAPAA.,,               98
W-1   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~3PUJER POAREZA5                                50  C  APPAL.                    99
3 EnA'                             58, LPT,.-A   d,lN.A1          'Too  YA9AY
/   A,A,,VLAn6AJ                                                                           4PAA,A                             52  VFPA<LAJAPAALLA              101  <V   VLAAA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4P~  5 S, Fw ,.d, N,.10   L, ,  [,~,
[ ]PROJECTC~OVERAGE                                                                                                                                                    /Caoys                                                     I  A.A5   ~,d                                                       1023   ALk. A
6 Wuu                               4  V .                           03P
PAVED ROADS                                                                                     M'                                                                                                                           7 PPL AA7AAA                        55  TA A A                      8104A
UNPAVED ROADS                                                                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Islands  56  E V.,.  TOO  C-A ,
'---'---'LNPAVEDROAD5                   ~~~~~HONDURAS                                                                                  -.AA ES                                                                                                             '57 CHpNANCEGA                    10D     J-O ~  O-
25 0   MUNICIPAL CAP TALS                                                                                                                              "-8LC'AoApn5    LATP
A) DEPARTMENT CAPITALS                                                                                     A                                                                                                                    9LPn d-APAAAAAAA,,                      Ch,AaA5                          CORPn
/   ]                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~        ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10 M.LAILARAI.,  pSA  60  EEAA  TOP1   . ""
*  NATIONAL CAPITALI                                                                          f~APIsaITEAP                                                                                                                                                          TCAI                             109  DU
---MUNICIPAL EOAJNDARID ES                                                                                                                                                          O g a                                        8   LA  AI                                                           8    A'
A       !ATRAK8TJArrTIAil/                                                                        83  LOAPAAA ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AA        LEON                        810   ILLTIPP~~~ L.LEO
14                ~~~DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES                                                                                                               AT2 '4AN/TXC9-'A        /            ,                                               '84  B'EF ELDL                        E2  AALp                        ITTP-,L 
-   -  NADTAAOPALBOUrIDAEIES                          ''                                  K30                                              -NTRME                                                                     4          85 N-AaJlo-AA                       65  EEASL-                       182    EA,LIF-AALA
C  e  '   8                            NORiL                                                                                                                64  SLLLAEAAAAAPALAP             183  SAPPAALAAA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6  51 P   ~ n  13S,.T
23        \      N/                                                           .048010                                                                                                                        656 EAAA J8-84  AL.A-,AAIA
J                                                -      4'~~~~~~~~~~                         )                       N                        ' ~~7A,32L17  .A..A~A                                                                                                      67 TAIAL,                             GRANADA35
/                              hA   ~~~~~~~~5   3fr3YL~~~~~~6,Q   0 31        '                                          7         .              7>-                                                                                  9 OASAEAALAAHLPP                   '69  LE65i1.                     886  SD.,
IA P.o.9a                                                                                                                                    -LI                                                   3 ~0 S-AAL      N,,.AA               70  LAAULP81 VAA
33             r1                                                                 ...                                                                                       8LALAJLP     PIA5AA7AL                                                     --
~~~~~1A   or  934 7S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  0  A                                                                                '22   PACLTPLSA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 JNTC
~~1           To            ,33*       6      38   39  VAARMAAA)AJA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                            A4,-                                                                                                                                MATAGOALPA                       R8045
CLoA6Ao           37  ~~~                            K   -                                                 'A--I                                                                                          6UE6TR8EOO17OIA                  720 R,AL                         88PI
- ',~~~t.,a  44~~I                       0                                   24                                                                                                                23 J.n..                            73  ILAVD.A                      120  Fl-
49   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~9                    0P 6                                                                      -                                                                                      24 VA-PLM-LA                         74  V-LA,IAAA                   121   I,
49   '420 "P825  .ALPA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  75   ATAGALLAPa                 122  EA-APAA
ALhFA     AA -    3.                4                                                                                                                                                                                                 6 SpA LA67 SAA PA-p,82                                                     PAA
72                                                                                                        -~~      ~~                         ~ ~~~~~~           ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~27   CIT  PP  PALE AA  '824  PIVAL,
73                                                                                      C~~~~~~~~~1  4t,aribbean                     21EAALA                             78 SALALA                        125M-.P
29 SA EALPA                         79    ~ VL                       126  oa,A
-13'                                                                                                                                                                            T~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3'  30 LAaALA  0 IT-AAAAA  127  AAALA   A
Sea                  ~ ~~~~~~~~~38  CA,,dSA-AA-            88  SAL.DAA,A                    128  CA,A
7                                                                                    Sea                         ~~~~~~               ~              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~32 M,A L82 EA,AA,IA
33 GA, A3 V,, MA,                                                         CHONTATES
SO  ol   83                                                                                                                                                                        .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8  MIgA  29CAAAA
3 948MAD'130  J- GALPA
Yi                                                                                                                     IO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3 ALOAAEACO  18 AAAA
'35 VOOAl5  SLA AJAA IL R-AAIA                                       832  BAAL VA AA,5
36 VA,A5AAD                         88  VAALL33  VA,- EAALAJALPLAgA
37  PAIALATAALA          'UP  B~~~~           ~           ~~~~~~~OACO  834  S.pl
87   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~L                                   738 TA,A  A8  Tnlapc                                                                                                               835  VAIIA S-d L
NTI                                                                                     S. / ~~7  3   ALPI  ACL          9SLAAAA                          3    ApO
89  90 ~~~~~~~~~~                                                   'A~40 . VL,-A                                                                                         90 C_,p
I  89  12,-                               UK                  13oAk13                                                         43SAPLAALHACAAAApA                      MANAGUA                      137  TAAL LA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~42MAAGA  37M.
98  AL P- P ALA.,A,             138  ElA-LAAA
PA C IFIC                                                                                                                                                                                   ESTELI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-181  92  T,,AIA,  839  SAL ML8 TAL
43 PALL  N,,,.                      93  M6A...                      A]4Q  VAN CARLOS
-12                                                                                                                                                                          LA      14                                                    72 It      45 VA  LHALA,                        95  5A RAI,L dAIS, P142  SatLaNL
OCEAN                                         13                                                                                                                              ~~~~~~~              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~48 LLlE.  986 MANAGUA
I                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~          ~           ~~~~~~~~~~~~47 Sap.PAA  97 SAPp
A   say                                                     48 LA VA,AAAd
Ilig o    j                                                                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MEXICO'    BE   LATAV
OOATEAAL    HONURAS  A OCANTI
KILOMETERS                       -           1
PT'                                                                                                                                                                 A                                   84'AAA9AaA9AL&aAd8ApRLOAapTaL0a ASLI88L.0A664         88'                    A A    LCO STA,RIC
OCTOBER 2000



