Report No. PID9445
Project Name                     Nicaragua-Second Rural Municipalities...
Development Project
Region                           Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                           Decentralization
Project ID                       NIPE55823
Borrower(s)                      THE GOVERNMENT OF NICARAGUA
Implementing Agency
Address INIFOM AND MARENA
Implementating agencies: Nicaraguan
Institute for Municipal Development
(INIFOM) and Ministry of Natural Resources
(MARENA)
INIFOM, Camino para la Refineria, entrada
los Arcos, Managua. MARENA, Km.
12 § Carretera Norte
Apdo. 5123-1631, Managua. Nicaragua
Contact Person: Dr. Jose' Rizo, President
of INIFOM; Dr. Roberto
Stadthagen, Minister of MARENA
Tel: 505-266-6413, 505-263-2835
Fax: 505-266-6336,
505-263-2157
Email: Presidencia de INIFOM
<prinifom@tmx.com.ni>, dgamarena@tmx.com.ni
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                August 18, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         October, 2000
Projected Board Date             January 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
An overview of Local Governments in NicaraguaNicaragua has two autonomous
regions (North and South Atlantic Autonomous Regions, RAAN and RAAS), 15
departments and 147 municipalities Recently the municipality of Managua
has been separated in 3 different municipalities.. The term Local
Governments (LGs) refers to both municipalities and the governments of
the two autonomous regions of the Atlantic whose local assemblies and
mayors/governors are elected for a 4-year term of office. Municipal
populations range from 270, in San Juan del Norte (RAAS) to 930,000 in
Managua, with an average population size of 29,600. Thirty four percent of
municipalities have populations of less than 12,000; 45 percent have
populations ranging from 12,000 to 29,999, the remaining 21 percent more
than 30,000. LGs in the Atlantic (both autonomous governments and
municipalities) are particularly weak in fiscal and technical terms. Main
constraining factors are extremely low population density, large
extensions, difficult communications and low accessibility, and ethnic
conflicts. According to the Law of Autonomy, Regional Councils have
authority over natural resources management within their jurisdiction, but
the Law has never been regulated. Especially in the case of forest and



mining concessions, Regional Councils participate in an approval process.
Natural resources management is complex in the Autonomous Regions because
it involves communal lands of indigenous communities whose boundaries do
not always respond to municipal legal boundaries. This distinction in
legal boundaries sometimes leads to conflicts among municipalities and
involved indigenous communities.Local Governments have a tradition of
development management and services delivery, particularly in urban areas
(street paving and sewerage, cemeteries, waste management, etc.). The
existing legislation (Law 40/261) assigns to them extensive
responsibilities (both permissive and mandatory and either exclusive or
shared with other agencies). Nicaraguan municipalities, in contrast with
LG in most other countries of the region, do not rely exclusively, or even
principally, on central transfers, to finance their comparatively small
budgets. According to a recent study Gonzalo Espitia. La Descentralizaci6n
Fiscal en Nicaragua. Analisis de 101 Municipios, 2000 (FODES/GTZ). See
annex 7, local tax revenues represent 64 to 74 percent of total municipal
revenue. In addition, some recent attempts to better manage the two main
sources of municipal revenue, the Property Tax and the Sales Tax,
demonstrate that the potential for greater own-source revenue is
considerable. For example, after the CG reduced the municipal sale tax
rate from two to one percent, total revenue generation actually
increased because LG reacted to a rate decrease with an effort to improve
collection and expand the tax base LG had an outdated list of taxable
economic activities to collect the sale tax. Once the CG reduced the rate,
LG updates the list in a way that the total revenue collection actually
increased.
2. Objectives
The project development objective is to improve the performance of rural
municipalities for sustainable local development. The project would aim at
improving municipal performance in all three major areas in which
municipalities can make a critical contribution to sustainable rural
development. These are: (a) the provision of local public infrastructure
and the delivery of municipal services;(b) the protection of the
environment and the sustainable management of natural resources; and (c)
the promotion of local economic development.The project would increase
depth and coverage of the ongoing Rural Municipalities (PROTIERRA) project
in Nicaragua and would contribute to:n municipal development, through (i)
the development of a decentralized financing system, (ii) the
strengthening of municipal institutions, (iii) the strengthening of
INIFOM, the central government institution responsible for support and
supervision of municipal authorities.n local-level environmental
management, through (i) support to local environmental management, (ii)
development of an environmental information system, (iii) set up of the
Municipal Environmental Fund.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The World Bank adds value through its extensive experience and involvement
both inside and outside Nicaragua in local development, natural resources
management, and local capacity building. The specific regional experience
in Demand-driven Rural Investment Funds and biodiversity conservation was
critical from the beginning of the ongoing project. The value-added of
Bank support includes the availability of in-house natural resources
management expertise, ability to mobilize global experts with long
experience in the field, technical support for preparation, supervision
-2 -



capacity, development of linkages with other sources of expertise and
funding.
4. Description
The proposed project includes two distinct major components: The
INIFOM-executed "Municipal Development" ComponentThis component includes
three sub-components: (a) decentralized financing, (b) strengthening of
municipal institutions and (c) strengthening of INIFOM.The MARENA-executed
"Local-level Environmental Management" ComponentThis component includes
three sub-components: (a) Support to local environmental management, (b)
environmental information systems, and (c) Environmental fund for local
governments.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
GOVERNMENT       21
IBRD
IDA             46
Total Project
Cost            67
6. Implementation
Implementation period. The project would be implemented over a period of
five years, from 2001 to 2006. However, institutional development is a
long-term undertaking and longer term assistance is going to be required
to fully achieve the sustainability of project interventions. Because of
this, a longer time frame would considered during strategic project
planning. Nonetheless, the Adaptable Program Lending option was excluded
because of the utility of periodical evaluations of project achievements
and consequent incorporation of lesson learned.Project management. The
project includes two distinct components that would be executed by two
central level institutions.INIFOM, as the CG institution exercising broad
oversight on the performance of Nicaraguan local governments, would be
responsible for the execution of the "Municipal Development" Component.
MARENA would be responsible for the execution of the "Local Environmental
Management Component" Participating local authorities would be responsible
for implementation of all rural development investments financed under the
MDF and MEF, subject to their compliance with the conditions for access to
these funds as specified by INIFOM and MARENA
7. Sustainability
Project design is geared to increase sustainability of project
interventions. Sustainability includes three main concepts in the context
of the project: (i) provision of municipal services would continue at the
same after project completion; (ii) services are sustained on a stable
economic and financial base, i.e. a non discretional budget allocation
plus income collected out of stable local economic activities; and (iii)
environmental sustainability, without encroaching the natural resources
base.Building local capacity may present tradeoffs in terms of time
necessary to achieve a measurable impact; project approach would be
intentionally focused toward long term sustainability. Nonetheless, the
experience of the ongoing project demonstrated that sustainability of
central level institutions is more difficult than local institutions.
Because of this, the project would increases its emphasis in achieving an
equilibrated system of intergovernmental relationships..
-3 -



8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The main lessons reflected in project design were learned during the
implementation of the ongoing project. A set of evaluations of project
effects and potential sustainability were carried out in 1999. These
evaluations were summarized in the report "Local Governments and
Sustainable Rural Development". Study findings indicate that although the
project contributed to rural poverty reduction, the potential
sustainability of project interventions was mixed. On the one hand, the
prospects of sustainability of local level activities supported by the
project, was assessed as good, thanks to significant achievements in
terms of institutional development at municipal level. On the other hand,
the sustainability of the project at the central level was assessed as
unlikely, due to continuing weaknesses of INIFOM and its inability to
sustain within its regular operations the local capacity building efforts
made by the project. Clearly, without a stronger INIFOM, reflecting a
stronger central commitment to, and investment in the system of
intergovernmental relationships, the ongoing project faces sustainability
problems. Because of this, the design of INIFOM institutional
strengthening would be the central item of this project design. The recent
approval of the Organic Law of INIFOM provides now an adequate legal
framework for a major organizational restructuring of the Institute.The
experience on local environmental and natural resources management
confirmed that LGs need clear incentives to take a leading role in this
sector. A better-defined system of incentives and support for LGs is
needed. The inclusion in this project of a financial facility for
conditional matching grants to finance local environmental initiatives,
should provide the incentives for municipal action in environmental
management that were not adequately provided in the ongoing project. Also
the increased presence of MARENA at the departmental level, thanks to
support provided by DANIDA and FINNIDA, would now allow MARENA to play a
more active role of support to local and regional governments.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        The project would cause positive environmental
consequences as it decentralization of environmental management to the
local level. However, the demand-driven aspects of the project may pose
modest environmental risks at the subproject level. As is typical of a
wide range of projects that implement demand-driven subprojects financed
by an intermediary, the project would put in a place an effective
environmental screening mechanism and would create the institutional
capacity to carry out the screening, propose and implement effective
mitigation measures where appropriate, and monitor the effectiveness of
these procedures. The mechanisms and procedures would be outlined in the
project's operational manual to be prepared before effectiveness of the
project.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Maurizio Guadagni
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
-4-



Telephone: 202-458-7155
Fax: 202-522-0262
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID processed by the InfoShop during the week ending August 25, 2000
- 5-



