E-418
Additional
Annex No.: 12
Summary of Environmental Analysis and Mitigation Plan
The Municipal Environmental Facility under the proposed SECOND RURAL MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT is designed as a vehicle for local governments to improve their local environmental capacity.
Through the municipal participatory process promoted by the local government, these projects would be
included in the municipal investment plan (Spanish acronym PIM). In this sense, the local government would
be responsible for overall approval of the projects in the PIM even if implementation is carried out through
different mechanisms - direct implementation, contracting, and delegation.
Environmental risks posed by the project, although minor, are associated with some of the sub-project
categories to be financed and the decentralization process to be supported by the project. A detailed
mitigation plan for sub-projects is described in the Operational Manual.
Since sub-project categories to be financed through a decentralized financing facility (Municipal Development
Fund, FONDEM) and a municipal environmental facility (FAM) may pose environmental risks, while minor,
they need to be subject to an environmental review process. These projects would be required to go through
a screening procedure -- a simple and standardized checklist of possible effects and appropriate mitigation
measures. The criteria used for decision making would be a short environmental review, an environmental
assessment instrument in which investments are likely to have minimal impacts but should be reviewed with a
simple and standardized checklist. Sub-project would fall under three categories, depending on their impact.
Category 1 would not require a special study; Category 2 would require an environmental review which
would be designed by Municipal Environmental Unit (MEU) with the assistance of MARENA Regional
Delegates when appropriate; and Category 3 which would require a detailed environmental impact
assessment would not be allowed to receive financing under the FONDEM or FAM. The review process
would follow similar procedures that are required by MARENA and are followed by municipalities.
Under the on-going Rural Municipalities Project the environmental review of subprojects is carried out by the
Municipal Technical Unit (MTU) for all projects and by the MTU and MARENA for projects greater than
US$50,000. At the municipal-level technical unit staff review preliminary proposals against predetermined
inclusion and exclusion criteria and ascertain the proposal's coherence, and are checked against municipal
environmental and land use plans. Those that pass this stage are required to complete a simple form which
describes project activities, geographic location of each activity and the presence of sensitive areas (rivers,
protected areas, forests, etc) and how subproject interventions would be maintained following subproject
completion.
Prior to the project's mid-term evaluation, the project followed the procedures to meet requirements.
MARENA delegates often signed off on the projects without careful review or analysis; the MTU often
lacked the technical expertise to prepare a thorough assessment. In addition, Environmental and Land Use
Plans were not operational. To address this problem, an environmental specialist was assigned per
department of coverage area to assist the MTU and coordinate with the appropriate MARENA delegations.
The presence of an environmental specialist at the municipal level improved consideration of mitigation
measures in environmentally risky projects (infrastructure, for the most part) and increased demand for
environmental projects. Local environmental priorities were included in the Municipal Development Plans.
The Second Rural Municipalities Project would involve a similar review process with the exception that
environmental expertise at the municipal level would be present from the beginning. In addition, MARENA
delegates would be supported financially by municipal funds (via the Second Rural Municipalities Project) to
assist with screening of subprojects financed by FONDEM and FAM. (See Annex 2: Project Description).



Targeting
Subprojects would surge from grassroots or institutional (Municipal Environmental Commissions, or Municipal
Civic Committee) demands specific to the environmental problems of a target municipality. The Commissions
ensure that sub-projects match the environmental priorities firmed by the municipality in its Municipal
Investment Plan and recommend to the Mayor's Office and Municipality Council to consider them as eligible
for the FAM. Screening for FONDEM-financed projects would follow the screening process followed under
the on-going project.
Promotion
Under the FONDEM, environmental issues would be taken into account by applying screening procedures,
raising awareness through technical staff in the municipal government, training and capacity building, local
MARENA delegates, NGOs and other organizations, and through the FAM itself.
Project Formulation, Appraisal, and Approval
Project formnulation may be undertaken by principal actors at the municipal level including but not limited to
local NGOs, the Municipal Environmental Commission, the private sector, a local community group or a
trade union. Details and requirements for implementation of subprojects at the municipal level would be
outlined in the project's Operational Manual. A typology of projects that may be financed by both FAM and
FONDEM, and a generic description is available in Annex 2 Project Description under Attachment 2.
A thorough formulation process ensures that these proposals meet all eligibility and application criteria and
would be ready for appraisal. Negative and positive environmental impacts for the subprojects financed by
both funds are identified, and alternative sites and/or designs and mitigation measures introduced. The
analysis would be included and form the criteria of the project proposal. At this point, as standard practice,
and abiding by Nicaraguan environmental regulations, MARENA Delegates at the regional level would be
assigned funds by MARENA (via the SECOND RURAL MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT) to
undertake initial environmental reviews or limited EA.
Table 1. Types of Environmental Analysis Required by MARENA
The operational manual will include a checklist to classify subprojects into two categories. There will be no
projects financed by the FONDEM or FAM that fall under Category IlIl (environmental impact assessment)
and will require and environmental impact assessment.
Category of Environmental Impact A         EA Response                    Requirement
detailed checklist of decision making criteria on
environmental categorization will be provided
in the operational manual.
Category: I No impact.                                                    Review by Technical Environmental
Unit
Category: If Subprojects that may create a  Environmental Review; Limited    Review by Technical Environmental
few minor and easily recognizable           Environmental                 Unit; MARENA.
environmental problems. Subprojects with
minor environmental problems that require site
visits to include construction modification to
minimize or eliminate impact.



Category: III Subprojects that may have      Environmental Impact           Not financeable under the FAM
irreversible impacts                         Assessment
The CAM would make recommendations on approval of subprojects, rejection, or adjustments based on
prescribed eligibility criteria, and consult with all the relevant parties, including regional MARENA delegates
and appropriate technical units in MARENA. The Municipal Council and the official technical advisory board
of the FAM thereafter would have final authority to approve the subprojects. The subprojects would have to
be reflected both in the Municipal Development Plans and in the Municipal Investment Plans. See Graphic I
for proposed project cycle.
The final approval for financing and disbursing would come from the Municipal Environmental Fund
Accounts committee set up at the national level. (See Section 4.2 Project Management.)
Project Implementation/Supervision:
Administrative procedures are required for management review, procurement, disbursement, contracting and
allocation of funds as per the legal contract signed between the municipal government and the implementing
agency. Also included in the legal contract would be the results of the EA, covering mitigation measures,
design specifications and supervision requirements.
Final Steps: Evaluation and Exchange of Information with other Municipalities
Project evaluation would assure that the implementing party met contractual obligations and that it carried
out appropriate financial management. Evaluation would begin prior to project completion with a series of
field visits to assess implementation progress. At the point of project completion, regional MARENA
delegates would assist in the evaluation and on a random basis some impartial evaluations by outside
consultants would be carried out. At this point, the knowledge base would remain at both the regional and
municipal level. Success stories may be promoted regionally or nationally.
Figure 1. Environmental Assessment Process of a municipal sub-project
Adapted from "Environmental Guidelines for Social Funds," by Graham, et al., December 1998, The
World Bank.



Taretin  andPromotiProject Formulation                              Project Appraisal
Targeting and Promotion          ll
Objective: Ensure environmental issues are I    Objective Ensure environmental impacts havel
Objective: Ensure environmental issues are           introduced to project implementers.             Been screened, analyzed and proper
introduced to project implementers.                                                           I mitigation measures have been addressed.
Project actions   : Provide training and           Project actions  Screen proposais to
Protect actions Facilitate flow of information  ,    technical assistance in project to project     Categorize type of necessary review,
implementers. Ensure impacts and                  Limited Environmental Assessment or full
Responsible Agents: Local government             Mitigation measures are in place and in           Environmental assessment.
(Municipal environmental commissions,            compliance with operational manuals
technical specialist), Departmental            Resoonsible Aqent : Local government              Responsible Agent Technical Unit and
MARENA delegations.                   (MARENA Delegatons, NGOs,
technical specialist) Municipal                   MARENA delegations.
environmental Units.
Project Implementationtsupervision:                        Project Approval
Project Monitoring and evaluation                Project Actions: Prepare contracts for
crompnesorAntizton s/ reacommnitics fo              Objective : Select projects that are
Project Actions : Site visits during project     companies/oganizationscommunities to            environmentally sound and those that reflect th
execution and operation to assess                                                                     municipal devebpment plan
environmental screening and mitigation               Approval by technicai municipal
procedures Meet with contractors at the          environmental specialist required to issue       Project Actions: Approval may be denied if
i    close of project to gather feedbxack        final payment for project executionl             recommendation made during project
I Responsible Parties: MARENA delegates.                         construction,                           evaluation have not been included.
community leaders.                     Responsible Parfes  Municipal technical           Project Agents : Municipal Council
unit, MARENA delegations.
The Operational Manual would include more detailed tables and examples of possible sub-projects, their likely
impacts, mitigation measures and proper environmental review response.



