                                         Nicaragua
                   SecondRuralMunicipalitiesDevelopmentProject
                                  (Credit No. 3480-NI)
             ProposedAmendment to the DevelopmentCredit Agreement



                                          Summary

 1.     This proposal seeks the ExecutiveDirectors' approval to amend the Credit
 Agreement for the Nicaragua SecondRuralMunicipal Development Project (Credit
 3480-NI) inthe amount o f SDR 22.0 million equivalent to US$28.7 million on standard
 IDAterms. The Republic ofNicaraguahasrequestedthis amendment bemadeto reflect
 the enactment ofLaw 466 ofMunicipal Budgetary Transfers, inAugust 2003. This new
 Law created an environment more conducive to the accomplishment o f the project
 development objectives and the proposed modifications will allow the Project to go
beyondthe original objectives to assist the Government o fNicaragua (GoN) implement a
comprehensive decentralization legal and institutional framework This proposal
includes a request for an extension o f the original closing date o f the Project for eighteen
 additionalmonths to allow the government sufficient time to implementthe new
activities.

2.      The purpose o fthis Memorandumis to recommend changesto the 3840-NI
Project and approval o fthe corresponding amendment to the Development Credit
Agreement (DCA). This Credit restructuring proposal responds to the Borrower's
request presentedinthe letter from the Minister o f Finance and Public Credit dated
October 26,2004, attached hereto.

                                        Background

3.      An IDA Credit (Credit 3480-NI) inthe amount o f SDR 22.0 millionthe
equivalent o f US$28.7 million on standard IDA terms supporting the Second Rural
Municipal Development Project for a total amount 0840.7 millionwas approved by the
Board o f Directors on March 27,2001 and became effective on September 30,2001. The
Closing date i s December 30,2004.

4.      The project development objective (PDO) is to buildthe capacity of rural
municipalities inthree major areas inwhich they can make a critical contribution to
sustainable rural development: (i)provision o f localpublic infrastructure and the delivery
of municipal services; (ii) protectiono f the environment and the sustainable
                          the
management o fnaturalresources, and (iii)   the promotion of local economic development.

5.      The Bank's mid-term evaluation mission (28 April-9 May, 2003) concluded that
the project was not achieving the expected results within the original timeframe except
for subcomponent 1.A o f Decentralized Financing. At the same time, the passage in
August 2003 of a national law that would increase significantly the amount o f fiscal

transfers form the Central to the Municipal govemments suggested that the strategy o fthe
project to achieve its development objective had to be revised inthe context o f the new
 legal framework. Four project missions visited Nicaragua inthe period between June
 2003 and October 2004 to strengthenkey institutional areas o f INIFOM (Nicaraguan
 Institute for Municipal Development) and MARENA (Ministry o f Environment and
Natural Resources) delaying Project implementation, as well as to assist the G o N inthe
preparation o f the proposals for restructuring o f the Project. The Decentralization Forum
 for cooperation and coordination on decentralizationpolicies endorsed these proposals.

 6.      Duringthe CPPRon June 7-8,2004' the Bankrecognized some notable
improvements inINIFOM's intemal management as well as inthe implementation o f its
corporate Municipal Strengthening Program. Inaddition, the GoN and the Bank agreed to
postpone the restructuring o f the project untilthe findings o f a decentralization study
being preparedby the IMF and the Bank would hadbeenpresented and discussed by
government counterparts. After a workshop that was held on August 13,2004 to discuss
and endorse the findings o f the above study, the G o N requested the Credit agreement be
amended to inter alia, provide technical assistance to address key deficiencies inthe
current decentralization legal and institutional framework, prompted by events not
envisioned inthe original Project design.

                                        Justification

7.       The Enactment o f Law 466 o f Municipal Transfers, inAugust 2003, provides
evidence that the Project achieved one o f its principal objectives to develop a system o f
intergovernmental transfers, which could serve as a model for a national revenue sharing
mechanism. Eventhough such revenue sharing mechanism i s a central element o f
decentralizationreform, it has creatednew challenges and opportunities including the
need for a comprehensive decentralization legal and institutional framework.

8.       The GoN has requested this Amendment be made to reflect changes inthe
country's legal framework and to align the credit activities with the new Government's
more proactive comprehensive decentralization strategy. Specifically, it has requested
that the Credit be amended and funds remaining inthe project's FONDEM (Municipal
Development Fund) component reallocated inorder to strengthen the decentralization
process. This would be achieved by the (i)    extension o f Project coverage from 43 to 151
municipalities (all with the exception o f the municipality o f Managua); (ii)  involvement
o f additional institutions inProject implementation; and (iii)  a first extension o f the
Project's closing date for eighteen additional months to allow the government sufficient
time to implement the new activities.

9.      The extension o fproject coverage is warranted inorder to buildon acquired
experience and capacity o f INIFOMto extend institutional building assistance to more
municipalities than envisaged at project appraisal. The involvement o f the Ministryo f

                                               - 3 -



 Finance and Public Credit (MHCP), and the General Controller o f the Republic (CGR)
 office would enable both institutions to comply with their new duties detailed inthe
 Municipal Transfers Law. Finally, an extension o f the closing date i s required to ensure
 completion o f Project implementation, and strengthen on-going institutional building.

 10.      Inparticular, the proposedrestructuringwill ensure: (i) INIFOMprovides
                                                                     that
 critical municipal strengthening to implement local investment plans, especially for small
 municipalities inremote areas; (ii)  that the Budget Office o f the M H C P takes over the
 management o f the intergovernmental transfers system with the support o f the Municipal
 Transfers Commission; (iii)   that the capacity o f the Office o f Fiscal and Economic
 Affairs (OAFE) to introduce and implement a fiscal dimension to decentralization reform
 i s strengthened; and (iv) that the General Controller's Office (CGR) i s staffed and
 equipped to ensure adequate auditing o f the municipalities' use o f funds. Finally, it i s
 crucial that INIFOMhave the financial and technical resources necessary to support
 decision making o f the Municipal Transfers Commission since the Commission
 discharges its decision-making responsibilities inits Technical Secretariat coordinated by
 INIFOM.

                                    ProposedAmendments

 11.      Inorder to reflect the necessary changes inthe project activities requestedbythe
borrower, the following amendments to the DCA would be needed:

 12.      Part A.4 (d) will be added to include support to the Municipal Transfers
Commission created by Law 466 to oversee the implementation o f the intergovernmental
transfers system and inparticular, advise on the application and further development o f
the revenue distribution formula, including (i)    a base line study o f fiscal potential -by
August 2005, for the full application o f the revenue co-sharing formula; and, (ii)     the
proposed revision o f the formula after two years o f enactment o f the law;

 13.      Part C will be added to include support to MHCP as described inPart C.1and to
the CGR as described inPart C. 2. In Part C.1, technical assistance, limited equipment
and incremental costs will be financed to strengthen the Ministry o f Finance and Public
Credit to improve management o f decentralized finances. Activities have been grouped
under the following sub components:

Part C.l      Subcomponent (a)       Strengthening MHCP's           capacity to:    (i)develop
methodologies for costing o f expenditures and appropriate transfer o f resources to
municipalities; (ii)  streamline internal procedures for management o f intergovernmental
transfers; (iii)up-grade technological facilities for better management o f municipal data;
(iv) carry out fiscal decentralization; (v)manage aggregate municipal finance and apply
international best practice in decentralization and in public sector management; and (vi)
to improve public sector management analysis.

                                               - 4 -



Part C.1 Subcomponent (b) Enhancement o f the Intergovemmental Transfers System to:
(i) outofassessmentsofthere-distributiveimpactoftransfers;(ii) proposals
     carry                                                                     make
for an improved distribution formula; (iii)   make proposals for improved information flow
for calculation o f transfers; (iv) carry out analysis o f the conditions under which revenue-
sharing can be automated; (v) advise the Sectoral Commission on Decentralizationon the
introduction o f a matching-grant systems as conditioned transfers; and (vi) periodically
monitor and evaluate the fiscal impact o f revenue-sharing and the extent to which
reforms insupport o f fiscal neutrality are implemented.

Part C.1Subcomponent (c) Improvements to Sub-national Debt Regulations that: provide
technical assistance to assess magnitude and forms o f sub-national debt in a sample o f
municipalities; propose reforms for improved registration and reporting o f sub-national
debt; and for improvedinformation flow regarding private bank lendingto municipalities.

Part C.1 Subcomponent (d) Design and Implementation o f Expenditures Transfers for
Fiscal Neutrality through the Provision o f technical assistance to: (i)      conduct costing
exercises for fiscal neutrality; (ii)advise on the use o f transfer formulas for each
responsibility to be transferred in order to provide incentives for efficient service
delivery; (iii)advise on appropriate human resources management at sub-national levels
including the assessment o f labor debt and severance payments (iv) monitor transferred
expenditures; and (v) introduce legal reforms that facilitate transfer o f expenditures.

Part C.l Subcomponent (e) Development o f Information Systems for Improved
Information Flow Among Levels o f Govemment including design of: (i)           an interface for
S I I M and SIGFA' that allows on-time access on municipal data; and (ii) web page for
                                                                                a
publication o fmunicipal financial data and transfers.

Part C.l Subcomponent (f) Dissemination, Participation and Training aimed at: (i)
provision o f technical assistance to produce informationmaterial for decentralization; and
(ii)carryingout oftrainingfor MHCP officials ondecentralization models andbest
practice.

14.      Part C.2 - The principal objective o f component C.2 to be executed by the CGR
(through DAF) is to improve the efficiency and effectiveness o f oversight o f municipal
administrations by strengthening CGR capacity to improve the control environment o f
municipal administrations as well as monitor local public expenditures and financial
administrations through ex ante controls as well as ex post auditing. The component will
staff the Municipal Audit Office o f the CGR, and provide technical assistance, training,
and limited equipment as well as finance incremental operation costs o f the CGR to carry
out the following activities grouped under three sub-components:

                                             - 5 -



Part C.2 Subcomponent (a) Strengthening CGR' capacity through: (i)creation o f a
specialized unit within its Audit Directorate to manage municipal oversight activities; (ii)
to develop key procurement capacity to support pilot outsourcing of extemal audits to
private firms; (iii) through the continuous update o f key audit staff skills; and (iv) and
through the provision o f support for in-country travel expenditures associated with
supervision functions.


Part C.2 Subcomponent (b) External Auditing o f a Sample o f Municipalities through the
provision o f technical assistance to: (i)carry out extemal audits o f a sample o f
municipalities, to be outsourced to private audit firms (Firmas de Contadores Publicos
Independientes (FCPIs); and (ii)     carry out municipal audits by four de-concentrated
delegations o f the CGR in: (A) the northern region o f Nueva Segovia, (B) Chontales, (C)
the Autonomous Region o f the Northern Atlantic (RAAN), and (D) the Autonomous
Regiono f the Southern Atlantic (RASS), all within the Borrower's territory.

Part C.2 Subcomponent (c) Strengthening o f Municipal Internal Controls, through inter
alia: (i)carrying out of workshops, seminars, and dissemination media events o f an
awareness campaign to promote the establishment of internal audit units integral to
municipal administrations; (ii)carrying out o f a training-of-trainers program; (iii)
carrying out o f training workshops for selected municipal internal auditors; (iv) carrying
out o f on-the-job training to help trainees put newly learned skills to use; (v) the
implementation o f a program to provide incentives to municipalities interested in
establishing internal audit units; (vi) the provision o f technical assistance to consolidate
and analyze audit findings and recommendations for a policy and regulatory framework
update; (vii) publication and wide dissemination o f consolidated audit findings; and (viii)
the design of an information system to monitor internal auditing and recommendations
ofmunicipal governments' internal administrations.

15.    Resources to finance the new activities will be reallocated from the Part A.1
(FONDEM component) as well as through reallocation of loan proceeds between
expenditure categories, as shown inthe following table:

                                            - 6 -



                                        Nicaragua
                   SecondRuralMunicipalitiesDevelopmentProject
                                    (Credit 3480-NI)
                         ResourceReallocation(SDR thousands)
      Component and sub Components                     Original     Proposed
       Part A. Municipal Development / Evaluation         14,310       13,400
       and Policy Development
       A.1FONDEMsubprojects                                8,440        5,300
       A.2, A.3 and A.4 executed by INIFOM                 5,870        8,100

       Part C. Support to decentralization reform
       C.1Strengthening o f MHCP                           0.0           750
       C.2 Strengthening o f CGR                           0.0           510

       Sub total Part A andPart C                           n/a         14,660

       Part.B Municipal Environmental                     5,600          6,240
      Management                                          1,150          392
      PPF refinance                                        940           708
      Unallocated
      TotalProjectCosts                                  22,000         22,000

                            ImplementationArrangements

16.    Inview of INIFOM'Snotable improvements in its internal management through
the implementation o f new financial and procurement systems as well as the
incorporation o f staff with the required qualifications to manage those systems, the
INIFOM component will continue to be managed by the institute's financial and
administrative directorate.

17.    For the implementationo f the new Part C. Component, the borrower and the Bank
analyzed alternatives administration arrangements, recognizing the lack o f bank
experience with the CGR, the pilot nature o f the program, the small size o f the loan
amount and the short implementationperiod. After an analysis of the different options,
the government decided and the Bank endorsed the proposal that the sub component be
administered by the Ministry o f Finance through its Direccion Administrativa Financiera
(DAF,. DAFis being strengthened to manage other Bank financed programs co financed
by the European Union and the IDB.The DAF will manage both the MHCP and CGR
components.

                                             - 7 -



                Conditionfor PresentationofAmendment to the Board

18.     Conditions for presentation o f the amendment to the Boardhave been met by the
Borrower, including: (i) execution o f an inter-institutional agreement between the
Borrower (throughDAF) and the General Controllers's Office with respect to Part C.2 o f
the project; (ii)
                revision o f the INIFOMOperations Manual and the DAF's Manual to
manage Part C o f the project, to the satisfaction o f the Association, including
implementation arrangements and responsibilities, time bound action plans, targets to
measureprogress towards results, procurement plans and estimated costs o f new
activities through the end o f the Project. Evidence that the government has secured the
required counterpart funds to inter alia, pay for INIFOM's employees severance
payments liabilities stemming from the restructuring o f the institute, will be a condition
for disbursement.


The World Bank                                                    1818 H Street N.W.          (202) 477-1234
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT            Washington, D.C. 20433       Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION                             U.S.A.                      Cable Address: INDEVAS

            DRAFT
            2211112004




                                                                                                         ,2004


            HisExcellency
            EduardoMontiel
            Minister of Finance andPublic Credit
            Ministryof FinanceandPublic Credit
            Frente a1Edificio de la Asamblea Nacional
            Managua, Nicaragua

                             Re:      NICARAGUA-Credit No. 3480-NI (Second Rural Municipal
                                      DevelopmentProject)
                                      Amendment to the DevelopmentCredit Ameement

            Your Excellency:

                   Please refer to the Development Credit Agreement between the International Development
            Association (the Association) and the Republic of Nicaragua (the Borrower) dated April 3, 2001
            (the Development Credit Agreement), with regard to the referenced Project.

                   We are pleased to inform you that, pursuantto your letter dated October 26, 2004 requesting
            an amendment to the Development Credit Agreement, the Bank hereby agrees to: (a) create a new
           component in order to support decentralization reform; (b) expand Project coverage to larger
           number of Municipalities under the Project; (c) extend the Closing Date to allow the Borrower
            sufficient time to, inter alia, implement the activities under such new component; and (d) create
           new disbursement categories and reallocate the proceeds of the Credit to assist in the financing of
           the management of the revenue sharingmechanism and oversight of municipal administrations.

                   Therefore the DCA i s hereby amended as follows:

           Section 1.01:

                    This Section is amended inits entirety as reflectedinAnnex A hereto.

           Section 1.03 i s deleted.

           Section 2.02

                    A new sub-section (b) is added to read:

                    "(b)     The Borrower shall, for the purposes of each of Parts A, B and C of the Project
                    open and maintain in US dollars in its Central Bank three separate special deposit
                    accounts, namely the INIFOM Special Account, the MARENA Special Account and the
                    DAF Special Account, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into,

                                                  -2-


         and payments out of each Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
         provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement."

Section 2.03 i s amended to read:

         "The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2006 or such later date as the Association shall
         establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date."


Article I11-Execution of the Proiect

         This Article is amendedinits entirety as reflectedinAnnex B hereto.


Article IV -Financial Covenants

         This Article is amended inits entirety as reflectedinAnnex C hereto.

Article V

         Section 5.01i s amended to read:

                 "Pursuant to Section 6.02 (1) of the General Conditions, the following additional
        events are specified:

                 (a)     that INIFOM shall have failed to performany of its obIigations under the
        INIFOM Subsidiary Agreement;

                 (b)     that CGR shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the
        CGR Inter-Institutional Agreement; and

                 (c)     that as a result of events which have occurred after the date of this
        Agreement, a situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that INIFOM
        will be able to performits obligations under the INIFOMSubsidiary Agreement.''

Schedule 1

        This Schedule is amendedinits entirety as reflected inAnnex Dhereto.

Schedule 2

        (a)      a new subparagraph (d) i s added under Part A.4 to read as follows:


        " support the MunicipalTransfers Commission created by Law 466/03 to oversee the
        implementation of the intergovernmentaltransfers system and provide advise on the
        application and further development of the revenue distribution formula, including: (i)  a
       base line study of fiscal potential by August 2005, for the full application of the revenue
       co-sharing formula; and (ii)  the proposedrevision of the formula within 24 months from
       the enactment of said Law."

       (b)       A new component C is hereby created to readas reflectedinAnnex Ehereto.

                                                 -3-



 Schedule 3

 The paragraphs listed here below are hereby amended to read:

     Section I, Part C, paragraph 1i s amended to read as follows:

     "Goods estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate
     amount not to exceed $600,000 equivalent, may be procuredunder contracts awarded in
     accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 of the Guidelines."

     Section I, Part C, paragraph2 i s amended to read as follows:

     "Goods estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate
     amount not to exceed $600,000 equivalent, may be procuredunder contracts awarded on the
     basis of international or national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of
     paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines."

     Section I, Part C, a new paragraph i s added to read as follows:

     1. Selection Basedon Consultants' Qualifications

         Consultant services estimated to cost less than $ 100,000 equivalent per contract may be
     procuredunder contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and
     3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.

     Section 11,Part C: former paragraph 1i s being re-numberedto read 2.

Schedule 4

         A new Schedule "Special Accounts'' is incorporated as reflected inAnnex Fhereto.

         Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signingand dating this
letter inthe spaces provided below. This Amendment Letter will be executed in two
counterparts, each of which shall be an original.

        Upon your confirmation, please return one fully executed original to us. The provisions of
this Amendment Letter will become effective as of the date of this letter upon receipt by the Bank
of one fully executed original of this Amendment Letter.


                                          Very truly yours,

                     INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION


                            BY
                                           Jane Armitage
                                              Director
                            Central America Country Management Unit
                              Latin America andthe Caribbean Region

                                -4-




AGREED:
REPUBLICOF NICARAGUA

By:
   Authorized Representative

Date:

