Page  1
The World Bank 
1818 H Street N.W. 
(202) 477-1234 
I
NTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
Cable Address:  INTBAFRAD 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
U.S.A. 
Cable Address:  INDEVAS 
 
October 17, 2003 
 
Mr. Eduardo Montealegre Rivas 
Minister of Finance and Public Credit 
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit 
Managua, Nicaragua  
 
Re:  Nicaragua - Japanese Grant for the Implementation of the 
Second Rural Municipalities Project - Grant TF052534
Dear Minister Montealegre:  
 
I
am writing on behalf of the International Development Association (IDA) 
(Association) to indicate the Association’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds 
provided by Japan, to make a grant in an amount not exceeding two hundred and fifty seven 
thousand three hundred sixty US Dollars (US$257,360) (the Grant) to the Republic of 
Nicaragua (the Recipient). 
 
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial assistance and 
for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this Letter 
Agreement.  The Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement below, that it is 
authorized to contract and withdraw the Grant for the said purposes and on the said terms 
and conditions. 
 
Please note that it is IDA’s policy to make publicly available this Letter 
Agreement and any information related thereto, after this Letter Agreement has become 
effective and the Recipient has given its consent to such disclosure.  The Recipient, by 
countersigning this Letter Agreement, confirms its consent to such disclosure.
 
Page  2
2
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon 
receipt by the Association of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, 
this Letter Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature. 
 
Very truly yours, 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
By /s/ C. Felipe Jaramillo 
Acting Director 
Central America Country Management Unit 
Latin America and the Caribbean Region 
 
AGREED: 
 
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA 
 
By:  /s/ Eduardo Montealegre R. 
Minister of Finance and Public Credit 
 
Date:  
October 21, 2003 
Page  3
3
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant 
 
1. 
Objectives and Activities
1.1. 
The purpose of the Grant is to assist the Recipient in the implementation of the Second 
Rural Municipalities Project, which has as main objective to improve the performance of rural 
municipalities in: (i) the provision of local public infrastructure and the delivery of municipal 
services; (ii) the protection of the environment and the sustainable management of natural 
resources; and (iii) the promotion of local economic development (the Project).  The activities 
(the Activities) for which the Grant is given are as follows: 
 
(a) 
provision of technical assistance to the Recipient's Nicaraguan Institute for 
Municipal Development (INIFOM) and the Sectorial Decentralization Commission (CSD) to 
design a national policy on decentralization and local development
 (
Decentralization Strategy) 
and thereafter disseminate it among the local governments, civil society, members of the CSD, 
bilateral and multilateral donors, and key central government agencies. These Activities are 
estimated to cost US$76,150 equivalent; 
 
(b) 
provision of technical assistance to consolidate a mechanism to decentralize 
fiscal transfers
 
with the consensus of the local and central governments, civil society
 
and donors. 
These Activities are estimated to cost US$67,060 equivalent;
 
(c) 
provision of technical assistance to design and develop a certification system for 
suppliers of goods, including the establishment of norms, policies and strategies for the provision 
of technical assistance to the Recipient municipalities to improve and level the capacity among 
the Recipient's
 
municipalities in contracting services. These Activities are estimated to cost 
US$52,150 equivalent; and 
 
(d) 
provision of technical assistance to strength the participatory planning 
mechanisms related to the Decentralization Strategy at the municipal level through: (i) the 
knowledge exchange among the municipalities and the local and central levels of current 
implementation and municipal territorial planning; (ii) the provision of training to the 
communities and municipal authorities for implementation of participatory planning; and (iii) the 
promotion of inter-municipal coordination of planning activities to address issues that are cross-
municipal in nature.   These Activities are estimated to cost US$62,000 equivalent.
 
2. Implementation 
Generally
2.1. 
The Recipient, through Nicaraguan Institute for Municipal Development (INIFOM), shall: 
(a) carry out the Activities with due diligence and efficiency; (b) promptly provide the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for that purpose; (c) furnish all information covering 
the Activities and the use of the proceeds of the Grant as the Association shall reasonably request; (d) 
from time to time exchange views with the Association's representatives on the progress and results 
of the Activities; (e) take all necessary measures required to enable the Association to visit the 
territory of the Recipient for purposes related to the Grant; and (f) cause all goods and services 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant to be used exclusively for the purposes of the Project.  
Without limitation on the foregoing, the Recipient shall, if the Association shall so request, prepare 
and furnish to the Association promptly upon completion of the Activities a report, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, on the results and impact of the Activities. 
Page  4
4
3. Procurement
3.1. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the consultants’ services  
required for the carrying out of the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant 
shall be governed by the provisions of Attachment I to this Annex. 
 
4. 
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1. 
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by the Association on its 
books in the name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn therefrom by the 
Recipient in accordance with the provisions of this Section 4, for expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of  services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant. 
 
4.2. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category, and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the Grant 
Allocated 
(in US dollars)
%
of  
Expenditures to 
be Financed
(1)    Consultants’ Services  
232,950 
100%
 
(2)    Training  
  24,410
100% 
 
TOTAL 
 
257,360 
============ 
 
For purposes of this paragraph, the term “training” means the non-consultant expenditures incurred 
by the Recipient in connection with the carrying out of Activities, including travel costs, per diem of 
trainers and trainees, rental of training facilities and equipment, and training materials and 
dissemination. 
 
4.3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above: 
 
(a) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account: (i) for payments made for 
expenditures prior to the date of signature of this Letter Agreement by the Association; (ii) on 
account of payments for any taxes levied by or in the territory of the Recipient; (iii) on account of 
expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Association or for 
services supplied from such territories; or (iv) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, 
if such payment, to the Association’s knowledge, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
 
(b) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account after  December 30, 2004 or 
such later date that the Association shall establish by notice to the Recipient (the Closing Date), 
provided that, except in special circumstances, the Closing Date shall not be extended beyond the  
expected date of Association approval of financing for the Project. However, withdrawals may be 
made after the Closing Date for expenditures incurred prior to the Closing Date if the corresponding 
withdrawal application is received by the Association within four months after the Closing Date,  
Page  5
5
after which time any amount of the Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant Account shall be 
canceled; and 
 
(c) 
If, in the Association’s opinion, an amount of the Grant allocated to any of the 
Categories in the table in paragraph 4.2 above will be insufficient to finance the expenditures under 
such Category, the Association may, by written notice to the Recipient, reallocate to such Category 
an amount of the Grant then allocated to another Category which, in the Association’s opinion, will 
not be necessary to meet other expenditures. 
 
4.4. 
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, it shall 
deliver to the Association a written application for withdrawal of such amount in the form specified 
by the Association.  Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on behalf of the Recipient by the
 
Financial Director of INIFOM or such other person as he or she shall have authorized in writing; and 
(b) accompanied by such evidence in support of the application as the Association shall reasonably 
request.  Authenticated specimen signatures of the person authorized to sign withdrawal applications 
shall be provided with the first application bearing his or her signature.  Each withdrawal application 
for an amount of the Grant and its supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to 
satisfy the Association that the Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount from the Grant 
Account and that such amount is to be used in the carrying out of the Activities.  The Association 
shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account only to or on the order of 
the Recipient. 
 
4.5. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) services of consulting firms 
costing less than US$100,000 equivalent; and (b) services of individual consultants costing less than 
US$50,000 equivalent and training; all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Recipient.  
 
4.6. 
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the Grant.  The 
Association, at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, shall purchase with 
the currency of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such currencies as shall be required to 
pay for expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, 
for the purposes of this Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, 
such value shall be as reasonably determined by the Association. 
 
4.7. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Activities, the Recipient may open and maintain in U. S. 
dollars a special deposit account (the Special Account) in the Central Bank of the Recipient on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Association.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Attachment II to this Annex. 
 
5. Accounts 
and 
Audits
5.1. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect  the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Activities. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall: (i) have the  financial statements referred to in subparagraph (a) 
above for each such fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), audited, in accordance with 
consistently applied auditing standards, acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors acceptable 
Page  6
6
to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months 
after the end of each such year (or such other period agreed to by the Bank), (A) certified copies of 
the financial statements referred to in subparagraph (a) above for such year (or such other  period 
agreed to by the Bank), as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, in 
scope and  detail satisfactory to the Bank; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information 
concerning such records and accounts and the audit of such financial statements, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank shall have reasonably requested. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall:  (i) retain, until at least one 
year after the Bank has received the audit report for or covering the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditur
es; (ii) enable the Bank’s representatives to 
examine such records; and (iii) ensure that such  statements of expenditure are included in the audit 
for each fiscal year, or other period agreed to by the Bank, referred to in subparagraph (b) above.
 
6. Suspension 
and 
Cancellation
6.1. 
The Bank may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the Recipient to 
make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following events has occurred and is 
continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any of its obligations herein specified; or (b) 
the right of the Recipient, or any other entity to which the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the IBRD) has made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to make withdrawals 
under any loan agreement with the IBRD or any development credit agreement with International 
Development Association (IDA) shall have been suspended.  
 
6.2. 
The Association may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient 
to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after the right of the Recipient 
to make withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been suspended pursuant to the provisions 
of paragraph 6.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to the 
Association, within six months after the effective date hereof, to carry out the Activities; or (c) if the 
Association has decided, at any time after consultation with the Recipient, to withdraw its support to 
the Project. 
 
Page  7
7
Attachment I  
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
Consultants’ Services
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Sections I 
and IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers”, published by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development in January 
1997 and revised in September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the following provisions of this 
Section. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph:  the short list of 
consultants for services for the Activities under paragraph 1.1 of the Annex, estimated to cost less 
than US$200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 and footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for Activities under paragraph 1.1 of the Annex shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 
5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines; and (b) Activities under paragraph 1.1 of the Annex may be 
selected on a sole-source basis in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.3 and 5.4 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, subject to prior approval of the Bank. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost estimates, 
contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for 
proposals.  Such plan shall be updated once a year during the execution of the Activities, and 
each such updating shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval.  Selection of all 
consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan (as updated from 
time to time) as shall have been approved by the Bank. 
 
Page  8
8
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for  
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,00 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 
and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000
 
or
more, the report on the comparison of the 
qualifications and experience of candidates, and terms of reference and terms of employment of 
the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract 
shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been given.  The provisions of paragraph 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Page  9
9
Attachment II 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Attachment: 
 
(a) 
the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories set forth in the table in 
paragraph 4.2 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant; and 
 
(c) 
the term "Authorized Allocation" means the amount of US$25,000
 
to be 
withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 
3
(a) of this Attachment. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in 
accordance with the provisions of this Attachment. 
 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has 
been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
The Recipient shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit 
into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount 
or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposits into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify. 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Attachment for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the 
Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Grant Account under the eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient shall, at 
such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents 
and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, the Association shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
Page  10
10
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account; 
 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the period of 
time specified in paragraph 5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph in respect of the audit 
of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to 
suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account 
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent of twice 
the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Grant 
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been 
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 
2
of this Attachment; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the 
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as 
the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so 
request, refund to the Association an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit 
by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, 
the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such 
outstanding amount. 
 
Cdeoliveira 
M:\Nicaragua\JGAGrants\TF052534 (2nd Rural Municipalities).doc 
October 16, 2003 2:27 PM
 
