Page  1
July 12, 2000
Mr. Esteban Duque Estrada 
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Managua, Nicaragua
Re:
Japanese Grant for the preparation of the Second Rural 
Municipalities Project 
(Decentralized Environmental 
Management)
Grant No. TF026314
Dear Sir:
I am writing on behalf of the International Development Association 
(the Association) to indicate the Association’s agreement, as administrator 
of grant funds provided by Japan, to make a grant in an amount not exceeding 
four hundred thousand U.S. Dollars (US$400,000) (the Grant) to the Republic 
of Nicaragua (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in 
the Annex to this Letter Agreement.  The Recipient hereby confirms its 
request that the Association carry out the activities described in paragraph 
1 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, and represents that it is authorized 
to contract the Grant for the said purposes and on the said terms and 
conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the 
Recipient, by signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this 
Letter Agreement.  Upon receipt by the Association of the copy of this Letter 
Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will become effective 
as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Director
Country Management Unit - Nicaragua
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
By /s/ Esteban Duque Estrada
Minister of Finance
Date:
August 4, 2000
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms and Conditions of the Grant
1.
The purpose of the Grant is to assist in the  preparation of the Second 
Rural Municipalities Project (Decentralized Environmental Management, MARENA) 
(the Project).  The activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given 
Page  2
are as follows:
(a) design and preparation of an environmental management 
decentralization plan for the Project through: (i) the assessment of the 
legal framework for the decentralized management of natural resources; (ii) 
the design of a payments mechanism for environmental services provided at the 
local level; (iii) the design of a capacity building program for the 
Recipient’s municipalities, NGOs, private sector and civil society; and (iv) 
the design of a network of private protected areas and municipal parks, which 
is estimated to cost US$123,000 equivalent;
(b) design and preparation of a decentralized national environmental 
information system, which is estimated to cost US$116,000 equivalent; and
(c) provision of technical assistance to help design the Project’s 
sustainable production systems through: (i) the assessment of sustainable 
production systems to reduce the advance of the agricultural frontier; (ii) 
the implementation of biodiversity friendly production systems, and (iii) the 
assessment of potential local and international production markets, which is 
estimated to cost US$161,000 equivalent.
2.
The Grant shall be used to finance consultants’ services, workshops 
(not to exceed US$15,000 equivalent already included in the amounts cited in 
paragraph 1 above) and training (not to exceed US$5,000 equivalent already 
included in the amounts cited in paragraph 1 above) required for the 
Activities.
3.
The Bank shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient.  
The Recipient shall cooperate with the Association to the extent necessary to 
permit the Association to carry out the Activities promptly and effectively, 
and to evaluate the results of the Activities.  The Recipient shall indemnify 
the Association against any costs or liabilities incurred by the Association 
as a result of claims against the Association in connection with the 
Activities, except those resulting from the gross negligence or willful 
misconduct of its staff or external consultants.
4.
The Activities shall be completed by not later than December 31, 2001, 
or such later date as the Association may establish by notice to the 
Recipient (the Closing Date).  Except in special circumstances, no proceeds 
of the Grant shall be used to fund Activities after Bank approval of 
financing for the Project, and the Closing Date shall not be extended beyond 
the expected date of such approval.  After the Closing Date, the Association 
may at any time cancel the remaining balance of the Grant.
5.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants) 
required to assist in the carrying out of the Activities shall be the 
responsibility solely of the Association and shall be governed, except as 
otherwise decided by the Association by the provisions of the Attachment to 
this Annex.
6.
The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied 
by, or in the territory of, the Recipient on the Consultants or any of the 
Consultants’ personnel (other than nationals or permanent residents thereof) 
in connection with the Activities.
7.
The Recipient may at any time request the Association in writing to 
terminate the Activities. Whether or not the Recipient has made such a 
request, the Association may at any time suspend or, after consultation with 
the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to receive Grant funds 
for the Activities if any of the following events has occurred and is 
continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to perform any of its obligations 
under this Letter Agreement; or (b) the right of the Recipient, or any other 
entity to which The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
(the IBRD) has made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to make 
withdrawals under any loan agreement with the IBRD or any development credit 
agreement with the Association shall have been suspended.  The Association 
may also terminate the right of the Recipient to receive Grant funds if: (a) 
the Association has decided, at any time after consultation with the 
Recipient, to withdraw its support to the Project; or (b) the Recipient has 
withdrawn its request for the Association’s assistance in the financing of 
the Project.
Page  3
8.
The Bank is not an agent of, or trustee for, the Recipient and shall 
not have any fiduciary relationship with the Recipient.  The Recipient shall 
have no right to any portion of the Grant that is not expended by the 
Association pursuant to this Letter Agreement.
Attachment
Consultants' Services
1.    Consultants' services shall be procured in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of Statement 15.00 of the Association's Administrative Manual, 
dated July 1997 (the Administrative Manual), the Introduction and Section IV 
of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers" published by the Association in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Attachment.
2.  Services for the Activities under paragraph 1 (a), (b) and (c) of the 
Annex shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions, which are consistent with the provisions of the Administrative 
Manual, of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines (Selection 
Based on Consultants' Qualifications).
3.  Services for the activities under paragraph 1 (c) of the Annex up to an 
aggregate amount of $ 90,000 equivalent may be procured on a single-source 
basis, as permitted under paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
