Document of
The World Bank                                 FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3595-KE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 13.9 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR A
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
May 17, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        -       Kenya Shilling (KSh)
KSh 1.00             -       US$0.08 a/
US$1.00              -       KSh 12.75
US$1.00              -       SDR 0.924527
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
1 ha.           -         2.47 acres
1 km.           -         0).62 miles
1 sq. km.       -         0).39 sq. miles
1 m.            -         3.28 feet
AFC       -     Agricull:ural Finance Corporation
CBK       -     Cooperat:ive Bank of Kenya
CROE      -     Chief Research Officer (Extension)
DAO       -     District: Agricultural Officer
DCA       -     Development Credit Agreement
DDAE      -     Deputy Director of Agriculture (Extension)
JTA       -     Junior T'echnical Assistant
IDA       -     International Development Association
IFAD      -     Internat:ional Fund for Agricultural Development
KARI      -     Kenya Agricultural Research Institute
KFA       -     Kenya Farmers' Association.
MOA       -     Ministry of Agriculture
NCPB      -     National. Cereals and Produce Board
RAE       -     Regional Agronomist (Extension)
RMEA      -     Regional. Mission in Eastern Africa
TA        -     TechnicaLl Assistant
TO        -     Technica.l Officer
T&V       -     Training and Visit
FISCAL YEAR
Government: July 1 - June 30
a/ Since December 1982, the Kenya Shilling has been pegged to the SDR at a
rate of SDR = KSh 14.06. The rate vis-a-vis the dollar has fluctuated
since that time. A rate of US$1.00 = KSh 12.75 has been used in
evaluating this project.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
BORROWER:                Government of Kenya
IMPLEMENTING
AGENCY:                  Ministry of Agriculture
AMOUNT:                  SDR 13.9 million (US$15.0 equivalent)
TERMS:                   Standard
PROJECT DESCRIPTION:    The Project would promote sustained increases in
agricultural production in 30 of Kenya's 41
districts by reorganizing and strengthening Kenya's
agricultural extension system and improving
linkages between research and extension. This
would be achieved through: (a) incremental staff;
(b) transportation, office and training equipment;
(c) construction of a number of modest offices at
the district and division levels; (d) incremental
operating costs and travel allowances; (e) training
of extension staff; (f) technical assistance; (g)
support of adaptive research and improvement of
research extension linkages; and (h) monitoring and
evaluation. The project would extend over a
four-and-a-half year period and constitute the
first phase of a multi-phased development effort.
RISKS:                   The project faces several risks.  While a good deal
of enthusiasm exists at all levels of government,
there is a risk that without frequent supervision
momentum for the project may diminish and reforms
may not be fully adopted. Budgetary constraints
may result in cuts to incremental operating costs.
The project would require intense supervision and
careful control of expenditures to minimize these
risks. A sufficient number of research findings
exist which have not been widely adopted and would
adequately serve the extension system during the
project period. To reduce the risk of insufficient
crop research findings on which to base extension
recommendations, or inadequate disseminaton of
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
_ 



- ii -
these findings in the future, the project would
support programs of field testing and measures to
increase extension/research contacts to ensure a
continuous flow of recommaendations. The
possibility exists that the phasing cf additional
districts into the system may not be as rapid as
anticipated. Phasing of districts would be
reviewed at the end of the second project year.
Should the Government fai'l to maintain attractive
producer prices, there would be little incentive
for farmers to adopt packages aimed at increasing
production. Under the st:ructural adjustment
program, the Government is undertaking annual price
reviews to provide adequate incentives to producers
and has announced that food prices will no longer
be subsidized.
ESTIMATED COST:                                      Local   Foreign       Total
-.…US$ millions-------
Components
Incremental Staff                                  5.8         -         5.8
Vehicles, Equipment
and Civil Works                                   1.9        0.8        2.7
Extension Operating Costs                          6.9        0.9        7.8
Training                                           1.4        0.9        2.3
Research                                           0.2        0.1        0.3
Technical Assistance                               0.2        3.1        3.3
Base Cost (February 1983 prices)              1.6.4       5.8       22.2
Contingencies
Physical                                           1.1        0.3        1.3
Price                                              3.9        1.2        5.1
Total Project Cost a/                         21.3        7.3       28.6
a/ Taxes and duties amount to US$5.1 million equivalent and the total
project cost, net of taxes, is US$23.5 million equivalent.



- iii -
FINANCING PLAN:
Local   Foreign   Total
----- US$ millions ----
Government of Kenya                       7.6        -        7.6
IDA                                       9.8       5.2      15.0
International Fund for
Agricultural Development
(IFAD)                                   3.9       2.1      6.0
Total Project Financing                  21.3       7.3      28.6
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS:            ---------------US$ millions-----------
Bank Group Fiscal Year:             1984 b/   1985    1986    1987    1988
Annual                            1.3        2.1     3.3      4.4     3.9
Cumulative                        1.3        3.4     6.7    11.1    15.0
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN:        20%.
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT:         Report No. 4426-KE, dated May 13, 1983
MAP:                            IBRD No. 16798R
b/ Including refunding of Project Preparation Facility advance of
US$1,000,000 (P-230-KE).



I
I



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA FOR A
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the Republic of Kenya of SDR 13.9 million (US$15.0
million equivalent), on standard terms, to assist in the financing of a
National Extension Project. The Government of Kenya would obtain
cofinancing from The International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD)
in an amount of US$6.0 million equivalent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Basic Economic Report entitled "Growth and Structural Change in
Kenya" (Report No. 3350-KE), dated August 31, 1982 and a report entitled
"Kenya - Country Economic Memorandum and Annex on Agricultural Issues"
(Report No. 3456-KE), dated June 1981 have been distributed to the
Executive Directors. A summary of social and economic data is in Annex I.
Long-Term Economic Growth and Structural Problems
3.        Kenya became an independent nation in 1963.  During the entire
period since then, the country has experienced remarkable continuity in
both political leadership and development strategy. That strategy has been
to promote rapid economic growth by means of public investment,
encouragement of both smallholder and large-scale farming, and promotion of
accelerated industrialization, by providing incentives for private,
including foreign, investment in modern industry. The Kenyan development
model can be characterized as "mixed", in the sense that it incorporates a
diversity of organizational forms and incentives and combines private
enterprise with a significant amount of Government participation and
guidance. The country made a smooth transition to new leadership following
President Kenyatta's death in 1978.
4.        Kenya's first decade as an independent nation was one of remark-
able growth and structural transformation. Total GDP grew at an annual
average rate of 6.6% during 1964-73. Both agriculture and manufacturing
grew rapidly, at 4.7% and 8.4% per annum respectively. The expansion of
agriculture was stimulated by redistribution of large estates to small-
holders, rapid diffusion of hybrid maize, and growth of smallholder
output. Growth of manufacturing was made possible very largely by the
expansion of domestic demand due to rising agricultural incomes, while
investment for domestic production was being encouraged by high levels of
protection, a liberal attitude towards foreign investment, and active
Government promotion of and participation in manufacturing ventures.
5.        Following this period of rapid growth, the rate of growth of per
capita income declined substantially after 1974. Kenya remains a poor
country, still heavily rural and dependent upon agriculture. Average GNP



- 2 -
per capita in 1981 was US$430.  Agriculture accounted for more than a third
of GDP and about two-thirds oi- exports (other than refined petroleum pro-
ducts) in 1978--81. Since the growth of the industrial sector has been
largely confined to the major urban areas, agriculture remains the prin-
cipal source of income in the rural areas where over 80% of the population
live and work.  Kenya still has siLgnificant problems of poverty and under-
employment. About one-fourth of the population is est:imated to have
incomes placing them below the absolute poverty line.
6.         A fundamental problem Kenya faces is posed by the rapid growth
rate of population, currently estimated by the Government to be 3.9% per
year, which is among the highe!st in the world. This is, ironically, partly
the result of Kenya's past success in raising health and general living
standards, which has resulted in a steady decline in mortality and has
probably resulted in an increase in the country's; already high fertility
rate.
7.         With rapidly increasing population, prezssure is beginning to
mount on Kenya's limited arable land. Of the country's totaL land area of
about 575,000 sq km, about 520,000 sq km are categorized as potentially
productive.  However, on the basis of annual rainfall and fertility, only
9% can be regarded as high potential land, with 9% of medium potential and
82% low potential arid- and semi-arid areas. Of the less than 20% of land
area which has good arable potential, much is now densely settled.
8.         Rapid population growth has created other problems as well.
First, there is the strong likelihood that, unless growth slows dramati-
cally or ways are found to increase the rate at which income earning oppor-
tunities in agriculture expand, excess rural labor will be pushed into
urban areas.  Even if the non-agricultural sector were to grow very
rapidly, it probably would be unable to absorb a]Ll the new urban labor
force entrants, resulting in rising urban unemployment and
underemployment. Second, considerable budgetary pressure has already been
created by the growing demand for social services, especially education.
Finally, efforts to improve the distribution of income and alleviate
poverty will be impeded by the relative lack of access to land and
education for the children of the poorest section of the population.
9.         A second problem area has developed in the manufacturing sector.
The rapid growth of industry in the past was based largely on investments
in simple import-substitution industries by multinational companies.  To a
lesser extent, manufacturing production has also catered to the export
market in neighboring countries, particularly in the protected markets of
the former East African Commun:ity (EAC). The scope for further indus-
trialization along these lines is limited, as most of the easy import-
substitution possibilities have been exhausted and the EAC preference for
Kenyan goods has been abolished.  The past pattern of iindustrialization has
left the sector increasingly dependent on imported raw materials,
components and spare parts, and therefore it is vulnerable in case of a
shortage of foreign exchange. To maintain growth it will be necessary to
reorient industry toward increased use of domestic inputs and increased
production for export.



10.       A third major problem has been the slow growth in agricultural
output, which averaged only about 2.9% per year over 1972-79. This
reflects generally less favorable climatic conditions, a weakening of the
structural factors fueling earlier growth and problems of policy and insti-
tutional support. The latter, which has been one of the most serious impe-
diments to sectoral performance, includes inconsistencies in pricing policy
and inadequacies in marketing and input supply. In addition, the concen-
tration of land holdings, insecure land tenure issues and problems in plan-
ning and execution of agricultural projects and programs are inhibiting
agricultural growth. Measures to deal with these problems are essential to
revitalize the agricultural sector.
11.       Other problems are the slow growth and lack of diversification of
exports which have consistently grown at a slower pace than GDP, and the
rising cost of oil imports which has had an adverse effect on the balance
of payments. From 1964-74, the volume of exports expanded at an average
annual rate of 4.6%, but over the past five years, export volume has grown
more slowly. In 1981, export volume was 3% below the 1976 level. To some
extent, this is a reflection of production problems in agriculture and
industry, but it is also an indicator of the need to direct more resources
toward export-oriented activities.
Economic Performance 1974-82
12.       Kenya's growth performance since 1974 has been especially vulner-
able to swings in the country's international terms of trade. The GDP
growth rate fell sharply during 1974-75 when the dramatic increase in
petroleum and other import prices required restrictive economic policies,
accelerated rapidly in 1976-77 as the impact of the "coffee boom" following
frost damage in Brazil worked its way through the economy, but began to
decelerate in mid-1977 with the rapid decline in coffee prices.
13.       During 1978-82, Kenya again experienced strong external shocks as
a result of the latest round of petroleum price increases and declining
coffee prices. The effects of these external shocks on the balance of
paymelnts, and incomes, were compounded by poor weather affecting coffee and
maize production. As a result, GDP growth slowed to 3.2% in 1980,
recovered somewhat in 1981 to 4.8% and slowed down again in 1982 to an
estimated 2%. The trade deficit rose sharply in 1978, and foreign exchange
reserves were rapidly depleted. The balance on current account deterior-
ated from an exceptional surplus of US$60 million in 1977 to a deficit of
over US$650 million in 1978, while reserves fell by US$200 million. To
prevent further depletion of the country's foreign exchange reserves, the
Government introduced a program of import restrictions in late 1978,
effecting a sharp decline in imports and reductions in Kenya's resource gap
and current account deficit in 1979. This, together with increased
external borrowing, resulted in a recuperation of about US$179 million in
gross reserves in the same year. The improvement in the balance of
payments proved to be short-lived. The increase in petroleum prices,
combined with the need for additional food imports, resulted in a 39% rise
in the value of imports in 1980. While exports rose by 22%, this was not
sufficient to prevent a rise in the current account deficit to almost
US$900 million and, despite increased external borrowing, a decline of
US$195 million in foreign exchange reserves. However, due to improved



- 4 -
agricultural output and the Government's restrictive import policy, the
value of imports declined by 16% in 1981. Although the current account
deficit declined by 17% in 1981, foreign exchange reserves had to be drawn
down by US$134 million due to a slowdown in official aid flows.  In 1982,
the extraordinary conditions which prevailed during the second half of the
year together with restrictive credit policy led to a sharp contraction in
imports of about 20 percent in voLume. The current account deficit is
estimated to have narrowed to US$423 million; however, the foreign exchange
reserve position remained under considerable pressure throughout 1982.
Fourth Five-Year Development Plan, 1979-83
14.       The emphasis of the Fourth Five-Year Development P:Lan was on
restoring growth to the levels that prevailed before 1974, while alleviat-
ing poverty through creation of income earning opportunities and provision
of social services to meet the. basic needs of the population. The Plan
correctly identified the key problems that Kenya faced and set forth a
development strategy appropriate to their soluticns.
15.       The Fourth Plan recognized the strong link between agricultural
growth and poverty alleviation. One of the most significant changes
proposed in the Plan increased the access to land through legalizing
subdivision of high-potential large farms. The Plan also proposed that
marketing and pricing polices pay closer attention to the structure of
domestic and international prices and that the marketing system be made
more competitive and efficient to improve prices to farmers. Research and
extension services were to be more closely linked to the needs of small
farmers, and ways of encouraging land use and int:ensification and labor
absorption were to be reviewed.
16.       The major thrust of indust'rial policy was to effect a transition
from import substitution to a strategy emphasizing industrial efficiency
and export diversification. This involved further rationalization of
tariffs and elimination of quantitative restrictions on imports over a
five-year period.  This policy required considerable external balance of
payments support. The Plan proposed no fundamental change in Kenya's
traditionally liberal policy on foreign investment with the important
exception that review and approval of projects for which special
concessions or Government's participation were being sought would rely more
on economic criteria and be centralized in the Ministry of Finance. On the
whole, the Plan called for a more limited role for Government in terms of
direct participation and intervent:ion.
17.       The Fourth Plan acknowledged the heavy burden rapid population
growth and the provision of basic needs placed on the economy. In view of
this, the Government made promotion of family planning a matter of public
policy of high priority. The emphasis of government action wa1s to be on
building up infrastructure and training personnel for delivery of family
planning services. The Governm,ent has undertaken an expanded information
and education campaign. Although Kenya is doing more to promote family
planning than most other African ccuntries, the rate of population growth
is projected to remain extremely high (3.9%) because of strong cultural and
traditional factors, and even greater efforts will, be required to bring
about a significant decline in fertility.



- 5 -
18.       Due to Kenya's worsening financial and budgetary constraints,
which had not been anticipated when the Plan was written, implementation of
the Fourth Plan has been slow. As a result, the Government had to reassess
the Plan targets and has already introduced two revised shortrun economic
programs (incorporated in Sessional Papers of 1980 and 1982), while
maintaining the overall development strategy set out in the original Plan
document. The Sessional Papers identify and deal with Kenya's short- and
medium-term problems in a frank and consistent manner. They offer, among
other things, a revised set of policy initiatives designed to overcome the
country's urgent financial problems resulting from continuing budgetary and
balance of payments pressures.
Structural Adjustment and Economic Prospects
19.       The Government is determined to carry out the strategy outlined
in the Plan despite adverse international and domestic circumstances and
administrative constraints. In order to do so, it has devised and is exe-
cuting a program of structural adjustment.
20.       The Government's first program, which was supported by the Bank
Group and an EEC Special Action Credit, involves: (a) revising the
Government's investment program to make it more consistent with the
country's new economic circumstances; (b) ensuring the country's credit-
worthiness by improving external debt management and introducing better
planning and control of external borrowing; (c) beginning the process of
rationalization of the trade regime; (d) improving the incentives for
exports and ensuring that exports are competitive; and (e) reviewing and
revising interest rate policy to ensure that it is consistent with develop-
ment objectives. The program has, on the whole, been carried out satisfac-
torily. While the general thrust of the program has been maintained,
attempts to execute the policy measures have revealed some weaknesses in
planning and administration that need to be remedied.
21.       A second structural adjustment program was approved by the Bank
Group on July 1, 1982. In addition to supporting continued rationalization
of the system of industrial protection and improvement of incentives for
exports, it includes measures aimed at revitalizing the agricultural
sector, increasing domestic supplies of energy, encouraging energy
conservation and introducing policy initiatives in population.
22.       In line with the agricultural development objectives and the
policy principles set out by the second structural adjustment program,
producer prices for major food crops have been increased substantially in
recent years. The Government is currently undertaking a full-scale review
of the marketing system to determine the optimal division of responsibili-
ties between the public and private sectors. It is studying measures to
accelerate the process of regularization of de facto subdivision of large
farms so as to realize the maximum output potential of the high quality
agricultural land. The government is also planning to address systematic-
ally the entire set of land-related issues, including land tenure, optimal
patterns of land use and conservation of soil, water and forest resources.
23.       In the industrial sector the quantitative import restrictions are
gradually being eliminated and replaced by equivalent tariffs. This will



- 6 -
be followed by a period during which tariffs will be reducecl and made more
uniform. Adoption of a more moderate and uniform tariff structure will be
coupled with appropriate levels of export compensation for industrial
exports. To reduce the bias against agriculture, compensating adjustments
have been made in the exchange rate.  Further such actions will be required
to ease problems of industrial transition and to provide incentives for
agriculture and exports. The Government is now in the process of preparing
guidelines for fiscal and other support for industrial investments and
exports and has already introduced measures to rationalize the selection of
public sector investments.
24.       The Bank Group conducts frequent review missions to discuss pro-
gress in achieving the release of the second tranche (US$50.0 million).
Although significant progress has been made in implementing most aspects of
the policy reforms under the Second Structural Adjustment Program, there
has been some delay in completing studies which are to be the basis for
some policy decisions. Satisfactory progress has not been made in
preparing a new tariff structure. A series of transitional strategy
studies aimed at developing policies for presently over-protected and
inefficient industrial subsecitors have been delayed. An action program for
the restructuring of grain marketing has not been completed. There is also
little evidence of real progress toward the formulation of a program to
accelerate the regularization and rationalization of subdivision of group
owned farms. In addition, the broad review of institutional support to
exporters to develop a program for export promotion has not so far produced
the expected results.  A further review mission is now scheduled for June
1983.
25.       While the structural adjustment program should have a favorable
impact on the balance of payments over the longer term, the early years of
the 1980's are going to be diificult ones for Kenyan policymakers and for
the Kenyan economy. The country's international terms of trade are likely
to continue to deteriorate at least until the second half of the 1980s. In
addition, external debt service obligations will be high because of
borrowing associated with the large current account deficits of the past
several years. At the same time, the Government's fiscal operations are
likely to be subjected to extreme pressure because of slower growing
revenues and demands for incretased expenditures. It is within this context
that critical policy decisions must be made involving a fundamental
restructuring of the pattern of development.
26.       Given the slow recovery of the world economy and unfavorable
export prospects, it will be difficult to maintain positive growth of GDP
per capita through 1984. However, growth prospects appear somewhat better
from about 1985 onward provided the Government's structural adjustment
program is continued and there is adequate external assistance to enable
its successful implementation. The country's terms of trade should also
stabilize, the growth of external debt should decelerate, and current
account deficits should remain stable during 1985-88. A growth rate of GDP
around 5% per year should be attainable during tlhe second half of the
decade.



-7-
External Debt
27.        The expansion of government and government-guaranteed commercial
borrowing in recent years has adversely affected the debt service ratio,
which has risen from 3.9% in 1977 to about 22.2% in 1982. This includes
service payments on a notional 50% share of the debt of EAC corporations.
The debt service ratio is expected to increase from about 23% in 1983 to a
peak of nearly 25% in 1986, before declining to around 20% in 1991. Debt
service payments to the Bank in 1982 accounted for 14.4% of total debt
service payments; the IDA's share was 0.7%. The Bank's share of total debt
service payments is expected to rise to about 18.8% by 1986, while IDA's
share would rise to 1%. The Bank is currently holding 16.7% of Kenya's
total outstanding and disbursed external debt, and IDA 10.2%. The Bank's
share is expected to rise to 23.3% and IDA's to about 13.4% by 1986. The
expected rise in Bank exposure is attributable to limited new commercial
borrowing and anticipated repayments of loans with short maturities. An
additional factor, however, is the gradual switch by other donors from
loans to straight grants (including conversion of some loans to grants).
Because of the long-term balance-of-payments constraint, Kenya's develop-
ment program will require substantial financing in excess of public savings
and available non-Bank Group external capital combined, and we therefore
expect to continue our practice of financing a substantial portion of total
project costs, including some local costs when necessary.
East African Community (EAC)
28.        The developments affecting the East Africa Community (EAC) were
outlined to the Executive Directors in a memorandum dated December 29, 1977
(R77-312) and in a statement made on May 6, 1980 (SecM80-364). One of the
positive results of the ongoing mediation effort has been the Partner
States' decision, taken upon the Mediator's recommendation, that the East
African Development Bank -- one of the former Community's institutions --
should continue, and a revised charter to this effect has been enacted.
The three Governments commented on the mediator's proposals for the three
Partner States during their meeting in Nairobi in July 1981, and decided to
commence negotiations based on the mediator's proposals. The negotiations
started in December 1981 in Arusha and continued in April 1982 in Jinja, in
September 1982 in Nairobi and in December 1982 in Kampala.  It is expected
that the next major step will be a meeting of the three Presidents in May
or June 1983. The discussions have passed the fact finding stage and are
now focussing on details of a division formula for assets and debts. While
it is generally accepted that both location of assets and the principle of
equal rights of all former EAC partners should be taken into account, the
weight to be given to these principles from case to case remains the major
issue in the continuing negotiations.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
29.        To date, Kenya has received 41 Bank loans, including three on
Third Window terms, and 38 IDA credits amounting to US$1,572.7 million,
which supported 70 operations. In addition, Kenya has been one of the
beneficiaries of 10 loans totalling US$244.8 million which have been
extended for the development of common services (railways, ports,



- 8 -
telecommunications, and finance for industry), operated regionally for the
three partner states of the EAC.  Annex II contains summary statements of
Bank loans and IDA credits to Kenya and to the EAC corporations, and notes
on the execution of ongoing projects.
30.       The Bank Group has begun to reorient its lending program to
assist the Government in its efforts to restructure the economy. This has
meant the inclusion in the program of structural adjustment assistance. A
first credit in support of the Government's structural adjustment program
was approved in 1980 and a second structural adjustment operation was
approved by the Bank Group on July 1, 1982 (paragraphs 19 and 20).  Recent
economic work has also focused on the structural problems in specific
sectors, including the energy sector, and the Basic Economic Report
addresses comprehensively the issues of income distribution, population
growth and appropriate long-term agricultural and industrial policies
(paragraph 2).
31.       The selection of projects for financing and the design of such
projects have been influenced by the need to complement policy actions
under the structural adjustment program.  Continuing priority has thus been
given to the agricultural sector, but increasing emphasis also has been
placed on sectors such as population and energy. So far in FY83, the
Second Structural Adjustment Operation, an Agricultural Technical
Assistance Project and the Olkaria Geothermal Power Expansion Project have
been approved. Projects under preparation include an urban project for
secondary towns and a fifth power project.
32.     Project implementation has deteriorated in recent years, in
contrast to the successful implementation performance in the past. Factors
accounting for implementation delays have varied widely, but some of the
more pervasive factors have been institutional/management constraints,
procurement problems, and budgetary constraints 'Leading to a lack of local
financing. These factors, together with delays :in preparing and submitting
reimbursement claims have led to a deteriorating disbursement record. A
comparison with the disbursement rate for the total of other loans/credits
in the Eastern Africa region indicates that in 1976, Kenya's disbursement
rate was 38.6% as against 20.7% for the region; while in 1982, Kenya's
disbursement rate had decreased to 11.6% as against 23% for the region. An
in-depth review of the causes of the poor project implementation
performance and poor disbursements has been undertaken by the Bank Group
and the problems and possible solutions were discussed with the Government
in March and September 1982 at country implementation review (CIR)
meetings. The discussions were frank and constructive, and the Government
informed the Bank Group of several new initiatives to improve performance.
These included:
(a) A Task Force on Reimbursement has been established in the
Ministry of Finance (Treasury) to monitor disbursement claims
for Bank Group-financed projects. The use of Procedure III
(direct payment to suppliers) has resulted in significantly
improved disbursement rates for selected projects (e.g.
Highway Sector Loian), and thus the Government intends to
extend its use to other projects.



- 9 -
(b) The Treasury has issued a Circular requiring operating
ministries to keep reimbursement claims up-to-date, under
penalty of freezing of releases from the Development
Exchequer.
(c) In accordance with its paper on "The Implementation of
Development Projects and the Rate of Claiming Donor
Reimbursement , approved by Cabinet in April 1982, the
monitoring and coordination of projects is being carried out
in two exercises, (i) physical schedules and performance
targets, and (ii) financial monitoring.  The Ministry of
Economic Planning and Development (MEPD) has completed a
report covering the physical progress of development projects
for about two-thirds of the ministries.  A second such report
will be prepared in conjunction with the forthcoming Forward
Budget exercise. The Ministry of Finance (MOF) is
implementing an improved system of financial monitoring. The
overall coordination of these two monitoring exercises is done
by the Project Implementation Committee, composed of the
Permanent Secretaries for Development Coordination and Cabinet
Affairs, MEPD and MOF. A Secretariat for the Committee is
being established, and an Operations Room is being set up in
the Office of the President.
(d) The Government has prepared a report which includes proposals
for containing Government expenditures within the limited
revenue and identifies ways and means for improving efficiency
in resource use. The Bank, through the Second Structural
Adjustment Project, will be reviewing the public investment
program and the implications for the lending program.
During the ongoing CIR discussions, the Government and the Bank are
reviewing the Government's development objectives and investment priorities
in the context of implementation capacity and resource constraints. The
project portfolio is under review to determine the scope for reducing
project costs through reformulation, rephasing or cancelling projects which
cannot be adequately funded. A meeting is expected before July between the
Government and the Bank to agree on possible further rationalization.
International Finance Corporation (IFC)
33.       IFC has committed a total of US$60.1 million for ten operations
in Kenya. These include loans for five companies: Pan African Paper
Mills, Ltd.; Kenya Hotel Properties, Ltd.; Tourism Promotion Services
(Kenya) Ltd.; Rift Valley Textiles (Ltd.); and Bamburi Portland Cement
Company, Ltd. Also included are a US$2.0 million credit line to the Kenya
Commercial Bank (Ltd.) a US$5.0 million credit line to the Kenya Commercial
Finance Company (Ltd.), as well as equity investments in Diamond Trust of
Kenya (Ltd.), US$0.8 million, and Industrial Promotion Services Kenya
(Ltd.), US$0.6 million. As of March 31, 1983, IFC held for its own account
US$60.1 million comprising US$47.6 million of loans and US$12.5 million of
equity. A Summary of IFC Investments in Kenya is included in Annex II.



- 10 -
PART III. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR AND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION
Agriculture
34.       Kenya has a total land area of about 575,000 sq km.  The altitude
varies from sea level to over 5,000 m, and climatic conditions range from
very dry in marginal areas of the north, to high rainfall in the forests of
the southwest. The soils of Kenya's Central Plateau area are among the
most fertile in Africa, while those of the semi-desert, which covers half
the country, have very little agricultural poterltial. About 90% of the
population is rural and depends on agriculture for a livelihood. Popula-
tion density ranges from over 200 inhabitants per sq km in the Nyanza and
Western Provinces, which have good agricultural potential, to under five in
the dry and semi-desert North Eastern Province. In the early 1960s, Kenya
had about two acres of high potential land per person; in the year 2000,
there will be only half an acre of such land per person.
35.       The high rate of population growth and limiled land area have
caused increasing pressure on supplies of arable land" Despite Kenya's
relative progress in industrialization the economy is fundamentally based
on agriculture.  Although agriculture accounted for only about 33% of GDP
in 1981, it nevertheless provides, on average, over 50% of export earnings,
nearly all domestic food suppLies, and raw materials for Kenya's resource-
based industries.
36.       While Kenya's agricuLltural structure has undergone considerable
change since Independence in 1963, it is still characterized by a degree of
dualism. Of the total farmed area of 6.2 millioni ha ranches cover about
1.1 million ha (15%), large farms about 1.6 million ha (25%) and smallhold-
ings (less than 20 ha) about 3.5 million ha (60%).  With the continuing
subdivision of large group-owned farms, the proportion of laind owned and
operated by smallholders is increatsing. Smallholder agriculture is the
dominant mode of production irk Keilya, accounting for an estimated 75% of
production and 85% of total agricultural employment. There are more than
1.7 million smallholdings in Kenya. However, the average size of these
holdings is 2.3 ha and over 75% of all smallholdings are under 2 ha.
Although smallholders consume much of their own output, they also play a
crucial role in commercial prcduction of both export crops and domestic
cash and food crops.  Maize is Kenya's staple crop and dominates the crop-
ping pattern; smallholders produce about 45% of the marketed production of
maize, 60% of coffee, 35% of tea, 45% of sugarcane, and almost all the mar-
keted production of rice, pulses, cotton and pyrethrum.
37.       During the period 1972-1981, agricultural production grew at an
average annual rate of 3.2% in real terms, much lower than the rate of 4.6%
in the period 1964-73, and lower than the population growth rate. Growth
has been particularly slow for the principal foo( staples of maize, wheat,
pulses and for dairy products. Reasons for poor performance include
drought in several years, with a particularly severe drought period in some
areas of the country in 1979 and 1980; the withdrawal of the crop insurance
scheme for maize; and inadequate pricing and markceting incent:ives, particu-



- 11 -
larly for key domestic food crops. As a result of crop failures in 1979
and 1980, substantial grain imports, totalling US$71.2 million, were
purchased.
Development Strategy
38.       The Fourth Development Plan, covering the period 1979-1983,
contains the thrust of Kenya's agricultural development policy (paragraph
15). The Fifth Development Plan, for the period 1984-1988, is now under
preparation and is expected to continue the focus of the Fourth Plan on
smallholder production as the key to agricultural development. Shortages
of maize and other basic food commodities in 1979 and 1980 led to a new
concern over domestic food supplies. A separate Food Policy Paper
(Sessional Paper No. 4 of 1981) elaborates Government's objectives and
strategy for the foodcrop sector. The overall objective of the national
food policy is to maintain a position of broad self-sufficiency in the
major food commodities without decreasing agricultural exports.
Production increases will not be as easily achieved as in the past,
especially since there are no new technological developments (such as
hybrid seeds) available to promote rapid growth. Thus, in the future,
Kenya must rely mainly on the intensification of smallholder agriculture
combined with effective resource conservation and supported by improved
agricultural services and price incentives, to realize its sectoral targets
and achieve food self-sufficiency.
Agricultural Extension and Research
39.       The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) is responsible for promoting
crop production and for agricultural crop extension; its extension service
covers all crops except tea, which is the responsibility of the Kenya Tea
Development Authority. Field operations are supervised by the Director of
Agricultture reporting to the Permanent Secretary, and are directed from the
provincial level and coordinated on a district basis by the District Agri-
cultural Officer (DAO) who directly supervises the work of front-line
staff, i.e. Technical Assistants (TAs) and Junior Technical Assistants
(JTAs). The density of staffing compares favorably to most developing
countries, with one front-line extension worker for every 450-500 farm
families. Despite relatively adequate staffing and a well-defined line of
command, Kenya's extension service has not realized its considerable poten-
tial. In many areas, emphasis has been placed on credit and use of ferti-
lizer while the application of proper husbandry practices has often been
neglected. There have been insufficient funds for fuel and vehicle main-
tenance. Consequently senior staff have been unable to monitor and support
the work of front-line staff and have turned instead to administrative
work. Front-line staff have not received adequate training or follow-up.
Bicycle and transport allowances for field staff are frequently cut from
the budget, resulting in lack of mobility and need to travel on foot, so
that only a small fraction of their areas are covered. The constraints
outlined above are in part responsible for the fact that an inadequate num-
ber of farmers are visited, and for the heavy bias towards visiting larger
and more progressive farmers.
40.       The role of women in smallholder agriculture has often been
neglected by agencies involved in agricultural development in Kenya. Of
the smallholder population over 17 years of age, almost 80% of the men and



- 12 -
98% of the women work full time in farming. Women are classified as head
of household on 24% of the farms. Women are classified as farm operators
on another 11% of farms where men reside on the farm but have regular daily
work elsewhere. Thus about 35% of all smallholdings are run by women.
Despite the importance of women in smallholder agriculture, extension
workers have tended to concentrate on male farmers as they are usually the
decision makers. Over the years women's groups have become 'Widespread.
These groups focus on agricultural and nutritional matters and in many
cases are supported by non-governmental organizations. Government has
increasingly supported the funding and organizati'on of such groups and has
integrated Home Economic Officers into the extension service. In the fall
of 1983, with the assistance of the Swedish International Development Auth-
ority, the Government intends to begin a three year intensive food produc-
tion project which is aimed at upgrading the skills of hcme economics
extension staff.
41.       Crop research in Kenya is currently under the aegis of two main
bodies: the Kenya Agricultural Research Institute (KARI) in the Ministry
of Regional Development, Science and Technology, and the Research Depart-
ment of the Ministry of Agriculture. The relationship between the programs
of KARI and MOA is now under review. It is likely that KARI will concen-
trate on basic and long-term research while applied research will be
carried out by MOA. In the longer run, there is a need to further streng-
then basic and applied researc]h and once the division of responsiblities
between KARI and MOA is clarifed, it is expected that the Government will
request additional assistance from donors for a national research project.
42.       The major constraints impeding Kenya's agricultural research are
the shortage of facilities, insufficiency of recurrent funds which mini-
mizes researchers' contact with the field, high staff turnover due to in-
adequate career opportunities and a scarcity of hiighly qualified technical
and managerial staff.  Research staff also require further training to
increase the number of staff holding post-graduate degrees. The National
Council for Science and Technology has recently embarked on a manpower and
training plan for agricultural restsarch, which will identify future
training needs and will lead to a comprehensive training program for
research staff. Despite the lack of links with field activities, the
research service is a repository of valuable knowledge and research staff
are generally more specialized and better equipped to analyze problems than
the specialists working in the extension service. To better (serve the
farming community, research staff need to work more closely with extension
staff and farmers to exchange information with them.  There is also a need
to strengthen the economic cont:ent of research advice and to update
recommendations regularly.
Training
43.       Kenya has a substantial network of agricultural training
institutions, most of which are undergoing expansion, and which assure a
steady flow of staff to the extensi'on services.  These facilities provide
university graduates, and graduates from two-year technical colleges and
from two-year vocational training institutions. While the general training
provided by these institutions is adequate, specialized in-service training
for extension staff is deficient. The inability of specialized staff to
communicate messages effectively to front-line staff, the absence of a



- 13 -
mechanism for insuring that messages are understood, and lack of a system
which provides farmer reactions are serious constraints which need to be
addressed.
Agricultural Credit, Inputs, Pricing and Marketing
44.       Agricultural credit is available through a number of institu-
tions in the organized credit market, as well as through individuals opera-
ting in the informal market. The major sources of seasonal credit are the
Government's new National Seasonal Credit Scheme which is managed by the
Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC) and the Cooperative Bank of Kenya
(CBK). AFC deals directly with farmers, whereas CBK, which is responsible
for a number of other short-term credit programs, lends through a network
of cooperatives. Government is currently preparing a National Credit
Policy paper which will address the major issues of credit discipline,
autonomy of the major financial institutions in deciding who will receive
loans, and institutional weakness of the cooperatives. The Bank is follow-
ing these issues closely under the Fourth Agricultural Credit Project
(Credit 1143/Loan 1995) and through sector dialogue on agricultural credit
policy and the future of Bank lending for agricultural credit. The Bank
also is planning to undertake a study of agricultural credit early in FY84.
45.       Farm Inputs.  Fertilizer, the dominant input in volume terms, and
most chemicals are currently imported. Most farm inputs are distributed
through the Kenya Farmers' Association (KFA), a cooperative organization.
KFA agents and other input distributors are located principally in the high
and medium potential agricultural areas. In areas where the volume of
input use is smaller other cooperatives play an active role in the distri-
bution process. While there is need to improve the distribution system in
the marginal areas, smallholders in high and most medium potential areas
have access to inputs. Improved seeds are produced and distributed whole-
sale by the Kenya Seed Company which has a good management record and meets
local demand.
46.       Crop Pricing and Marketing.  The Government establishes official
producer prices for most major crops except coffee and tea. Past Govern-
ment control of producer and consumer prices resulted in distortions and
disincentives which adversely affected the growth of production. Under its
structural adjustment program the Government announced that farm prices
will be based primarily on export and import parities, with the intention
of providing adequate incentives to producers. Food crops are marketed
through both formal and informal channels. The main formal channel for
grains is the National Cereals and Produce Board (NCPB), a parastatal mar-
keting board. The NCPB operates a number of depots and buying centers
mainly in the grain-surplus areas. NCPB purchases 20-25% of the national
production of maize, mainly from medium and large-scale producers. Only an
estimated 20-30% of smallholder marketed maize is sold to NCPB although the
buying centers established over the last two years are geared to buying
small quantities of maize from smallholders. As part of its structural
adjustment program, the Government is undertaking a study of grain market-
ing to assist in rationalizing the maize marketing and pricing system and
the management of NCPB. Progress in the area of maize policy reform is a



- 14 -
condition of release of the second tranche of the Second Structural Adjust-
ment Program (Loan 2190-KE; Credit 1276-KE). Major cash crops, such as
coffee, tea, pyrethrum, and cotton, are marketed through marketing boards.
The marketing arrangements for coffee and tea are satisfactory. Payments
to farmers for pyrethrum and cotton have often been delayed. The Pyrethrum
Board has experienced difficulties in recent years, in part because of the
drop in world demand for pyrethrum. IDA recently approved a Cotton Proces-
sing and Marketing Project (Credit 1237-KE) which is addressing the insti-
tutional constraints of the Cotton Lint and Seed Marketing Eoard.
Experience in the Sector
47.       The Bank Group is currently financing 13 projects in the agricul-
tural sector, encompassing a wide range of production-oriented activities.
The major smallholder project is the Second Integrated Agricultural Deve-
lopment Project (IADP II: Credit 959-KE), which provides support for a
range of agricultural services, including extension, crop marketing, credit
and research. Production activities supported by IADP II include both food
and cash crops, and dairying. Performance under IADP II has been poor,
however, due to problems of coordination among the many institutions
involved in the project implementation, and to policy problems in the areas
of credit and marketing. The Bank therefore recommended, and Government
agreed in September 1982, that IADP II be disaggregated intc several pro-
jects, each responsible to a single entity. Smallholdlers are also involved
in several cash crop projects supported by the Bank, including the Small-
holder Coffee Improvement (Credit 914-KE), and the Cotton Processing and
Marketing Project (Credit 1237-KE). The Bank supports both smallholders
and nucleus estates under its two sugar projects; (South Nyanza, Loan
1389-KE, and Sugar Rehabilitation (Loan 1636-KE)i. The Bank finances medium
and large scale wheat producers in the Narok Agricultural Development Pro-
ject (Credit 858-KE). Financing is also provided for an irrigation scheme
(Bura Irrigation Settlement, Credit 722-KE), an integrated semi-arid land
development project (Baringo, Credit 962-KE), fisheries development
(Fisheries Project, Credit 1051-KE) and forestry (Forestry II, Credit
1213-KE). Agricultural credit is financed through the Fourth Agricultural
Credit Project (Credit 1143-KE) and through credit components in several of
the above projects.  An Agricaltural Technical Assistance Project (Credit
1277-KE) supports the Government's structural a6justment program in the
agricultural sector. In the past, projects have tended to be overly ambi-
tious and complex. In particular, there have been problems with implement-
ing integrated projects which require the participation of several minis-
tries and agencies. As new projects are prepared, it is important that
close attention be paid to the causes of poor pe!rformance in. the past, and
to the country's limited financial and managemernt resources.  As part of
the CIR review, several projects in the sector have been identified and
steps are being taken to reduce the scope, reformulate, rephase or cancel
parts of projects.



- 15 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
48.       The proposed project was prepared by the Government of Kenya with
the assistance of consultants and staff of the Regional Mission in Eastern
Africa (RMEA). The Government presented the project to IDA with a request
for financing in September 1982. A preappraisal mission visited Kenya in
September/October, 1982, followed by an appraisal mission in February,
1983. Funds under a Project Preparation Facility advance (US$1,000,000)
have been provided for start-up activities. Negotiations were held in
Washington, D.C., from May 2-12, 1983. The Government's delegation was led
by Mr. J.K. Muthama, Director of Agriculture, Ministry of Agriculture. A
Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Kenya: National Extension Project," No.
4426-KE dated May 13, 1983, has been distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. A Credit and Project Summary appears at the beginning of this
report, and a supplementary data sheet is provided in Annex III.
Extension Methodology and Background
49.       The Training and Visit (T&V) management system a rigid schedule
of staff training and farm visits. The demand generated by farmers for
improved knowledge and relevant agricultural technology is an equally
important element in stimulating the research staff to focus on the
problems of the smallholder. Under the system each TA/JTA is assigned to
work with a number of farm families in his jurisdiction.  The TA/JTA
divides the 400 to 800 families in his area into eight smaller groups of
50-100 farmers each. He visits each group regularly on a fixed day of the
week, once every two weeks. As TAs/JTAs cannot visit each of the 50-100
farmers in a group on a given day, five to ten contact farmers are selected
from each group. Contact farmers are practicing farmers who command
respect and influence in the community. TAs and JTAs work mainly with the
contact farmers, demonstrating practices to be followed during the next two
weeks.  TAs and JTAs receive supervision and guidance from Technical
Officers who are normally responsible for about eight extension workers.
Divisional Extension Officers (DEOs) supervise the work of three to four
TOS. Front-line staff and TOs receive fortnightly training from district-
level specialists. Staff of the national research network are used to
enhance the professional knowledge of specialists through monthly workshops
where field level problems are shared. The District Agricultural Officer
(DAO) is responsible for all agricultural training in a district. The
District Extension and Training Officer (DETO) plays a key role in organiz-
ing training sessions in conjunction with the relevant district specialists
and research staff. A network of on-farm trials are put in place, jointly
by research and extension staff.
50.       In late 1981, the Ministry of Agriculture initiated a pilot T&V
extension project in the districts of Kericho and Nandi financed in part
under the IADP II, based on the successful T&V projects in South East
Asia. Consultants with experience in the T&V system in other parts of the
world were recruited to assist with implementation of the pilot project and
MOA staff travelled to Asia to see the T&V system in operation.   About 200
front line staff, the full complement of staff in the pilot districts, were
instructed in the T&V system and adopted a carefully scheduled pattern of
work. It is estimated that some 6,000 farmers were contacted in the pilot
project, representing about 6% of the estimated 100,000 farm families in



- 16 -
the two districts.  The number of- farmers contac:ted during t:he pilot pro-
ject represents a satisfactory achievement when compared wit:h initial
phases of comparable pilot projec ts elsewhere. Non-contact farmers
expressed considerable interest in the system. The evaluatiLon system
established to assess the pilot project was to measure the yield increases
resulting from the applicaticn of the crop recoimmendations. The overall
median increase in yields on T&V plots taken on a selective basis was over
40%.  It has been possible to select and communicate extension messages
effectively, and staff have learned how to assist farmers in the field to
apply improved technology in a relatively short time. The staff has also
learned the value of farmer feedback. Staff morale and motivation appeared
high. This is attributable to various factors including the results
achieved on the job; the interest and support provided by senior staff,
from the Director of Agriculture down; on-the-job training which was not
available heretofore; and to the fact that staff received required trans-
port and allowances in a timely fashion.
Project Objectives and Description
51.        The project would be the first phase of an effort to introduce
the T&V system as the basis for the National Exitension Program and improve
the system's operation over time. The introduction of the T&V system
should be seen as a basic reorganization of extension services. Extension
activities would focus on field crop and horticultural development and
would be applied to all projects operating at the district level, whether
planned or on-going.  The project would be introduced in 30 of Kenya's 41
districts. The selected districts cover the maiin arable areas of Kenya,
where some 90% of the rural population lives. T'he project would extend
over a four-and-a-half year period and would include the pre!-project period
from November 1982 to June 19,33 and the subsequent four years to June
1987. Nine districts have been incorporated during the pre-project
period. Phasing of new districts for the first project year would be based
on experience gained in implementing project activities in the first nine
districts during the period November 1982 through November 1983.  The
phasing of additional districts would be agreed between the Government and
the Association during preparation of the annual work plans on the basis
of experience gained with districts already included in the program. The
newsystem would affect the majority of MOA's employees as well as the
general organization and management of the Ministry's programs.   As such,
the project is one of institution building. The! objectives of the project
would be achieved by:
(a) provision of about 750 incremental staff;
(b) investments in transport, office equipment, and audio-visual
aids;
(c) construction o: modest offices at the district and
location levels;
(d)  provision of incremental operating costs, travel allowances,
vehicle operatiLng costs and extension materials;
(e) training extension staff at different levels;



- 17 -
(f) strengthening adaptive research and improving research
extension linkages;
(g) technical assistance support; and
(h) monitoring and evaluation.
Detailed Features
52.       Because the existing ratio of one front line staff to 450-500
farm families is adequate, the project would require a limited number of
new staff. The ratio of TOs would be increased to one TO to eight front
line staff. Incremental Staff required to implement the reorganized
extension system will be met by redeploying and training existing staff and
by hiring new staff. The positions of TAs, TOs, district specialists, and
Assistant Research Agronomists would be filled from Kenya's agricultural
training institutions. The number of graduating students from these
institutions is sufficient to ensure that all posts, except those of the
TOs, would be filled by the end.of the second year of the project. TO
posts would be filled by the end of the fourth project year. Of the 540
incremental TO positions, 25% would be allocated to Home Economics TOs.
Provincial specialists would be appointed by promoting selected district
specialists and recruiting additional university graduates at the district
level.   Additional management staff already in place at headquarters
include a Deputy Director of Agriculture (Extension), (DDAE) and a Chief
Research Officer (Extension), (CROE). The Research Agronomists (Extension)
(RAEs) would be appointed largely from among existing research staff.
53.       Transport.  Effective extension requires a high degree of
mobility to enable field staff to meet farmers regularly and to allow
technical and supervisory staff to make frequent visits to provide the
direct guidance needed. The entire system depends on a high level of
personal contact between all levels of extension workers. To facilitate
the mobility required, funds have been provided for vehicles including cars
for the two new headquarters staff, six vehicles for the consultant team,
two cars per province, one to two vehicles per district, and one vehicle
for each research liaison unit. Provision would be made for junior staff
to purchase mopeds and bicycles, as experience shows this to be the best
way to insure proper maintenance. Present loan entitlements by category of
staff are motorcycles (100 cc) for TOs, and bicycles for TAs/JTAs. Under
the project, mopeds, which are less costly to buy and operate, would
replace motorcycles. Bulk purchases can result in considerable savings
(up to 35% of the retail price). Bulk purchase arrangements would be used
for purchases of bicycles and mopeds to be financed under the project. All
purchases would be financed through salary advances and all extension
personnel working under the project would be eligible to purchase either
bicycles or mopeds (Section 4.05, draft Development Credit Agreement).
54.       All TOs, TAs, and JTAs would be provided with equipment for
measuring and weighing crops and very simple locally produced visual aid
equipment. In addition, audio visual equipment at the provincial, district
and division level will be provided for training purposes, and office
equipment such as mimeograph machines and typewriters will be provided as
necessary.



- 18 -
55.       Civil Works.  In most districts, and some divisions, there is a
shortage of office space for field specialists. With the appointment of
additional staff the problem could become more acute. In addition,
physical facilities in which to conduct training sessions are not always
available. Where possible, it is; proposed to use training f-acilities
belonging to the Ministries, or to use church or school facilities for the
fortnightly training. The modest building component of the project would
aim to meet critical constraints only. As civil works would be constructed
over the life of the project and dispersed throughout the districts,
buildings would be made of prefabricated materials whose durability as well
as ease of construction make them more attractive than other high cost
alternatives. It is estimated that, on average, one office per district
(4 m x 10 m) and one additional office for every three divisions would be
constructed during the project period.  Thirty additional training
facilities to be located at selected divisions, accommodating up to 20
students each, would also be provided.
56.       Incremental Operating Costs.  Funds would be provided to cover
incremental salaries, incremental moped, bicycle and other travel
allowances, as well as other incremental allowances such as subsistence and
overnight accommodations, as provided in Government regulations.  Provision
would be made to cover the operating costs of incremental vehicles and to
help meet the incremental operating costs of existing vehicles (on average
eight per district) on the assumption that exisiting vehicles would run an
additional 8,000 km/year as a result of the project. Recurrent costs of
miscellaneous extension materials are also included under the project.
57.       Training.  Training supported under the project aims to orient
key Government officials to the new system, upgrade the technical knowledge
of extension staff at all levels, and improve the capacity of specialists
to teach front-line staff, and to improve the communication skills of all
staff so they can effectively share ideas with farmers and with each
other. Funds would be provided for pre-project, orientation, and
in-service training. Pre-project and orientation training would include
several half-day seminars for senior Government officials whose support is
deemed crucial for the success of the system, a two-phased orientation
course for senior provincial and district officials and pre--season training
for field staff at the district level. In-service training would consist
of monthly workshops organized by Provincial Extension and l'raining
Officers and the Research Agronomist Extension (RAE) for specialists at the
district level, fortnightly training organized 'by the district extension
and training officer together with the RAE for TOs and extension agents at
the division level, and communication and extension methodology courses for
specialists and training officers. All home economics TA and JTA
activities would be integrated into the system. Home Economics staff would
participate in regular forthnightly training and would receive the
technical information necessary to enable them to work with contact farmers
(paragraph 40). Refresher courses would be provided at the national level
for agricultural officers and research staff. Tours would be organized in
Kenya for field staff and to countries such as India and Thailand for
senior staff to study the implementation of the T&V system and to learn
from others who have had years of experience with this system.  To promote
technical and training skills in areas related to research extension
linkages, selected research specialists and extension staff would receive
overseas training. Funds would be provided for a small number of master of



- 19 -
science courses. Funds would also be provided for training publications
for extension staff.
58.       Research Extension Linkages.  The pilot project generated a
healthy debate about different aspects of extension and research which have
to be addressed by a more concerted effort of collaboration between
research and extension personnel. Controlled research trials and farm
testing, included under the project, would be a major ingredient for
improving the extension-research linkages and for better adaptation of
research recommendations to the various agro-ecological conditions
prevailing in Kenya. The project would provide funds to ensure the
mobility of each Research Agronomist and his assistant. To this end, each
of 12 liaison units would be provided with a light four-wheel drive vehicle
and related operating costs. Necessary office equipment for the RAE would
be financed and the possibility of constructing low cost office space would
be considered if no alternative accommodation could be found. In addition,
travel funds would be provided for other research officers, where
appropriate, to attend research and commodity committee meetings and
monthly workshops, to supervise the network of controlled field trials and
monitor field testing, and to assist in training activities related to the
extension program.
Project Implementation
59.       Organization and Management.  The proposed project would be
implemented by the Ministry of Agriculture under the Permanent Secretary.
While responsibility for agricultural development rests with the Director
of Agriculture, the newly appointed DDAE would be responsible for the
day-to-day aspects of project implementation. The newly appointed CROE
would be responsible for research activities together with the director of
research stations participating under the project. The Government would
maintain suitably qualified officers in the positions of DDAE and CROE and
give them full-time responsibility for the day-to-day operations in their
respective areas (Schedule 4, Section 1, draft Development Credit
Agreement). The DDAE would participate in the review of all research
activities. A technical assistance team of international consultants has
been recruited to assist in project start-up activities, planning,
implementation and monitoring. The team, financed during the start-up
phase with funds from the Project Preparation Facility, is now in place
and includes a team leader and a training specialist, both of whom are
stationed at headquarters, and four extension/training specialists who are
stationed in the provinces. The team leader is directly responsible to the
newly appointed DDAE. The consultants' initial contract is for two and
one-half years and it is expected that the contract would be extended for a
further two years on a reduced scale. The team leader would be directly
responsible to the newly appointed DDAE. Responsibility for project
implementation at the provincial and district levels would rest with the
respective Provincial Directors of Agriculture and the District
Agricultural Officers, supported by the technical assistant team's
provincial extension consultant. The DDAE would be assisted by
administrative and accounting staff in the Office of the Chief Accountant
of MOA.



- 20 -
60.       Monitoring and Evaluation.  The project includes the
establishment and operation of a monitoring and evaluation service designed
to provide project management from the district: level upwards with current
information on the effectiveness of the extension system. Rather than
evaluating the extension program merely in terms of yield increases, which
need to be established over a period of several years, success will be
measured in terms of adoption rates, i.e., the proportion of farmers that
adopt and continue to adopt the extension recommendations.  If farmers
adopt recommendations on an experimental basis, then the delivery system is
successful. If farmers continue to adopt recoumendations, the
recommendations are considered sound. The monitoring service will make
extensive use of the reporting system that is built into the training and
visit approach. Data from simple logbooks maintained by TAs and JTAs will
be summarized during forthnightly meetings and reviewed at monthly
workshops.  The main source of data on adoption rates would be drawn from
regular farmers' surveys to be conducted in each division twice each
season, the purpose of which would be to inform District Agricultural
Officers and the MOA when adoption rates are not being met. Yield surveys
would provide supplemental data to that generated by the farmers' survey.
Data will be compiled at Ministry headquarters to provide the DDAE with
information to ensure that project design remains responsive to farmers
needs.  A mid-term evaluation would be carried out before end-June 1985 to
assess the progress in project implementation, including phasing of
additional districts and the reorientation of project activities which may
be indicated in light of project experience (Section 4.04(b) (iv)) draft
Development Credit Agreement). Monitoring and evaluation of
research/extension linkages would be the responsibility of the Senior
Deputy Director of Agricultural Research, MOA, assisted by 1:he CROE who
would prepare an annual report on research/extension collaboration,
highlighting progress during the previous year (Schedule 4, Section 3,
draft Development Credit Agre!ement)i
61.       Accounts and Audits.  Project accounts would be based on the
existing Government accounting system which contains adequal:e controls and
produces timely reports. The Accounts Controller at MOA would submit
monthly accounts on the basis of the Government ledger recording project
costs.  He would submit a reconciliation of costs with claims and a report
on outstanding claims.  Annual accounts would be submitted within four
months of the end of the fiscal year, certified by the MOA t:hat annual
project costs are in agreement with the final unaudited Government ledger.
Following submission of the Auditor General's report in the "Appropriation
Accounts" to Parliament, the MOA would submit the final audited accounts
certifying that previously submitted unaudited accounts and the audited
accounts are in agreement. Statements of expenditure, which would be
supported by the relevant ledger accounts, wouldi be submitted for
incremental operating costs and local training. (Section 5.01(a), (b) and
(c), draft Development Credit Agreement.
62.       Annual Plans and Budgets.  Responsibility for consolidating
annual extension work plans and budgets, which will be prepared district by
district and province by province, and annual plans and budgets for the
liaison units of the research stations involved in the project rests with
the DDAE, who would be assisted by the leader of the technical assistance
team and the CROE. Extension work plans and budgets would be submitted in



- 21 -
two stages to insure that the project's budgetary requirements are
adequately considered in the yearly budget exercise. A forward annual plan
would be prepared by end November of each year, and a revised annual work
plan and budget by May 31. As districts are preparing plans for the
initiation of the T&V project, the Ministry will arrange for a detailed
inventory and technical inspection of vehicles, indicating vehicle
availability and additional requirements. Plans would include a breakdown
by district and province of extension activities to be financed over and
above those financed under the project. Research station plans would
include separate plans for each liaison unit, and trials and activities
directly related to extension work (Schedule 4, Section 2, draft
Development Credit Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
63.       Total project costs net of taxes and duties are estimated at
US$23.5 million, with a foreign exchange component of US$7.3 million, or
27% of total costs. Import taxes and duties on goods and services not
eligible for exemption from customs plus taxes and duties on fuel and other
operating costs amount to US$5.1 million. Cost estimates are based on
February 1983 prices, and adjusted for inflation. A physical contingency
of 10% was applied to vehicle and equipment purchases, and 15% for civil
works.  Price increases for vehicle operating costs, training and research,
were calculated on a cumulative basis: 4.5% in 1982/83, 7.5% in 1983/84,
7% in 1984/85 and 6% in 1985/86 and 1986/87 of total project costs
expressed in US dollars at the exchange rate prevailing at the time of
appraisal as it is assumed that the Kenyan Shilling will maintain its
relative value in terms of the US dollar over the life of the project. The
cost estimates expressed in Kenyan Shillings are thus notional and will
depend on changes to the exchange rate over time. The average consultant's
staff-month cost, inclusive of salaries, overhead and housing, would be
about US$9,600 for long term consultants and US$8,600 for short term
consultants (180 staff months).
64.       To finance the project, the Government of Kenya would contribute
US$2.5 million equivalent, or about 10% of net project cost. IDA would
contribute US$15.0 million equivalent, or about 65% of net project cost.
The remaining US$6.0 million equivalent would be contributed by IFAD. Cre-
dit effectiveness is conditional upon the IFAD Loan being declared effec-
tive and IFAD appointing the Association as administrator of the Fund Loan
(Section 7.01(a) and (b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The
Government would also bear the cost of taxes and duties (US$5.1 million
equivalent). Total external financing would cover about 90% of net project
costs, including 100% of the foreign exchange cost and about 85% of local
costs. In order to assist the Government in pre-financing expenditures
reimbursable under the IDA credit and IFAD Loan, a Special Account would be
established. An amount of US$0.8 million equivalent (equal to about three
months of disbursements for the initial years less those items to be dis-
bursed directly by IDA and IFAD) would be deposited into the Special
Account with the Paymaster General at the Treasury. IDA and IFAD would
replenish the amount from the Credit and Loan accounts upon receipt of evi-
dence of disbursements from the Special Account for agreed expenditures
(approved in the annual work plans). In the case of any disbursements made
from the special account which may prove to be unacceptable to IDA, Govern-
ment would deposit a corresponding amount in the Special Account. During



- 22 -
negotiations, agreement was reached on the terms and conditions for the
operation of and accounting for the Special Account. The opening of the
Account with the Treasury would be a condition of credit effectiveness
(Section 7.01(c), draft Development Credit Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursements
65.        Bidding packages for goods (vehicles, bicycles, and mopeds) would
be prepared on an annual basis and those expected to exceed US$50,000 equi-
valent would be procured by international competitive bidding in accordance
with the Bank Group's procurement guidelines; all other goods would be pro-
cured following local procedures which are acceptable to the Association.
Current Treasury orders require the purchase of locally assembled pick-up
trucks and four-wheel drive vehicles. Credit effectiveness is conditional
upon receipt of evidence that appropriate arrangements have been made for
the importation of four-wheel drive vehicles and pick-up trucks to be pur-
chased under the project (Section 7.01(d), draft Development Credit
Agreement). Bicycle requirements (US$140,000) would exceed US$50,000 only
in 1986/87; procurement procedures would offer a limited choice of makes to
cater for users' preference irnasmuch as bicycles are to be puarchased by
extension staff. Equipment (IUS$300,000) includes routine office and
audio-visual equipment and sinmple tools produced locally. These items
would be purchased in annual increments of US$60,000 to $70,000 from local
suppliers and following local procedures acceptable to the Association as
ICB procedures for the small quantities involved are not just'ified. Civil
works for offices (US$580,000) would be scattered in time and location and
thus contracts would be awarded following local procedures; t:here are
numerous capable local contractors. The balance of project costs (US$19.5
million) would consist of local training and fellowships (US$2.3 million),
incremental salaries and allowances (US$11.3 million), incremental
operating expenditures for offices and vehicles (US$2.3 milli on), research
(US$0.3 million) and consultant services (US$3.3services (US$3.3 million)
which would not involve procurement. All of the above figures exclude
physical and price contingencies which are estimaLted at US$6.3 million.
66.        IFAD and IDA would disburse pari passu against all project
expenditures to be financed frDm external sources. The proceeds of the IDA
Credit (69%) and the IFAD Loan (31%) would be disbursed as follows:
(a) Vehicles - 100% of foreign expenditures and 33% of local expenditures,
US$0.6 million; (b) Equipment - 100% of foreign expenditures and 67% of
local expenditures, US$0.3 milLion; (c)  Civil Works - 85% of civil works
expenditures for construction of offices at the district and location
levels, US$0.6 million; (d)  Incremental Operating Expenses - 64% of
incremental salaries and allowances, and 85% of increme'ntal operating
expenses including fuel and vehicle equipment maintenance, and stationary
and printing, US$10.9 million; (e) Training Costs - 100% of foreign
expenditures and 85% of local expenditures, US$2.0 million; (f) Technical
Assistance - 100% of expenditures, US$2.7 million; (g) Refunding of Project
Preparation Facility, US$1.0 million; (h) Initial deposit in Special
Account, US$0.8 million; (i)  Unallocated - US$2.1 million.  Disbursement
categories have been designed so that each category corresponds to a group
of accounts in the Government ledger.  Disbursements for incremental
operating costs and local trairning costs would be made against statements
of expenditure. Disbursements against all other items would lbe fully



- 23 -
documented. Annual disbursements for specific project components would be
conditional upon approval of the relevant section of the work program and
budget. (Schedule 1, Section 4, draft Development Credit Agreement).
Disbursements from the Credit and Loan account over five years are expected
to be faster than that experienced for other agricultural projects in Kenya
as (i) the project is being implemented by a single ministry; (ii) proce-
dures for claiming disbursements for the project rely on the Government's
established accounting system; and (iii) direct payment procedures will be
used for vehicle purchases and payment of consultant costs.
Benefits and Risks
67.       The principal benefits of the project would be to increase crop
production and thus farm incomes as a result of providing improved exten-
sion services to farm families, and to increase the Department of Agricul-
ture extension services' ability to provide continuing technical and admin-
istrative assistance to the districts by reforming and strengthening the
agricultural extension services. Approximately 1.7 million farm families
living in the project areas, 75% of whom have farms of less than two hec-
tares, would be served by the reformed extension system. Total project
costs over the four and one-half year development period amount to about
US$17.2 million, net of contingencies, or about US$10.00 per farm family
served. Incremental costs after the project development period, which
would be met by the Government's recurrent budget, would be about US$6.0
million annually, or US$3.50 per farm family. These recurrent costs would
be only partially recovered through taxes and levies on sugar production,
or in some years, when the export price exceeds Kenyan pounds 1,000/ton, on
coffee. These costs, however, would assist in offsetting potential food
imports and in increasing foreign exchange earnings from export crops.
68.       Attributing a precise level of benefits to this type of project
is difficult, as it is not possible to determine what proportion of the
benefits expected from improved agricultural practices is due to extension
alone and what is due to additional purchased inputs and other factors. It
is also difficult to calculate acceptance rates for various recommended
practices. Moreover, because recommendations will vary according to crop,
district, agro-ecological zone and the skill of the farmer, it is difficult
to estimate yield and production increases. Since the incremental cost of
the project is low per hectare and per farm family, even small and slow
production increases would generate a high rate of return. To achieve a
20% rate of return by 1989, maize yields would have to increase by 164
kg/ha (11%) on all smallholder maize acreage or by 328 kg/ha (22%) on 50%
of the acreage. In view of the available research results in Kenya and the
results of the pilot project, such increases are conservative. The recom-
mendations stressed by the extension service would focus on improved low-
cost husbandry practices, such as timely planting, good land preparation,
optimum plant populations, and line sowing and weeding, which usually
involve more labor and little cash outlay, and thus are particularly well
suited to the needs of smallholder farmers.
69.       As the proposed project will introduce new methods of managing
extension staff and providing extension advice, it will probably be some



- 24 -
years before the reorganization of the extension service is fully
institutionalized. While a good deal of enthusiasm was generated at all
levels of Government during the p:Llot phase, there is a clear risk that
without continued and frequent: supervision, the initial momentum may
diminish and reforms will not be fEully adopted. Past experience indicates
that when shortfalls occur in the recurrent budget, increment'al operating
costs tend to be the focus of Government's budget cutting. The risk would
be reduced through careful monitoring of the level of funding for these
expenditures, and when budget cuts are perceived swift reaction to restore
budgetary allocations.
70.       Initially, availability of suitable technology would not be a
constraint. There are a sufficiernt number of research findings which have
not yet been widely adopted and would adequately serve the extension system
during the project period. Major yield increases can be achieved without
the introduction of new technology by raising the production of the poorer
farmers to that of better farmers. To reduce the risk of declining
benefits due to stagnation in crop research or inadequate dissemination of
research findings, the project would support programs of field testing and
promote strengthening of links between the extension service and research
stations to ensure a continuous flow of recommendations adapted to specific
regions. In the longer term, Kenya's research system needs to be
strengthened and the Government is presently seeking bilateral assistance
for a national research project. The United States has indicated its
interest in supporting such an effort. Strengthening the research system
and development of a suitable project would be closely monitored during the
project period.
71.       There is the possibility that absorption of additional districts
may not be as rapid as anticipated given experience under the pilot
project. At the end of the second project year, a mid-term review would
be carried out and would include an assessment of the phasing of additional
districts (paragraph.60). Services such as input supply, credit, and
marketing require further development but should not be a constraint to the
project. Should the Government fail to maintain adequate producer prices
and marketing policies for maize, there would be little incentive for
farmers to adopt packages aimed at increasing production. Under the
structural adjustment program the Bank and the Government consult regularly
to ensure prices are consistenl: wiith agreed technical guidelines which
reflect world market price movements and exchange rate changes. Labor
constraints do not appear to be a risk; however, the effect of T&V
recommendations on family labor will be closely monitored by the monitoring
and evaluation studies to determine what additional labor, if any, is
required, as well as the cost/benefit of using additional labor.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
72.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Kenya and the Association, and the Recommendation of the CommiLttee provided
for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement oi- the
Association, are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.



- 25 -
73.       Provisions of the draft Development Credit Agreement of
particular importance are noted in paragraphs 53 through 66 of this report
and those of a special nature are also listed in Section III of Annex III.
Special conditions of effectiveness include: (i) the IFAD Loan has been
declared effective and IFAD has appointed the Association as administrator
of the Fund Loan (paragraph 64); (ii) the establishment of the Special
Account at the Treasury (paragraph 64); and (iii) appropriate arrangements
have been made for the importation of pick-up trucks and four wheel drive
vehicles (paragraph 65). Annual disbursements would be conditional upon
prior approval by the Association of the annual work plan and budget
(paragraph 66).
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
74.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
75.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
May 20, 1983
Washington, D.C.
Attachments



- 26 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                             Page  1
KENYA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
KENYA                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEPAGES
ARIA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                              - HOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            582.6                                  MOST RECENT          MIDDLE INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      60.4               1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMiATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  NORTil AFRICA & MIDDLE EAST
GNP PER UAPITA (!S$)                  110.0        L70.0     420.0                1053.2                    1253.6
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OP COAL EQUIVALENT)      143.8        116.2     172.1                 610.1                    713.5
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 8189.0        11253.0   15865.0
URBAN POPLiATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)  7.4          10.2      14.2                  28.3                     47.3
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        36.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         128.5
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2100
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. <M.                        14.1         19.3      26.2                  54.7                     35.8
PER SQ. EOM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    145.2        190.5     252.9                 '29.9                    420.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRE.                          47.7         48.9      50.0                  46.0                     44.3
15-64 YRS.                          49.8         48.6      47.6                  51.1                     52.4
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    2.6          2.5       2.4                   2.8                      3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATI (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.4          3.2       3.4                   2.8                      2.8
URBAN                               5.2          6.4       6.8                   5.2                      4.6
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      51.8         52.7      51.4                  47.2                     41.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      23.6         17.8      13.3                  15.7                      12.2
CROSS REPRODUCTIOi RATE               3.5          3.8       3.8                   3.2                       2.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..         30.9      61.0
'uSERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..          1.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71=100)           99.0        100.0      81.0                  90.7                     100.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUlIREMENTS)                   98.6         95.1      95.6/c                93.9                    108.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           67.7         55.1      63.47W                54.8                      71.9
OF WHICH ANI.MAL AND PULSE       27.3         26.5      20.07o                17.0                     18.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      29.1         21.9      15.1                  23.9                      15.1
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    41.3          48.7      54.9                  51.0                      56.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           137.5        112.0      86.8                  118.5                    104.3
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..        15.0      17.0/d                   ..                     59.1
URBAN                                ,,        100.0     100.07                   .'                      83.1
RURAL                                ..          2.0       4.07/                  ..                      39.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULAT ION)
TOTAL                                 ,,        50.0      55.0/d
URBAN                                .,         t5.0      98.07 o
RURAL                                 ,         45. 0     4   06/d
PCPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         1690.6        7810.9/f 11625.2/f             14185.2                    4015.5
POPULATION EIR NMUSING PERSON      2265.1/e,f  1414.1/f  1085.7/f               2213.2                   1i302.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAI BED
TOTAL                             786.0        774.1     770.8/g              1036.4                     641.7
URBAN                                ..           ..     601.6/g               430.8                     538.3
RURAL                                ,,           ,,     802.9/7              3678.6                    2403.3
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAI BED            ..          ..        9.7/g                  ..                     25.5
HOUS ING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 ,,         4.7
URBAN                               4.9/e        4.7
RURAL                                *           4.7
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                             * *        '
URBAN                               2.5/e
RURAL                                ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF' DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..          ..
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..



- 27 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                           Page  2
KENYA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
KENYA                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEGES
- MOST RECENT zfTl(ATE)h.-
MOST RECENT          XIDDLE INCOME               MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE lb   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  NORTH AFRICA 6 MIDDLE EAST
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  47.0         60.0      99.0                   83.3                     88.7
MALE                  64.0         70.0      105.0                  96.1                     104.5
FEMALE                30.0         49.0       94.0                  80.4                      72.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   2.0          6.0      18.0                   15.3                     39.7
MALE                   3.0         12.0       22.0                  19.4                      49.3
FEMALE                 2.0          5.0       14.0                  11.3                      29.0
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)  12.2            1.8        2.3/d                 4.7                      10.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             42.0         34.4      33.1/c                 38.6                     34.1
SECONDARY                           15.0         20.6      24.67-                 23.4                     23.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         19.5/C       30.0      49.6                   35.6                      43.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           7.9          8.5       8.0/c                 31.9                      17.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           7.0         44.4      34.8                   71.8                    131.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.3/e        1.4       3.9                   17.9                     44.1
NEWSPAPER ('DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   11.2         13.8       10.2                  19.1                      31.5
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  1.0             ..        0.4/c                 0.6                       1.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       3296.5       4314.2    5671.5
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    34.6         34.4      33.6                   36.5                      10.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               86.0         82.0      78.0                   56.5                      42.4
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   5.0          7.0      10.0                   17.7                     27.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 40.3         38.3       35.7                  37.0                      26.0
MALE                                  53.3         50.9      48.0                   46.9                      46.2
FEMALE                                27.5         26.1      23.8                   27.2                       5.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.2          1.3        1.5                   1.3                       1.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         20.2/h
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..           52.67h    60.4/i
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          3.97ih    2.671i
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         11.77h     8.9/i
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     150.0                  507.0                    279.2
RURAL                                 ..           ..     112.0                  200.6                     178.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
-                    LEVEL (US5 PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     179.0                  523.9                     403.6
RURAL                                 ..           ..     106.0                  203.6                     285.6
ESTIMATED POPLLATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      10.0                     ..                      22.1
RURAL                                 ..           ..       55.0                    ,,                      30.9
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
,a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among che indicatorr depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otberwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Host Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1977; /d 1975; /e 1962; /f Registered, not all practicing in the country; /g 1976; /h Urban only; /i 1974.
May, 1982



--28 -                                                                           ANNEX I
Page 3
DRI1T~s   W    CLIfl 5fCA200
oe:  Altbough thr  dta are dre   fote           rce  -eseaiiY judged  the             ri t         d      _ bit aba     a            sefd that theey -y as bhe ier-
taitLly comparable bet auto of the lock of s-apdardi-ed defiottie   ad  oepes -sd by dffefeet oseoin 1. collecting tbe dae-.  The data ace, m
thelss., osful to describe orders of ar  otde, itsdi-c   tIreds, ard cbarartorixe certoit  ajor diffeerocers bowern coritries.
Tho tofoot-ce groups trr  (1) tic ras  country gr,oup of the oobhect -cotty and (2) a coorntj  gtoup ,ith soebt higher -vecoge iaceth tho   he c.ontcy groop
of the sobjec" cHogtry (excepe for   'dHigh Itoo    Oil ioportero" group whoet  "Middle loror North Africa arid Kiddie 10sf" is chusec. heco=oe of stronger
s        tciu-cuiurol iffioitis).  lntht referenco  group data the aurragos are populutioni voighted aiithetie sans fur oach                  .-dicuo  arC sh-rn ouly vhen
caprity of the .coutares in a group he data for thar indid_aor   Sitce the coverage of _cuotrios  -oug the indiacaors doerido uri trho ac-ilability of data
cud is uot uifocs. caution rust he eriorci-d in rrlariig ac-ragea of ore indicator ft  arother.  Th.e averages ore only useful in ccrpariug the vaiue cf
uric Iiditutuc at ri time oriog tic ccuriuy uand reterorice gTocups.
TSgA (theusond  uqa . )                                                                          Population  oer tusrisal fed - total, urhac, aid rural - Population (ttoal.
Total - local surfoce area compriung laud area cod inlaud tetero; 1979 data.                     urbaI. arid rorol) divided hy theiir reypoetive nher of horpital beds
Agriultural - Estiate cf agricultural aera used t-rpcearily or prac-riently                      available in public and private geserai aed specialioed hoipiral aid to-
fur cropa. parurea, uakeet ard kitthes garderta 00 t  lie Ii. of     ; 1979 data.              by hatleastoeetes.i ostals  re otahliuhasris PrraencLy staffed
by as iLe  coo  hyt liao tI1uhiustet  pruidiug priilalyca
lNP PER CAPITA (u$S) - GNP par capica eutias-es at cuorren  scaket pricr.s  cal-                   dial core are rot included.  Rural hnspitalo, hovur, include health
Culatod by  am  c- _veesior method as World  riank Atlas (197808-) basis); 1960.                 ard medical ceuters not p-r-tsely stoffod by a physicLai  (bht by a
1970, ard 1980 dta.                                                                               mdiuai.as.i.too,  rorue. -dd-ift, 0tc.)  bieh oifer i           P-pat it    -
datiori ard pro-ido a Iiieed raugoomdisfaicos Puste-
ENERGY CONSULMPTlON PER CAPITA - A-al consumption cf oumrclaL orergy (coal                          sical purpose,a rbor hospitals include Wils pri1cipal/general houp-tal-
and liguite, perrolenc, ritaral gas ond hydro-, nuclear and geothermal eIoc-                     ard rural hospitals, local or rural horpitel  and  tedical cud raternity
tricity) in kilogr-ms of coal quialeut pee capita; 1960, 1910, and 1979                         ce Bter,  Specaialiod hocpitalu ore included utly undr total
data.                                                                                          Adui-orio  per H-cpital bad - Tctal ..u.or cI  adissiuri  tro or discharges
fro= hosyitals divided by the cu=ber of hedr
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
Toto1 Porpultiori Mid-Year (thousan.dr) - Au of Ju1y 1; 1960.  970, and 1980                 HOUSIG
data.                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Averago Si.o of dcoehoid fypric-  peeh h.useo1d) - tctol, urhar, atd  ura-
'rbar Pnpulatioc (porurio  cf total) - Rtaio of orhar to total pupuiation;                       A househcid  cuirihtri of a group uf idivid-olo whu  h.re iivanS quarters-
diffoeruc definitieon   of urhan areasicay afifet comparability of darl                        ard their isit   aa.  A boarder or lcdger _my or cay nor he included in
cang curtri-; 160,  1970, and 190 data                                                         the hucuohuld >'or statisticul yuryoses
PopaI.icei   Projecti-u                                                                         Aerage cuterI of1 Prirsu  per  cca-cuctal, -ohbri, arid rural -oveag-        tri
Pupuiation ic yer 2000 - Co-rent population pr-j-coions ar-  booed  -c 1960                  A.braof perricuri perc          a,n    ora  occupied  -ovotiri..al
trual pcpulation by age aud arc cud thoir mortality cnd fertility  rates.                    dvelingri, resectively.  DOeltrings  ocludo  euc-poosareci cirocctuor   and
Projeoticr paraeters foe mertaliep rates cu=priao of thrco levels -       rio.- ou.ocupied pares.
ilg lifte expectancy ar birth increasicg with Acountry's ret capica lcoo                  Accesri co floctrociry  (prr.cc  of drolli.g.) - toeul, urbac, sod r-rul -
level, cod fesalo life expectancy stabilizing at 77.5 yea--  Tho parc-                       Cconriniooal dielliugo vith elortrioity  in living quarter-  as per.c.tage
qxters fur fertility rate alto have threer lovelo asuricg decline in                         of ice1, urhan, ard coral d1llirg.reIr pectively.
fertility accordiog cc inucer lovel cod pout lordly planuiug perf r-cco.
loch ccounry Is thet assigned eu of thesie ncle cusbihoicn  of  ereality               EDUCATION
aid feotility  treods for p-oje-tloi  purposes.                                            Adjuted lrrclleret latiio
Statioriaey   colatio -In -a      t satioary population  vt   I     goh sin                    Prirtary  -cho-l - total, male and frealo  -  riri cocci, salo ond fe-ole
rho birth race is equal tot he death rate, ad alio rho age  --tr -ctre to-                      oeclimeut ci all ages at che primary level cc percentagei of rosp-rcliv
metric Couctarit.  This is ochiev.d odly after bxPtiLty  rates declinie to                     prliarp school-age yopulutiuo;  -orrilly  Includes children agrd 6-11
the roylamec             I,t lel of cut net reproduceito  raco, whe- each deceratio            years hut adjb uted for diffecec lerifeth  of pritary educatton; for
ot wOc replacesi itself exactly.  The  -toie.oary population sloe vas                          coo_triesvith ui irersal  doratlon ourofls=et ra Y excced 100 pe-cent
eurimetod ou tho bhsis cf the proje-etd character-istio   of thc pyoalatio-                    ai-ce cux  pupils ore belle or above thu official   h-ool ago.
q ctbe year 2000, cd rho tote uf de;lipe of fertility  rote to replace-                      Secondory -iheol - cocci, volt and ft-tLo   - Cntpu,-d as above; a_cood_ry
meric level.                                                                                   educati-o  eq-uir_at leot four years of ayproved primary irstruction;
Year stationary popolatioc it rea hed - The y-ar vhee stati.onry popclatior                      provide- general, voratioil.  or tecoh-e   -iaiuing L_introtiorn  fur pupils
rico will be rearhed.                                                                          urilly of 12 to 17 yoars of agr; -orrespo-drnoercourses are generally
Pcoplation lerity                                                                                  ecluded.
Pfr  v. ha  - Klid-y-uc population per sq-a-e kilo=ettr (100 veotarts) of                                --_cational e Urolitc at (ccric  of rircudury) - uoucticcal turitutiutr.
torol area; 1960, 1970 and 1979 dra.                                                         include techuical, industrio. or other prcrg    elhith operate irdepe-d-
Per q  hae  agricultural taco - C'putod as  bo   fo  agricultural laud                         ontly 00 00 dopactrirne  of cooridary institutios.
only; 1960. 1070 aud 1979 data.                                                            Pupil-tecLer ratio - pritary, ord recuodary - Toctl  -tudentr ecrlled in
Popolatiut Age structuce (percet-) - Children (0-14 yoear). wo,king-age (1S-                     primry and u.uoudary lMvels divided by nocbor  of toachers in the
64 y_ars), ard recired (61 years and over) us purceotages of oid-your popu-                    correspo-ditg levela
latioc; 1960, 1970, cud 190 data.                                                            Aduls literacy r-te (p .erict) - Lit-rar adults (able to cIad  ad eri-a)
PupuLusiuGi Grhoth R             te (percut)  tutul   Aauul Irosth rotes of total  id-           asDpceuriro5u ut totul adultrorulocluc agtd 15 yucar  und  vo=r.
year ppopuiai   far 1950-60, 1960-_0, ond 1970-80.
Pupr1et1tO  GIroth Rloe (prroeet) - ur-an - A`d.a1 growth rutes of urban popu-               CONSDTPTION
laricri  for 1950-60, 1960-70, cud 1970-80.                                                  Pasenger Cars  (per choua..d populacto .) - Paasseger g    cr - coxprise mc-r
Crude Birth Rste (yer th-u-and) - At..al livo bieths per chous. d of rid-year                    oars seating loss than eight persons; occludes arhulovuet, bearsrs and
popoLotico; 1960, 1970, ard 1980 data.                                                          ilitary vehic.eu.
Crude leach lore (por th.osand) - Aouoal deaths per thousa.nd  s.f oid-year                    lodio Rceiversi (por thoosand p2puion)  - All types of receivers for radio
popl;atiori; 1967, 1970, and 1980 data                                                         broadccsco to geR'rrai  public per thocusad of popolaciuc; excludes rp-
Grosri  EprRdtcti   love - Average  utber cf doughter-a . or.   crill bear in                   licensed roeei-  it -cuntri-s and in years vebo  regiatration of radio
h-er nural reproductive period if ohe experiences prent .          .-.pec ifir f r-            setu was in eff-ct  data ear recent y.e.r  rio  nou  be _co.rable.since
eility ractes;u-ually five-year overager ending it 1910. 197), ard 1f99L                       tor Ioun-trtis aboli.ed liconung.
Family Plarniulg - Acceptorsi, de.al (thousonds) -   .uc.al cucbo  of acceprove                 V Roceiors (per thlousad popul-tiuri  - TV recoive-s fur broadoo-i  to
of birtb-ontrierl devicesi undor auspicesci of    irial fo-ily plucling pr-ogrc.               ge.eral public per ehousand population;   r cludes unliceri.ed TV receivers
PaoolyfPlatoidg -CUsers (prrecnt ofcrriedtuan)-Prcentage ofriarried                              in coutries-  lef in yearsw ho r-gi-trLo of TV sets w     in effect.
wumer of child-bearing age (15-44 years) sAc use bir-n-.co.cl1  devicrs to                   Yevspaper Cirrolarion (per th.o.and pupulartiu) - Shovs the average ci-
all cadrried eeno I  rincan age group                                                          oulocloc of "doL'7 g-e-rl icteruet cu-upap`r", drfined as a periodical
publicotion devoted priorily  todrecording general reri  It it cosidered
F000 ANl NDfRYPlYLON                                                                               to b "daily" if it opyriors t1 luct four  LtIe  a vrul.
Index of Pqod Production Pur Capita (1969-71=100) - Index of per ccapita accul                 Cine=s Annual Attendoore per Capita ret Yrrt - Bad 00 ehb  camber of
production of ull food co=ondeities   Prodcuctionxclue odessc  arid feedl cod                  tickotri riold dol    thde year, Idrlsd- tg ad-osuiors toddrlve-ir diier-   s
is cc calondar year bausi   Cococ-diti-r rir-t  priirIy goods  -eg.  iSgarcaou                 cod cbileuvito.
ivterod of sugcr)  bhich are edible ard  _uvn:i  cu-rients (e.r, roffe- sad
too arc  xcurlded).  iggrugce produ tlo-  of each rouctry Li t-ocd cn                     LABOR FORCE
nationat av_ragr prod-uc  prIce veights; 1961-65, 1970, and 1980 data,                      Total Labor FPrr (ehoosand.) - Ero-t=icallpy o-i-e perucuc, including
yor caita  -tpoly at -al-r-  pretof rrgcli--vtr) - Coeputd froo                                  arod torors cudiuce-ployrdb hus-uridicg losele,             -oo-t, etc-
qPergic1ita ulpp    o -f 01 fooid_uppieu av-itoblb id   run-try pot capita                    cudorg pup dlutiocfl al goc e         ofiniciorrs ic -aiout countries arc
per day.  -vailhle suppliescro=prise dotausti  productio, ispcctc lerIs                        not cuparable; 1960, 1970 and 1980 data.
exportr, and cbauges in strk.  NOt rupplies eco lude ao5al furd, soef,                          rucalo  (percenc)  - Pucale labor force ss poorrcaio of total Iabor force
quantic     ced in food p      uiug  aud p osvii   to d        froir    rLqai-                 Agricu7ture (poert)   Labor fortr ic farin     og, froretr, buct  8 ad
meuccooreori_ imetd hy PAO based uc physiological cods for care   cccl-                          fishiu " ucP"rc-tage of octal lblur tfr-; 1960, tO9O cud1,990 dta.
vic,  and health _cooidering u-ivaroveuntl teoporacure  body seighisoge                        IndustIry (peroeuc) - Labor toroc  un mining, cnctruction, sovotacturiug
aud seri distribution of populatic, ard alloulug 10 purct for veute at                           arid electricity, otocr and gas as pecceco go of total labor fo-ce;
hPosehold level; 1961-65, 1970 and 1977 dccc                                                     1960, 1970 and 1980 data
Pe   aiecPpl   ipoe (grarri pot day) -  .. irnt   __ceu  di Per rapito                  P-ricipatiuo lRe fyruri) - total, solo, cod f-1cl  -Pocoic ipocior o
cpt u     upply of fod per day.   et, oply  f food is defited tr above.  R-                    ativityc te- areo -pted as tota, vl, i            d frale  lbabr  frce ar
quire-eutr fur all countriesi -scbliahcd by U1DA provide fur   rin-itu                         percentages of total, plo and fom le pupulolti- of a11 age- resy-ctively;
all-arieo of 60 gramef of total proein por day cud 20 grovo of eviocl and                      1960. 1970, cod 1980 data.  Theseirr  booed on ILO's participation octet
prds  Protede, of  hith 10 g-   should be toimeb pr tei-   01tcr staud-                        r-floctivg age-uex  ntrcture oY cbc populaion, ard  bog tie  trend.   A
anisul protein 00 0n overage for the world, proposed by FAO it  thr Third                    hOouuir Dependency Raoul  - Rlttio  f populaticnunder 15 aud 65 and over
-orld Food Survey; 1961-61, 1970 and 1977 dsco                                                 to the sotal lahr force.
Per capita protein supply froi ai.Lel and pulse - Proteiq supply of food de-
riced frsan aosadlu arid peLres is gra=u per day; 1961-65, 1970 and 1977 deco              INCOME DISTT1ON
Child (ages 1-4) D_eath Rte (per thouocud) - Annu-l deaths  per chouri.d in                    Prrcage of Private Labto=e (botsho cu  and kind) - deceived by richeut
ago gruop 1-4 yearst cc hildren in this age group; fur mea-  ieveloping coo-                   5 perceint, richest 20 p-rcent, pooresc 20 perc--, and puoreut 40 p-e-ce
trie- data derired froe life thbles; 1960, 1970 ard 1980 dora.                                 uf h.oueholds.
HEALTH                                                                                         POVERRY  TARGET GRO1 PS
Life Expectacy at Birth (yearsi) - Average u=ber  of years of iLfe retaining                   Thr folluwiug ertisoors arr very appruvlooie orouoreu of poverty lettls
or birth; 1900, 1970 cud 1990 dat                                                               aid rbo-ld bh  interprered eith cunsider-ble routice
ICfoot Mortality rote (per tho.usad) - An.ucl deaths of icfavtsurnd-r Ore year                 fstimated Absolute Poverty Iccoe Level ff19 pee capita) - urban cud rural -
of ago per thousond live births; 1960, 1970 ard 1980 dte.                                      Ab-olute povertp incoe- level ir tuo  lucuan levul belov which a aiil-al
Access to Sale Water (...rcen  of popolotior) - rot-l, urban.  an'! cura  - rio                  nutcition.ally adoqurte diet plusIerisetiel  orn-food require=e ts io cot
hor of people (cutal,  rhan, cod r-iu)  aith roc -ccable uccess cc  afie                       affordable.
outer Supply (isclude- treated surface meters or  _rI_eated bh'  Sucorcau_itated             Es ttaed Relative Poverty IDCOtC3 Level fOiO per capita) - urba  arid crur   -
waturrish au that from procectedhboreholca, spriugs.andouanitaryCOxlOriias                     Rural relative pocerty iouocelevel isone-ethrdof average per capita
p      -rcentages of their respectivr  popalatiors. l SanrbanI aro'capcblit:                   personal teou  Jf the ucuntry   Uebon level is derived frue the cural
feurrein or ucocdpost located cut care thou 200 metor- fros a house map ho                     ivel rich odjuso-met fur higher oust of livlri  it orhoc areas
co..idered as being vithin reasIriabl  ac desi of tt h b.ouse    [ rural  IreI               f Eatita td Pepulatic Doluw Abs.ultce P-verty I-oon  t.vrl (percent) - urbat
roaspahble access could iPly chat the hou.-sife 00 members of rht hbocchuld                    ard rural - Pyrc-eut of populatir  (frhab  arid coral) who arc "absolute
do qpt hvee to  perid a diaptaportitvete part of the dey  in f-.tching the                     por".
famlyy vat-r reeds.
Acanee tno Exureta Di ersci (percerit of poeclatiric) - coals. orbcor, cod rujraL -
Nriber of peeple (total. urbsn, and rural) served by -uctota c[iapes.l as
prcentageu of thoir rdipectivo pepopleetio     Excoete diapuoua  my itclude
the velleetie acid diapsal. with or eithto    treatft, ef hriaaa esereta
ard waste-ter by  -ater-bor-e sysrt   ur -tho us  ot pit privleu ard mimi-
lao  i_tallathei.
Pe1toslaui per Physician - PnpuLatien divided by  abter of peatlieg ph!esi-                                                          Eoameit anm  Sqcial Data Diaio -o
ciau  qualified from a   dical school et anie-sity lore,                                                                     tdouvsi  Aucly.it aod PrujerAt.us Dopstrse-t
Pepslatieo  rf rNtisiss P-seer -  pepsietian divided by  -sber of prortimfacg                                                                     Moy 1982
1oe ad fesl  gradq ts sur.em, apsiatet oriee, prautical eursesad
sorersig oaniliarioa,



- 29 -                                                    A& I
Page 4 of 6
Population:    16.467 million (1981)
GNP Per Capita: UJ8$430 (1981)
KanY- IIIrC IDICAOtS
Indicator                                  1980
Aunt                            Anmual Growth Rate (X)
(million US$ at                                     Actual
current prices)      1976     19i7      1978     1979    1980      1981      1982a/
National. Accounts
Gross domestic product at m.p. b/         6992.2            2.1      9.5       7.4      4.2     2.4       4.5        2.1
Agriculture                         1948.3             1.9     10.0      4.2    -1.0    -1.2        6.2        4.0
Industry                            1304.8           -0.4      13.1     10.9      6.8      3.8      3.3       -2.0
Services                            2732.9            4.1       5.8      7.0      7.5      4.7      4.5        3.0
Consution                                5962.4            -3.5      7.9      15.3      6.6     2.3       3.5       -2.3
Gross Investment                          1882.0           12.0      35.9     23.9   -24.8    17.3   -12.7         -2.8
Exports of GNES                          1980.5             6.3       5.6    -4.3      -8.3      5.2     -4.0       -3.9
Inaprts of GNFS                          2832.8            -2.7     18.3      26.6    -19.8     8.9    -15.7       -17.6
Gross National Saving                     985.1            17.0      64.6    -27.4    -27.1    64.6      11.4       18.7
*Prices
GaP deflator (1S$ deflator)          100.0            71.2     83.6     85.7     91.9   100.0      92.6       89.6
Exchange rate (KSh.AIs$)            7.4202           8.367    8.277    7.729    7.475   7.420    9.048      10.922
Share of 1DP at Market Prices (X)                       Average Anal Increase (7)
(at current prices)                                   (at constant prices)
1974    1979    1980    1981    1982    1985   1990         1974-79    1981-86     1983-88     1985-90
Cross domestic product      100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0  100.0            4.7        3.3         4.6         5.0
Agriculture                35.4    34.3    32.5    32.9    33.5    33.8   32.1            4.2        3.6         3.8         3.9
xKiustry                  20.7    26.1    21.8    21.6    20.7    20.3   21.1             6.2        2.4         5.1         5.9
services                   43.9    39.6    45.7    45.5    45.8    45.9   46.7            5.4        3.5         5.0         5.4
Consumption                 81.5    84.2    85.3    83.2    79.6    78.8   76.1             6.3        2.3         4.0         4.3
Gross investment            25.8    22.7    26.9    22.5    21.4    21.7   21.8             2.6        3.0         5.4         5.1
'xports GNFS                 33.7    25.5    28.3    26.1    24.6    24.9   25.5            2.7        2.7         5.0         5.6
Imports GS                  40.9    32.4    40.5    31.8    25.6    25.3   23.4             -         -0.3         3.8         3.3
Gross national savings      14.5    13.0    12.1    13.7    16.0    16.7   19.6             0.6        7.8         6.8         8.4
As % of 02P
1974    1979    1980    1981    1982 a/
Rmuc FWKE c/
OCurrent revemues                               16.0    24.7    24.8    24.6    21.7
Current expenditures                            14.3    22.5    23.0    24.0    21.3
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                       1.8     2.2      1.8     0.7     1.5
Capital expenditure                              6.1     9.7    10.1    10.0      8.9
Foreign finaning                                 2.0     4.2      5.4     4.5      3.7
1974-79        1981-86      1983-88       1985-90
Oim  IS0ICAIFS
GNP growth rate (%)                         4.9            3.2           4.6           5.0
GNP per capita grath rate (%)               1.0           -0.7           0.8           1.2
Energy coption gr-th rate (%)               4.9            2.0           2.8           3.0
IIXE                                        7.8            6.4           4.7           4.3
Marginal savings rate                       0.26           0.31          0.26          0.31
Import elasticity                          -0.4           -0.1           0.8           0.7
Share of Trade with              Share of Trade with             Snare of Trade with
Industrial Countries (%)         Developing Countries (7)        Oil Producing Countries (%)
1970        1975       1980      1970         1975      1980    1970           1975       1980
DIECTION CF IXA1E
Exports                      62.7        52.7       44.8      23.5         27.8      34.9      0.4           0.8        1.3
Primary                    16.6        11.5        -        74.7         72.5        -       0.8           3.0        -
Manufactures               69.4        59.0         -       16.1         20.9        -       0.4           0.4         -
irports                     75.4        64.2        57.6      14.9         23.8      11.8      2.8          8.1        29.6
a/ Preliminary.                                                                                                          Yay 1983
o amonents are expressed at factor cost and will not add due to exclusion of net indirect taxes and subsidies.
Y  Central Govera t only.



- :30 -
AZNNE( I
Page 5
Population:    16.467 million (1981)
G(Pt Per Capita: US$430 (1981)
KENYA - ET0H01 TRADE
Indicator                                   1980
Amomt               Annual Growth Rate (%) a/
(million US$ alt                Actual                                     Projected
current prices)  1976  1977  1978   1979   1980   1981    1982   1983   1984   1985   1990
EXTERNL TRADE
Merchandise exports                        1247.2        6.4   4.0  -7.7   -2.1    3.2   -2.9    -2.1    0.2    4.1    4.1    5.6
primary /b                               963.4        12.4   9.0  -3.7    4.8   -7.3   -2.9    -0.8   -0.8    4.3    4.3    5.4
Manufactures /c                           283.8        0.4  -5.4 -18.6   -3.1   29.6   -2.6    -8.0    5.0    3.0    3.0    6.5
Merchandise imports                        2612.2       -3.8  22.0  16.4  -18.3   14.7  -16.6   -19.0   -0.5    4.1    4.8    3.2
Food Id                                   111.2        5.3   3.0  70.0  -19.2   57.6  -13.0   -25.0  -10.0    1.5    [.2    1.0
Petroleum /e                             778.6        -8.3   4.0   2.9    0.9   16.7  -16.7   -19.0   -3.0    2.0    2.0    3.0
Yhchinery ard equipment /f               706.4       -16.7  36.0  29.4  -28.4   19.0  -22.0   -10.0   -0.8    6.2    4.5    4.1
Others                                   1016.0        -     -      -       -      -      -3.0   -24.1    2.6    4.3    7.2    2.9
PRICES /_
Export price index                                    73.2  102.8  81.2   83.7  100.0   89.9    87.6   89.1   95.2  101.7  144.8
Import price index                                    65.2  69.6  68.7   76.8  100.0  102.5   101.1  100.9  109.8  111.4  165.5
Term  of trade index                                 112.3  147.8  118.2  1C8.9  100.0   87.7    86.6   88.3   86.7   85.9   87.5
Composition of Merchandise Trade (%)              Average Akial Increase (%)
(at constant 1980 prices)
1974   19;79  1981  1982   1983  1985   1990    1974-79    1981-86   1983-88   1985-90
Eyports
Primary                                 71.0   83.0  82.6  83.7   82.9  83.3   83.0            2.1       2.5        4.8       5.3
Manufactures /c                          29.0   17.0  17.4  16.3   17.1  16.7   17.0    -11.3             1.9       4.3       5.7
Imprts
Food                                      6.6    5 3   4.4   4.1    3.7   3. 5    3.1        -10.4      -5.5        1.2       1.0
Petroleum                                21.2   23.7  28.5  28.5   27.7  26. 5i   26.0         2.8      -2.3        2.6       3.0
Machinry and equipment                   22.8   35.5  26.5  29.4   29.3  29.8   30.8           1.7        1.4       4.4       4.0
Others                                  49.4   35.5  40.6  38.0   39.2  40.2   40.1             ..      -0.1        4.5       3.3
/a Historical growth rates are based on 1976 prices; projected growth rates on 1980 prices
/b  Based on weighted quantum indices (base year = 1976) of fond, live animals, and crude materials
lc Excludes petroleun products. Value of manufactured exports are deflated by international inflation irdex to arrive at constant price
series.
/d  Based on quantum index (base year = 1976) for SITC 0.
/e Based on quantum index (base year = 1976) for SIrC 3.
/f Based on quantum index (base year = 1976) for SIMC 7.
/g  Indices for historical years (1976-80) are based in 1976; those for projection years are based in 1980.



- 31 -
Page 6
Population:    16.467 midlUon (1981)
GNP Per Capita: US$430 (1981)
KENYA - BALANCE OF PAY3) , EMERNAL CAPITAL AND DMeT
(tillion US$ at current prices)
Artual                                           Projected
1976    1977    1978      1979     1980      1981      1982 a/  1383        1985       1990
BALANCE OF PAY2fN1S
Exports of goods and services         1184.6  1614.9  1519.0   1629.6   2032.8   1788.6    1686.0   1779.4        2240.1      4073.6
of whdch: Yercbaniise f.o.b.         743.9  1130.9   955.8   1017.5   1242.5   1038.5    1039.1   1057.7         130B.2     2416.4
3iports of goods and services         1300.3  1653.9  2332.6   2206.8   3069.4   2569.0    2193.1   2203.3        2812.0     4617.6
of which: Merchandise c.i.f.         975.0  1279.0  1875.7   1779.2   2632.8   2243.1    1793.6   1779.4        2278.8      3755.9
Net transfers                           32.3    66.5    91.1    100.1    139.6       89.6      78.4      83.1       93.4       125.0
Current Account Balanoe                -83.4    27.5  -660.6   -477.0  -897.0   -690.8    -42B.7  -340.8          -478.6    -419.1
Private direct investment               37.7    54.5    32.1      66.4      61.2     60.6      60.6      64.2       71.1       96.6
MiLT ltans (net)                       111.9   145.6   410.1    412.5    515.3    3B6.3        399.3    276.3      444.9       373.2
Official                              -       -        -        -         -        _          _        _          -
Private                               -    -    -               -         -                  -               -          -
Other Capital                           19.1    44.7    17.6    187.0    125.9    110.1          1.5      1.5        1.5         1.5
Change in reserves                     -85.3  -272.3   203.8   -188.9    194.6    133.8    -32.7         -1.3      -40.1      -52.1
International Reserves                 425.9   698.2   107.4    686.3    461.5    327.7        360.4    361.7      437.8      663.5
Reserves as months imports               4.3      5.2     3.8      5.1       2.9      1.5        2.0      2.0        1.9         1.7
MQEAL CAPITAL AND IEBr
Gross Disbursements                    180.9   231.6   285.1    376.8    420.8    577.4
Official grants /b                    -       -        -        -         -        -
Concessional loans                    63.3    64.7   104.5    149.9    179.6    158.8
46.1    33.7    54.0      94.0     81.2    106.1
OPEC                                -        -       -        -         -         9.9
M2A                                 13.6    17.7    16.3      21.5      71.6     14.8
Other                                3.6    13.3    34.2       34.4     26.8      28.0
Nos-co-essional loans                  117.6   166.8   180.6    226.8    241.2    418.6
Official export credits             18.8    11.0    17.6       8.5      10.1     16.8
IBRD                                66.7    34.7    42.3       36.7     40.0     62.4
Other official c/                    2.1    11.5      7.6      4.8      21.0     49.3
Private                             30.0   109.6   113.1    176.8    170.0    290.2
External Debt
Debt outstaodig and disbursed      700.8   917.2  1053.7   1433.2   1743.8   2566.6
Official                         605.2   709.6   792.8    977.6   1179.6   1492.6
Private                           95.6   207.6   290.9    455.6    564.2   1074.0
lJndisbursed debt                  626.1   780.7  1056.6   1252.8   1304.5   1251.2
Debt Service d/
Total setrvice payments             65.3    74.6   121.6    120.2    183.0    313.9
Interest                          31.8    39.6    52.4       70.6    104.5    122.7
Payments as % of exports             5.7      4.8     7.9       7.6      9.2      17.5
Average interest rate on now loans (%)
Official                             4.5      4.0     4.0       3.8      3.0      4.5
Private                              7.7      7.7     7.7      12.0      8.0      14.0
Average maturity of new loans (years)
Official                            26.0    30.0    28.0       32.0     32.0      30.0
Private                              9.5    11.9    13.0       11.9      5.9      9.0
As % of Debt Outstanding
at end of 1982
Maturity structure of debt outstanditug
EMturities due within 5 years
Yaturities due within 10 years                          8.0
Interest structure of debt ontstanding
Interest due within first year
/a Preliminary
/b Official grants are included in transfers in the balance of payments current account. Transfers are projected to grow at an annual rate
of 6X
/c Includes use of IMF resources
ld Includes Kenya's notional share of 45% of EAC debt.
My 1983
EAlDA



-32 -                                  ANNEX II
Page 1 of 15
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPEXATIONS IN KENYA
A.  Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits as of March 31, 1983
US$ Million
Loan or                                                             Amount (Less Cancellations)
Credit #    Year   Borrower    Purpose                             Bank1   TW   IDA   Undisbursed
Seventeen (17) Loans and Twenty-one (21) Credits and two (2)
Third Window Loan Fully Disbursed                                 236.68 15.00  215.04
477       1974    Kenya        Livestock                                         17.50    5.88
537        1975    Kenya       Group Farm Rehabilitation                          7.50    3.67
1105        1975    Kenya       S:Ltes and Services                 8.00                    0.47
1184        1976    Kenya       Tlhird Education                   10.00                    6.08
1304-T      1977    Kenya       Wildlife and Tourism                     17.00              6.14
1305        1977    Kenya       Rural Access Roads                  4.00                    2.65
1389        1977    Kenya       South Nyanza Sugar                 25.00                    3.51
1438        1977    IDB         Third Industrial Dev. Bank         20.00                    2.36
1449        1977    Kenya       Bura Irrigation Settlement         34.00                   26.85
750        1978    Kenya       Small Scale Industry                              10.00    7.25
1520        1978    NCC         Second Urban Water Supply          30.00                    5.72
( 791       (1978   (Kenya      (Second Urban                                      25.00  (14.84
(1550       (1978   (Kenya      (Second Urban                       25.00                  (25.00
797        1978    Kenya       Fcurth Education                                  23.00   14.56
1636        1979    Kenya       Sugar Rehabilitation               72.00                   65.1'5
1637       1979    Kenya        Rural Water Supply                 20.00                   19.77
858        1979    Kenya       Narok Agricultural Development                    13.00   12.38
1680        1979    Kenya       Telecommunications                 20.00                    4.43
1684        1979    Kenya       Highway Sector                     90.00                   61.02
914        1979    Kenya       Smallholder Coffee Improvement                    27.00   25.07'
959        1980    Kenya       Second Integrated Agric. Dev.                     46.00   43.23
962        1980    Kenya       Baringo Semi-Aird Areas                            6.50    5.54
1799        1980    Kenya       Third Power (Olkaria Geothermal)40.002/                     9.82
1817        1980    IDB         Fourth Industrial Dev. Bank        30.0C                   22.15
1045        1980    Kenya       Export Promotion Technical Asst.                   4.50    4.40
1051        1980    Kenya       Fisheries                                         10.00    9.99
1107        1981    Kenya       Fifth Education                                   40.00   38.33
1976        1981    Kenya       Railway                            58.00                   49.60
(1143       (1981   (Kenya      (Fourth Agriculture                                10.00    9.56
(1995       (1981   (Kenya      (Fourth Agriculture                 25.00                   25.00
2065        1982    Kenya       Petroleum Exploration               4.00                    2.24
(2098       (1982   (Kenya      (Forestry IIL'/4/                   21.50                   21.50
(1213       (1982   (Kenya      (Forestry III                                      16.00   16.00
1237        1982    Kenya       Cotton Proc. & Marketing 3/4/                     22.00   22.00
1238        1982    Kenya       Integrated Rural Health &
Family Planning 4/                               23.00   22.95
2155        1982    Kenya       Second Telecommunications          44.70                   42.69
(2190       (1983   (Kenya      (Second Struc. Adjustment           60.90                   50.00
(1276       (1983   (Kenya      (Second Struc. Adjustment 4/                       70.00    2.14
1277        1983    Kenya       Agric. Technical Assistan,ce 4/                    6.00    0.95
1983    Kenya       Olkaria Geothermal Expansion    12.0    -           -      12.00
Total                            940.78 32.00  592.04  722.89
of which has been repaid         66.01  --        3.76
Total now outstanding            874.77 32,.00  588.28
Amount sold                 11.81
of which has been repaid 11.81   .00
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA               874.77 32.00  571.42
TOTAL undisbursed                            458.01  6.14  258.74  722.89
1/  Prior to exchange adjustment.
2/  Includes Loan S-12 ($9.0 million).
3/  Not yet effective.
4/ IDA-6 Credit amounts expressed in dollar equivalents of SDR's.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 15
B. Summary Statement of Bank Loans for Common Services Involving
Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda as of March 31, 1983
Amount (less cancellations)
Loan No.   Year   Borrower   Purpose                   Bank'    Undisbursed
-----US$ million-
Nine loans fully disbursed                            196.43
914-EA    1972    EAPTC       Third Telecom.          32.50         0.28
1204-EA    1976    EADB        Second Dev. Finance   14.10           0.90
Total                                              243.03         1.18
of which has been repaid                          82.30
Total now outstanding                              160.73
Amount sold                             24.36
of which has been repaid               24.36        0.00
Total now held by Bank                             160.73
Total undisbursed                                    1.18         1.18
1/ Net of exchange adjustments.



-- 34 -                       ANNEX II
Page 3 of 15
C. Status of Projects in Executioni
(As of March 31, 1982)
There are currently 35 projects under execution in Kenya.
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Loan No. 1389-KE - South Nyanza Sugar Project:  US$25.0 million Loan
of April 15, 1977; Effective Date:  November 3, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
The sugar factory is in operation, agricultural developllent has advanced
well and nucleus estate development is complete including drainage.
Production in 1981 of cane, particularly from outgrowers, was well below
management estimates due to lower cane yields and a smaller area available
for harvest. A research program :Ls being drawn up to identify reasons for
low yields.  All civil works are virtually completed, work on minor roads is
improving and work on major roads is proceeding satisfactorily. Certain
weaknesses in project management, particularly cane handling and transport,
have become apparent, and consultants are being employed to rectify this
problem. Although statutory sugar prices were raised in December 1982, SONY
(the Project entity) is experienciLng serious financial difficulties. These
are attributable to unrealisti.c pricing policies, lower throughput, and
SONY's high fixed costs and debt service obligations.  SONY has requested an
immediate cash injection from the Government, which is presently considering
a special financial rescue program.
Loan No. 1449-KE/Credit tNo. 722-KE - Bura Irrigation Settlement Project:
US$34.0 million. Loan and US$6.0 million Credit of June 22, 1978;
Effective Date: June 27, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Some $85.0 million has been invested in this Project, 1100 ha. of
communal area are operational and almost 1000 tenant families are on site.
However, owing to the Government's inability to cover the sizeable financing
gap, the Project is on the verge cif bankruptcy. Lack of cash has slowed
development operations, payments on all contracts are in arrears, and one
contractor has begun partial demobilization.  Virtually no agricultural
operations are going on and, as a result, tenants will soon start to abandon
the scheme.  The Government has promised some emergency finance for 1982/83
but the deteriorating position of the Treasury puts this in question. The
Government has now to take major decisions on the future of the Project,
which will require immediate acticon to avert bankruptcy and a close look at
1/  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress on projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems being encountered and action being taken to remedy them.  They
should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they do not
purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths andl weaknesses in
project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 15
possibilities for reducing components (and, probably, the scope of the
Project) together with action to improve the use of external finance.
Loan No. 1636-KE - Sugar Rehabilitation Project: U$72.0 million;
Loan of December 20, 1978; Effective Date: September 20, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Implementation of this Project is facing a serious problem. The
Government has indicated reluctance to sign the Subsidiary Financing
Agreements for two of the three factories to be rehabilitated under the
Project. Following the Government's request, the Bank is awaiting agreement
by the Associated Sugar Company, Limited (owner of the Ramisi factory) before
.cancelling US$23.0 million of the loan. Development in these project areas
is in suspense since the companies have not given evidence that they have a
viable financing plan and since the Government has not provided detailed
plans for the complementary field and infrastructure development.
Rehabilitation of the third factory has been held up by delays in the
recruitment of consultants; serious cost over-runs are expected. Low prices
have led to a drop in cane supply.  In spite of the economic difficulties
facing the sugar production sector, investments in new factories are being
projected. A study to review sugar marketing prospects has recently been
completed, and will form the basis for Government policy in the sugar
sector. Appropriate changes in project scope and design are being discussed
with the Bank.
Credit No. 858-KE - Narok Agricultural Development Project: US$13.0
million Credit of December 20, 1978; Effective Date: June 28, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
In late 1980, it became obvious that the original project concept of
extending credit to resident Masai to finance purchases of farm machinery for
wheat production could not 've substantially met in the remaining years of the
Project. The Masai continue to prefer to hire tractor and combine services,
or to contract all production activities. The Government and the Bank
discussed means of achieving the production objectives of the Project without
detriment to the social objectives of developing Masai lands, and concluded
that expansion of the feeder road component of the Project would satisfy
these objectives. Project funds have been reallocated from the credit
component to the feeder road component. The Project has experienced delays
in recruiting consultants to carry out studies monitoring project
performance, and has also suffered from poor budgetary management.
Credit No. 914-KE - Smallholder Coffee Improvement Project: US$27.0
million Credit of June 11, 1979; Effective Date: April 3, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
Progress in obtaining principal project activities has further
stagnated. The factory rehabilitation program has been severely delayed yet
again due to deferred release of funds by Treasury and difficulties in the
Cooperative Bank's lending operations. Technical assistance to the
cooperative banks appears to be of crucial importance. The Government has
agreed to direct reimbursements by donors to the Cooperative Bank, which
hopefully will accelerate implementation. Since financial and technical



- 36 -                         A1NNEX II
Page 5 of 15
difficulties are persistent and are expected to prevail in the near future.
A complete project review is scheduled for mid-1983 with a view to analyzing
the options for modifying of the design as a prerequisite to possible
extension of the existing project or preparation of a second phase project.
Credit No. 962-KE - Baringo Semi-Arid Areas Project: US$6.5 million
Credit of March 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 10, 1980; Closing
Date: October 31, 1984
Project implementation started favorably. The Project team of
expatriate and local technicians launched a number of experiments in dry-land
and irrigated farming, soil conservation and water-harvesting, and range
management. Project activities attracted local interest and participation of
area residents has increased in the initial stage. Since 1981, however,
financing constraints, political pressure and lack of direction in the
management of the livestock component adversely influenced project
implementation. Although in mid-1982 the Project was revised in close
cooperation with the ministries involved and realistic work plans were
prepared, the allocated funds were not adequately channeled to the district.
In addition, employment of a qualified accountant and of a livestock
consultant, provided by the Australian Government, was delayed.  As a result,
staff morale is at a low level and project management is weakening. A
dialogue is being conducted with the Government to find adequate solutions to
improve project management, possibly by selecting an alternative coordinating
agency, to employ consultants under direct reimbursement procedures and to
assure an efficient flow of funds.  If these measures prove to be
unattainable, project design would have to be reviewed.
Credit 959-KE - Second Integrated Agricultural Development Project:
US$46.0 million Credit of April 23, 1980; Effective Date: July 2, 1980;
Closing Date: April 30, 1986
The impact of the Project on production and farmer incomes has fallen
short of expectations: the number of participants is less than expected and
drop-out rates are high. This generally poor performance has resulted
primarily from the failure of the crop production c-omponent of the Project
supported by credit. Farmer training and livestock components have
progressed adequately, as have some infrastructure components, although all
have been affected by severe budget cuts. Project problems include late
delivery of credit, inadequate management of cooperatives, inefficiencies of
the farm input delivery system and inadequate crop marketing arrangements.
The Project has also suffered from the inability to effectively coordinate
the many ministries and agencies involved in project implementation. In
September 1982, the Government and the Bank discussed a proposal to
disaggregate the IADP Project into several projects along ministerial lines.
The Government and the Bank have jointly reviewed on-going activities in
order to wind down the Project in an orderly manner. Uncommitted funds,
totalling an estimated $34.0 million will be cancelled. The first project to
emerge from the restructured IADP is the National Extension Project.



- 37 -              ~~~ANNEX II
Page 6 of 15
Credit No. 1051-KE - Fisheries Development Project: US$10.0 million
Credit of July 14, 1980; Effective Date: October 9, 1980; Closing
Date: September 30, 1987
Project implementation has fallen behind the schedule at appraisal.
Delays and difficulties are related mainly to two factors: under-staffing
and project complexity relative to project management capabilities and
resources. In light of these delays and changes in the fishing industry
since appraisal in 1979, supervision missions have recommended certain
modifications in project scope, phasing and staffing. Simplification and
scaling down of the ice-production and fish marketing component of the
Project has been agreed. This will require a reassessment of the minimum
economic ice-making/transport capacity required for a pilot effort. A
shortlist of consultants to carry out this study has been approved and
requests for proposals have been issued. Proposals for the construction and
initial management of the fish farming center have been submitted and are
currently being evaluated by the Project Unit. The Government has been urged
to complete the essential staffing positions and consider further reductions
in project scope if staffing constraints persist. Several additional
technical assistants have been recommended in the areas of reproduction and
marketing and boat building. Areas of research to be carried out by the Lake
Basin Development Authority and by the Kenya Marine and Fisheries Research
Institute have been agreed in principle and detailed research proposals are
being prepared by these two institutions. A work plan for 1983-84 has been
drafted by the Project Unit.
Loan No. 1995-KE/Credit No. 1143-KE: Fourth Agricultural Credit
Project: US$25.0 million Loan and US$10.0 million Credit of May 19,
1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Implementation of the institution-building components has started
satisfactorily. Technical assistants in critical areas of financial
management, planning, accounting and computer programming are in place and
have presented initial recommendations for addressing key problems.
Recruitment and training of additional loan officers and accounts officers
for branch operations is proceeding well. The need for substantial work on
accounts, the strengthening of loan appraisal and administration procedures
and skills and the introduction of regular planning and performance reviews
is likely to require more time and necessitate slower growth in new lending
than originally estimated. In addition, greater effort on the part of the
Government to strengthen national credit policies (in process) would
substantially reinforce the Agricultural Finance Corporation's efforts to
strengthen credit discipline and to realize full benefits of the Project.
The Bank is currently involved in a review with the Government of major
agricultural credit issues, both through project supervision and sector
work.
Loan No. 2098-KE/Credit No. 1213-KE: Third Forestry Project:
US$21.5 million Loan and US$16.0 million Credit of March 2, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The Loan/Credit is not yet effective.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 15
Credit No. 1237-KE:  Cotton Processing and Marketing Project:  US$22.0
million Credit of April 27, 1982; Closing Elate:  June 30, 1987
The credit is not yet efifective.
Credit No. 1277-KE:  Agricultural Technical Assistance Project;
US$6.0 Million Credit of July 21, 1982; Closing Date: December 31,
1985
This Project supports the Second Structural Adjustment Program for the
agricultural sector through provision of technical assistance. An advisor on
-budget and financial management has been recruited for the Ministries of
Agriculture and Livestock Development. The on-going Budget Task Force has
been effective in addressing budgeting problems, and a pilot microprocessor
program in the Ministry has contributed to more effective budgeting. A major
grain marketing and pricing study, which will form the basis for policy
reforms, is now underway and wiLl be completed in September 1983. The Kenya
Rangeland Ecological Monitoring Unit (KREMU) has recently begun a land-use
mapping exercise under the Project.
EDUCATION SECTOR
Loan No. 1184-KE - Third Education Project:  US$10.0 million Loan
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date:  March 17, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Overall completion of the Project has reached 85% with 100% of the loan
proceeds committed. As a result of ,delays caused by weak management and
shortage of counterpart funding, the Closing Date has been extended by 18
months (to December 31, 1983), based on an agreed implementation plan.
However, a shortfall in the timely contribution of local counterpart funds
could further delay implementat:Lon.  The Government is in the process of
reviewing its investment plan and this is being closely monitored.
Credit No. 797-KE - Fourth Education Project: U$23.0 million Credit of
June 7, 1978; Effective Dat:e: August 25, 1978; Closing Date: December
31, 1984
The Closing Date of the Project has been postponed by two years to
December 31, 1984. To offset cost over-runs for civil works, which were
estimated at about 28% in terms of local currency, the Government and the
Bank agreed to delete 7 of the 13 Nomadic Primary Schools and the storage
facilities for primary schools included in the Project. Implementation of
civil works, after a period of stagnation, is now progressing gradually,
while that of technical assistance is proceeding satisfactorily. In general,
project management and implementation are expected to improve as a result of
the appointments of key personnel in the Project Implementation Unit provided
under the Fifth Education Project:. The Project could face a shortage of
local counterpart funds due to overall country financial constraints, and
this is being continuously monitored..



39 
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 15
Credit No. 1107-KE - Fifth Education Project: US$40.0 million Credit
of May 7, 1981; Effective Date: July 30, 1981; Closing Date: June 30,
1986
Start-up activities, which began with funding under a Project Pre-
paration Facility, are progressing. Construction at the Faculty of Agricul-
ture is underway, while that for the other five components has been tendered.
Six staff members of the Kenya Education Staff Institute (KESI) completed
short courses in the United Kingdom. The training programs of school staff,
to be carried out by KESI, are proceeding on schedule. Work on the pre-
investment study on business education also is proceeding on schedule. The
Project Implementation Unit is fully staffed and is now able to obtain more
effective cooperation from the representatives of the various ministries
involved in the Project. Problems relating to water supply and staff train-
ing for the Water Resources Training Institute are under study. The Govern-
ment's difficult financial situation is likely to result in delays in project
implementation. This is being closely monitored.
WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Loan No. 1520-KE - Second Nairobi Water Supply Project: US$30.0
million Loan of March 27, 1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
All major project components should be completed by about October 1983
(22 months behind schedule). Construction standards have been generally
satisfactory. The major cause of project delays continues to be the weak
administration of the Nairobi City Council (NCC) (the Borrower), which
adversely affects the effectiveness of project management by the Water and
Sewerage Department (WSD). All supply contracts financed by the other two
donors (OPEC and Saudi Fund) are virtually complete.  The only outstanding
contract for supply and conEtruction of secondary distribution pipeline (to
be financed by the Bank) is to be awarded by May 1983 and completed by
December 1983. First project benefits are expected April 1983 when an addi-
tional 13,000 m3 pd. will enter the system. WSD's financial performance
remains acceptable following late 1982 tariff increases. However, as NCC's
overall financial position continues to deteriorate, the Treasurer continues
to utilize the Water Fund in contravention of the Loan Agreement. WSD now
faces considerable difficulties in meeting its proportion of project costs.
This issue has been raised with the Government (as the Guarantor), which has
instituted an enquiry into NCC's management and finances.
Loan No. 1637-KE - Rural Water Supply Project: US$20.0 million
Loan of December 20, 1978; Effective Date: January 24, 1980;
Closing Date: July 1, 1985
As agreed with Government during the September 1982 CIR, the Bank
has thoroughly reviewed progress to determine the Project's future. Progress
is still unacceptably slow and no substantial improvements are foreseen



--40 -                         ANNEX II
Page 9 of 15
before 1984. Cost estimates continue to rise rapidly and the Ministry of
Water Development continues to delay action on implementing a minimal cost
recovery program; the Ministry's reorganization has been only partially
completed. To March 31, 1983, disbursements totalled about US$0.2 million
(1%); while committed reimbursable expenditures are less than US$2.0
million. In view of the Government's intention to concentrate its limited
resources on successful projects, the Bank proposes to recomnnend that the
present project be terminated and about US$18.0 million in loan proceeds be
cancelled.
TRANSPORT SECTOR
Loan No. 1305-KE/Credit No. 651-KE - Rural Access Roads Projects:
US$4.0 million Loan and US$4.0 million Credit of July 9, 1976; Effective
Date:  October 7, 1976; Closing Date:  June 30, 1983
The Project is about two years behind schedlule due to administration and
procurement problems, which initially delayed establishment of construction
units and were not resolved until 1978.  All eight Bank-financed construction
units are now fully equipped and satisfactorily staffed and operational.  By
August 15, 1982, 1,298 km of access roads had been constructed, or 298 km
more than originally planned.  The gravelling operation was slow in startingY
because of delays in delivery of tractors and trailers, and the output was
low due to the labor shortage until 1980, inadeq[uate planning, organization
and supervision. As a result, there is a gravelling backlog of about 900
km.  The Government has been requested to take steps to improve gravelling
and is considering further action to clear the backlog. The road
construction cost is within appraisal estimates.  Project completion depends
on gravelling output, which w:Lll require about two more years to complete on
the roads already constructed.
Loan No. 1684-KE - Highway Sector Project:  US$90.0 million Loan
of April 30, 1979; Effecitive Date: June 18, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
Implementation of the Government's Five-Year Highway Sector Plan
(1979-83) has been delayed by about one year because a critical shortage of
funds caused a reduction by about 28% in the highway work program during
FY1979-82. This reduction has detrimentally affected project implementation,
which is presently about 18 months behind schedule. The four contracts for
construction of the Uplands-Limuru Road (11 km), one of the six roads for
strengthening/reconstruction tnder the Project, was completed in April 1982.
The Naivasha-Nakuru Road (136 km):, the Nakuru-Timoroa Road (81 km) and the
Mau Siimmit-Kisumu Road (136 kmi) are under construction; contracts for the
Uplands-Longonot Turn-Off Road (26 km) and the Nairobi-Thika Road (39 km)
were awarded.  Implementation of the road maintenance program also is slower
than originally anticipated due to the financial constraints. Road
maintenance budgetary allocations for FY83 are about 40% below actual
requirements, therefore resealing and regravelling operations are slower than
projected. Routine maintenance is generally poor due to the lack of funds
and to the inadequate planning, programming and supervision, resulting in low
utilization of existing resources, particularly equipment and manpower.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 15
Loan 1976-KE - Railway Project: US$58.0 million Loan of May 7, 1981;
Effective Date: September 3, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
This Project, for which the Loan became effective on September 3, 1981,
is advancing. Because of the delay between ordering and delivery, few parts
have yet arrived. A lack of local funds, caused by delay in approving tariff
increases, will result in a reduction in the scope of the Project. The
operating surplus, before provision for depreciation and interest, is
forecast to be approximately the same in 1982 as to 1981. Further progress
in reducing expenses and increasing revenue must be accomplished in 1983.
POWER SECTOR
Loan No. 1799-KE - Olkaria Geothermal Power Project:  US$40.0 million
Loan of April 25, 1980; Effective Date: November 18, 1980; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
This Loan includes US$9.0 million for the Olkaria Geothermal Engineering
Loan (S-12-KE), which was refinanced under this Project.  Progress has been
satisfactory. The first 15-MW unit was put into commercial service in August
1981, one month later than scheduled, and the second 15-MW unit in December
1982, 3 months ahead of schedule.
Loan No. 2237-KE - Olkaria Geothermal Power Project:  US$40.0 million
Loan of February 8, 1983
Not yet effective.
ENERGY SECTOR
Loan No. 2065-KE - Petroleum Exploration Project: US$4.0 million
Loan of December 8, 1981; Effective Date:  January 27, 1982; Closing
Date: August 31, 1985
The aeromagnetic survey, the most important project component, was
completed August 16, 1982. The promotion report prepared by the exploration
consultants for the Eastern part of Kenya has been sold to 17 companies.
Bids for blocks in this area were submitted by three companies in October
1982, and negotiations have been stalled pending decisions by the Central
Bank and the Ministry of Finance concerning opening of a foreign currency
bank account and repatriation of profits. Preparation of documents for round
II of exploration acreage tendering is under way.
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Credit No. 750-KE - Small Scale Industry Project: US$10.0 million
Credit of November 28, 1977; Effective Date: June 26, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The Closing Date of the Project has been postponed by 12 months from
December 1982. Implementation of this Project is behind appraisal schedule.
KIE has recruited a new finance manager, who assumed responsibilities in
December 1982. KIE needs to (a) revise and adopt a realistic operational
plan; (b) continue to improve the arrears collection program; and (c) tighten



- 42 -
NNEX II
Page 11 of 15
the project selection and approval criteria to improve the quality of
projects it finances.  As of March 31, 1983, US$7.0 million had been
committed for 155 subloans and some technical assistance, buit only US$2.7
million had been disbursed.  About 45% of the commitments were for fifteen
subprojects above the free limit, with the remainder allocated to small
free-limit subprojects.
Loan No. 1817-KE - Fourth Industrial Development Bank Project: US$30.0
million Loan of June 16, 1980; Effective Date:   August 21, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Fourteen subprojects have been approved under the Loan t:o date. As at
March 30, 1983, US$17.2 million haLd been committed and US$7.9 million had
been disbursed. Project implementation suffered because of management
problems, deterioration in quality, of appraisal and supervision, local
currency resource constraints and problems in the industrial sector. Recent
financial performance has deteriorated sharply.  These inadequacies were
conveyed to IDB and IDB has recently taken a number of positive decisions
that may result in improvements.
RURAL HEALTH AND FAMILY PLANNING SECTOR
Credit No. 1238-KE - Integrated Rural Health and Family Planning
Project: US$23.0 million Credit of May 4, 1L982; Effective Date:
February 9, 1983; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
Start-up of project implementation has been slow, but nc major problems
are foreseen at this time (except those which could arise from the general
fiscal situation). The National Council on Popul]ation and Development (NCPD)
has been established, its members have been appointed, and its meetings have
been regular. The Secretariat of the NCPD has also been established and key
staff have been appointed. Actual population inf ormation and education
programs financed from NCPD funds started after at delay of about nine
months. Preparation of the Part A Work Plan for FY1983/84 has been delayed,
but the Plan is still expected to be finalized before the end of the current
fiscal year. Implementation of most Part B components -- family planning
services, manpower and training, drug supplies, construction of rural health
facilities, maintenance, transport, and the non-governmental organizations
complonent -- is proceeding weLl. On the other hand, progress has been slow
in implementing the health information system, health education,
community-based health care, and innovative activity components of Part B.
This was to be expected, as those latter components have a higher "soft-ware"
content, and are more innovative in nature than the rest of the Part B
components.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Credit No. 1045-KE - Export Promotion Technical Assistance Project:
US$4.5 million Credit of July 14, 1980; Effective Date: October 15,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Implementation of this Project has been slow to date; only three
activities have been approved for a total cost of approximately $700,000 and
only US$100,000 has been disbursed.  The first activity was a Science and



- 43 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 15
Technology Seminar as a first phase in developing technological decision
making capacity among staff at various levels in private and public
organizations; the second is for technical assistance to the Customs
Department to help implement a modified export compensation scheme; and the
third finances the short-term services of an expert to assist in tariff
restructuring. There are, however, a number of proposals under
consideration, including a feasibility study of shipment of fresh fruit and
vegetables to Europe and the Middle East and technical assistance in the
development of an action program for export promotion. It is anticipated
that both the rate of commitment and the rate of disbursement will accelerate
over the next twelve months.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
Loan No. 1680-KE - First Telecommunications Project: US$20.0 million
Loan of April 11, 1979; Effective Date: August 16, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
Procurement is complete and Loan No. 1680-KE is almost fully committed.
Total loan disbursements as of February 28, 1983 amount to about US$15.0
million. Due to initial delays, a few new facilities are about six to nine
months behind schedule, but the Project is now progressing satisfactorily.
Kenya Posts and Telecommunications Corporation has completed the installation
of 25,000 additional lines in automatic and manual telephone exchanges and
connected 20,000 new subscriber's lines (out of 46,000) under the project.
Extension of the closing date will be required.
Loan 2155-KE - Second Telecommuncations Project: US$44.7 million
Loan of August 27, 1982: Effective Date: October 13, 1982; Closing
Date: September 30, 1987.
The Project is at the procurement stage. About US$20.0 million of the
loan has been committed. The Bank just approved (March 1983) the Borrower's
award recommendation for the only bid pending, namely the telephone switching
equipment.
URBAN SECTOR
Loan No. 1105-KE/Credit No. 543-KE - Sites and Services Project:
US$8.0 million Loan and US$8.0 million Credit of May 6, 1975;
Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
This Project is virtually complete. The Project has been successful in
achieving almost all of its original objectives. Cost recovery has been good
throughout the Project, and a number of innovative features of the Project
(e.g. self-help building groups, provision of credit to female-headed
households) have been successfully demonstrated.
Loan No. 1550-KE/Credit No. 791-KE - Second Urban Project: US$25.0
million Loan and US$25.0 million Credit of May 75, 1978; Effective Date:
October 3, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The Project provides site and service developments and community
upgrading in three cities, Nairobi, Mombasa, and Kisumu. Two project sites



- 44 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 15
have been completed and the remaining sites are under construction or will
soon begin. Various delays at the beginning of the Project have put
implementation about two years behind schedule, and the Project has had to be
scaled back due to higher than anticipated inflation. The project
departments in all three cities are operating reasonably well despite chronic
shortages of technical staff. Construction of community facilities and the
health and nutrition componenl:s are proceeeding satisfactorily. Both Nairobi
and Mombasa have introduced new property valuation rolls, but Nairobi City
Council has continued to have a serious liquidity problem.
WILDLIFE AND TOURISM
Loan No. 1304-T-KE - Wildlife and Tourism Project:  US$17.0 million
Loan of July 9, 1976; Effective Date: November 10, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984
After initial delays, project implementation is accelerating. All
physical components of the Project are under construction and nearing
completion with the exception of the Naivasha Training Institute, which is
not expected to be completed before the end of 1983. The delay is due mainly
to the late appointment of consulting architects and slow performance by the
contractors. Following the accidental death of the main contractor in
November 1982, work was interrapted because of legal implications and was
resumed only recently.  The Tourism Pricing Study and the Very Large
Herbivores Study have been completed, and recommendations contained in these
two studies are under review by th,e Government. The anti-poaching units are
fully staffed and deployed, and initial effectiveness of the units appears
good.  While satisfactory arrangements have been made for payments of returns
from wildlife to ranchers in project areas, the Government has been unable so
far to complete negotiations wi th County Councils regarding management of
national reserves as foreseen under the loan.  However, negotiations with the
Narok County Council are being pursued by the Government. In addition, in
November 1982 His Excellency, t:he President, directed that the collection and
distribution of revenues in the Samburu and Buffalo Springs National Reserves
will become the responsibility of the Wildlife Department in t:he Ministry of
Tourism and Wildlife. Details are presently being worked out.
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT
Loan 2190-KE/Credit No. 1276-KE - Second Structural Adjustment
Program: US$60.9 million Loan and US$70.0 mjillion Credit of
July 1, 1982; Date of Effectiveness: August 27, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983.
A supervision mission visited Kenya in late March 1983 to review
progress and exchange views witlh the Government as provided for in the Loan
and Credit Agreements. The general conclusion reaLched by the mission was
that insufficient progress had been made in implementing a number of aspects
of agreed policy reform to justify the release of the second tranche at that
time. The mission established <nd agreed with Government a monitorable
action program to be accomplished before the end of June 1983 which, with one
possible exception, should advance program implementation to the stage where
the conditionality prerequisite to the release of the second tranche could be
deemed to have been fulfilled. The exception is in the area of grain



- 45 -
ANNEX II
Page 14 of 15
marketing where, because of the delay in appointing consultants, the study
will not now be completed until August/September 1983. However, preliminary
findings, coupled with the recommendations of an in-house Government group
studying main policy options which is due in June 1983, may lead to earlier
acceptable policy conclusions and the production soon thereafter of detailed
action programs which can then be reviewed to assess their adequacy and
impact in light of the Government's undertakings.
EAST AFRICAN COMMUNITY
There are currently two projects in execution in the East African
'Community.4
Loan No. 914-EA - Third Telecommunications Project: US$32.5 million
Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of Effectiveness: September 19, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The Project included provision for procurement of local telephone
exchange equipment, cables and subscriber apparatus, microwave and UHF/VHF
systems and multiplex equipment, interurban cables and wires, automatic
switching and signalling equipment, telegraph, telex and data equipment, and
training. The Project has never been fully completed due to the problems
associated with the dissolution of the East African Community. About US$32.5
million of Loan No. 914-EA has been disbursed. The Bank is now proposing to
close the loan the cancel the undisbursed amount.
Loan No. 1204-EA - East African Development Bank: US$15.0 million
Loan of March 1, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: June 7, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
The Loan is fully committed and disbursements were completed by the
Closing Date of June 30,-1982. The economic difficulties of the three
countries in which EADB operates has had a negative impact on EADB's
portfolio. Helping clients to service their debts, therefore, continues to
be EADB's priority.
4/ Since October 1, 1977, the East African Community loans (excluding the
East African Development Bank) have been disbursed on the basis of separ-
ate national guarantees.  The agreed allocation of the undisbursed
balances for each loan, as proposed in a report to the Executive
Directors dated December 29, 1977 (R77-312) and approved on January 12,
1978, is given in this Annex. The Closing Dates for Loans 914-EA and
1204-EA have passed. However, since the amount allocated to and guaran-
teed by each Partner State is clearly identified under the terms of the
agreement signed on January 25, 1978, as proposed in the above report
(R77-312), we are continuing disbursements.



ANNEX II
- 46 -                            Page 15 of 15
D. Statement of IFC Investment in Kenya as at
March 31, 1983
Fiscal Year       Obligor               Type of Business   Amount in US$ Million
Loan   Equity   Total
1967, 1968,
and 1973       Kenya Hotel Properties   Hotels                5.2     0.7       5.9
1970, 1974,
1977, 1979
and 1981       Pan African Paper Mills  Pulp and Paper   22.2         6.3      28.5
1972           Tourism PromotiorL
Services                  Hotels             2.4       -        2.4
1976           Rift Valley Textiles
Ltd.                      Textiles           6.3      2.8       9.1
1977           Kenya Commercial Bank
Ltd.                      Capital Market    2.0        -        2.0
1980           Development Finance        Development
Company of Kenya Ltd.    Finance              -       1.3       1.3
1981           Kenya Commercial           Money & Capital
Finance                    Market            5.0       -        5.0
1982          Bamburi Portland            Cement &           4.5       -        4.5
Cement Co., Ltd.           Construction
Material
1982           Diamond Trust of           Money & Capital
Kenya Limited              Market             -       0.8       0.8
1982           Industrial Promotion       Money & Capital
Services (Kenya) Ltd.    Market               -       0.6       0.6
Total Gross Coramitments                  47.6    12.5       60.1
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                    16.0      1.8     17.8
Total Commitments now held by IFC         31.6    10.7       42.3
Total Undisbursed                          7.4      1.4       8.8



- 47 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
KENYA
National Extension Project
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
I.        Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare:                    12 months
(b) Prepared by Government and RMEA.
(c) Date of first major presentation
to the Bank Group:                        September 1982
(d)  Appraisal Mission:                        February 1983
(e)  Negotiations:                             May 1983
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:            September 1983
II.       Special Bank Group Implementation Actions
The project would be supervised quarterly during the
first two years.
III.      Special Conditions
(a) Bulk purchase arrangements would be used for all purchases
of bicycles and mopeds, and all extension personnel working
under the project would be eligible to purchase bicycles and
mopeds (paragraph 57).
(b) Government would maintain suitably qualified officiers in
the positions of Deputy Director Agriculture (Extension),
and Chief Research Officer (Extension) and give them full-
time responsibility for the day-to-day operations in their
respective areas (paragraph 59).
(c) A mid-term review of the project activities would take place
between the Government and IDA after the first two years of
project implementation no later than June 1985 (paragraph
60).



- 48 -
ANNEX III
P'age 2
(d) The Government iwould prepare and submit a forward annual
work plan and budget to IDA for review and comment by
November of eaclh year, and a revised annual work plan and
budget to IDA for review and approval by May 31 of each
year (paragraph 62).
(e)  Credit effectiveness is conditional upon the I:FAD Loan being
declared effective and IFAD appointing the Association as
administrator of the Fund Loan (paragraph 64).
(f) Credit effectiveness is conditional upon receipt of evidence
that appropriate! arrangements have been made for the
importation of four wheel drive vehicles and p-Lck-up trucks
to be purchased under the project (paragraph 65).
(g)  As a condition of effectiveness a Special Account would be
opened with the Treasury (paragraph 64).
(h) Disbursements for project components would be conditional on
prior approval of the annual work plan and budget (paragraph
66).



SJDAN  2                                                         (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KF  N-IY  A
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
PHASING  OF  PROJECT  iMPLEMENTATION
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A5
Si 
I                      N~~~~~~~~~~~~-O50             
'OOPOA                                                           .Ij                       /~~~~~~~~ A T     Ri
,0                                                                            /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N 0 - 
MAOSAP'T  /     AE1R                   
ZI~~~~~~ 
N~~~~
~  V     A   L  L         y                                        '                "
Dm Th,,d Y.., f P,.,.d ~ ~ ~ ~       ~      ~     0To01,2 
- D,1-o-1F-Ih,  Y.d   OoIPo,e
-*   0010,01 A,ol,  -   T-ok R-od,
o~   0o1oool A,,o.l.S--od-~ R..d,
-oe   T         ..-,o0oo oo,oe
R=) 10 0, -P,0 D,,,-I
00' 10           ~~~~~~~- E(b. A~ R 5, 'Eobol



