Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4426-KE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KENYA
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
May 13, 1983
Central Agriculture Division
Eastern Africa Projects
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officiall duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS 1/
Dollars         -         Kenya Shillings
US$ 1.00        -         KShs 12.75
US$ 0.08        -         KShs 1.0
WEIGHTS AND MEASURMENTS
Metric                 -          British/US equivalents
I ha                   -          2.47 acres
1 km                   -          0.62 miles
1 sq. km               -          0.39 sq. miles
1 kg                   -          2.2 pounds
1 metric ton           -          2,205 pounds
GLOSSARY
AFC       -      Agri,cultural Finance Corporation
AIC       -      Agricultural Information Center
AO        -      Agricultural Officer
ATO       -      Acting Technical Officer
CBK      -       Cooperative Bank of Kenya
CF        -      Contact Farmer
CO        -      Crop Officer
CPD      -       Crop Production Division
CROE     -       Chief Research Officer (Extension)
DA        -      Director of Agriculture
DiAO     -       District Agricultural Officer
DCO       -      District Crops Officer
DDAE      -      Deputy Director of Agriculture (Extension)
DEO       -      Divisional Extensioni Officer
DETO      -      District Extension and Training Officer
DF:MO     -      District Farm Manage-ment Officer
DPC       -      District Program Coordinator (from PMED)
EMDD      -      Extension and Manpower Development Division
FMO      -       Farm Management Officer
FTC       -      Farmer Training Cent:er
HIEO      -      Home Economics (and Rural Youth) Officer
IADJP II  -      Inategrated Agricultural Development Project
JTA      -       Junior Technical Assistant
KARI      -      Kenya Agricultural Research Institute
KFA      -       Kenya Farmers Association
KSC       -      Kenya Seed Company
LRDD      -      Land Resources Development Division
LRDO      -      Land Resources Development Officer (of LRDD)
MOA       -      Ministry of Agriculture
1/  Since December 1982, the Kenya ShiLlling is pegged to the SDR at the
rate of I SDR   KSh 14.06.  The rate vis-a-vis the US$ fluctuates.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NCST     -       National Council for Science and Technology
NSCS     -      New Seasonal Credit Scheme
PARAC    -       Ptovincial Agricultural Research Advisory Committee
PAREAC   -      Provincial Agricultural Research and Extension
Advisory Committee (reorganized PARAC under the
Program)
PCC,     -       Provincial Crops Officer
PEl'O    -      Provincial Extension and Training Officer
PDA      -      Provincial Director of Agriculture
PMED     -      Project Management and Evaluation Division
PPC      -      Provincial Program Coordinator (from PMED)
SMS      -      Subject Matter Specialist
TA       -      Technical Assistant
TO       -      Technical Officer
T & V    -      Training and Visit System of Agricultural Extension
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OUTLINE
Kenya National Agricultural Extension Project
Staff Appraisal Report
Phase I
Page
I  Background
A.  Project Background ....................................... 1 
B.  The Agricultural Sector ..................................   2
C.  Agricultural (Crop) Extension ............................   4
D.  The Role of Women and Rome Economics Field Staff .........   5
E.  Research .................................................   5
F.  Training .................................................   7
G.  Agricultural Information Center ..........................   7
H.  Agricultural Credit, Marketing Input Supplies ............   8
I.  Development Strategy .....................................  11
J.  Bank/IDA Projects ........................................  12
II  The Pilot Project in Kericho and Nandi Districts
A.  Background ...............................................  14
B.  Technical Focus ..........................................  14
C.  Pilot Impact .............................................  15
D.  Yield Increases ..........................................  16
III  The Project
A.  Project Concept.. ..............................    17
B. Detailed Features
-  Organization of the Extension Service .................   19
- Incremental Staff Requirement                        .        .          22
-  Investments ...........................................  23
- Incremental Operating Costs                         .         .          24
-  Training ..............................................  24
- Research Extension Linkages                         .         .          25
- Project Management Assistance                        .         .         26
- Monitoring and Evaluation                          .         .           26
IV   Cost Estimates and Financing
A.  Cost Estimates ...........................................  28
B.  Financing ................................................  29
C.  Procurement ..............................................  30
D.  Disbursements ............................................  31
E.  Accounts and Audit .......................................  32



-2-
Page
V  Organization and Management
A. Management of Project Components                    .        .         33
B. Monitoring and Evalual:ion                      ..                     39
C.  Project Completion Report ................................., 39
VI Benefits, Justification and Risks
A.  Economic Benefits .........................................  40
B.  Project Risks ............................................  41
VII  Agreements to be Reached and Recommendations ..................  42
Supporting Tables, Charts and Raps
Tables
Table 1 - Summary Project Costs/'Detailed Cost Tables by Component.  45
Table 2 - Government Cash Flow ....................................  54
Table 3 - Estimated Disbursements .................................  55
Table 4 - Economic Analysis .......................................  56
Table 5 - Calculation of Economic Prices                    . . .   57
Table 6 - Farm Model I ............................                             ..................  58
Table 7 - Farm Model II ............................................  59
Charts
Chart 1 - Implementation Project - Ba; Chart ......................  60
Chart 2 - Project Organization ................................,...61
Maps
Districts to be included in the Project ...........................  62
Implementation Volume
Annex 1 - Extension and Training..................................
Annex 2 - Research................................................
Annex 3 - Financial and Administraltive Aspects of
Project Implementation  ................................
Annex 4 - Monitoring and Evaluation...............................



KENYA
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Project Background
1.01      The Government of Kenya seeks to improve the extension services
of the Ministry of Agriculture at all levels and in all major agricultural
zones of the country. In an effort to realize this objective, the
Government, with Bank assistance, initiated a pilot training and visit
project in two districts, Nandi and Kericho, in February 1982. The success
of the pilot effort plus field visits by senior staff from the Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA) to T & V projects in other countries resulted in a
Government decision to adopt the training and visit method of agricultural
extension as the basis of a national reorganization of the extension
service.
1.02      The training and visit system is first and foremost a management
system based on a systematic program of farm visits and staff training,
plus an equally important element for creating a flow of relevant
agricultural technology. Under the system, farming families are
systematically visited by front-line extension agents. Contact farmers are
selected and visited every two weeks. Frontline staff receive fortnightly
training from district-level specialists. Staff of the national research
network are used to enhance the professional knowledge of specialists
through monthly workshops where field level problems are discussed and
solutions evolved. A network of on-farm trials are put in place, jointly
by research and extension staff.
1.03      The Project would be the first phase of a multiphased effort
which would first introduce the T & V system as the basis for the National
Extension Program and then improve the system's operation over time. The
introduction of the T & V system should be seen as a basic reorganization
of one of the Ministry of Agriculture's principle activities, the provision
of extension services. Extension activities will focus on field crop and
horticultural development and the system will be applied to all area
development projects, whether planned or on-going. It is proposed to
initiate the program in one district of each province, with the exception
of North Eastern Province, which, because of its arid nature, would not be
included in this first phase. During the first two and one-half years, the
T & V program would be introduced in 15 of the 30 districts which are to be
covered during the Project period. At the end of the second year, a
mid-term review by the Government and the Bank Group would determine the
phasing of additional districts.



-2-
1.03      The proposed Project was prepared by Government of Kenya using a
preparation team comprising staff from the Ministry of Agriculture, two
consultants employed by Government, and one consultant provided by USAID.
Assistance was also provided by the Bank's Regional Mission in Eastern
Africa. Policy guidance was provided by a steering committee, chaired by
the Director of Agriculture, and comprising senior staff from the Ministry
of Agriculture, including the Director of Research, and representatives
from the Ministry of Livestock Development, the Office of the President,
USAID and the World Bank. Appraisal took place in February 1983. This
report is based on the findings of the appraisal mission consisting of
A. Levi, N. Krafft, E. Los, C. Ward, D. Casley, D. Benor, P. Cox, A. Wee
(IDA), and C. Morse and T. Marchant (Consultants).
B. The Agricultural Sector
1.05      The Republic of Kenya, with a land area of 575,000 km2, is a
country of contrasts in climate, topography and agricultural systems.
Despite its large land area, the diversity of ecological and climatic
conditions in the country lim:Lt the amount of good quality agricultural
land. Only about 7% can be described as high-quality land, possessing
adequate and reliable rainfall and good soils. Another 11% is of medium
quality and an additional 4.5% is arable, but subject to periodic drought
and crop failure. The remaining land area is suitable only for livestock.
Kenya's population is estimated at about 16 million, and is growing at the
rate of 3.9% per year. The high rate of population growth has caused
increasing pressure on supplies of arable land. Kenya's relative progress
in industrialization belies the extent to which the economy is
fundamentally based on agriculture.  Agriculture accounts for about 34% of
GDP, and about 85% of the population live and work in the rural sector.
Agriculture also provides over 50% of export earnings (main:Ly coffee and
tea), nearly all domestic food supplies, and raw materials for Kenya's
industries.
1.06      Kenya's agricultural structure has undergone considerable change
since Independence in 1963, but is still characterized by a degree of
dualism. A broad distinction can be made between the large-scale farming
sector and the smallholder sector, which employs the great maLjority of the
rural population. Of the total farmed area of 6.2 million ha (including
ranches), large farms cover about 1.6 million ha (25% of the area),
smallholdings (less than 20 ha) about 3.5 million ha (60%), and ranches 1.1
million ha (15%).  With the continuing subdivision of large group-owned
farms, the proportion of land owned and operated by smallholders is
increasing. Smallholder agriculture is the dominant mode of production in
Kenya, accounting for an estimated 75% of production and 85% of total
agricultural employment. There are more than 1.7 million smallholdings in
Kenya accounting for an estimal:ed 95% of Kenya's farming population. The
average size of these holdings is 2.3 ha but over 75% of all smallholdings
are under 2 ha. Although smal]holders consume much of their own output,
they also play a crucial role in commercial production of both export crops
and domestic cash and food crops.



-3-
1.07      Maize is Kenya's staple crop and dominates the cropping pattern.
Over one million hectares are under maize cultivation, about 90% of it on
farms of less than 5 ha. Pulses are probably second to maize in terms of
planted area. Small-scale farmers produce most of the output, mainly for
consumption on the farm; beans are the most widely planted pulse crop.
Wheat is the second most important cereal crop in Kenya after maize, with
over 90% of the crop cultivated on farms larger than 20 ha. Sorghum and
finger millet are important cereal crops for smallholders in areas which
are too dry for maize. The importance of these crops is growing rapidly as
people move into the marginal areas. Rice is a minor crop and is grown
only under irrigation. Sugarcane is grown both on large estates and by
smallholder outgrowers. Coffee, tea, (which together constitute over 60%
of the value of gross marketed production) and pyrethrum used to be grown
primarily on large farms, but are now the principal cash crops grown by
small fatrmers. Smallholders now produce about 60% of the marketed
production of coffee, 35% of tea, 45% of sugarcane, 45% of maize and almost
all the marketed production of rice, pulses, cotton and pyrethrum.
1.08      In contrast to earlier years, the recent performance of both the
large farm and smallholder sectors has been disappointing. In the period
between 1964 and 1972, agriculture grew at the impressive rate of 4.6% per
annum, fuelled by the rapid smallholder adoption of previously restricted
high-va:Lue cash crops (coffee, tea and dairying), the expansion of
cultivated land as large farms were subdivided, and the spread of hybrid
maize. Between 1974 and 1979, agricultural growth slowed to about 3.6% per
annum, according to Government GDP estimates, less than the population
growth rate. This average growth rate, however, masks considerable
difference in performance among commodities. While the growth of
production of coffee, tea and sugarcane has been particularly strong in the
last decade, production of maize, wheat, pulses and dairy products has
slowed. This is particularly serious given the importance of maize and
pulses in the diet of the majority of the population. Reasons for poor
performance include drought in several years, with a particularly severe
drought period in someareas of the country in 1979 and 1980; the withdrawal
of the crop insurance scheme and reorganization of the seasonal credit
scheme; and poor pricing and marketing incentives, particularly for key
domestic food crops. As a result of crop failures in 1979/80, massive
grain imports, totalling US$71.2 million, were necessary. Government
places great importance on reversing these downward trends and on achieving
food self-sufficiency (para. 1.29). Given Kenya's limited land supplies
and rapidly growing population, however, production increases will not be
as easily achieved as in the past, since there are no new technological
developments available such as hybrid seeds to promote rapid growth. Thus,
in the future, Kenya must rely mainly on the intensification of smallholder
agriculture combined with effective resource conservation and supported by
improvesd agricultural services and price incentives, to realize its
sectoral targets and achieve food self-sufficiency.



-4-
Agricultural Crop Extension
1.09      The Ministry of Agriculture is charged with promoting crop
production throughout the country. Within the Ministry, the Department of
Agriculture is responsible for agricultural crop extension. Overall
control of the operation of the Department rests with Director of
Agriculture, who is responsible to the Permanent Secretary. Below the
Director, the Department is divided into five divisions: research, crop
production, land resources development, project management and evaluation,
and extension and manpower development. Organization Chart I shows that
research operates independent:Ly of the other four divisions which are
responsible, through the Director, for overall policy decisions,
administration, and financial control of the field extension services.
Field operations are directed by Provincial Directors of Agriculture (7 in
all) and are organized on a district basis under District Agricultural
Officers (DAOs) (41 in all).
1.10      Each province is headed by a Provincial Director of Agriculture
(PDA), who is assisted by a number of agricultural officers (AOs).
Provinces in turn are divided into on average five districts, each headed
by a DAO. As with the PDA, the DAO is assisted by a number of AOs. Each
district is divided into an average of five divisions, each headed by a
Divisional Extension Officer (DEO) who directly lsupervises the work of the
frontline staff: the Technical Assistants (TA) ind Junior Technical
Assistants (JTA). On the whole, therefore, the existing line of command
from the Director of Agriculture to the TA/JTAs is relatively well
defined. Also the density of staffing compares favorably to most
developing countries. Despite relatively adequale staff numbers and the
well-defined line of command, Kenya's extension service has not realized
its considerable potential. There are several reasons for this. Junior
staff are less well trained than they should be, they visit few farms, and
most visits are to progressive farmers who represent only 10% of all
smallholders. There is a need to introduce a management system that
ensures that junior staff visiL farmers' fields and that they are
adequately trained to make appropriate recommendations to farmers. Other
problems also need to be tackled. There have been insufficient funds for
fuel and vehicle maintenance and consequently senior staff have been unable
to monitor and support the work of field staff; and have turned instead to
administrative work. Allowances, such as bicycle allowances, for junior
staff are generally not paid, resulting in lack of mobility and the need to
travel on foot, so that only a small fraction of their area is covered.
1.11      The Ministry's extension service covers all crops, except tea,
which is the responsibility of the Kenya Tea Development Authority. As a
tree crop, tea requires a considerable measure of specialization. Tea
extension staff also spend a large proportion of their time supervising the
timely collection of tea - critical if quality standards are to be
maintained.  For these reasons, it is not proposed at this juncture, to
integrate the tea extension service with that of other crops. The service
also includes home economic agents who work primarily with women's groups
(para. 1.13).



-5-
The Role cf Women Farmers and Home Economics Field Staff
1.12      Of the smallholder population over 17 years of age, almost 80% of
the men and 98% of the women work full-time in farming. Women are
classified as head of household on about 24% of the farms. On an
additional 11% of the farms they are classified as farm operators. In the
latter case, the husband resides on the farm but has regular daily work
elsewhere. Thus, around 35% of all smallholdings are run by women. Work
on the farm is divided between sexes, with women taking care of farm yard
crops, plcnting and maintenance of food crops and of livestock. In
general, men make the important decisions on crop mix and the use of high
cost inputs. Men are the managers of cash crops, responsible for all
decisions relating to cultivation and sale, even when they are temporarily
away from home. Despite the importance of women in smallholder
agriculture, extension workers have tended to concentrate on male farmers
because i) they are often the decision makers; and ii) the additional
responsibilities of women for household tasks and child upbringing has
meant that they are less available to attend training classes and meetings.
1.13      Over the years, women's groups, focussing on agricultural and
nutritional matters and supported in many cases by non-governmental
organizations, have become widespread. These groups meet once or twice
weekly at farmers' homes or at sites convenient to their members.
Government has increasingly supported the funding and organization of such
groups and has integrated home economics officers, whose job it is to
assist women groups, into the extension service. In the fall of 1983, with
assistance of SIDA (Swedish International Development Authority),
GovernmenLt intends to begin a three year intensive food production project
which ainms to upgrade the skills of home economics extension staff,
increase farm yard food production and improve nutritional habits. Home
economics agents will receive training under the proposed National
Extension Project and their activities will be integrated into those of the
Project (paras. 3.10 and 3.20).
Research
1.14     Crop research in Kenya is currently under the aegis of two main
bodies: the Kenya Agricultural Research Institute (KARI) in the Ministry
of Regional Development, Science and Technology, and the Research Division
of the Ministry of Agriculture. The relationship between the programs of
KARI and MOA is now under review, but it is likely that KARI will
concentrate on basic and long-term research, leaving applied research to
MOA. In the longer run, there is a need to further strengthen basic and
applied research and, once the institutional issues are resolved, it is
likely that Government will request additional assistance from donors. The
immediate concern of this project is with applied research and its focus,
therefore, is on the MOA.



-6-
1.15      As noted, the Director of Agriculture is responsible for research
in the MOA, although day-to-day responsibility is delegated to a Director
of Research. MOA controls seven national com=odity research stations,
seven Regional Stations and about twenty sub-stations and major trial
sites. It is also responsible for research stations for coffee and tea,
and it executes a number of bilateral and multilateral research projects
with donor agencies. There are about 400 Kenyan officers under the
Directorate of Research and a further 30 in parastatal commodity stations.
The major constraints impeding Kenya's research are: lack of facilities,
inadequate recurrent funds, high staff turnover due to inaidequate
incentives, absence of well-defined responsibilities between KARI and MOA,
lack of contact with the field and particularly smallholders and scarcity
of highly qualified manpower. There is a shortage of laboratories,
offices, housing and transpcrt.  Research staff lack the funds to visit the
field and spend time with extension staff and farmers and thus efforts to
strengthen extension-research linkages are hampered. Research staff need
to receive further training to increase the proportion of staff holding
post-graduate degrees (currently only 46% have a postgraduate
qualification).
1.16      The problems cited above are of a long term nature and need to be
tackled as part of a comprehensive national research project once the
institutional issues discussed in para. 1.12 are resolved.  During the
preparation and appraisal of this project the flank began a dialogue with
Government which is expected to result in a comprehensive research project
supported primarily through 'bilateral assistance. This dialogue will
continue during the implementation of this proposal project to ensure that
these problems do not impede the success of the National Extension
Program. Some constraints can be addressed in the short run. For example,,
the National Council for Science and Technology has recently embarked on a
Manpower and Training Plan for Agricultural Research. It is expected that
this will identify future training needs and will lead to a comprehensive
training program covering all research staff. MOA is also beginning to
expand its network of on-farm varietal trials.
1.17      Despite the lack of strong linkages with field activities, the
research services are a repository of valuable knowledge and the research
staff are generally more specialized and better equipped to analyse
problems than the specialists working in the extension service. This makes
the lack of regular personal contact between the two groups all the more
regrettable. Apart from some research station field days, lhe main vehicle
for disseminating technical knowledge to the exitension services and the
farming community is through research station bulletins and recommendations
prepared with the assistance of the Agricultura:L Information Center (para.
1.18). These are valuable in themselves, but their value would be greatly
increased by a closer interaction and exchange of observations between the
research and extension staff. There is also a need to strerLgthen the
economic content of research advice and to regularly update
recommendations (para. 5.13).



-7-
Training
1.18      Kenya has a substantial network of agricultural training
institutions, most of which are undergoing expansion. The World Bank is
providing support to the Faculty of Agriculture in the University of
Nairobi under the Fourth and Fifth Education Projects.  The University
trains about 100 agricultural graduates a year; the majority of these are
then employed in research or as technical officers at the district level.
Divisional extension staff are trained to diploma level through a three
year course given at Egerton College, which receives support from USAID.
In future, the Jomo Kenyatta Institute will also turn out diplomates. Some
200 diplomates per annum should be available for recruitment by the
Ministry of Agriculture in the next few years and this is expected to
increase to 300-500. Of the frontline field staff, TAs, who comprise about
45% of frontline staff, receive two-year certificate training from Embu,
Bukura, or the recently established Coast Agricultural Training Institute.
These three schools receive support under the Bank's Fourth or Fifth
Education Projects. Though diploma training is quite adequate, in service
follow-up training has been lacking.
1.19      The output of TAs available for recruitment by MOA is currently
about 200 per annum; this is expected to increase to 500 by 1987. Given
the small number of additional posts required under the National Extension
Program, and in light of budgetary constraints, Government's policy to hire
all graduates from the agricultural training colleges will need to be
reviewed.In this context, the forthcoming USAID-financed study of
agricultural manpower needs and availability is considered extremely
timely. About 45% of the front-line staff currently in the field are
JTAs. JTAs are generally secondary school leavers. They have no formal
training in agriculture, apart from a three-month in-service training
course on joining the Ministry and any training received after that. Their
lack of formal training, however, does not seem a major constraint. JTAs
have an excellent knowledge of their areas and have amply demonstrated in
the pilot project in Nandi and Kericho that, when given intensive
in-servi,ce training, they are capable of absorbing extension
recommendations, and passing them on to farmers effectively.
Agricultural Information Center
1.20      The Agricultural Information Center (AIC) is responsible for the
production and dissemination of agricultural information. AIC staff
produces short films, slides and publications for use in training of
extension staff and farmers. AIC facilities can accomodate 25-30 trainees
at a time. AIC has been strengthened through support provided, over the
past five years, by the UK Government. This support has included technical
assistance and capital aid for buildings, equipment and staff training. A
mission from the UK reviewed progress of the AIC program in early 1982 and,
as a result of its positive evaluation, the UK intends to maintain its
support to AIC through 1985.



-8-
Agricultural Credit, Marketing and Input Suppli es
1.21      An effective extension project cannot be seen in isolation from
the supporting services to the agricultural sector, particularly input
delivery, credit and marketing. The present input supply systems in Kenya
for seed, pesticides, fertilizer and credit (particularly short-term
seasonal credit) are unlikely to be a major constraint to Project
implementation in the short run.  Government recognizes that services to
the agricultural sector, especially to smallholders, need improvement, and
is taking appropriate measure!s, ranging from specific project investments
to its structural adjustment program (para. 1.30) to address these issues.
1.22      Credit.  Agricultural credit is available through a number of
institutions in the organized credit market, as well as through individuals
operating in an informal market. Four types of credit institutions can be
identified: i) commercial banks; ii) marketing boards; iii) agricultural
credit institutions; and iv) other institutions which provide suppliers'
credit (i.e. input suppliers).  Commercial banks and institutions that
provide suppliers' credit such as the Kenya Farmers'Association (KFA), do
not lend significant amounts to the smallholder farmers. Some of the
marketing boards, such as KTDA and the Cotton Lint and Seed Marketing
Board, also provide seasonal or medium-term credit.  Apart from tea,
however, which is excluded from the Project, the volume of these loans is
small. The main sources of seasonal loans are the Agricultural Finance
Corporation (AFC) and the Cooperative Bank of Kenya (CBK). Generally, AFC
handles loans to medium and large farmers, and CBK loans to small farmers.
The interest rate is set by Government, and is currently 13% per annum for
both institutions.
1.23      The major focus of AFC's lending is medium and long-term.
However, since 1980, it has been charged, together with CBK, with handling
Government's New Seasonal Credit Scheme (NSCS). Under the NSCS, AFC has
disbursed KSh 730 million between March 1980 and February 1983 to
farmers. Arrears for the 80/81 season were at 32% and for the 81/82, 44%.
CBK, on the other hand, lends through a network of cooperative unions and
societies.  It also handles the NSCS and, as of December 31, 1981, had lent
about KSh 90 million, with arrears of about 70%. CBK's lending operations
have increased steadily over the past few years, in part due to CBK's
serving as a financial intermediary for donor-supported credit programs,
while its profits have steadily decreased. CBK is also responsible,
through the cooperatives, for other short-term credit programs: the
Integrated Agricultural Development Project (IADP), the Farm Input Supply
Scheme, the National Poultry Dlevelopment Project, the Smallholder
Production Services and Credit Project, and the OCooperative ]?roduction
Credit Scheme. In comparison with the NSCS, the volume of credit handled
under these schemes is relatively small. For example, the total amount
disbursed under IADP over about 5 years was about KSh 45 million (to
September 30, 1981), with a repayment rate of 23%.  The low recovery rates
of all these programs mean that funds that should be revolving are
not,thereby resulting in a substantial drain on the Treasury. Government



-9-
is currently preparing a national credit policy paper which will address
the major issues of credit discipline, autonomy of the major financial
institutions in deciding who will receive loans, and institutional weakness
of the cooperatives. The Bank is following these issues closely under the
supervision of the AFC IV Project (Cr. 1143/Ln. 1995) and through sector
dialogue on agricultural credit policy and the future of Bank lending for
agricultural credit.
1.24      Crop Marketing.  Food crops are marketed through both formal and
informal channels. The National Cereals and Produce Board (NCPB) is the
main formal channel, and has a monopoly on the purchase and sale of maize
and wheat. To support this monopoly, there are controls on the movement
and marketing of maize and wheat, especially between districts. NCPB
purchases 20 to 25% of national maize production, although the percentage
of the annual crop purchased has fluctuated widely in recent years due to
the effects of price changes and drought. Medium and large scale farmers
sell their maize almost exclusively through NCPB, while only about 20 to
30% of smallholder marketed maize (total smallholder marketed maize
represents about 30% of total smallholder production) is sold to NCPB.
NCPB operates a number of depots and buying centers throughout the country,
the majority of which are in Rift Valley and Western Provinces, which are
the major maize surplus areas. Cooperatives and licensed private traders
also act as purchasers on behalf of NCPB. Most smallholders market their
maize through the informal channel, which is served by a large number of
small and medium size traders. Movement of more than ten 90-kg bags of
maize bet:ween districts is illegal; despite these restrictions, however,
the informal market handles about 70% of total smallholder marketed maize.
There is some overlap between the informal and formal marketing systems,
especialLy since many of the traders sell to NCPB. Due to good maize crops
in both 1981 and 1982, NCPB currently has about 600,000 tons of maize in
stock, which is approaching the limit of Kenya's storage capacity and is
well above the current approved level of the strategic reserves (200,000
tons). The situation is becoming serious, both in terms of physical
storage capacity and funds to finance new grain purchases. The Government
has refused to allow significant exports (45,000t have been sold to the
World Food Program), however, since untimely exports following the bumper
crop of 1978 were succeeded by severe maize shortages due to droughts, and
resulted in political problems. The Government is aware of the shortage of
storage facilities and has asked various donors to finance major additional
storage capacity. Government, however, recognizes that it will not be
sufficient just to build additional storage, and that NCPB's management and
financial situation also needs to be addressed. NCPB has in recent years
accumulated large operating deficits, which are partly the result of
insuffic:ient operating margins and Government policies which forced NCPB to
subsidize maize imports without direct compensation, and partly the result
of inefficiencies within NCPB. As part of its second structural adjustment
program (para. 1.30), Government is undertaking a study of maize marketing
and pricing, to assist in the reformulation of marketing and pricing
policies and the development of action plans to implement these policies
and to address the problems of NCPB. The study is expected to be completed
in September 1983, and progress in the area of maize policy reform is a



-10-
condition of release of the second tranche of the Second Structural
Adjustment Loan/Credit (Ln. 2190/Cr. 1277-KE).
1.25      Wheat, which is predominantly produced on medium and large farms,
is also channelled exclusively through NCPB, with KFA acting as a
purchasing agent and provid:ing storage facilities. NCPB is also
responsible for purchasing and distributing all wheat imports into Kenya,
which now total over 140,000 tons annually. Beans and other pulses,
oilseeds, sorghum, millet and other minor crops are sometimes marketed
through NCPB but most of the marketed volume passes through the informal
network. A recent sharp increase in the official price of beans caused an
overflow of beans marketed through NCPB in 1982, straining storage
capacity. A large quantity of these beans have been successfully exported
through the World Food Program, however. NCPB also acts as an agent for
the National Irrigation Board, marketing the rice which is grown on its
irrigation schemes.
1.26      All cotton is marketed through the Cotton Lint and Seed MarketirnLg
Board (CLSMB) which buys seed cotton from cooperatives, supervises ginning
at the mainly cooperative-owned ginneries, delivers lint and seed to the
terminal market and fixes grade standards. Operations of the CLSMB have
been less than satisfactory in the past, and the Board has particularly
suffered from financial difficulties and delays in making payments to
farmers.  The World Bank has recently approved a Cotton Processing and
Marketing Project (Cr. 1237--KE), which is addressing the key constraints of
management deficiencies, lack of trained personnel, late payments to
growers, inefficient ginnery operations and high production costs for
lint and cotton seed. Coffee is marketed by the Kenya Coffee Board throug;h
auction among licensed dealers. The Board is responsible for the promotion
of the industry including marketing and processing.  Tea sales are handledl
by the Kenya Tea Development: Authority (KTDA) for smallholder tea and by
the companies operating tea plantations. Tea is sold mainly at a regular
tea auction held in Mombasa. Marketing arrangements for tea and coffee are
fully satisfactory. Pyrethrum sales are channelled solely through the
Pyrethrum Board of Kenya, which collects dry flowers from smallholders,
analyses each batch for pyrethrum content and determines the level of
payment on this basis. The Pyrethrum Board has experienced difficulties in
recent years, in part because the world demand for pyrethrujm has fallen.
Payments to farmers as a percentage of the export price have been very low,
and have often been delayed. The Government has taken some steps to
rectify the situation, and there has been some improvement in the last
year.  Sugarcane producers are usually organized as outgrowers around a
nucleus estate and sugar factory, and sell their cane to the factory.
1.27      Farm Inputs.  Inpu.ts to the agricultural sector include
fertilizers, pesticides and other chemicals, seeds, tractors, hand
implements and other machinery and equipment. In volume terms, fertilizer
is the dominant farm input, and about 140,000 tons are imported each year.
Due to high fertilizer prices relative to domestic food and export crop
prices, fertilizer use has fallen somewhat in recent years. Use of



-11-
fertilizer on foodcrops grown by smallholders is low. All fertilizers and
chemica:Ls are at present imported, although this may change due to a
proposed National Agricultural Chemicals and Fertilizer Factory at
Mombasa. The factory should meet the bulk of Kenya's needs, although the
domestic cost is expected to exceed the world price of fertilizer.
Completion of the factory has been delayed, and it is not certain that the
project will now be completed. Most farm inputs are distributed through
the KFA, with its network of 42 branches and about 2,500 distributors and
stockists. However, the networks of KFA and other minor distributors are
well established mainly in the high and medium potential agricultural areas
where the demand for inputs is the greatest. The marginal and traditional
smallholder areas are less well served by input distributors. Fertilizer
imports and price margins are controlled by the Government. As a result of
the present price control system, margins are small and stockists find it
costly to transport and hold stocks of fertilizer and other regulated
inputs in areas where the demand for inputs is small. In such areas, the
cooperative sector plays an active role in the distribution process,
supported by such programs as the Farm Input Supply Scheme which provides
credit to cooperatives for input purchases. Improved seeds are produced
and distributed wholesale by the Kenya Seed Company (KSC), of which the
Governmlent is a major shareholder. The KSC has a good commercial record,
and has also produced improved seeds for export to other African
countries. While there is a need to improve the input distrubtion system,
smallholders would be able to purchase the required inputs in the proposed
Project: area. In the initial stages of the Project, the extension messages
will focus primarily on low cost methods of increasing production, such as
improved husbandry, timely planting, use of improved seed, and, for farmers
already using fertilizers, correct timing of fertilizer applications.
Requirements for purchased inputs would thus be kept minimal, particularily
for the smaller and poorer farmers.
Development Strategy
1.28      The Fourth Development Plan, covering the period 1979-1983,
contains the major statement of Kenya's agricultural development policy.
The Plan's broad objectives for sectoral development include (i)
encouraging overall sector growth; (ii) improving the balance of payments
by meeting domestic food needs and expanding exports; (iii) increasing
employment opportunities for the rapidly increasing number of new labor
force entrants; (iv) raising rural incomes; and (v) conserving natural
resources. Programs and measures proposed to support this growth focus
primarily on land use, marketing and pricing, and research and extension
services. Specific policies include: (i) minimizing Government
intervention in marketing and developing marketing facilities; (ii)
bringing agricultural prices in line with world prices; (iii) focusing
research and technology on encouraging intensive land use, developing arid
and semi-arid lands, improving smallholder production and promoting
exports; (iv) expanding employment opportunities through emphasis on
labor--intensive crops and yield increases; and (v) legalizing subdivision
and addressing major issues of land tenure and use. The Fifth Development
Plan, for the period 1984-1988, is now under preparation, and is expected



-12-
to continue the focus on smallholder productioni as the key to agricultural
development.
1.29      Shortages of maize and other basic food commodities in 1979 and
1980 led to a new concern over domestic food supplies. A separate Food
Policy Paper (Sessional Paper No. 4 of 1981) thus elaborates Government's
objectives and strategy for the foodcrop sector. The overaLll objective of
national food policy is to maintain a position of broad self-sufficiency in
the major food commodities without decreasing agricultural exports, in
order to avoid using scarce foreign exchange on food imports.  The paper
emphasizes that high rates of growth in key food commodities will be needed
to meet the rapidly increasing demand for food, primarily resulting from
the high population growth rate. To be fully self-sufficient in maize for
the coming decade, Kenya would have to expand maize production by 6.8% per
annum; for beans, milk and besef, the required growth rates would be 7.6%,
5.6% and 8.8% per annum respectively. Rates of growth of this magnitude
have rarely been achieved and sustained in the agricultural sector,
emphasizing the seriousness of Kenya's food supply situation. To achieve
these objectives, the Govermnent proposes policy measures and programs
similar to those in the Fourt:h Plan:  priority to investment in agriculture
and especially to subsistance food crops; improving agricultural services
in the areas of extension, credit and storage; improving the efficiency of
production, marketing and distribution; developing a well-defined land
policy; and increasing national storage capacity, including the
establishment of a national strategic grain reserve of four million bags
(360,000 tons) of maize.
1.30      The Government has also begun to address constraints to
agricultural growth through :Lts second structural adjustment program. In
the agricultural sector, the program promotes short-term recovery through
adjustment of pricing and marketing policies, which aim to increase farmer
incentives, and improve and develop marketing services; regularization of
the subdivision of large group-owned farms and examination of key land
issues, as a basis for policy formulation; and removal of budget and
management bottlenecks in the key operational ministries.  The Bank is
supporting these initiatives both through the Second Structural Adjustment
Loan and Credit (Ln. 2190-KE/Cr. 1276-KE) and the Agricultural Technical
Assistance Project (Cr. 1277-4KE).
C. Bank Group Support to Agriculture
1.31      The Bank Group is currently financing 13 projects in the
agricultural sector, encompassing a wide range of production-oriented
activities. The major smallbolder project is the Second Integrated
Agricultural Development Project (IADP II: Cr. 959-KE), which provides
support for a range of agricultural services, including extension, crop
marketing, credit and research. Production act:ivities supported by IADP II
include both food and cash crops, and dairying. Performance under IADP II
has been poor, however, due to problems of coordination among the many
institutions involved in project implementation, and to policy problems in



-13-
the areas of credit and marketing. The Bank therefore recommended, and
Government agreed in September 1982, that IADP II be disaggregated into
several projects, each focussing on providing one type of service (such as
extension or credit). The proposed National Extension Project would thus
replace extension activities under IADP II. Smallholders are also involved
in several cash crop projects supported by the Bank, including the
Smallholder Coffee Improvement Project (Cr. 914-KE), and the Cotton
Processing and Marketing Project (Cr. 1237-KE). The Bank supports both
smallholde!rs and nucleus estates under its two sugar projects (South Nyanza
Sugar, Ln. 1389-KE and Sugar Rehabilitation, Ln. 1636-KE). The Bank
finances miedium and large scale wheat producers in the Narok Agricultural
Development Project (Cr. 858-KE). Financing is also provided for an
irrigation scheme (Bura Irrigation Settlement, Cr. 722-KE), an integrated
semi-arid land development project (Baringo, Cr. 962-KE), fisheries
developmenit (Fisheries Project, Cr. 1051-KE) and forestry (Forestry II,
Ln. 2098/Cr. 1213-KE). Agricultural credit is financed through the Fourth
Agricultural Credit Project (Ln. 1995/Cr. 1143-KE) and through credit
components in several of the above projects. An Agricultural Technical
Assistance Project supports the Government's structural adjustment program
in the agricultural sector (para. 1.30). While Bank strategy has been to
diversify its lending throughout the agricultural sector, there has been a
recent emphasis on removing policy and institutional constraints to growth,
and on developing and intensifying smallholder production.
1.32      Project implementation has deteriorated in recent years, in
contrast to the relatively successful implementation performance in the
past. Factors accounting for implementation delays have varied widely.
Some of thae more pervasive factors have been the shortage of management
resources, cumbersome institutional and administrative procedures,
procurement problems, and budgetary shortfalls which have resulted in a
lack of local financing. Projects have tended to be overly ambitious and
complex. Kenya appears to have over-extended itself in accepting new
projects and new responsibilities for Government. Given the severe
financial and management constraints now facing the country, it is clear
that project investments need to be rationalized and more attention paid to
institutional capacity and development. In particular, there have been
problems with implementing integrated projects which require the
participation of several ministries and agencies; IADP II has been
experiencing problems in this regard, as have several other projects
(Baringo, and Smallholder Coffee Improvement). Over the past 18 months,
Government and the Bank have begun to look in depth at the causes of poor
project implementation, and have been discussing these issues during
semi-annual Country Implementation Reviews (CIRs). At the March and
September 1982 CIRs, several initiatives to improve overall performance
were identified including: i) improvements in the processing of
disbursement applications; ii) establishment, of a project monitoring and
coordinating unit; and (iii) further review and rationalization of project
commitments. In keeping with the decision to rationalize project
investmerts due to resource constraints, it was agreed to cancel a
substantial portion (para. 7.01) of funds included in the IADP II



-14-
and to disaggregate IADP II into several new projects (para. 1.31), each
the responsibility of a sing]e entity. They would be simple in design and
address the main institutional, financial and policy issues. As new
projects are prepared, it is important that close attention be paid to the
causes of poor performance in the past, and adaptation to the current
situation of limited financial and managerial resourc:es. This is what is
proposed under the National Extension Project.
II. The Pilot Project in Kericho and Nandi Districts
2.01      Background.  Late in 1981, Government,with assistance provided by
RMEA, initiated a pilot training and visit (T&V) projject in two districts,
Kericho and Nandi both of which are located in high potential areas. The
main objective of the Pilot Plroject was to test farmer and extension
worker response to the T & V system. The Bank arranged a tour (financed by
USAID) for senior government officials to visit successful T & V projects
in India and Thailand. The t:our amply demonstrated t:he potential benefits
of the T & V system.  Two consultants, specialized in T & V methods, were
recruited from India and financed under the IADP II credit which included a
component for strengthening agricultural extension. They arrived in
February 1982 just as the long rains began in most of pilot areas and were
joined by a third consultant, an agronomist (financed by the Bank) who was
to give special attention to crop recommendations. Approximnately 200
frontline (TAs and JTAs) staflf, the full complement of staff in the pilot
districts, were oriented to t:he T & V system and took up a
carefully-scheduled pattern of work based on a weekly rather than a
fortnightly schedule. On four days of each week, they visited groups of
contact farmers and on the fifth day, they were trained by the consultants
together with specialist staif from the districts and from research
stations.
2.02      Institutional and Technical Focus.  The pilot T & V Project in
Kericho and Nandi sought to determine if, in a relatively short period of
time, one could get the commitment of staff from all levels involved in
agricultural crop extension (senior Ministry staff, provincial level,
district level and frontline staff) to the T & V system. It also sought to
test to what degree research workers and the research establishment would
cooperate with the extension services and, whether Kenya's administrative
services could accomodate the system's demands. The pilot Project focussecdl
initially on only one crop, maize, the most important foodcrop in these
areas. Extension messages included (i) achieving a plant population of
55,000 plants per hectare compared to the usual 20-30,000; (ii) even
spacing of plants; (iii) modification of seeding practices so that seeds
were placed 4-5 cm deep in furrows, rather than the usual method of digging
a hole which places seeds 10--15 cm deep; (iv) timely weeding and ridging
during the weeding; (v) improved pest control; and (vi) use of a split
application of fertilizer wit:h N and P base and N topdressing (farmers
normally did not topdress and N was being lost due to leaching). These



-15-
recommendations aimed at making best use of existing resources and assuring
that fertilizer, when used, was applied to an optimum population at the
most appropriate time. Farmers were advised to apply the new T & V
recommendations on only a small portion of their fields to minimize risk
and to allow for a comparison with traditional farming practices.
2.03      Pilot Project Impact.  During the course of the pilot project the
frontline staff were able to maintain effective contact with and improve
the plots of farmers in the groups they worked with. With a four-day cycle
of weekly visits each extension agent was able to contact between 10 and 20
farmers.  It is estimated that some 6,000 farmers were contacted in the
pilot project, representing about 6% of the estimated 100,000 farm families
in the two districts. There was a wide distribution of plots across the
district. Non-contact farmers expressed considerable interest although no
data was collected on the actual numbers. District officials believe that
many more farmers will take up the improved practices in the next season.
"T & V p:Lots" were between 0.1 and 0.2 of a hectare (though some were
larger). Research participated actively in the monthly training sessions.
The pilot project experience has generated a healthy debate about different
aspects of the technology which have to be addressed by a more concerted
effort off collaboration between research and extension personnel.
Questions raised include: what is the optimum plant population under
various conditions; how to adjust fertilizer recommendation for different
resource levels; is ridging useful to reduce lodging; can shorter-stemmed
varieties be used; will variety changes permit increased cropping
intensities; and so on. The demand from farmers generated during the
pilot phase for improved knowledge and better adaptive research is key to
stimulating research staff to focus on the problems of the smallholder. As
a case in point, extension staff in the pilot areas are now actively
seeking research information and guidance on short-season bean cultivation,
and on mixed cropping systems. For the time being, there appears to be
enough research data and experience available to permit generation of more
useful extension messages but in the medium to long run there will be a
need to strengthen adaptive research to meet demand from a growing T & V
program.
2.04      It was clear that the training given by the consultants and the
transfer of messages for maize production throughout the season had been
practical and effective. Field staff knew what they were doing and were
proud of it. The pilot effort revealed that the training of agricultural
officers and research specialists is a top priority. Care must be taken to
see thali workshop training is in phase with the current season, and
focussed on the practical problems faced by field staff, rather than
academic teaching. During the nine month pilot period, the dialogue
between research and extension staff evolved considerably. This dialogue
should be encouraged through the proposed research-extension liaison units
(para. 3.12).



-16-
2.05      The T & V pilot project has been able to help a large number of
smallholder farmers to increase productivity. It has been possible to work
out and effectively communicate extension messages and staff have learnt
how to help farmers in the field to apply improve technology in a
relatively short time. The staff has also learned the value of farmer
feedback. Staff morale and motivation appearecl high. This is attributable
to various factors including the results achieved on the job; the interest
and support provided by senior staff, from the Director of Agriculture
down; on the job training which was heretofore not available; and to the
fact that staff received required transport andL allowances on time.
2.06      Yield Increases.  Yield increases resulting from the application
.of T & V recommendations were measured as-follows.  At harvest time, 5x5
meter crop cuts were taken by extension staff on a sample of about 300
participating farmers. In each case, one cut was ma,de on the T & V plot
and one on an adjacent part of the field for which unchanged cultivation
practices had been followed. The crop cutting exercise was launched, of
necessity, without full preparation and training of the staff in the
techniques, so randomization procedures were not as rigorous as would be
recommended.  There is a considerable body of evidence that the crop
cutting technique when applied on typical smal]holder fields in Africa
results in an upward bias in the range of 20-30% in the resulting yield
estimate. Given all the circumstances, it is not unlikely that biases in
the upper part of this range might affect the estimates obtained from
Kericho and Nandi.  However, the differences between the results obtained
from each pair of cuts should have greater validity than statements about
the absolute yields, as it is reasonable to postulate that the biases will
be of the same order in both.
2.07      Approximately 300 pairs of crop cuts (representing the 6,000
participating farmers), have been analysed. Significant findings are as
follows:
(a)    For 98% of the pairs, the T & V plot produced a higher
yield than the comparative plot. In three-quarters of the
cases these increases exceeded 20%. One-quarter of the
cases indicated T & V plot increases in excess of 70%.
(b)    There were no significant differences in the findings for
Kericho and Nandi Districts individually. The overall
median increase in yield in the T & V plots was
approximately 42%. The Kericho median was slightly higher
at 45% with Nandi at 38%
(c)    The range of yield increases is extremely wide ranging
from negative values to gains in excess of 140%. The
distribution throughout the range of 10-6C% increases in
remarkably even - approximately equal numbers in each
decile class.



-17-
(d)    There is some evidence that farmers who achieve
better-than-average yields using "standard" methods
achieved smaller gains using the T & V system in both
absolute and proportionate terms. This must be seen,
however, as a very tentative finding.
(e)    Absolute yields on T & V plots as estimated from the crop
cuts covered the range of 5 to 14 tons per hectare.
Allowing for the biases indicated above a range of 4 to 12
tons might be more realistic with the model value at 7 to
8 tons.
(f)    The increases reflect, of course, the improved efficiency
of the extension system and the quality of the messages
provided including plant population, sowing depth,
improved maintenance and use of fertilizers. The crop cut
data do not allow the contribution of each of these items
to be calculated individually. Nor is it possible to
identify secondary correlations with other factors such as
planting data or climatic conditions. The
interrelationships between such variables are complex and
it cannot be expected to estimate them from the data
available.
III. The Project
A. The Project Concept
3.01      The Project seeks to achieve sustained increases in agricultural
production in 30 of Kenya's 41 districts through the reorganization and
strengthening of Kenya's agricultural extension system and the improvement
of linkages between research and extension. The Project is based on the
methodology and lessons learnt from successful training and visit (T & V)
projects in other parts of the world and on the pilot effort that was
initialted in the districts of Nandi and Kericho in February of 1982 (para.
2.04). The selected districts cover the main arable areas of Kenya, where
some 913% of the population live (excluding the urban populations of Nairobi
and Momnbasa). The selected districts, or parts of districts, include all
high potential and medium potential areas. The medium potential areas
include marginal areas. Semi-arid areas which in Kenya are used for
extensive grazing, and this only during the rainy season, have not been
included.
3.02      The Project would extend over a four and a half year period.
This would include the pre-project period from November 1982 to June 1983
and the subsequent four years to June 1987. Seven additional districts
joined the T & V system in November 1982 bringing the total number of
districts following the system to nine. A decision on the number of new
districts joining the system in November 1983 would be based on experience
gained in implementing Project activities in the first nine districts



-18-
during the period November 1.982 - November 1983. Phasing of new districts
would be agreed with the Association during the Annual Worlc Plan exercise
(para 5.14).
3.03      The Project would be the first phase of a multi-phased
development effort which would first introduce the training and visit
system as the basis for the national extension program and then improve the
system's operation over time. The introduction of the T & V system entails
a basic reorganization of MCA's principal activity, the provision of
extension services.  The new system will affect the majorily of MOA's
employees as well as the general organization and management of almost all
the Ministry's programs. As such, the Project is one of institution
building and should not be viewed as simply another self-contained project
within the Ministry. On the basis of experience in other parts of the
world which have demonstrated the time needed t:o assure tha,t the
institutional reforms necessary for the success of the T & V system are
securely in place and also that the skill leveL of the field staff is
appropriate, it is envisioned that external assistance for the T & V
program would be required for from 10 to 15 years. During this period,
because of Kenya's financial difficulties, it iLs proposed to finance a
decreasing percentage of incremental operating costs.
3.04     To assist the establishment of the new system, the Project would
include the following components:
(a)    provision of 744 incremental staff (1 DDAE, I CROE, 65
AOs, 516 TOs, 20 RAEs, 1 accountant and 29 account clerks,
35 M&E enumerators and 76 drivers);
(b)    Investments to provide improved transportation
(20 cars, 75 4-WD vehicles, 192 mopeds and 1504 bicycles),,
office equipment, audio visual, aids and construction of
offices at the district and location levels;
(c)    incremental operating funds, travel allowances, vehicle
operating costs and extension materials;
(d)    training of extension staff at different levels;
(e)    support to adaptive research and improvement of research
extension linkages;
(f)    technical assistance; and
(g)    monitoring and evaluation.



-19-
B. Detailed Features
Organization of the Extension Service
3.05      Under the Project, Kenya's agricultural (crop) extension services
would be reorganized and intensified in 30 districts (see Map IBRD 16798R),
following the training and visit system adopted in other countries over the
past several years 1/. Project activities would provide farmers, on a
regular and systematic basis, with up-to-date advice on farming practices
best suited to their specific conditions. Proven practices, which would
have an immediate impact on incomes, would be emphasized. Extension
workers would visit farmers regularly and receive systematic training and
technical support from research staff of the MOA as well as research staff
from other institutions.
3.06      Each TA/JTA would be assigned to work with a number of farm
families. The number would vary depending upon local conditions such as
population density, settlement patterns, topography, agro-ecological
conditions and cropping systems. In the 30 districts that will be assisted
under t:he Project, there are about 1,600 TAs and 1,900 JTAs, or a total of
3,500 frontline workers to cover approximately 1.7 million farm families;
or an average of 1 frontline worker to every 500 farm families. This
compares favorably to a ratio of 1 to 800 for training and visit projects
in India.  It is estimated that only 58 additional TAs would be required to
ensure that no district has more than 800 farm families per TA/JTA
(para. 3.13).
3.07      To reach his farmers systematically, the TA/JTA would divide the
400 to 800 farm families in his jurisdiction into 8 smaller groups of 50 to
100 farmers each. He would visit each group regularly on a fixed day of
the week, once every two weeks. Thus each TA/JTA would cover four groups
in one week and four the next. As it would be impossible for the TA/JTAs
to visit each of the 50 - 100 farmers in a group on a given day, 5 to 10
contact farmers would be selected from each group. The selection process
for contact farmers will require TAs and JTAs to make an inventory of all
farmers in each locaton and sub-location. This inventory will also
identify particularly poor farmers whose progress will be monitored by the
monitoring and evaluation system (para 3.27). Contact farmers would be
practising farmers who command respect and influence in the community.
Large landowners, absentee landlords and part-time farmers with full time
jobs would not be selected as contact farmers. They would be responsible
for tbhe management of the farm and the principle decision maker. If the
farm owner is male but his wife manages the farm, then she would be the
contact farmer (para. 1.12, and paras. 4.11 and 4.12 of Annex 1). The
extension worker would work mainly with the contact farmers, demonstrating
to them the practices that would be followed in the next two weeks, and
involving as many other farmers as possible in the discussions and
1/   The main principles of the proposed extension reform are described in
Agricultural Extension: The Training and Visit System (World Bank,
L977).



-20-
demonstrations.  During each visit, the extension workers would concentrate
their efforts on a few strategically selected recommendations relevant for
that particular phase of the crop cycle. The extension message to be
communicated to farmers at the initial stage would be simple, concentrating
on the few important crops in. the locality and the most important aspects
of crop production practices. At the outset, the emphasis would be on
low-cost improvements (such as correct plant density and depth of planting
in maize, and/or on timely pruning and spraying in coffee), which the
majority of farmers can afford. To reduce risk, cultural practices
requiring basic changes would first be recommended for adoption on only a
small part of the farmers' fields.
3.08       Technical Officers (TOs) who would normally be diploma holders
from Egerton College or the Jomo Kenyatta Instiltute, would help, guide and
supervise TA/JTAs working under them.  One Technical Officer would normally
be responsible for about eight extension workers and would spend at least
four days a week visiting them in the field.  Once every two weeks,
extension agents would receive a full day of intensive training in the
recommendation for that period (relevant to the coming two weeks). The TO
would also participate in this training. Thus a TO would spend eight days
out of every two weeks visiting each of the eight workers under him and one
day in training. Once every two weeks, the TO would meet all his extension
agents in the field or at the divisional headquarters to review progress,
reinforce practical skills and identify topics to be raised at the next
training session. A Divisional Extension Officer (DEO), also a diploma
holder, would supervise the work of about three to four TOs and the
extension staff under them (see Table 1 for staff breakdown per district).
3.09      The District Agricultural Officer would be responsible for all
agricultural and training operating'in a District.  Agricultural Officers
(AOs), working under the District Agricultural Officer, would provide
regular training, continuous rechnical guidance and supervise field work.
Each district would generally have a team of from eight to nine AOs,
excluding the DAO, made up of the following officers; Extension and
Training, Home Economics and Rural Youth, Crops, Coffee, Horticulture,
Plant Protection, Land Development, Farm Management, and a Program
Coordinator. The District Crops, Coffee, Horticulture and Plant Protection
Officers would provide the major technical backstopping to the DEOs, TOs,
and frontline extension workers.  Over time, as a result of the additional
specialist training pro-ided for under the Project, these officers would
earn the title of Subject Matter Specialists.  They would spend about a
third to a half of their time in field visits and providing technical
support. The balance would be spent in training staff, participating in
monthly training workshops, building their stock of knowledge through a
regular dialogue with research workers, and carrying out farm tests and
controlled trials. The District Extension and Training Officer (DETO)
would play a crucial role in supervising staff, organizing the training
sessions and planning the training agenda in conjunction with the relevant
district specialist and research staff. The Home Economics Officer would
play a similar role for the home economics staff in each district.  The



-21-
Farm Management Officer would help plan, monitor and evaluate farm tests
and trials. The Land Development Officer would continue with present soil
conservation responsibilities. The Program Coordinator would continue to
work with project planning and implementation and assist the DAO with
administration.
3.10      Under the Project, the Home Economics Section would be
reorganized at the field level so that each District Home Economics Officer
would be in charge of a team of divisional TOs (Home Economics) which would
supervise a group of home economics TA/TJAs, each responsible for home
economics extension in a given area. Each TA/JTA, home economics, would
have a dual responsibility: (i) as an agriculturalist working in the same
way as other TA/JTAs; and ii) as an organizer of/and technical support
person to women's groups. To carry out this role, the work program would
be planned so as to enable the TA/JTA home economics to have a regular, but
reduced, visiting schedule of 2 to 3 contact farmers in the morning of
every visiting day (8 days per fortnights) and then to conduct women's
group act;ivities in the afternoon.
3.11      The Provincial Directors of Agriculture would be responsible for
all agricultural extension and training activities in the districts under
their jurisdiction. They would be assisted by a group of officers similar
to those at the district. The Provincial Extension and Training Officer
(PETO) would assist in the organization of training of district staff, and
in particular, the monthly workshops. The Provincial Crops Officer (PCO),
assisted by other AOs and the relevant Research Agronomist Extension (RAE)
would help district staff to plan and implement the fortnightly training
sessions. Key provincial specialists would spend about one half of their
time in the districts.
3.12      At the headquarters of MOA, overall responsibility for the crop
extension service rests with the Director of Agriculture. An additional
Deputy Director of Agriculture (Extension), DDAE, was appointed prior to
negotiations. The DDAE will have day-to-day responsibility for the
National Extension Project. In addition, a Chief Research Officer
Extension (CROE) has been appointed. The CROE will coordinate the work of
the research extension liaison units to be established (para. 3.12) and
focus exclusively on improving research linkages. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that Government would maintain suitably qualified officers
in the positions of DDAE and CROE and give them full-time responsibility
for day-to-day operation in their respective areas.
3.13      Research-extension liaison units would be established in six
regional research stations (one in each Province included under the
Project) and at six major commodity stations. Each unit would comprise a
Research Agronomist (Extension) (RAE) and for stations with major
responsibilities under the Project, a graduate assistant. The units would
provide the focus for improving extension-research linkages. Their overall
performance would be reviewed by Provincial Agriculture Research and
Extension Advisory Committees (PAREAC) (para. 5.12).



-22-
3.14      Staff required to implement the reorganized extension system
would be met by redeploying existing staff and by hiring new staff. A
detailed breakdown of staff requirements and availability by year, district
is given in Annex 1, Page 28a. The table below summarizes the staff
available and required by category for only 29 districts as the
requirements for Machakos District are provided for under the EEC supported
Integrated Development Project for that district.
Incremental
Post                  Total Required   Existing StaEf        Required
Headquarters
DDA (Ext)                                I              __               1
CRO (Ext)                                1              --               1
Project Accountant                       1              --               1
M & E Staff                              5               5
Provinces
PDA                                      6               6              --
Research Agronomist (Ext)                5              --               5
Asst. Research Agronomist (Ext)         15              --              15
AO/SMS                                  33              33               -
Districts
DAO                                     29              29              --
AO/SMS                                247              1851/            651/
Sr. Accounts Clerk                      29              --              29
DEO                                    140             140              --
TO (Gen. Agric)                        409              --             409
TO (Home Econs)                        135              -              135
TA/JTA (Gen. Agric & Home Econs)  3,386              3,328              582/
M & E Enumerators/Clerks                35              --              35
Additional Drivers                                                   76
1/ SMS of different disciplines required.
2/ Not included in project costs since this number of additional TA would
be available prior to project starting.
The positions of TAs, TOs, District specialists, and assistant RAEs would
be filled by new certificate holders, diplomate and university graduates
respectively from Kenya's agricultural training institutions. The output
of students from these institutes is sufficient: to ensure that all posts,
except that of the TOs, would be filled by the end of the second year of
the Project. Provincial specialists would be appointed by promoting
selected district specialist3 and recruiting additional university



-23-
graduates at the district. The post of Chief Research Officer (Extension)
would be filled by promotion. The Research Agronomists (Extension) would
be appointed largely from among existing research staff. Accountants
(level A III) would be recruited from the pool of eligible candidates kept
at the Treasury.
Investments
3.15      Transport.  Effective extension requires a high degree of
mobility to enable field staff to meet farmers regularly and to enable
technical and supervisory staff to make frequent visits in order to provide
the direct guidance needed. The entire system depends on frequent contact
between all levels of extension workers. To facilitate this, funds have
been provided for the following vehicles: cars for the two new headquarter
staff, six vehicles for the consultant team, two cars per province, two
vehicles per district, one vehicle for each research liaison unit.
Assurances were obtained at negotiation that as districts prepare plans for
the initiation of T & V activities, the MOA will arrange for a detailed
inventory and technical inspection of vehicles, indicating vehicle
availab:ility and additional vehicle requirements.
3.16      Junior staff will purchase bicylces or mopeds through salary
advances or on credit as experience shows this to be the best way to insure
proprer maintenance. Present loan entitlements by category of staff are:
TOs' motorcycles (100 cc), and TAs/JTAs'bicycles. The purchase of mopeds
which are less costly to buy and operate are provided for under the
Project. Currently, the terms and conditions of loans for the purchase of
bicycles are such that most field staff would not be able to afford to
purchase and in the case of motorcycles, to operate them. For a bicycle,
the maximum loan now available to a TA or JTA is KSh 900. The cost of a
bicycle is around KSh 1,500 - 2,000. Few TAs or JTAs have the necessary
KSh 600 down payment. No purchase arrangements have as yet been worked out
for mopeds as they are just now being introduced into Kenya. A solution to
the purchase price problem would be for the MOA to purchase mopeds and
bicycles in bulk which would result in a considerable cost saving (up to
35% of the retail price) which could be passed on to extension staff. At
negotiations assurance were obtained that: i) bulk purchase arrangements
would be used for all purchases of bicycles and mopeds to be financed out
of the Credit and Fund Loan and that these purchases would be financed
through salary advances and ii) all extension personnel working under the
Project: would be eligible to purchase either bicycles or mopeds.
3.17      Equipment and Audio Visual Aids.  All TOs, TAs and JTAs would be
provided with tape measures and portable spring balances, and very simple,
locally-produced visual aid equipment such as flip boards, poster boards,
and marker pens. In addition, audio visual equipment and office equipment
such as cyclostyle machines and typewriters at the provincial, district and
division level will be provided as necessary for training purposes.



-24-
3.18      Civil Works.  In most districts and some divisions, there is a
shortage of office space for field staff. With the appointment of
additional staff, this problem could become more acute. Also, facilities
for conducting training sessions are not always available. Where possible,
it is proposed to use training facilities belonging to other ministries, or
to use church or school facilities for the fortnightly training.
Experience with other projects in Kenya suggests that building components
proceed slowly. The building component of the project has been kept modest
and would aim to meet critical constraints only. Buildings would be made
of prefabricated materials to reduce costs and speed construction. It is
estimated that on average, one office per distriLct (40 m2) and one
additional office for every three divisions would be constructed during the
project period.  Thirty additional training facilities, to be located at
selected divisions and accomodating up to 20 students have been provided
for as, has additional office space at the eight: of the participating
research stations.
Incremental Operating Costs
3.19      Funds have been provided to cover incremental moped, bicycle and
travel allowances as well as other incremental allowances, such as
subsistance and overnights allowance, as provided'in Government
regulations. Provision has been made to cover the operating costs of
incremental vehicles (para. 3.14) and incremental costs of existing
vehicles (on average 8 per district) under the assumption that existing
vehicles would run an additional 8,000 km per year as a result of the
Project. Recurrent costs of miscellaneous extension materials (diaries,
log books, charts, instructional materials, samples of small implements,
seeds, fertilizers and pesticides) are also included under the Project.
Training
3.20      Training supported tunder the Project aims to i) or-ient key
Government officials to the new system; ii) upgrade the teclnical
knowledge of extension staff at all levels; and iii) improve the capability
of specialists to teach junior staff; and improve the communication skills
of all staff so they can effectively share ideas with farmers and with each
other. Funds have been provided under a Project Preparation Facility for
orientation and pre-project training. Pre-project and orientation training
includes half-day orientation meetings in each participating district for
senior Government officials and local leaders whose support is deemed
crucial for the success of the program, a one day orientation courses for
technical and field staff at the district level and for research station's
staff, and three day pre-season technical courses conducted for district
staff. In-service training includes: monthly workshops organized by
Provincial Extension and Training Officers and the Research Agronomist
Extension for AOs at the district level; fortnightly training organized by
the district extension and training officer together with the division RAE
for TOs and extension agents at the division level; communication
methodology courses for AOs and TOs; and refresher courses organized at the



-25-
national level also for agricultural officers and research staff. All
TA/JTAs, home economics, would take part in regular fortnightly training
sessions. At these meetings, they will receive the technical information
necessary to enable them to work with their contact farmers and to give
agricultuaral advice to their women's groups. They would, in addition,
receive a second type of training every alternate fortnight, at the
district level, at which District Home Economics Officers and TOs, Home
Economics, would prepare them for their non-agricultural work with women's
groups (nutrition, food preparation and conservation). Tours will be
organized in Kenya for field staff and to countries such as India and
Thailand for higher level staff to study the implementation of the T & V
system and to interact with staff who have had years of experience with
,this system. To promote technical and training skills in area related to
research extension linkages, selected research specialists and extension
staff will also be sent abroad for further training. Funds have been
provided for a small number of Master of Science courses.
Trainingr Publications
3.21      Funds would be provided under the Project to enable AIC to
produce, publish and update a comprehensive extension manual to be provided
to all staff, down to the TA/JTAs. The manual would be loose-leaf so that
pages could be replaced as the technology recommendations change. AIC
would be expected to produce other publications such as occasional
technical publications and teaching manuals, and to hold two sessions a
year to teach Agricultural Officers to use these manuals in their work.
Specialists would also be provided with visual aids such as slides and
printed charts to assist in teaching TA/JTAs. A monitoring manual would
also be developed during the first year of Project implementation. The
cost of training publications totalling KSh 12.5 million are included in
Table 3.01 and of other investment costs (cyclostyling machines,
prQjectors, cameras, and other equipment) in Tables 2.01 and 6.01 under
Incremental Equipment, and Support for Technical Assistance Services.
Research Extension Linkages
3.22      The training and visit system, based on regular visits by
frontline staff to contact farmers, and frequent exchanges between small
holders and frontline field staff and between front line field staff and
their mnanagers and the research establishment, requires a flow of new
technology to the farmers for its long-term success. Controlled research
trials and farm trials to test farmers acceptance would be a major
ingredient for improving the extension-research linkages and for better
adaptation of research recommendations to the many agro-ecological
conditions prevailing in Kenya. The Project would provide funds to ensure
the mobility of staff of the research liaison units. To this end, each of
12 liaison units would be provided with a tar or a light 4-wheel drive
vehicle and funding for its fuel, maintenance and repair costs and the
services of a driver. Provision has also been made for office equipment
for the RAE and the construction of low-cost office space when no
alternative solution is available at the station. In addition, travel



-26-
funds have been provided fcor other research officers, as appropriate, to a)
attend PAREAC and commodity meetings and monthly workshops; b) supervise
the network of controlled trials and monitor field trials, and c) assist
training activities related to the extension program.
Project Management Assistance
3.23      A team of internationally recruited consultants has been employed
to assist with project start-up and implementation. This team, financed
during the start-up phase with funds from the Project Preparation Facility:f
includes a team leader and a training specialist, both of whom are
stationed at headquarters, and four extension/trairnLng specialists who are
stationed in the provinces.  The consultants' initial contract runs over a
period of two and one-half years (180 manmonths).  It is expected that the
contract would be extended for a further two years on a reduced scale and
funds have therefore been provided to cover the costs of three of the six
consultants for this period, Under the initial contract, funds have been
provided for 30 manmonths of local support staff and for 48 manmonths of
short term consultancies to assist primarily with the development of
technical recommendations anid training. The average man-month cost
(including salary, fees, and housing) for long-term consultants is US$9,600
per man-month and for short-term consultants, US$8,600 per man-month.
Terms of reference for all long-term experts have been discussed and agreed
with Government.
Monitoring and Evaluation
3.24      The Project's monitoring and evaluation system is designed to
provide Project management with current information on the effectiveness of
the extension system. The emphasis, particularly in early years, is to be
placed on "monitoring" i.e. the provision of regular and current
information on program progresss to line management.  The monitoring and
evaluation system is fully incorporated into the Project management
structure so that it will become a management function.
3.25      Line management refers to the District Agricultural Officers
(DAOs) and their staff. The monitoring and evaluation system will,
therefore, be essentially district based.  The monitoring service will make
extensive use of the reporting system that is in-built into the training
and visit approach through the fortnightly meetings and monthly workshops.
Simple log books will be maintained by the TAs/JTAs in which they will
record the number of contact and non-contact farmers that have witnessed
their demonstrations. These data will be summarized during the fortnightly
meetings and displayed as a graph on the offices of the DEOs. Additional
data that is required for the system will not only be collected by district
staff, but will also be processed and analyzed by them.  (para. 5.16).
3.26      Evaluation of the extension program will not be in terms of yield
increases attributable to the project. These are difficult to establish,
except over a series of several years. Instead, it will be in terms of



-27-
adoption rates, i.e. the proportion of farmers that adopt and continue to
adopt the extension recommendations. The evaluation system of an extension
project needs to distinguish between the "medium", the deliverv system,  a
the "message", recommendations, which together constitute the overall
program. If farmers are prepared to adopt, at least on ar cnxrerimental
basis, the recommendations of the extension staff, this may be taken as
evidence that the delivery system is working. If the farmers continue to
adopt the recommendations, then this indicates that they consider the
recommendations sound. The project is thus evaluated as being successfui.
3.27      The main source of information on adoption zates will be through
a series of regular farmers' surveys to be conducted by district
enumerators on both contact and non-contact farmers' fields in each
division twice a season. No more than 60 farmers will need to be sampled
per division to indicate whether Project targets are being met. The
primary objective of these surveys will be to act as an early warning
device to inform the DAO and his staff where and when target adoption rates
are not being met. The surveys will not, in general, indicate the reasons
why farmers are not responding to the program. Special ad hoc community
studies conducted by the District Project Coordinator, the offirer in
charge of the monitoring and evaluation program, are the second line-of
enquiry and will be used to indicate why farmers are reacting the way they
do. These studies, using a rather more free-ranging case study approach,
will investigate how the farmers are interacting and will probe the
attitudes of the farming community to the program so as to identify
internal or external constraints to its effectiveness. Because of the need
for tight control in conducting such enquiries, the surveys which will be
conducted by TAs who will monitor one farmer each. Farmers will be
selected according to specific criteria if they have a T & V plot and a
non-T &, V plot. The data coming from these surveys will also be made
available to research establishments for more intensive analysis. Yield
surveys will also be conducted. They will provide supplementary data to
the dal:a generated through the farmer survey, and may help to explain why
recommendations are or are not being adopted. A central monitoring and
evaluation unit at Ministry Headquarters will coordinate and collate the
data that is produced by each of the district units. The central unit will
provide the DDA (Extension) with regular up-to-date information on project
progress at the national level.
3.28      The Central Bureau of Statistics (CBS) conducts, twice yearly, a
crop forecast survey in which production estimates for both the previous
and the forthcoming season are produced on a district-by-district basis.
CBS has agreed to include an additional question in their questionnaiare,
to ascertain whether the respondent has been exposed to the extension and
recommendations of the National Extension Project. This will allow for
an eventual comparison to be made at the national level between production
levels for farmers using traditional methods and for those using improved
practices. Such an analysis will be performed by the central unit after a
four or five year time-series has been established. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that a mid-term evaluation review would be carried
out before the end of June 1985 to review progress in Project



-28-
implementation including the phasing of additional districts and any
reorientation of Project activities which might be necessary in light of
Project experience.
IV. Cost Estimates and Financing
A. Cost Estimates
4.01      Detailed cost estimates are given in Tables 1-6.  They represent
the incremental cost of implementing the Project over a four and one-half
year period which covers the pre-Project period to June, 1983 and the
subsequent four fiscal years. The following table presents a summary of
Project costs:
KENYA
NATIONAL E YiENSION  F:OElECT
PRO."!  ",:I SUM,MARY
(K Sh Hillior;  (USS Million)  7 of
-------------- ------ ------------------- Forei8r, Z of Total
LDCal  For; .1 Tctzl  Loca1 Fcreign Total E)Bch8nEre Base Costs
A. INCREMENTAL STAFF  73.1   -   73.t   5.8  -   S.8  -    25.9
S. VEH- EaUlP 2 CIVIL WORKS  24.3  10.7 3).0  1.9  0.8 2.8  30.5   12.4
C. EXTtESIC1 CiPER. COSTS  03.1  11.4    9?.5    6.9  0,9    7.8  11.5  35.3
0i, TRAIN;IG3        17,6  12.0    2?.6   1.4  0.9   2.3  40.5  10.5
E. RESEARCH a/       2.5  1.1  3.5 0.2  0.1 0.3  30.0    1.2
F. TECHNICAL hSS!STANCE  2.5  39.0 41.5 0.2  3.1  3.3  94.0   14.7
Total BASELI!.E COSTS  202.0  74.1 282.1 16.4  5.B 2?.2  26.3   100.0
Phvsical Contingencies  13.5  3.,    17.1    1.1  0.3   1.3  20.9  6,1
Price Continsencies  49.3  14.7 64.0 W.9  1.2 5.0  23.0    22.7
Total MPJECT COSTS    270.  92.4 363.3 21.3  7.3 '8.6  25.4   128.B
===  ==- _._ =_z === ==__=    Z= ___==x
a)   Costs under Research above only include costs related to attendance
at inter-institutional mneetings and in farm trials. All other
costs, i.e. transport, incremental staff and training for research
are found under the respective headings above. If they were all
included under Research, they would account for 6% of base line
costs.
Project costs are estimated on the basis of prices prevailing in February,
1983 and adjusted for inflatilon. These costs include about US$5.1 million
in duties and taxes and an estimated US$7.3 million in foreign costs.
Physical contingencies of 10,' have been applied to vehicle and equipment
purchases, vehicle operating costs, training and research, and of 15%, to
civil works. Price contingencies were calculated on a cumulative basis
(4.5% in 1982/83, 7.5% in 1983/84, 7% in 1984/85 and 6% in 1985/86 and



-29-
1986/87) of total project costs expressed in US dollars at the exchange
rate prevailing at the time of appraisal as it is assumed that the Kenyan
Shilling will be devalued over the life of the Project so as to maintain
its relative value in terms of the US dollar. The cost estimates expressed
in Kenyan Shilling are thus notional and will depend on changes to the
exchange rate over time.
B. Financing
4.02      The financing to cover total project costs of US$23.5 million
including contingencies, but net of taxes and duties would be provided as
follows:
Source                   Millions -----         Percentage
KSh              US$
IDA               193.0            15.0            65
IFAD               76.0             6.0            25
GOK                30.0             2.5             10
Total             299.0            23.5           100
4.03      The proposed IDA Credit of US$15.0 million would be to GOK on
standard terms and conditions and would finance about 64% of Project costs,
net of taxes and duties, including about 71% of foreign exchange costs
(US$5.2 million) and about 60% of local costs (US$9.8 million equivalent).
The IFAD loan of US$6.0 million would be to Government for.50 years with 1C
years grace and with a 1% service charge. The loan would finance about 25%
of net Project costs, equivalent to, about 29% of foreign exchange costs
(US$2.]L million), and 25% of local costs (US$3.9 million equivalent). The
Government of Kenya would contribute about 10% of total Project costs
(US$2.5 million), consisting primarily of local salaries. Government would
pass on the proceeds of the IDA Credit, the IFAD Loan and its own
contribution to the Ministry of Agriculture. Conditions of effectiveness
include: i) that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Fund
Loan Agreement (other than the effectiveness of the IDA Credit Agreement)
have been fulfilled; and ii) that the Fund has appointed the Association
as Cooperating Institution to administer the Fund Loan on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Association. The Government of Kenya has been
granted a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) advance of US$1 million to
meet the costs of start-up training, monitoring and evaluation and
associated vehicle and equipment requirements. Adequate budgetary
provision for the first year of the Project has been made by the Treasury.
Budgetary provision for future years will be monitored closely through the
Annual Plan exercise and by supervision missions (paras. 5.15 and 6.03).
4.04      In order to assist the Government in pre-financing expenditures
reimbursable under the IDA Credit and IFAD Loan, a special account would be
established. An amount of US$0.8 million equivalent (equal to about three
months of disbursements for the initial years less those items to be
disbursed for directly by IDA and IFAD) would be financed under the Project



-30-
and established in a Project: account at the Treasury. If necessary, the
limit of the fund will be adjusted upwards in years three and four of the
Project. IDA and IFAD would replenish the amount from the Credit and Loani
accounts upon receipt of evidence of disbursements from thes special account
for agreed expenditures (approved in the Annual Work: Plans) (para 5.14).
In the case of any disbursements made from the special account which prove!
to be unacceptable to IDA, Government would deposit a corresponding amount
in the special account.  During negotiations, agreements were reached on
the terms and conditions for the operation of and accounting for the
special account. The opening of the account at the Treasury would be a
condition of Credit effectiveness.
C. Procurement
4.05      The main items to be financed are:  vehicles, including bicycles
and mopeds, and equipment; construction of offices for extension and
specialist staff; local and overseas training; project monitoring and
evaluation and incremental staff salaries;  and incremental operating
costs. Bidding packages for goods (vehicles, bicycles, mopeds and
equipment) would be prepared on an annual basis and those expected to
exceed US$50,000 equivalent would be procured by international competitive
bidding in accordance with the Bank's procurement guidelines; otherwise the
goods would be procured following local procedures which are acceptable to
the Bank. Vehicles (US$1.8 million before cont:ingencies) would be procured
through international competitive bidding. Current Treasury orders require
assembly in Kenya of all pic'k-up trucks and four-wheel drive
vehicles. Receipt of evidence acceptable to the Association that
appropriate arrangements have been made for theW importation of pick-up
trucks and 4 wheel drive vehicles to be financed out of the IDA Credit and
the IFAD Loan is a condition of Credit effectiveness.  Bicycle requirement,
(US$142,000) would exceed US$50,000 annually orLly in 1986/87 of the
Project; procurement procedures would offer a limited choice of makes to
cater for users' preference in as much as bicycles are to be purchased by
extension staff.  Equipment (US$360,000) includes routine office and
audio-visual equipment and simple tools produced locally. These items
would be purchased in annual increments of from US$60,000 to US$70,000 froma
local suppliers following local procedures acceptable to the Association as
ICB procedures for the small quantities involved are not justified. Civil
works for offices (US$580,000) would be scattered in time and location and
contracts would be awarded following local procedures; there are numerous
capable local contractors.  Assurances on procurement procedures mentioned
above were obtained during negotiations.
4.06      The balance of pro-ject costs (US$19.5 million) would consist of
local training and fellowships (US$2.3 million), incremental salaries and
travelling allowances (US$11.3 million), and incremental operating
expenditures for offices and vehicles (US$2.3 million), research (US$0.3
million) and consultant services (US$3.3 million) which would not involve
procurement. All of the above figures exclude physical and price
contingencies which are estimated at US$6.3 million.



-31-
D. Disbursements
4.07      Funds from the Credit account and Fund Loan account would be
disbursed pari passu on the following basis:
Percentage to
US$ Million      be financed
IDA      IFAD
Category   I:  Vehicles & Equipment
(i)   Vehicles                       0.4        0.2   100% of foreign
expenditures
33% of local
expenditures
(ii)   Equipment                      0.2        0.1   100% of foreign
expenditures
67% of local
expenditures
Category  II:  Civil Works                     0.4        0.2          85%
Category III:  Incremental Operating
Costs
(i)   Salaries                       2.0        0.9          64%
(ii)   Vehicle Operating Costs        1.0        0.4          85%
(iii)   Travel Allowances              2.8        1.3          85%
(iv)   Bicycle Allowances             1.7        0.7          85%
(v)   Stationery and Printing        0.1        -            85%
Category  IV:  Orientation, Training
and Research                   1.6        0.4   100% of foreign
expenditures
85% of local
expenditures



-32-
Category   V:  Consultant Services             1.8        0.9         100%
Category  VI:  Amount due from the Project
Preparation Facility
Advance                        1.0        ---  (Amount due)
Category VII   Initial Deposit, Special
Account                        0.6        0.2  (Amount due)
Category VIII: Unallocated                     1.4        0.7
TOTAL                                      15.0       6.0
4.08      Disbursement categories have been designed so that each category
corresponds to a group of accounts in the Government ledger, in order that
statements of expenditure may be supported by ccpies of the relevant ledger
accounts as well as supporting documentation. Disbursements for
incremental operating costs and local training costs will be made against
statements of expenditure, which will be prepared monthly. The DDAE will
certify that these statements are in agreement with the relevant ledger
accounts, copies of which wilL accompany the claims. Statements of
expenditure will not be audited separately as verification of the relevant
ledger accounts forms a part of the regular audit conducted by the Auditor
General. The ledger accounts and supporting documentation will, however,
be retained for inspection or audit should IDA require it. Assurance on
all these procedures were obtained at negotiations. Disbursements against
all other items would be fully documented. Disbursements from the Credit
and Loan account are expected to be over five years, faster than the
experience of other agricultural projects in Kenya as (i) the project is
being implemented by a single ministry; (ii) procedures for claiming
disbursements for the project rely on an the Government's established
accounting system; and (iii) direct payment procedures will be used for
vehicle purchases and payment of consultant costs.
E. Accounts and Audits
4.09      Accounts.  Project accounts will be based directly on the
existing Government accounting system, which contains adequate controls and
produces timely reports. The project will be identified as a separate
budget line (head) and each district or station will be identified as a
separate subhead. Items for type of expense will correspond to specific
components of the Project, which will facilitate the preparation of Project
accounts. MOA's Accountants Controller will follow Project accounts. He
will write up a memorandum record of Project costs monthly, on the basis of
the Government ledger. The detailed Government ledger statements for the
relevant head will be retained by the accountant as the Project Ledger.
The Accountants Controller will also maintain a continuous record of
disbursement claims submitted and a monthly program report on outstanding
claims. The DDAE will submit monthly accounts to IDA, comprising the



-33-
record of project costs, a reconciliation of costs with claims and the
progress reports on outstanding claims. At the end of each year, once
Government accounts are finalized and ready for audit, annual accounts will
be prepared on the same format as monthly accounts and submitted to IDA
within four months of the year end accompanied by a certificate from the
DDAE that project costs shown for the year are in agreement with the final
unaudited Government ledger. Assurance on all these procedures were
obtained at negotiations.
4.10      Audit:  Project accounts will form part of Government accounts
and will be audited by the Auditor General in the normal course of his
audit. Audit controls are systematic and thorough. The Auditor General's
report to Parliament will contain a separate statement of project costs by
line item. The usual delay from year end until the Auditor General has
finalized his report, "The Appropriation Accounts, is about ten months,
but final figures rarely differ from the final unaudited ledger figures, so
that the delay is acceptable to IDA once they have been certified by the
Auditor General. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the audited
accounts will be submitted to IDA, accompanied by a certificate from the
DDAE that the annual unaudited Project accounts previously submitted
(para. 4.09) are in agreement with the audited accounts.
F. Environmental Impact
4.11      Project investments are not expected to have an adverse
environmental impact. The Project would emphasize the appropriate use and
application of agricultural chemicals, and would promote effective erosion
control measures.
V.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Management of Project Component
5.01      Overall responsibility for Project implementation would be with
the Ministry of Agriculture, under the Permanent Secretary. The Director
of Agriculture is responsible for general agricultural development
including the technical aspects of all extension and research activity.
While responsibility for agricultural development rests with the Director
of Agriculture, the newly appointed DDAE would be, subject to policy
directives of the Permanent Secretary and the Director of Agriculture,
fully responsible for the day-to-day operations and management of the
extensLon service both technically and administratively. The newly
appointed Chief Research Officer, Extension (CROE) would be responsible for
research activities together with the directors of the research stations
participating under the Project. The DDAE would participate in the review
of all research activities. Responsibility for Project implementation at
the provincial and district levels would rest with the respective PDAs and
DAOs (paras. 3.09 - 3.11). A techincal assistance team will assist



-34-
Government in planning, implementing and monitoring the Project (para.
3.23). The team leader would be directly responsible to the newly
appointed DDAE.  The provincial extension consultant would also assist the
PDAs and the DAOs in planning and implementing the program at their
respective levels.
5.02      The DDAE would be assisted by administrative and accounting staff
working in the Office of the Chief Accountant of MOA who would keep records
of Project expenditures and help prepare progress reports (para. 4.08).
The accountant would perform the following tasks: i) coordinate budget
preparation and submission arnd follow through up to the issuance of AIEs;
ii) maintain the Project ledger and produce monthly expense reports; iii)
prepare disbursement requests, record them and follow-up, including the
preparation of a monthly reconciliation of Project costs with claims
submitted and a montly progress report on outstanding claims; iv) prepare
annual accounts and statements of reconciliation with the Government
ledger; and v) provide additional financial information as required for
Project monitoring and evaluation. One account's clerk has been provided
for each district to assist with Project accounling at the dlistrict level.
Training
5.03      Several kinds of training activities are planned.  These fall
under two general headings: a) orientation and pre-Project preparation
training and b) in-service training. During the period October to December
of each year, initial orientation training would be carried out in the form
of three day workshops held at the provincial le!vel, for the districts to
be included in the following calendar year. Participants would include the
Provincial Director of AgricuLture and specialist staff, the District
Agricultural Officer of the new district, the district: specialists, the
District Extension officers, the principals of the farming training centers
(FTCs) located in the new dist:ricts, and representatives of research
stations who have expertise on main crops in the province. For two of the
three days of the workshop participants would be divided into small
groups. Each group would focus on the following: i) importance and
benefit of extension-research linkage; ii) Project actions at each level
(district, division, location, sub-location and farmers); iii) the flow of
technology and the method by which the choice of crop should be decided and
impact points defined; and iv) formulation of the extension program for the
up-coming long rains. At the end of the orientation training, participants
would be divided into two groups.  Each group would, over the next six
weeks, be asked to prepare a specific field assignment and then return for
a further three day session to present their findings. -Group One would
focus on training and visit implementation and would be made up of the
District Agricultural Officer and extension and training officers
(provincial, district, divisicn). They would i) guide field staff through
a process of defining boundaries of coverage for each TA/TJA by name,
selecting contact farmers per TA/JTA, preparing daily visit schedules in
chart form and a map showing the fortnightly cycle; ii) divide the TA/JTAs
into fortnightly training groups and fix permanent days for training at the



-35-
divisional level; and iii) prepare orientation courses for all field staff
below the divisional level and a short briefing session for district and
divisional staff of other ministries and agencies. Group Two would focus
on technology development and would be made up of the Provincial Director
of Agriculture, the provincial and district specialists and researchers.
This group would i) define the present cropping practices of the main crops
grown in the district and select crops to be included in the next seasons'
extension program; ii) appraise constraints and difference farmers'
dividing the constraints by know-how credit availability, supply of inputs
and other pertinent factors; iii) suggest improvements to cropping
practices and define separately for each crop three simple but important
practices which would have the greatest impact on increasing yields; and
iv) prepare an extension program detailing activities to address
constraints and promote adoption of newly recommended practices.
5.04      In addition to the orientation courses, Provincial and District
Agricultural Officers would attend training courses at the AIC, outside
Nairobi, in communications and extension skills. The objective of the
course is to make extension officers more competent and effective trainers
(para. 1.18).
5.05      A variety of in-service training courses will be offered
throughout the Project period. These would include up-grading courses for
district and provincial specialists to be followed by up-grading courses
for TAI'JTAs, monthly workshops and fortnightly training, and basic
accounting courses. These courses would be planned on a commodity basis.
The up-grading courses for TA/JTA staff would be planned at the district
and divisional level and held at FTCS. Course content would be decided by
the directors of the relevant research stations and the Provincial
Extens,ion Training Officer of the host province.
5.06      Monthly workshops will be organized initially for two days each
month to review and adjust the recommendations and training content planned
for the coming four week period in the light of weather conditions or
special problems signaled by front-line staff. The sessions, consisting of
considerable practical work, would involve staff in preparing lesson plans
and learning materials that would be reviewed over the next month. These
workshops are also intended to update and improve the knowledge and
practical skills of district and division staff, and to develop a team
spirit, based on shared aims and problems, between extension and research
staff. Responsibility for the organization and the logistics of the
workshops lies with the Provincial Extension and Training Officer (PETO),
while research participation and technical content will be coordinated by
the Research Agronomist Extension (RAE) of the regional research station.
In conjunction with the monthly workshops, regular visits would be
organized to research stations or field trials to examine and discuss
progress on applied research efforts. The DAO and representatives of
organizations involved in input supply, credit and marketing would be
invitetd to participate in such visits. In addition, the PETO and DETO
would organize similar visits for field extension staff to improve their
skills and broaden their perspectives.



-36-
5.07      Fortnightly training is organized for TOs and TAs/JTAs at the
divisional level. This training is organized by the district extension and
training officer (DETO) together with specialist staff. These one day
sessions include a discussion on events of the past two weeks highlighting
problems and experience with previous recommendations and farmers immediatie
concerns. Questions are answered, or routed through the monthly workshops
to research or other appropriate organizations through the district
office. Part of the time is spent doing actual field work so that field
staff are able to do the things they will be telling farmers about during
the next cycle of visits. Time is also spent learning about preparation
and use of learning materials, group interaction and communications.
In-house basic accounting and general administration courses will be
organized by MOA under the Agricultural Technical Assistance Project (Cr.
1277-KE) for district accounting staff. These courses, which will run for
two weeks, will be given to group of 10 - 15 participants and be offered at
regular intervals throughout the year.
Technology Generation and Linkages to Extension
5.08      The continuous flow of technology relevant to the needs of the
majority of the farmers is key to the success of the training and visit
system. For this technology to be generated in an efficient and relevant
manner and for it to flow effectively from research to the field, the links
between research and extension must be strengthened. In Kenya, as in many
other countries, research personnel criticize extension for not
communicating their requirements, and extension personnel critize research
for not developing appropriate technology. The Kenyan extension service
has not as yet generated an effective demand for technological information
focused on the needs of the smallholder and the research staff has not had
sufficient opportunities or incentives to observe and analyse problems at
the smallholder level. A feedback mechanism from the smallholder via
extension to research is not yet in place.  The research st-iff are
generally more qualified and specialized, and therefore better equipped to
analyze problems than are the specialists working in the exlension
service. Therefore research personnel have a particularly important role
to play in bridging the gap between their activities and those of
extension.
5.09      The monthly district workshops would be the key link between the
research centers participating in the Project and the extension service
(para. 5.06). The quality and relevance of the research output will he
enhanced through the activitiess of the liaison units to be established
under the Project (para. 3.12).  The activities of these units will be
coordinated and complemented at the headquarters level by the CROE, who
will have overall responsibility for ensuring the improvement of research
extension cooperation (para. 5.02). Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that a report wiLl be prepared by Nay 31 of each year by the
Director of Research MOA, and the CROE, highlighting progress made over the
past year in research, extension interaction.



-37-
5.10      Provincial Agricultural Research Advisory Committees (PARACs)
were established several years ago, but they have functioned sporadically.
They will be revitalized under the Project. To reflect their new method of
operation and expanded responsibilities, the name of the committee will be
changed from PARAC to PAREAC, the Provincial Agricultural Research and
Extension Advisory Committee. The Chairman would continue to be the PDA
and the secretary, the director of one the relevant regional research
stations. The CROE would coordinate the work of the PAREACs and see to it
that their recommendations are reflected in research policy and programs.
It would be the responsibility of PAREAC to develop an overview of all
agricultural activities and enterprises in the province with the goal of
determining an order of priority among them. The regional research program
budget recommendations, the field trial and- testing program and the annual
plan of extension activities would be discussed by PAREAC which would pass
on comments to the appropriate entities (e.g. MOA, input supply groups,
research stations) at the national level. The PAREAC, much like its
predecessor, would be a large body composed of regional and national
researchers, provincial and District specialists and officers, and selected
farmers. It would convene at least once a year, well in advance of the two
main cropping seasons and after the results of the former season are
available. To make it functional, it is proposed that its main work be
carried out through the year by the newly created Provincial Commodity
Research sub-committees which would meet as needed and focus on the
development in the Province on specific commodity groups: i) cereal crops;
ii) other food crops including most cultures; iii) temporary industrial
crops; anid iv) permanent crops. These sub-committees would pass on their
recommendations to the PAREACs.
5.11      The National Commodity Advisory committees would meet annually
for two days (usually in January), and prepare a synthesis at the national
level, of the work of the PAREAC sub-committees in each province. The
national committees would review the current status of technology and call
the attention of national agencies to commonly expressed needs and problems
in such areas as commodity pricing, marketing, input suppy and credit. As
the chairman of the relevant PAREAC sub-committee would attend the
corresponding national committee in early January, these meetings would
also serve as a channel of information concerning the above topics to the
PAREAC meeting before the main planting season. The commodity groupings
would be the same as those of the PAREAC commodity sub-committees (see
para. 5.01).
5.12      Controlled Trials.  Controlled trials will be used for verifying
research station results in a series of farming zones, at FTCs or on
farmers' fields. They will be jointly planned and supervised by research
at the regional researcher stations (or commodity station) and the
provincial specialists under the general guidance of the RAE. The Research
Agronomist, Extension will be assisted by the Provincial Commodity Research
Sub-Committee, for the pertinent experiment (para. 5.10).  The control and
supervision of each trial site will be the responsibility of the Divisional
Extension Officer in whose division the site is located. The DEO will



-38-
assign a Technical a day-to-day basis. Supervisors should assure that a]ll
cultivation activities are implemented in accordance with the experiment
design. Trial results wilL be analyzed and collated by the Regional
Agronomist Extension with the assistance of the respective researchers and
specialists. District Farm Management Officers and farming systems
economists based on research stations will be jointly responsible for
ensuring that (i) trials are designed to take account of labor and cash
constraints; (ii) technical and non-technical factors influencing farmers
decisions are noted; and (iii) there is an adequate system for recording
patterns of input use and of yield measurement. They will assist in the
analysis and interpretation of trial results.
5.13      Farm Tests.  The research results wDuld be tested on farmers'
fields before being introduced as extension riecommendations. The objective
of the farm testing program would be to guide the extension staff on how to
adjust the recomemndations to differing farm situations. Even with
recommendations formulated to fit the various agro-ecological conditions,
it would be necessary to adjust the recommended package of- practices in
relation to: a) various cropping sequences; b) reliability of water supply;
c) farmers' skills; d) farmers' resource and risks; and e) agro-climatic
conditions. Although this testing is primari:Ly the responsibility of the
Provincial Crops Officer (PCO), it is importaint that the research service
be associated with the tests so that problems and insights communicated by
farmers can be addressed, when necessary, by fresh experinientation at the
appropriate research station. The farming systems economist at the
regional research station wDuld provide a usef-ul liaison. The overall farm
testing program would be monitored by the Regional Agronomist, Extension at
the regional research station. Participating farmers, who would often be
contact farmers, would bear the cost of the trials unless the input costs
are substantially higher than those associated with recent practice and/or
the risks involved are significant in which case the trial cost could be
borne by the program.
Annual Work Plans.
5.14      Annual work plans, providing an infcrmative description of
proposed work to be undertalcen and a detailed budget for such work will be
prepared by all stations responsible for implementing activities to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and Loan. Stations include:
headquarters Nairobi (including AIC), the province, the district and the
research station. In October of each year, each station (those already
participating and those scheduled to come on-stream) would prepare a
detailed "forward plan". By mid-November of each year, the PDA would
collect the detailed forward plans from the DAOs in his province and send
them, along with the forward provincial plan, to the DDAE Nairobi. By
mid-November, the director of participating research stations would send
the CROE, Nairobi detailed "forward plans". The DDALE and the CROE would
then review the forward provincial, district and research station plans,
obtain the required information on salaries and combine them into a summary
forward Project annual plan which would be sent to the Association for
comment.



-39-
5.15      The combined costs for physical plant, staff resources, training
costs and operating expenditures reflected in the detailed forward plans
would serve as the basis for MOA's forward budget request to the Treasury
for the National T & V Project. When the Treasury's annual budget review
exercize is completed (February/March), final budget estimates will be sent
to the stations with guidelines for revisions of the forward work plans as
appropriate. By mid-April revisions would be forwarded to the DDAE via the
PDA for the districts and directly to the CROE for research station
activity. By mid-May, the DDAE with the assistance of the CROE would
prepare a revised final plan which would be submitted to the Association
for approval and which would serve as a basis for Project disbursements.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that (i) a draft annual work plan
and budget would be submitted to the Association for review and comment by
the end of November each year; (ii) a revised annual work plan and budget
would be submitted to IDA for review and approval by May 31 of each year;
(iii) plans would include a breakdown by district and by province of
extension activities to be financed at the district and provincial levels,
over and above those financed under the T & V Project; and (iv) annual
disbursements for specific Project components would be conditional upon IDA
approval of that section of the annual work program and budget. The plan
covering the period January to June 1983 has already been approved by IDA.
The plan for the period July 1983 to June 1984 would be finalized during
the start-up supervision mission, end June, 1983.
B. Monitoring & Evaluation
5.16      The monitoring and evaluation system is to be organized at the
district level under the overall control of the DAO. The District Project
Coordinator (DPC) would be the officer in charge of the district program.
He is to be assisted with data preparation and processing by a district
clerk who will be of a similar grade (grade D/E) and will have received
similar training to the enumerators. Enumerators will be drawn from the
monitoring and evaluation staff previously employed under IADP II (about 60
in all). They are to be stationed in all districts participating in the
National Extension Project. In the first year (1983/84) each enumerator
will cover one division. From the second year onwards, as the number of
districts increases, enumerators will be transferred so as to cover two
divisions each. No incremental staff will be required until 1985/86 when
21 new enumerators and clerks will be recruited. The total incremental
requirement by 1986/87 will be 35 enumerators. If this staff increment
cannot be met, an alternative monitoring and evaluation sample design may
be introduced mid-way through the Project, which would reduce the manpower
requirement. Two professionals and two support staff (2 Monitoring and
Evaluation Officers (Grade 5) and 2 Monitoring and Evaluation Assistants
(Grade H)) will work at the Central Project Monitoring Unit at MOA
headquarters on T & V related activities. A micro-computer is to be
acquired by the unit which will be operated by the assistants.



-40-
C. Project Completion Report
5.17      Towards the close of the Project period, the Government would
prepare a Project completion report summarizing performance under the
Project and evaluating its successes and probLems. The preparation of this
report would provide an important input into ithe design and orientation of
any second phase project. The final report would be submitted to the
Association not later than six months after the expected closing date
(January 1, 1988). Assurances to this effect were obtainetd during
negotiations.
VI. Benefits, Justification and Risks
6.01      Total Project costs over the four and one-half year development
period, net of taxes and excluding price contingencies, would be US$17.2
million, which is about US$6.85 (KSh 88) per ha of cropped land or about
US$10.0 (KSh 128) per farm family, assuming 1.7 million farm families in
the districts covered by the Project. Incremental costs after the projectl
development period, which would be met by the Government's recurrent
budget, would be about US$6.0 million (KSh 76.5 mil:Lion) annually, or
US$3.50 (KSh 45) per farm family. Incremental costs would not be recovered
directly, except for taxes and levies on sugar production and when the
export price exceeds Kenyan pounds 1000/t on coffee. Increased yields
resulting from Project efforts would, however, help in reducing potential
food imports and in increasiLng foreign exchange earnings, (especially for
coffee, cotton and beans.
6.02      Economic Benefits., Attributing a precise level of benefits to
this type of project is diflicult, as it is not possible to determine what
proportion of benefits are due to extension alone and what are due to
additional purchased inputs and other factors. In practice, it is the
combination of a number of f:actors that brings the desired benefits, with
extension playing the role cof catalyst. It is also difficult to calculate
acceptance rates for various recommended practices. Moreover, because
recommendations will vary according to crop, district, agro-ecological zone
and the level of the farmer, it is difficult to estimate what yield and
production increases will be. Typical farm budgets, based on the pilot
project experience in Kericho districts, present examples of possible yield
increases achieved in those districts for maize (Tables 6 6& 7). Since the
Project relies primarily on the reorganization and strengthening of an
existing extension structure, the incremental cost per hectare and per farm
family is low. Thus, even small production increases in the Project areas
would generate a high rate of return. This project would concentrate
initially on the principle smallholder crops: maize (1,175,000 ha), beans
(1,100,000 ha), cotton (130,000 ha), coffee (118,000 ha), sugarcane in
Western Kenya (32,000 ha), and potatoes (49,000) in the highlands.  Tea, ana
important smallholder crop, will continue to be the responsibility of
extension staff working under the direction of the Kenya Tea Development



-41-
Authority (KTDA). The average yield levels per ha of small farmers are low
(maize 1490 kg, beans 200 kg, cotton 215 kg, coffee 745 kg, potatoes   7 to
8 tons aind sugarcane 20 - 30 tons). There is great variability in the
yield levels of small farms and it is estimated that good farmers, applying
proper cultivation techniques, are able to double these average yields for
most crops. The margins are particularly wide for maize. Smallholder
yields in the high potential areas could easily increase from the present 3
tons/ha to a 4-5 tons/ha by merely applying low input husbandry measures.
ApplicatLon of these measures would also increase yields of other crops by
an estimated 20 to 30%. The yield potential of available varieties is far
above th:Ls increase, but realisation of this potential would probably not
be obtained until after the proposed T & V system has become fully
effective. The economic analysis (Table 4) is based only on benefits
.accruing from increased maize production, as maize is the major smallholder
crop. To achieve a 20% rate of return by 1989, maize yields would have to
increase by 164 kg/ha (11%) on all smallholder maize acreage or by 328
kg/ha (22%) on 50% of acreage. In view of the available research results
on maize cultivation in Kenya and the results of the pilot project, such
increases are quite conservative.
Project Risks
6.03      The Project involves the reorganization and restructuring of the
major activity of the Ministry of Agriculture, providing extension
services., Unlike training and visit extension projects in India, this
Project will not involve a major reorganization of lines of command and the
transfer of extension workers from one ministry to another. However, it
will introduce new methods of providing extension advice and managing
extension staff which will probably take some years to be fully accepted.
While a great deal of enthusiasm has been generated at all levels of
GovernmerLt during the pilot phase, there is a clear risk that without
continued and frequent supervision by IDA, both from RMEA and from
headquarters, the initial momentum may diminish and the principles of the
extension reform will not be fully adopted and permanently
institutionalized. A second risk relates to budget cuts. For the Project
to succeed it is essential to maintain the mobility of the extension
staff. The Project includes funds for incremental operating costs which,
though small in relation to the number of families served, will, based on
past experience, tend to be the focus of Government's budget cutting
exercise. Only careful control of these expenditures combined with
frequent supervisions will guard against the risk of the Project's not
having sufficient funds to ensure staff mobility.
6.04      A third risk concerns the generation of adequate research
findings on which to base extension recommendations. Initially,
availability of suitable technology for different crops will not be a
constraint.  The mission examined the availability of technologies in depth
and concluded there are a sufficient number of research findings which are
not yet widely adopted and could adequately serve as input to the extension
effort during the first phase the Project. Major yield increases can be
achieved even without the introduction of new technology by bringing the



poorer farmers to the level of the better farmers (paras. 2.02-2.16 of
Annex II). To reduce the risk of technological constraints lowering
anticipated Project benefits, the Project supports programs of field
testing of research results and measures to increase extension service
contacts with research stations in order to ensure a continuous flow of
recommendations adapted to specific regional problems. In the long term,
however, Kenya's research system needs to be strengthened and research
goals and priorities clarified. The Government is presently seeking
bilateral assistance for a National Research Project, and the United States
has indicated its interest in supporting such an effort. Strengthening of
the research system and development of a suitable project will be closely
monitored during the Project period (para. 5.08), and the start-up of a
project focused on research would be a condition for proceeding with a
second phase National Extension Project. There is a risk that progress in
reaching agreement with Government on issues surrounding current pricing
and marketing policies for maize which are being addressed under the Bank's
structural adjustment program (para. 1.30) will not be forthcoming and that
farmers would then not have as much incentive to pursue packages aimed at
increasing their maize production as quickly as is expected. Labor
constraints do not appear to be a risk; however, the effect of T & V
recommendations on family labor will be closely monitored by the M & E
studies in order to determine what additional labor, if any, is required,
in carrying out the recommendations as well as the cost/benefit of using
additiornal labor, Lastly, there is the risk that the pace with which the
system was introduced within the pilot districts may not be as rapid in the
new T & V districts, The phasing of new districts will be worked out with
the Association, on the basis of past experience, during the Annual Work
Plan exercise (para 3.02).
6.05      Other Project risks would be minimal.  Kenyan farmers are
responsive to new technologies (witness the rapid spread of hybrid maize in
the 1960s), provided that they are profitable. Farmer services, such as
input supply, credit and marketing, require further development (paras.
1.21 to 1.27) but.should not be a constraint to the Project.
VIIo  Agreemenits Reached & Recommendations
7.01      At negotiations, assurances were obtained on the following
issues:
(a)    Government would maintain suitably qualified officers in
the positions of DDAE and CROE and give them full-time
responsibility for day-to-day operation of the extension
service in their respective areas (para. 3.12);



-43-
(b)    As districts prepare plans for the initiation of T & V
activities, MOA will arrange for a detailed inventory and
technical inspection of vehicles, indicating vehicle
availability and additional vehicle requirements (para.
3.15);
(c)    In regard to the purchase of bicycles and mopeds:
i) bulk purchase arrangements would be used for all
purchases of bicycles and mopeds to be financed out
of the Credit and Loan funds.
ii)  all extension personnel working under the Project
would be eligible to purchase bicycles or mopeds;
(para. 3.16);
(d)    A mid-term review of Project activities by the Government
and IDA would take place after the first two years of
Project implementation no later that June, 1985 (para.
3.28); questions discussed would include the phasing of
new districts and any reorientation of Project activities
in light of past experience;
(e)    The terms and conditions for the operation of and
accounting for the Project special account (para. 4.04);
(f)    All Project expenditures would be documented in accordance
with procedures specified in para. 4.08;
(g)    The account procedures would be in accordance with those
detailed in para. 4.09;
(h)    In regard to the audit of Project accounts:
i) memorandum Project accounts, accompanied by a
certificate from MOA that Project costs shown for the
year are in agreement with the final unaudited
Government ledger will be submitted the Association
within four months of the year's end (para. 4.09);
ii)  MOA will submit audited accounts accompanied by a
certificate that the Project costs shown for the year
in the memorandum Project accounts-are in agreement
with the audited accounts (para. 4.10);
(i)    A report will be prepared by May 31 of each year by the
Director of Research MOA, and the CROE, highlighting
progress made over the past year in research, and
extension interaction (para. 5.09).



-44-
(j)    Government would submit.
i)  a draft annual work plan and budget to the
Association for review and comment by ,_nd October of
each year (para. 5.14);
ii)  a revised annual work plan and budget to the
Associat:ion for review and approva:L by May 31, of
each year (para. 5.15);
iii)  plans would include a brea:kdown by district and by
province of extension activities to be financed at
the district and provincial levels, over and above
those financed under the T & V project (para. 5.15).
(k)    A Project Completion Report wou:Ld be submitted to the
Association no later than six months after the closing
date (para. 5.17).
7.02      Conditions of credit effectiveness would be:i) that all
conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Fund Loan Agreement (other
than the effectiveness of the IDA Credit Agreement) have been. fulfilled
(para 4.03);  ii) that the Fun,d has appointed the Associatoin as
Cooperating Institution to administer the Fund Loan on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Association Cpara 4.03); iii) that the Special Account
had been opened at the Central Bank (para. 4.04); and iv) receipt of
evidence acceptable to the Association that apprcpriate arrangements have
been made for the importation of pick-up trucks and 4 wheel drive vehicles
to be financed out of the IDA Credit and IFAD Loan (para 4.05).
7.03      Annual disbursements for specific Project components would be
conditional upon the Association's approval of that section of the annual
work program and budget (para. 5.15).
7.04       Subject to the above conditions, the proposed Project would be
suitable for an IDA credit of US$15.0 million to the Government of Kenya on
standard IDA terms.
May 13, 1983



KENYA
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Project CosPonent bu Tise
(K Sh Million)
Total
Base Costs            ---------------
(US$
82/83 83/84 84/85 85/86  86/87   K Sh  Million)
A. INCREMENTAL STAFF            0.8   9,3  14,7  22.3  26,0   73,1         5.8
B, VEH, EQUIP I CIVIL WORKS    1.2   5.6   9.5   10.4    8.3   35.0        2.8
C. EXTENSION OPER. COSTS        1,3  12.1  19,5   30.9   35.8  99.5        7.8
B. TRAINING                     1.3   4.4   6.8    8.6    8.4   2-9.6      2.3
E. RESEARCH                     0.1   0.6   0.8    0.9    1.1    3.5       0.3
F. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE         3.4  11.8  11.6    9.4    5.3   41.5       3.3
Total BASELINE COSTS              8.1  43.7  63.0  82.4   85.0  282.1       22.2
Physical Contingencies         0.4   2.3   3.8    5.2    5,5   17.1       1.3
Price Contingencies           0.2   3,9  10.9   20.9   28,3   64.0        5.0
Total PROJECT COSTS               8,7  49.9  77.6  108,4  118.7  363,3   .28.6
Taxes                          1.8   8.7  14.1   19,3   20.5  64.5        5.1
Foreign Exchange               4,2  18,1  23.8  25.3   21.1   92,4        7.3
Ma1@ 23, 1983 12:38



NAIUL [XTEIISIO ""LECT
Table 101 IWHUEJTMAL S1FF SLMAIES
4teailed Cost Tlble
(K Sh '0;v)
Ouantity                                          D;sp Costs;                      Pha.
------------------------------------  Ibit --------------------------------------------------  ont, For,   Gross   Sumary
Unit    82/83 83/04 04/85 85/86 86/87 Total  Cost 82/83   B3/84   84/85    85/96    86/87    Yotal   Rate  Exch. Tla  Rate Accoint
1. RECURRENT COSTS
A. INCPETENTAL STAFF SAWARIES /a
NEADDUARTERS - DPA (Ext) - Grade N                        statf  sear   0.5     1      1     1     1    4.5  100   50.0   100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0         54.0     0      0     O.10  1OOO
HEADQUARTERS - CRO (Ext) - Grade n                        statt Year      -     I     I      I     1       4   75      -    75.0      7S.0      75.0     75.0    360.0       0     0     0.15  ITIOOO
HEADQUARTERS - PROJECT ACCOUNTANT - GRADE J/K            stiftr gear   0.5      1     1      1     1    4.5  50   25.0    50.0        500      50.0     50.0      5.0     0      0     0.12  I111OOO
PRDOVICES-RESEARCH AGRONOIISiS (Ext) - GRADE L /b         staff vear      -     5     5      5     5     20   60       -   300.0    300.0    300.0    300.0  1,20).0         0     0     0.12  ITHOOO
PROV1ICES-ASSISTAN1 RA (Ext) - GRADE J/ll/b               staff vear      -     7    It    15    15      48   50       -   350.0    550.0    750.0    750.0  2 '0QO0        0      0     0.12  I111000
DISTRICT-51S - GRADE J/K /c                              st.ift sear     4    26    38    55    65    IB8   50  200.0 1300.0  1,900.0  2,750.0  31250.0  9TA0.0           0      0     0.12  IT11090
DIVISION-10 - GRADE G /d                                  statf  vear    12   126   210   332   381  1J061   30  3.60.0 b709.9  6,300.0 o 9,60.0 ij30.0 31 , 3. j,          D      O      D.;. . I
DIVISION-TO (Home Econ) - GRADE 6 /e                      staft vear      1    45    75   110   135    366   30   30.0 1,350.0  2P250.0  1.300.0  4,050.0 10,980.0          0      0      0.1  ITW'OO
DISTRICT - Senior Accounts Clerk - GRADE F /T             statf  gear    -    12    19    26    29       96   25       -   300.0    475.0    650.0    725.0  24150.0        0      0      0,1 1IIHOO
DISTRICT - n I E ElOIIERATORS I CLERKS - GRADE D/E /   staff Jear        -     -     -    21    35      56   20       -        -        -    420.0    700.0  1,120I 0      0      0      0.1  ITHOOD
SUPPORT STAFF -Drivers - Headguarters - Crade C /h        staft sear     -      3     4     3      3     13   16       -    48.O      64.0     40,0      48.0    293.0      0      0      0.1  lThO"
SUPPORT STAFF - Drivers - Province - 6rade C              stat? sear     -      8    12    15    14      49   16       -   128.0    192.0    240.0    224.0    784.0        0      0      0.1  ITHOOO
SUPPORI STAFF - Drivers - District - 6rade C              ita?t uear     -      9    22    35    45    III   16        -   144.0    352.0    560.0    720.0  1,7'A.0        0      0      0.1  I(OOO
SUPPORT STAFF - Drivers - Research - Grade C              staff year      -     9    12    12    12      45   16       -   144.0    192.0    192.0    192.0    720.0        0      0      0.1  ITMOOO
Sub-Total INCREHENTAL STAFF SALARIES /a                                                                               665.0 B6OiP.0 12,B00.0 19y395.0 229614.0 63JU43.0
B. HOUSING ALLOWANCES                                        stat? Year      -     -     -      -     -      -         99,8 1,210.4  I20.0  2,909.3  3,392.1  9,531.5          0      0         0  ITNvooo
-- - - - - --   -------  --------     -------   -- - -
70T1 .-l' PECME    COSTS                                                                                                 764.7 9.279.4 14 770.0 22O.30J 264006.1 73.074.5
Total OASELINE COSTS                                                                                                      764.7 9.279.4 14,720.0 22,304.3 264006.1 73,074.5
/a Dkes not include FDA, DAOt DEK   Provincial SnS and TA/JTA who are
alreads in Post, Salaries for 1982/83 taken at halt the sear s reouirefent for JanJune. No cost rrovisions sade
in this and followina tables for Machakos District.
/b  Includes Staff for six Coemodits Resverch Stations
and six Resional Statiorn.
/c  Staff reouired for each sear should ProrerlY be recruited in the preceding
fiscal Year to be in time for the start of the crop season   However, due to anticipated delays in recruitment,
no Provision has been made in Preceding fiscal eears, Nurbers of District SIIS from Annex IF Table S
/d  As in the case of District ShS. Nmabers of Divisioral TO from Annex 1  Table 4.
/7  Additional TO (Hose Economics) reouired to supervise locational level
TA (Hose Economics) bas-d on I TO (Home Econ) Per Division and 5 Divisions Per District, Phased by number of
districts imrlesenting TIV, Exception in 1982/83 where two To (Home Econ) considered adeouabt for
Pilot Districts,
/t  One Per District, recruited a halt sear before the District
enters the T I v program.
/   Incremental reouirements above the existing 60 enumerators.
/h  Driver appointmwnts correspond to increasing number of
vehicles and incremental operating costs for new vehicles (Tables 201 and 301).



KENYA
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Table 201. INCR:EENTAL VEHICLES, EC'IPMENI I ClUTL WORKS
lietailed Cost Table
(K Sh '000)
Ouantits                                           Base Costs rhv.
------------------------------------- Unit ------------------------------------------------- Cont, For   6ros   Sussaru
Unit B2/81 83/84 84/85 85/86  86/87 Total  Cost  82/83   83/84   84/85   85/86    86/87   total   Rate  Exch. lax Rate Account
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. VEHICLES
HEADOUARTERS - Car la                                   ea       2     -      -      -      -      2  1H0   280.0         -        -        -        -    280.0   0.1   0.3       0.64  11H210
HEADPiQARTERS - 4-UD /b                                 ea       -     2      -      -      -      2  200        -   400.0         -        -        -    400.0   0.1   0.2       0.76  111210
FROVINCES - Car /c                                      ea       -     4      4      4      -     12  170        -   480.0   480.0       80.0        -  1,440.0   0.1   0-4       0.55  ITh1210
FPROVINCES - 4-UP /d                                    ea       4      -     -       -     -       4  200   800.0        -        -        -        -    800,0   0.1   0.2       0.76  11X210
DISTRICT (for training) - 4-UP /e                       ea       -     5      8      8      8     29  250        - I2,50.0 2,000.0  2.000.0 2,000.0  7,250.0   0.1   0.2          0.76  ITM210
DISTRICT-40D /f                                         ea       -     3      8     15      8     34  200        -   600.0 1.6000  3,000.0 1,600.0  6,800.0   0.1   0.2           0.76  1i(210
RESEARCH-Car /9                                         ea       -     6      -      -      -      6  120        -   720.0         -        -        -    720.0   0-1   0.4       0-55  I11T210
RESEARCH-40  th                                         ea       -      3     3       -     -      6  200        -   600.0   600,0          -        -  1,200.0   0.1   0.2       0.76  IT\1210
DISTRICT/DIVISION - Hoped /i                            ea       -     -    69      45    78    192   12         -        -   828.0    540.0   936.0  2,304.0   0.1   0.5         0.47  1111210
DISTRICTfDIVISION - Bicscle /i                          ea       -   105   456    328   615  1,504  1.2          -   126.0   547.2    393-6   738.0  1f104.8   0.1   0.7          0.23  1111210
Sub-Tot2l VEHICLES                                                                                            1,080,0 4,176,0 6,055.2  6.413.6 5.274.0 22,998.8
P. EOUIPMENlt Audio Visual, Training I Office Eauip,
SET FOR DISTRICTS  /k                                   ea       -     9      6      9      5     29   40        -   360.0   240.0    360.0   200.0  1.160.0   0.1   0.4           0.5  IT11220
SET FOR RESEARCH (monthly training) /1                  ea       -      3     3       -     -      6   40        -   120.0   120.0          -        -    240.0   0.1   0.4        0.5  IT11220            4-
SET FOR DIVISIONS  /a                                  c        -    45    30      45    25    145    1         -    45.0    30.0       45.0    25.0    145.0   0.1   0.1        0-15  T11220
EOUIPMENT FOR DISTRICT OFFICES  /n                       ea      -      9     6       9     5      2?   20       -   1800.  t20.0    180.0   100.0    580.0   0.1   0.5           0.44  T11220
EOUIPMENT FOR RESEARCH STATIONS  /0                     ea       -     9      3      -      -     12   15        -   135.0    45.0          -        -    180,0   0.1   0.6        0.3  ITN220
COMPUTER FOR 11 I E at NEADOUARTERS /P                  ea       -      I     -       -     -       1   90       -    90,0         -         -       -      90.0   0.1   0.5      0.45  IT1220
Sub-Total EtUIPI/EUiT. Audio Visual, Trainins I Office Eauip.                                                        -   930.0   555.0    585.0   325.0  2,395.0
C. EOUIPMENT FOR FIELD STAFF
SET FOR TA/JIAs /l                                      ea    200   900   700  1,200   400  3,400  0-5   100.0   450.0   350.0    600.0   200.0  1,700.0   0.1   0.7              0.23  IT11220
SET FOR DIVISIONS /r                                    ea       -     -    24      57    18      99    5        -        -   120.0    285,0    90.0    495.0   0.1   0.7         0.23  1111220
Sub-Total EQUIPMENT FOR FIELD StAFF                                                                             100.0   450.0   470.0    8'85.0   290.0  2,195.0
D. CIVIL WORKS
OFFICES (incl. furniture) DISTRICT /s                   ed       -     -    10      10      9     29   50        -        -   500.0    500.0   450.0  1,450.0  0.15   0.2         0.17  111400
OFFICES (incl. furniture) DIVISION /t                   ea       -     -    40       40    40    120   25        -        - 1.000.0  1000.0 1000.0  3.000.0  0.15   0.2           0.17  ITH400
TRAINING FACILITIES (incl. furniture) DIVISION /u    ca          -     -    10      10    10      30   85        -        -   850.0    850.0   850,0  2.550,0  0.15   0.2         0.17  It11400
OFFICES FOR RESEARCH  /v                                ea       -      -     2       3     3       8   50        -       -   100.0    150.0   150.0    400.0  0.15   0.2         0.17  1T11400
Sub-Total CIVIL VORKS                                                                                                -       - 2.450.0  2.500.0 2.450,0  7,400,0
Total IIW.STMENT COSTS                                                                                           1.180.0 5,556.0 9.530.2 10,83.6 8.339,0 34,988.8
Total BASElINE COSTS                                                                                              II1800. 5,556.0 9t530.2 10,383.6 8039.0 34.988.8



/a Car (2.0 lit.) for DDA (Ext) and CRO (Ext).
/b Two 4-UD for consultants.
Ic rwo cars (1.5 lit) Per Province,
/d Four 4-ID for consultants.
/e  Caravan or long wheel based landrover to transport District SMS
for training as reouired.
/t Twenty five 4-VD for Districts, as reGuired.
/g One car for each of 6 Comodity Research Stations,
/h One 4-WD for each of six Regional Stations,
/i Assumes 50% of TO (General Extension) and 10 of TO (Home Econs) would
take loans for mopeds one vear after recruitment. Phasing of TO s as in Annex 1 Table 4. Number of TO
(Home Econs) at five Per District with two in 1982/83 in Pilot Districts, Staff recruited in 1986/87 not
Provided for.
/i Assumes 50% of TA/JTA would take bicycle loans one year after
recruitment. Phasing as in Annex 1 Table 4. Includes sililar Provision for h 1 E enumerators as follows:
21 (1984/85)i 10 (1986/87). Staff recruited in 1986/87 not Provided for.
/k Each District would be Provided with: I camera, 2 slide Projectors and screens,
1 overhead Projectors I Portable generator, 2 knapsack spragers (training), and misc. eouipment, Each set
would cost KSh 40,000.
/i Each Regional Research Station would be Provided with an identical
set of eouipment to that of the Districts (see Previous footnote).
/m Each Division would be Provided with blackboards, easels, etc. at a cost of KSh 1,000
Per Division; at 5 Divisions Per District.
/n Each District Office would be Provided with: I cyclostyle machine; 1 typewriter
and other miscellaneous eQuipment at a cost of KSh 20.000.
/o Each Regional and major Commodity Research Station will be Provided with
1 typewriter, furniture and other misc. eeuipsent at a cost of KSh 18,000.  10 stations to be included.                                                           OD
/p Micro cosputer (64 K) Plus dot satrix Printer, Winchester disk drive.
/a Tape measures, Balances, handbags, etc. Based on the number of TA/JTAs by year
(See Annex 1i Table 4), figures rounded.
/r Each Division to be issued 1 desk calculator, I odometer, 1 Prismatic compass for use by
h I E staff. Forty two sets alreadv issued in the field,
/s Proposed extensions to existing District Offices to Provide
an avera4e of an additional 3 offices for SMS Per District. Offices would be Pre-fabricated and built in
blocks 4 a x 10 m. Average cost, including electrical connections and furniture would be K Sh 11200/m2 or
K Sh 50,000 Per unit for one block of threp officps,
/t Proposed extensions to selected Divisional Offices at two additional
offices each. Offices would be Pre-fabricated and built in blocks 4 m x 7 a. Average cost, including electrical
connections and furniture, would be K Sh 900/a2 or K Sh 25,000 Per unit of two offices.
/u Proposed new training facilities in selected Divisions,
on average in every third Division. Facilities would include building and furniture to accomodate 40 to 50
People.
/v Proposed office extensions to selected Research Stations at a cost as for District
office extensions above,
--------------- -------- -----------------------------------__----- -----------__---------- --------------------- ---- ------ ------- - --------- _-- --------------__------___________
Mav 23, 1983 12:38



a) O
:-    v   s  to    I       O 7bbcl~c sevrB w                                                  O W                                   C     140_S    bBs^   
Co  -)   -4    011    "-.                                       COOS        Om             I   -I      I                 m- mm-     Zr , B0m   m  l  OS   8
C)   VBZ       C)    0  OC  00      W       C    Co        Co  mWOOOOOCCCC                            WWWWWOOCC   I C  I O VS 
C)    a   w)    'C    , C)    m4 -    0   43--             D      CC       O O   D O            m C m-IC O                 I -    Zm 
DS   03  a        g-   I cr3    !CCWoSO                             oc          I w0        C       O         o    C  a. ,    rni
4-  COOCCOCO~               ~~ I D4     000-4             'C       I g) I }
C   O~ > 0       2C   I      O 04 010---))) rtI)                              Zr    CC >0 4 - m O I R                           0      
V) -4   -4              W C)                                   -         3444    -1                      Co Wo   -11-44040
C~~~~~      ,   m 4   n r  o    C} u   1       a U    l o  i   C C  <   C  C CC   0 0CC o 0  c   -C)    -I    0   .oo 
I'    C.O  ICC         IZN          W4o)4-CC                  CUiEt JGK1sr I I   . I, I OC)    CC'SI         -.n I . I I l C4 
Co                                                                                                   '                           11 I ''C C -   O.  N(I      PO   C    
C)    4.-fl  I C  mm-C   .C)'44*11 N.C0  CoC)N.CC)0  I  C   40    0-00    OC)  4 
C)m   , -     8)    Co)             Co             co    C.    o>0    C  _1C           C_       IJ OP                 JV C   ,Ii
C~ ~~~~~ wI    cI C)  0C        ,                    oi     J    mm  r_ G)-        4 J~>s.              1-JC    411  -,    WC_
C  '.4C4 I CC   C       C          'tt C) 4 0  C    C) N.'N 14 0J C 0"4  01  4 C
C)~ ~~t I    c)   o              !4                                  I<)oSI)                         V
C~ ~~~~           ~~ 40  -J                                 N.        Il  Co    <         30   _r    -
rC    CoC              11    .4 CS                                                                        Zrc nw jx  ni i       lgC           OO
i n dcn       c Cd )                                                                   -          0.   nv  i      14  C) Vo
i! C                                                         lWji,    o  j     nC ~^o                           C  ' iwSi jI 
Ci<i                                                                                                                 W0f       oN    cn-_ Vt  }   sr) nSWsXo|o   w 1|
Co -N.si   ioli                      C>w                                                                  _lr  
!; n ii ~~11   Zr   0    Zr   44   Zr   Vi^ Zr   Zr   Zr    wc    n    c' Zrb  sc  J'    Zr   io VIJ Zr    0 0 0   !2rii!
Fl<IfvI  s,       s         nti.Jr.-   -r                     Cn~tt)tCCC1"e Cd r-r '4CdCC  <0   I     F.  CFCFFI                          II 
P; Q -  io cC              d      303030303030O0W0303030303030o033o                                030300101001030                          IIooooooooo1
-G* i1                         - t.--ii~,t                          J             -.                n i C_    Zro'                          ia
~~n'  V                                                    cn 'I i -.C. _ 1- ' O  .*            4N 4  Io 4K vn Im Io Io i       j        II Zrw oi ii n! c
1~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ oI I IV V V                                                                 CC                   11o r  4I _    -    .Jc  n b c  o _       .         I o o o o o o o       j    n |
4~~~ C-  o0     ._woi                                             ow03oooj4o-  J  Jc o      0    0 0  0   -       0                  IN   4
_ . w , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  I    _1144                                                4.
i  n  i  n  .   cX  p   <>    w   -                           o  Sj         Jf    w                          li   g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  . 
<~~~ 04:|                                                                                                                                     >  -  4404r-u  a  innCnin_c  r   O! OOO Oi  o! c
t1 w 11 Mo I c'-444                        -                                              .                                              _110   4
1 1 < 1 1 -c I , 0 3 .3 .44o" _                                      _        c o          I      43_       343_110144.
~~~401                     n      iicn i.4001o440i13.-0C-.33-.o    Jw_o" e  s  b_e           r       C--.0w i301'3                           II     4
jj re ii Jn i J i J Wi ro;  f - n c, v r ; w ,wo j^ ib sl:' vnvc; X _ IF  FF-F IS Zr                                          03 
ii~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4                                                                                       0    C)          '7 nioc   nOrcOc     i ac            n1 
4-0  O-O4.0C-000010101-C414-49 03CC0 0 0   434O O O                                                      I     I              O
O  O   ca o     o o  c oo  o o o     o o  o  oo  o   fJl ~n cri vn cn cn On cn ib            i     4             4--I
i _4 _ { i4404
_ ~   ~     ~    4 _IA _C-I_   _           _ _  _ j       ^ -  -O                O  O  O  O                                   J
O  z   C, O  O  O O  O O O  O O O  O O O  O O O  O   O  O  O O O O O  O O                 11 .- 211-.
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I' It 



/a Includes cost of fuel, repairs and saintenance of new and existing vehicles,
Costs for 1982/83 taken at half the war s reguiresents for Jan-June.
/b  2 cars for DM  (Ext) an  CRU (Ext) 500 kn v.a. Per car and KISh 1.50/k,,
/c Costed at 40,000 km P.a. Per car, K Sh 1.50/km. From 1985/86, number
of consultants would be reduced and vehicle operating costs would not be attributed to the Project.
/d 40,000 km P.a. Per vehicle at KSh 1,50/kme It is assumed that existing Provincial
vehicles will not incur additional mileaAe due to the Project,
/e Consultants will be reduced from 1985/86.
Kf  New 4-WD assumed to run 25,000 km p.a. Per 4-UD at K Sh 2.00/km.
/s Existing vehicles (mainly shortwheel based Land Rovers) assumed to run an
additiongl 8,000 km P.a. due to Project activities, at K Sh 2.50/km.
/h New cars for Research stations assumed to run 30,000 km P.as Per car at
K Sh 1.50/km.
/i New 4-hID assumed to run 30,000 ke P.a. Per vehicle at K Sh 2.00/km.
/j  Existins 4-hD, mainly SWB Land Rovers, two .t each of 12 Research/
Commodity Stations, assumed to run an additional 10,000 ke P.a. due to Project activities, at K Si 2.50ikm.
/k Five nights out Per month at K Sh 250 Plus subsistence for 5 days at K Sh 75.
/1 Five nights out Per months at K Sh 175 Plus subsistence for 5 dass at K Sh 45.
/a Five nights out Per months at K Sh 75 Plus subsistence for 5 days at K Sh 15.
Includes drivers for consultants vehicles.
/n Three nights out Per month at K Sh 175 Plus subsistence for 5 dabs at K Sh 45.
/o Five nights out Per month at K Sh 175 Per night and five daws at K Sh 30,
/p  Five nights out at K Sh 125 Plus subsistence for 5 days at K Sh 25.
/a  One night out at K Sh 175, Plus subsistence for 10 days Per month at K Sh 30. 
,r  Five nights out at K Sh 75 Plus subsistence for 10 days at K Sh 15.  Allowance is made                                                                                               C
fto  drvers o' nem  snd exstin  vehiclesi 
/s  One night out Per month at K Sh 100I   Plus subsistence for 10 days at K Sh 20,
/t  One night out Per month at K Sh 100, Plus subsistence for 16 daYs at K Sh 20, Plus
average travelling allowances of K Sh 170 Per month,  Includes TO (Home Econs),
/u  One night out Per month at K Sh 75 Plus subsistence for 16 days at K Sh 15, Plus average
travelling allowances of K Sh 100 Per sonth; about half of these allowances would be Pasable under Iteo 115   Dicycle
Allowances.
;v  in 1983/84, 42 enue,eators are emploved.  The:cover onlu one Division ech
and are costed at eouivalent of 31 full-time enumerators, covering two Divisions, at unit cost of K Sh 7,300 (based
on 14 nights out Per month at K Sh 75 Plus subsistence for 10 dass at K Sh 15 and average travelling allowances of
K Sh 100 Per wonth)i about halt of these allowances would be Psaable under Item 115 B Bicycle Allowances,
/w Three nights out at K Sh 75 Plus subsistence for 2 days at K Sh 15.
/x Cyclostyling Paper, ink, chalky flip charts, transparencies (for overhead
Projector), Printing of slides, agricultural training materials, field diaries, etc. Lump sum of K Sh 14,500
allocated Per District includes ff I E reeuiresents,
/i Includes cost of stationery, repairs and maintenance.
May 23, 1983 12:38



KENYA
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Table 401. ORIENTATION, TRAINING and FELLOISHIPS
Detailed Cost Table
(K Sh '000)
Quantity                                           Base Costs                    Phv.
----------------------------------------- Unit ------------------------------------------------ Cont- For.   Gross   Sumeary
ULtit   82/83 83/84  84/85  85/86  86187  Total   Cost 82/83   83/84   84/85   85/86   86/87   Total   Rate  Exch. Tax Rate Account
I. RECURRENT COSTS
A. TRAINING COURSES /a
_____ ___________ ___
ORIENTATION - SENIOR DISTRICT OfFICIALS                         Per course     7      6      9      5      -      27  1.1      7.7     6.6     9.9     5.5       -      29.7   0.1   0.3      0.2  T11154
ORIENTATION - DISTRICT TECHNICAL STAFF                          Per course     7      6      9      5      -      27  4.4    30.8    26.4    39.6   22.0          -    118.8  0.1   0.3       0.2  lT0I54
ORIENTATION - DISTRICT FIELD STAFF                              Per course     7      6      9      5      -      27 11.4    79.8    68.4  102.6    57.0          -    307.8  0.1   0.3       0.2  IT7154
ORIENTATION - RESEARCH STATIDON STAFF                           Per course     -      3      3      3       -       9 3.7        -    11.1    11.1    11.1        -     33.3   0.1   0.3      0.2  1TH154
PRESEASON TECHNICAL COURSES FOR FIELOSTAFF - Startup Tear       Per course     7      6      9      5      -       27 26.6   186.2  15-.6  239.4   133.0          -    710.2  0.1   0.3       0.2  ITH154
PRESEASON TECHNICAL COURSES FOR FIELDSTAFF - Subse uent Years Per course       2      9     15    24      29       79 31.6   63.2   284.4   474.0   758.4  916.4  2,496.4   0.1   0.3         0,2  IThl54
FORTNIGHTLY TRAINING COURSES FOR FIELD STAFF                    Per course   490  1,320  2,145  2,915  3,190  10,060  1.3   637,0 1716.0 2,788.5 3,789.5 4,147.0 13,078.0   0.1   0.3         0.6  ITA154
MONTHLY WORKSHOP FOR SHS                                        Per course    54    135    219    294    319   1,021  5.4   291.6   729.0 1,182.6 1,587.6 1,722.6  5,513.4   0.1   0.3        0,2  IT7154
REFRESHER COURSES FOR SNS                                       Per course     -      4      4      4       4      1610.8        -    43.2   43.2    43,2    43.2    172.8  0.1   0.3          0.2  IT8154
REFRESHER COURSES FOR RESEARCH STAFF                            Per course     -      I      I       1      1       414.3        -    14.3    14.3    14.3    14.3      57.2   0.1   0.3       0.2  Ir11154
AIC EXTENSION t IIETHODOLOGY COURSES                            Per course     -      2      2      2       2       8 21.7       -    43.4   43.4   43.4    43.4    173.6  0.1   0.3           0.2  T11154
ACCOUNTING COURSES                                              Per course     -      I      I       I      1       4   13       -    13.0    13.0    13.0    13.0      52.0  0.1   0.3        0.2  ITN154
HONITORING AND EVALUATION COURSES                               Per course     -      2      2      2       2       817.3        -    34.6   34.6    34.6   34.6    138.4   0.1   0.3          0.2  1T7154
LOCAL T I V TOURS                                                Per tour      -      8      8      8       8      32  9.2       -    73.6    73.6    73.6    73.6   294.4  0.1   0,3          0.4  IT11154
Sub-Total TRAINING COURSES  /a                                                                                                1,296.3 3,223.6 5,069.8 6,586.2 7,008.1 23,184.0
D. OVERSEAS COURSES
FELLONSIPS (liSc.                                               Per course     -      -      3      6       3      12  200       -       -   600.0 1,200.0   600.0  2,400,0   0.1      1         0  ITt154
FELLOIISHIPS (SHORT-TERM)                                       Per course     -      3      3      6       6      18  80        -   240.0  240.0  480.0  480.0  1,440.0   0.1          1        0  ITI154
T   V U TOURS                                                   per course     -      6     15      -       -      21   40       -   240.0  600.0         -       -    840.0  0.1       1        0  ITH154
Sub-Total OUERSEAS COURSES                                                                                                          -   480.0 1,440.0 1,680.0 1,080.0  4,680.0
C. TRAINING PUBLICATIONS
NANUALS AIC /b                                                   lump sum      -      -      -      -       -       -            -   5000.       -        -       -    500.0  0.1   0.2          0  IT11154
NANUALS UPDATE /c                                                IUmP SUm      -      -      -      -       -       -            -       -    35.0   35.0   35.0    105.0   0.1   0.2            0  ITtl154
OTHER TRAINING PUBLICATIONS (AIC)                                lump sum      -      -      -      -       -       -         50.0  200,0  250.0   300.0   300.0  1.l00.0   0.1   0.2            0  T11154
Sub-Total TRAINING PUBLICATIONS                                                                                                  50.0   700.0   285.0   335.0  335.0  1,05.0
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                                            1,346.3 4,403.6 6,794.8 8,601.2 8,423.1 29,569.0
==- === ======= ====:=== ======= ======= ==Z=====
Total BASELIE COSTS                                                                                                              1,346.3 4,403.6 6,794.8 8,601.2 8,423.1 29,569.0
/a Details of no. of Participants, venues, duration, freeuencs and timing of courses
in Annex 1. Unit costs include subsistence and overnight allowances for expected nueber of trainees, trainers
and drivers, and transportation costs based on approximate distances travelled,
/b Paper K Sh 250v000i Printing K Sh IN,OOO,8 notebooks K Sh 150IOOO.
/c 10 of Paper and Printing costs of Nanuals, see Previous footnote.
---------------------------------------------------------__--------------   _----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------_
Nas 23, 1983 12:38



KENYA
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Table 501. RESEARCH TECHNOLOGY GENERATION /a
Detailed Cost Table
(K Sh '000)
Quantity                                      Base Costs                   Phy,
----------------------------------- Unit ------------------------------------------ Cont. For,   Gross   Sumeary
Unit  82/83 83/84 84/85 85/86 86/87 Total Cost 82/83 83/84  84/85  85/86   86/87  Total   Rate  Exch. Tax Rate Account
1. RECURRENT COSTS
A. RESEARCH ACTIUITIES
PAREAC /b                                 ea         -    12    12    12    12    48 21.8       -  261.6  261.6  261.6   261.6 1,046.4   0.1   0.3          0.2       RE
PAREAC Commoditg Sub-Committees /c        ea         -    48    48    48    48   192  2.7       -  129.6  129.6  129.6   129.6   518,4   0.1   0.3          0.2       RE
NATIONAL COMMODITY COMMITTEES  /d         ea         -     4     4      4     4    16   24      -   96.0   96.0   96,0    96.0   384.0   0.1   0.3          0.2       RE
NATIONAL WORKSHOPS                        ea         1     -      1     -     1      3   85  85.0       -   85.0       -    85.0   255.0   0.1   0.3        0.2       RE
CONTROLLED ON-FARM TRIALS /e              ea         -    72   140   240   360   812  1.5       -  108.0  210,0  360.0   540.0 1,218,0   0,1   0.3          0.2       RE
UNSCHEDULED FARM VISITS /f             luep SUm      -     -     -      -     -     -           -   25.2   25.2   25.2    25,2   100,8   0,1   0,3          0.2       RE
Sub-Total RESEARCH ACTIVITIES                                                                   85.0  620.4  807.4  872.4 1,137,4 3,522,6
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                              85.0  620.4  807,4  872.4 1,137,4 3,522.6
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                                85.0  620.4  807,4  872,4 1,137.4 3,522.6
/a Excludes incremental vehicles, staff and operating costs,
which are included in Tables 101 and 201, If these were included, total baseline costs would amount to
KSh 18.4 million or 6Z of Project baseline costs.
/b Assumes two meetings Per year starting in Julg/August 1983, to be held at Provincial Headguarters.
/c Assumes these held in conjunction with PAREAC meetings or monthly workshops,
There are an average of 4 sub-committees Per PAREAC. Therefore the onlg cost is extra nights out (officers and drivers)
at workshops for those districts operating the Project. Since SMS of those districts not get incorporated in
the Project would not noraally Participate in sonthlw workshops, the cost of their transport to PAREAC Sub-Committee
meetings has been included.
/d K Sh 96,000 Per gear. 4 seParate sub-comsittee meetings for (2 nights)
one dag each.  Costs relate to nights out Plus transport for an average comeittee meeting of 35 Persons,
/e Consultant costs are included under T,A, costs (table 601). Costs are
similar to those of National Commodity Committees, but with larger participation (50) and 5 nights, Phasing
given in Annex 2 (Table 6). Costs comprise seed, fertilizer, chemicals and labor for 0,25 ha Plots,
Labor cost at Shs 2.50 Per hour, Per Plot Shs 1,500 total costs, No additional costs for tests/trials on
farmers fields since this would only involve supervision. This cost is included under vehicle operating costs.
/f Based on one night out Per month for one Researcher (at K Sh 175/night) for each
of 12 Research/Commodity Stations,
Mag 23, 1983  12:38



KENYA
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROjECT
Table 601. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Detailed Cost Table
(K Sh '000)
Ouantitu                                         Base Casts                       Phu.
----------------------------------- Unit -------------------------------------------------- Cont. For.   Gross   Sumaar
Unit   82/83 83/84 84/85 85/86 86/8; Tutal Cost 82/83   83/84    84/R5    85/86   86/87   Total   Rate  Exch. Tax Rate Account
I. RECURRENT COSTS
A. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE SERVICES
TEAM LEADER  /a                       mansanths     4    12    12      -     -    28  140   560.0  1,680.0  1,680.0         -        -  3,920.0      0     1        0  ITM182
TRAINING SPECIALIST/a                 sansonths     5    12    12    12    12    53  140   700.0 1680.0  1,680.0 1,6800 1,680,0  7,420.0            0     1        0  ITMl82
PROVINCIAL SPECIALIST /lb              anuonths    16    48    48    48    24   184  115 1t840.0  5F520.0  56520.0 5,520.0 2,760.0 21,160.0          0     1        0  ITh182
HOME SERVICES SUPPORT PERSONNEL /c   sanmonths      -      4     4     4     2    14  86         -    344.0    344.0   344.0   172.0  1,204.0        0     1        0  ITf182
SHORT-TERM CONSULTANCIES /d           mansonths     -    15    15    10      -    40  115        -  1,725.0  1,725.0 1,150.0         -  4,600.0      0     1        0  IT\182
Sub-Total TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE SERVICES                                                       3,100,0 10,949.0 10,949.0 8,694.0 4,612.0 38,304.0
B, LOCAL SUPPORT STAFF
SECRETARY/ADlINISTRATOR               sanmonth      4    12    12    12    12    52  6.4    25.6       76.8      76.8    76.8    76.8    332.8       0     0      0.1  ITf182
ACCOUNTANT                            maneonth      4    12    12    12    12    52  3.8    15.2        45,6     45.6    45.6    45.6    197.6       0     0      0.1  I1T182
TYPIST                                manaonth      4    12    12    12    t2    52  3.8    15.2       45.6      45.6    45.6    45.6    197.6       0     0      0.1  IT1182
CLERK                                 nansonth      4    12    12    12    12    52  3.2    12.8        38.4     38.4    38.4    38.4    166,4       0     0      0.1  ITf182
EQUIPMENT /e                             set        -      I     -     -      -     I  190       -    190.0         -       -        -    190.0      0   0.5      0.4  ITM182
RECURRENT COSTS /f                    luap sum       -     -     -     -      -     -        110.0    330.0    330.0   330,0   330.0  1,430.0        0   0.4      0.3  ITff82
Sub-Total LOCAL SUPPORT STAFF                                                                   178.8    726.4    536.4   536.4   536,4  2,514.4
C. AUDIT                                 lump sue       -     -     -     -      -     -        127.0    127.0    127.0   177.0   127.0    635.0        0     0         0  ITN182
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                            39405.8 11,802.4 11,612.4 9,357.4 5,275.4 41,453.4
=====-: ======== ======== ===z;=== ======= ========
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                              3,405.8 11.802.4 11,612.4 9,357.4 5.275.4 41.453.4
/a  Costed at S 10,800 Per sansonth.
/b Four specialists at $9,000 Per manmanth.
/c  Based on $6,750 per sanmonth,
/d  Total 48 man-months of short-ters consultancies for Monitoring and Evaluation,
Research. etc at $9,000 Per aaneonth.
fe  Includes tupewriters, Photocopying machines, etc, at cost of K Sh 190,000.
/t Includes local flights ($6,OOO) and other local costs ($20,000).
Nay 23, 1983  12:38



- 54 -
ON           |                I                                       V        I  e   0  N       Ne      N
0~~~ 0.0  4;Oee    r   
e                                           N o  Nx N  Ns        |         N            N     N    ON
NN e                  I                      NNNN  o N  e             N     N e               -     N      N  
iN Ne                                                                                             N       N
I                              o                           N     N           N    r   
CNe          I II            I               NNNNN              I     N    N           N            e. 
C~~~ ~~~~ N Ir I                             _ - N N  I                  N N   -
g~~~ I                                                   . -   N  N          o           N          N     N s-le<11e  
oI      > N                                         N                                N  N    N              N      N 
e                                        N rNe                    N     N                        N     N          
uz~~~C                               N    N                N   o N   qo<          N      N      N
eo               Is                        NNNN               ID  No    Ns                  N    N       N
0.           N   N          _               g  zN N      olNN  N     _      N           I    d -           
_N                                             r                                               .                                 os sZZoZo o8ms 
eg 
A ~     ~        ~          N oA~ w  c                                                                       N l      
001                N                     0            0 s                     0 c0   E3e X O             
.1  0>o                                   000                  .100 Nc                 N                              I



-55-
Table 3
KENYA
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Bank/IFAD                                                   Cumulative Disbursement
Fiscal Year and Quarters                                             at Quarter end
U.S. $ million
IDA       IFAD       Total
FY'84
Sept. 30, 1983!'                                             1.2        --        1.2
Dec. 31, 1983                                                0.9        --        0.9
Mar. 31, 1984                                                1.2        0.1       1.3
June 30, 1984                                                1.3        0.1       1,4
FY '85
Sept. 30, 1984                                               1.6        0.3       1.9
Dec. 31, 1984                                                2,2        0.6       2.8
Mar. 31, 1985                                                2,8        0.8       3,6
June 30, 1985                                                3.4        0.9       4.3
FfY '86
Sept. 30, 1985                                               4.0        1.2       5.2
Dec. 31, 1985                                                5.0        1.6       6.6
Mar. 31, 1986                                                5.8        1.9       7,7
June 20, 1986                                                6.7        2.2       8.9
FY '87
Sept. 30, 1986                                               7.5        2.6      10.1
Dec. 31, 1986                                                8.5        3.2      11.7
Mar. 31, 1987                                                9.4        3.6      13.0
June 3-0, 1987 2/                                           11.1        4.0      f5.1
FY' '88
Sept. 30, 1987                                              13.5        5.0      18.5
Dec. 31, 1987 3/                                            15.0        6.0      2140
1/ Expect:ed date of Effectiveness.
2/ Expected date of Project Completion.
3/ Expected date of Project Closing.



Table 4
KENYA
National Extension Pr.oject'
Economic Analysis
(in constant 1983 KSh)
- - - - - - - -COSTS ('000 KSh) 1/  - - - - - - - -    - -    - - - - -   -BENEFITS- - - - - - - -
Incremental      Incremental                   Total Cost          Discount                          Present
Capital       Operating         Total       Discounted          Factor at       % Benefits        Value of
Year                             Costs           Costs          Cost         at 20%                 20%         Achieved          Benefits
1      1982/83                  .469              6,124         6,593           5,492             0.833            --                --
2      1983/84                 2,246             32,096        34,342          23,833             0.694             10             0.069
3      1984/85                 4,984             46,917        51,901          30,051             0.579             30             0.174
4      1985/86                 5,335             62,884        68,219          32,882             0.482             60             0.289
5      1986/87                 4,584             65,979        70,563          28,366             0.402             80             0.322
6      1987/88                 1,737             59,644        61,381          20,563             0.335             90             0.302
7-20   19AR/89-2001102         1.737             59.644        61.381       1,232,039             1.544            100             1.544
1,373,226                                              2.700
The annual incremental value of crops (1983 prices) required from Year 7 onwards to
achieve a 20% rate of return is KSh 1,373.23 million gr Ksh 508.6 million.
2.7                                                                                                 L
Current Annual    Economic       Current Annual
Current         Smallholder         Crop         Economic Value
Area 2/    Yields 3/       Production 4/       Prices 5/        of Crops
('000 ha)    (kg/ha)           ('0000 t)         (KSh/ton)      (million KSh)
Maize                        1,175        1,490            1,750              2,558            4,476
To obtain KSh 508.6 million from increased maize production, maize yields must increase
by 508.6 or 11% on all maize acreage or 22% on 50% of maize acreage. Yield increases
4,476
would thus be 164kg/hia (11%) or 328 kg/ha (22%).
1/ Costs are net of taxes and price contingencies.
2/ Maize area from CBA 1982 crop forecasts. Smallholder area is about 95% of total area.
3/ Yields obtained by dividing area by production, and cross-checking with previous year trends.
4/ Smallholder production accounts for about 75% of maize production.
March 25, 1983



- 57 -
Table 5
KENYA
National Extension Project
Calculation of Econonic Prices
(in 1983 constant US$ and KSh)
Maize                                        1983
FOB US Gulf Port 1/ (US$)                     129
Quality Adjustment 2/                           5
Freight and Other Costs                        35
C + F landed costs, Mombasa (US$)             169
C + F landed costs, Mombasa (KSh) 3/        2,535
NCPB handling and distribution                680
NCPB ex-depot cost in average area          3,215
Less NCPB handling cost in
average area                              (657)
Producer price (per ton)                    2,558
(per 90-kg bag)               230
I./ US No. 2 yellow Gulf port. Based on EPDCE price projections of
December 1962 adjusted to 1983 constant dollars.
2/   For white maize, which is the variety grown in Kenya.  Based on
current price differentials for South African white maize.
3/   At a shadow exchange rate of KSh 15 = US$1.



KENYA
National Extension Project
Farm Models
II. Smallholder Maize, Less Advanced, Average Size Plot 1/
(Kericho District)
(KSh, 1983 costs)
---- WITHOUT PROJECT ----                 ------ WITH PROJECT -----
INFLOW                           Price/Unit                    Units           Total Cost                Units            Total Cost            X Increase
Farm Production                                              Total Yield - 5,025 kg or                 Total Yield - 10,125 kg or
56 bags 2/                                112 bags 2/
Sales                          KSh 158/bag                   48 bags            7,584                  104 bags           16,432
Home Consumption 3/            KSh 158/bag                   8  bags             1,264                 8 bags              1,264
Total Inflow                                                                     8,848                                    17,696                100%
OUTFLOW
Variable Costs
Seeds                           KSh 5.25/kg (50% ownseed)
KSh 9.25/kg (improved)       24 kg (50% own)       126                  42 kg (improved)    389
Insecticides                    KSh 1.7/kg                    --                     --                 6 kg                    10
Fertilizers - N                 KSh 7/kg                      --                     --                 90 kg                 630
- P                KSh 8/kg                      --                     --                 90 kg                 720
Family Labor 4/                 KSh 15/manday                 188 mandays         2,820                 229 mandays         3,435
Hired Labor                     KSh 22/manday                 9 mandays             198                  110 mandays        2,420
Land Preparation 5/             KSh 550/ha                    1.5 ha                825                  1.5 ha                825
Shelling                        KSh 20/bag                    56 bags             1,120                  112 bags           2,240
Transport                       KSh 83bag                     56 bags               448                  112 bags-             896
Total Variable Costs                                                             5,537                                    11,567                                      @
Non-Variable Costs
Depreciation 6/                                                                     268                                       561
Interest on Working Capital 7/                                                      112                                       487
Total Non-Variable Costs                                                           380                                     1,048
Total Outflow                                                                    5,917                                    12,615                113%
NET BENEFIT                                                                        2,931                                     5,081                  73%
NET RETURN/MANDAY                                                                     31                                         37                 19%
1/ Assumes a small farm with 1.5 ha of maize; T & V recommendations are followed on 1.5 ha.
2/ Traditional yields: 3,350 kg/ha; T & V yields: 6,750 kg/ha.
S/ Assumes family of seven with per capita consumption of about 120 kg/year, approximately
85% of which is home produced.
4/ Shadow priced at KSh 15/manday.
5/ Tractor.
6/ Bags valued at KSh 12/bag and depreciated over 3 years; tools include hoe, panga, and
jembe, valued at KSh 133 and depreciated over 3 years. With project includes 2-litre
knapsack sprayer, valued at KSh 205, also depreciated over 3 years.
7/  Interest e-t 13T  -e  t-e d, chei cals,                                           - hred labor a--land
preparation.
March 9, 1983



KENYA
National Extension Project
Farm Models
I.  Smallholder Maize, Less Advanced, Small Plot (Kericho Di3trict) 1/
(in KSh, 1983 costs)
---- WITHOUT PROJECT ----                 ------ WITH PROJECT -----
INFLOW                           Price/Unit                   units            Total Cost                Units           Total Cost             x Increase
Farm Production                                                Total Yield - 1,470 kg or                 Total Yield   2,290 kg or
17 bags 2/                                26 bags 2/
Sales                          KSh 158/bag                  9 bags              1,422                  18 bags             2,844
Home Consumption 3/            KSh 158/bag                   8 bags             1,264                  8 bags              1,264
Total Inflow                                                                    2,686                                      4,108                  53%
OUTFLOW
Variable Costs
Seeds                           KSh 5.25/kg (50% own)         10 kg                 53                  15 kg                 107
KSh 7.8/kg (improved)
Insecticides                    KSh 1.7/kg                   --                     --                  4 kg                    7
Fertilizer - N                  KSh 7/kg                                                                --                     --
- P                 KSh 8/kg                      --                    --                  --                     --
Family Labor 4/                 KSh 15/manday                 97 mandays         1,455                  112 mandays         1,680
Hired Labor                     KSh 22/manday                 --                    --                  --                     --
Land Preparation 5/             KSh 300/ha                    0.6 ha               240                  0.6 ha                240
Shelling                        KSh 20/bag                    17 bags              340                  36 bags               720
Transport                       KSh 8/bag                     17 bags               136                 36 bags               288
Total Variable Costs                                                            2,224                                      3,042
Non-Variable Costs
Depreciation 6/                                                                     181                                       257
Interest on Working Capital 7/                                                      29                                         35
Total Non-Variable Costs                                                          210                                        292
Total Outflow                                                                   2,434                                      3,334                 37%
NET BENEFIT                                                                          252                                       774                207%
NET RETURN/MANDAY                                                                     18                                         22                22%
1/ Assumes a small farm with 0.6 ha of maize; T & V recommendations are followed on 0.4 ha.
7/   Traditional yields:  2,450 kg/ha; T & V yields:  4,500 kg/ha.
3/   Assumes family of seven with per capita consumption of 120 kg/year, approximately 85% of
which is home produced.
4/   Shadow priced at KSh 15/manday4
5/   Ox ploughing.
6/   Bags valued at KSh 12/bag.  Tools include a hoe, panga, and jetbe, valued at KSh 133.
With project includes a 2-litre knapsack sprayer valued at KSh 205. All bags and
equipment depreciated over 3 years.
7/   Interest at 13% over 9 months on variable costs of seeds, chemicals, hired labor, and
land preparation.
March 9, 1983



Kenya
National Extension Project
Project Implementation Schedules
Calender Year                   1983            1984            1985          1986            1987
Quarters                      1'2 3 4         12 3 4          1 2 3 4       1 2 3 4         1 2 3 4
I. Key Dates
Negotiations                 (X)
Effectiveness                  (X)
Submission Annual                 (X)      (X) (X)           (X) (X)       (X) (X)         (X) (X)
Work Plans
Mid-Term Review                                                .(X)
Completion                                                                                 (X)
Closing                                                                                         (X)          o
II. Project Staffing
Internationally
Recruited staff
Recruitment
Dates and Duration
Team Leader                 X--------------------------------- (the no. of technical assistants re-
Training Specialist         X------------------------------  required for the last 2 years will
Provincial Special(4)       X---------------------------------- be decided at the mid-term review)
Local Staff Recruitment       X-------------------------------------____________________
III. Civil Works                                   X-----------------------------_______________
IV. Monitoring & Evaluation         X----------------------------------------------------------
V. Research Activities              X----------------------------------------------------------



-t    Iql
0O01        0 U        XX
3~~  .        E! 1; .~~! ~
"F  "-       (Y              "    1III 






SJUD AN                                                                                            K EN vA
~~~~~~~~~60 ~~~~~ ~NATIONAL EXTENSION  PROJECT
A                               ~~~~~~~~~~PHASING OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
4,~~~~~
K                           E ~~~~~~~EA T    H R   N           vi  A 
N~~~'
RA-15 ~                                                   t      . ~ ~                
6' 6At2AV                                                                '-V--u                     A14O-P
-~~~/EOcTERrpo.4 
Lodeor ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                              '>~~~~~~                              /  
-p~~~~~~~~~~
I'   0'oST  ' Dl~~r               MU
Mt 640002    ) R         r ~ T 
A-0  2 ~~~~  ELEYLD~~~
&cSTER~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AI
V'l   A          0L'
Idorol ~ ~ ~     ~    K
Diocto Boyh Y-fP.-
N,:  _6 l,,,,                    -d 
,RrNt-  F,r-r ear of-rote-
N       '.J  RiSrot  Bc ,on  lo-hI.o  A,jtcu 
iligir nod laBBom ProocoriocRPrenriol-L,Kdi i..
T,                             N&oricoPPsoocloR orec olu,n-t K-imrso
K CUe andm doo  11        Pn E,no  odAr,s
W-No - A,r    R           .-.Rk     A.rt , rRS(0h                                                                        ..sir
C  LahoKraro--rrec             g,,V7~D,S



