OFFICIAL
D0CUMENTS CREDIT NUMBER 1387 KE
Development Credit Agreement
(National Extension Project)
betveen
REPUBLIC ÖF KENYA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                             , 1983


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1387 KE
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT     mEN
AGREEMENT, dated                     clA   &, 1983, between
REPUBLIC OF KENYA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Asso-
ciation).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower has applied to the International Fund
for Agricultural Development (hereinafter called the Fund) for
a loan (hereinafter called the Fund Loan) in an amount equivalent
to five million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 5,600,000) to assist in financing the Project on the terms
and conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the
Fund Loan Agreement) between the Borrower and the Fund;
(C) the Fund intends %o appoint the Association as Coop-
erating Institution to administer the Fund Loan and the Associa-
tion is prepared to accept such appointment; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:


﻿-2-
(a)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project pre-
paration advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated January 3, 1983, and
January 24, 1983, between the Borrower and the Association.
(b)  "Fund Loan Account" means the loan account established
under the Fund Loan Agreement.
(c) "Annual Work Plan" means any annual work plan prepared
and approved as described in paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 hereto.
(d)  "MOA" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for
agriculture.
(e)  "Appropriation Accounts" means the Borrower's accounts
submitted each year to Parliament.
(f) "Special Account" means the account to be opened and
thereafter maintained pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this
Agreement.
(g)  "DDAE" means the MOA's Deputy Director of Agriculture
(Extension).
(h)  "Fiscal year" means the period July 1 through June 30.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. (a) The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to thirteen million nine hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 13,900,000).
(b) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article III
hereof.
Section 2.02. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1987,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.


﻿Section 2.03. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amountia shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) -The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association  shall  reasonably  request;   (ii)  without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.0&   The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.05 Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on Narch I and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 1
and September 1 commencing September 1, 1993, and ending March 1,
2033, each instalIment to and including the installment payable
on March 1, 2003, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal. amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-hall per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.07. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Allocation and Withdrawal of Proceeds
of Credit and Fund Loan
Section 3.01. (a) Subject to the rights of suspension and
cancellation set forth in the Development Credit Agreement and
the Fund Loan Agreement, the amount of the Credit and the amount


﻿of the Fund Loan may be withdrawn from the Credit Account and the
Fund Loan Account, respectively, in accordance with the provi-
sions of this Agreement and with the allocation of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Fund Loan set forth in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement, as such allocation may be modified from time to time
pursuant to the provisions of such Schedule or by further agree-
ment between the Borrower, the Association and the Fund.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and thereafter -maintain    in Kenyan   Shillings a   special
account at the Treasury on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of the
Annex to Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall be entitled to make                  .
withdrawals from the Credit Account and from the Fund Loan
Account for expenditures made (or, if the Association and the
Fund shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Fund Loan.
(b) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the prin-
cipal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges there-
on. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 3.03. (a) When the Borrower shall desire to withdraw
any amount of the Credit or the Fund Loan, the Borrower shall
deliver to the Association a written application in such form and
containing    h h  statements and agreements as the Association or
the Fund shall reasonably request. Applications for withdrawal,
with the necessary documentation as hereinafter provided shall,
except as the Borrower, the Association and the Fund shall other-
wise agree, be made promptly in relation to expenditures for the
Project.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association such
documents and other evidence in support of the application as the
Association or the Fund shall reasonably request, whether before
or after the Association shall have approved any withdrawal
requested in the application.


﻿-5-
(c)   Each appl.,cation and the accompanying documents and
other evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to
satisfy the Association or the Fund that the Borrower is entitled
to withdraw from the Credit Account or the Fund Loan Account the
amount applied for and that such amount is to be used only for
the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. Each such application by the Borrower for
withdrawal shall be deemed to be a request to withdraw funds
from the Credit Account and from the Fund Loan Account and the
funds to be withdrawn pursuant to such application shall be
apportioned by the Association, as nearly as practicable in the
circumstances, between the Credit and the Fund Loan in the ratio
of 70:30, or such other ratio as shall be agreed between the
Association and the Fund; provided, however, that, if such
application shall be made in respect of expenditures that shall
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan
only, such application shall be deemed to be a request to with-
draw funds from the Credit Account or the Fund Loan Account only.
Section 3.05. When the Association shall have approved an
application by the Borrower for withdrawal, the Association
shall:
(a) pay the amount, if any, which the Borrower is entitled
to withdraw from the Credit Account to or on the order of the
Borrower in accordance with the provisions of the Development
Credit Agreement; and/or
(b) promptly notify the Fund that it has received an appli-
cation for withdrawal from the Fund Loan Account in the aggregate
amount specified in such notice, that it has approved payment of
the portion, if any, to be withdrawn from the Credit Account in
the amount set forth in such notice, and that the portion to be
withdrawn from the Fund Loan Account in the amount set forth in
such notice is eligible for payment by the Fund.
Section 3.06. If at any time the amount of the Credit or the
Fund Loan shall have been fully withdrawn or cancelled, applica-
tions by the Borrower for further withdrawals shall be deemed to
be requested for withdrawal of the full amount applied for from
the Fund Loan Account or the Credit Account only, and the provi-
sions of this Article III, except for Section 3.04 hereof, shall
continue to apply mutatis mutandis until the full amount credited
or to be credited to such Account shall have been withdrawn or
cancelled.


﻿-6-
Section 3.07. Upon the Borrower's request and upon such
terms as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, the Association may, on behalf and for the account of the
Fund, enter into special commitments to pay amounts, out of the
proceeds of the Fund Loan, to the Borrower or others in respect
of the cost of goods required by the Project, subject to the
provisions of this Agreement concerning the allocation and
apportionment of the proceeds of the Fund Loan. The Fund has
advised the Association that any such special commitment shall,
once it has been notified to the Fund, constitute an obligation
on the part of the Fund to pay, notwithstanding any subsequent
suspension or cancellation of the Fund Loan, the amount to be
disbursed out of the proceeds of the Fund Loan in fulfillment of
such special commitment.
Section 3.08. Except as the Association and the Fund shall
otherwise agree, procurement of the goods and civil works
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan or the Fund Loan shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 hereto.
ARTICLE IV
Execution of the Project
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and agricultural practices and pursuant
to the provisions in Schedule 4 hereto (as same may be amended
from time to time with the Association's prior approval), and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, ser-
vices and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 4.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association, such consultants to be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfac-
tory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Fund Loan


﻿against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Fund Loan to
be used exclusively for the purposes of the Project.
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and the Fund Loan, and to disclose their use in the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's representatives to
visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and the Fund Loan and any relevant records and docu-
ments; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association at regular
intervals all such information as the Association shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of
the proceeds of the Credit and the Fund Loan and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds; and (iv) (without any
limitation upon the generality of the foregoing) the Borrower
shall by June 30, 1985 (or such other date as the Association
may agree): (A) complete a review of all aspects of the first two
years of Project implementation and furnish the findings thereof
to the Association; and (B) based on the findings of said review
and taking into account any comments made thereon by the Associa-
tion, draw up a proposal for the phasing of additional districts
into the Project and reorientation (if necessary) of the activi-
ties carried out under the Project.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and the Fund Loan, the Association may publish a
description thereof, the name and nationality of the party to
whom the contract was awarded and the contract price.


﻿-8-
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and ini-
tial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived
and to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and
the Association of their respective obligations under the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit and the Fund Loan.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall ensure that arrangements
for the purchase of bicycles and mopeds to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and Fund Loan are at all times acceptable
to the Association and that all extension personnel covered by
the Project are eligible to purchase such bicycles and mopeds.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall, if requested,
furnish   to  the   Association  evidence   satisfactory  to   the
Association that such land and rights in respect of land are
available for purposes related to the Project.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) (i) The Borrower shall maintain or cause
to be maintained accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained   appropriate   accounting  practices  the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Proj-
ect, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof; it being speci-
fied that the Borrower: (1) shall ensure that the activities
carried out under the Project are identified as a separate budget
line (head) in the estimates and the Appropriation Accounts; (2)
shall prepare, on the basis of the relevant Borrower's ledger
accounts, monthly memoranda to record Project costs and outstand-
ing disbursement claims; and (3) shall, through DDAE, submit
monthly reports to the Association recording said Project costs
and outstanding disbursement claims and showing how costs and
claims are to be reconciled; and (ii) not later than four months


﻿after the end   of each fiscal year, the Borrower shall prepare,
according to  the format of the monthly reports, and submit to
the Association, an annual report certifying that the accounts
included in that report are consistent with the final unaudited
relevant Borrower's ledger accounts.
(b) Without limitation to the foregoing, the Borrower
shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures under Categories (3) and (4) of the
table set out in paragraph 1 of Schedule I hereto on account of
which withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account or the
Fund Loan Account on the basis of statements of expenditure, it
being specified that said statements shall be prepared on a
monthly basis and it being further specified that the Borrower
shall submit said statements to the Association and certify that
they are consistent with the relevant Borrower's ledger accounts;
(ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date, all records
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other docu-
ments) evidencing the expenditures on account of which with-
drawals are requested from the Credit Account or the Fund Loan
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure; and (iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts referred to
in paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any
case not later than four months after the end of each such year,
a certified copy of the report of such audit by such auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested, including, without limitation to the
foregoing, (1) if requested by the Association, a separate
opinion by said auditors in respect of the expenditures and
records referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section as to
whether the proceeds of the Credit and the Fund Loan withdrawn
from the Credit Account and the Fund Loan Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure- have been used for the purpose for
which they were provided, and (2) a certificate emanating from
the Borrower showing that the accounts included in the report
referred to in Section 5.01 (a) (ii) hereof are consistent with
the accounts so audited; and (iii) furnish to the Association
such other information concerning said accounts, records and
expenditures and the audit thereof as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that:
(i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any loan (including the Fund
Loan) made to the Borrower for the financing
of the Project shall have been suspended,
cancelled or terminated in whole or in part,
pursuant to the terms of the agreement
providing therefor; or
(B) any   such  loan  shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that:
(A)  such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of
the Borrower to perform any of its obliga-
tions under such agreement; and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obliga-
tions of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified             C,
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof, namely that the event speci-
fied in paragraph (i) (B) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall
occur, subject to the proviso of subparagraph (ii) of that para-
graph.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section  7.01.   The  following   events  are  specified   as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development


﻿- 11 -
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditionsv namely, that:
(a) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Fund Loan Agreement (other than      the effectiveness of this
Agreement) have been fulfilled;
(b) the Fund has appointed the Association as Cooperating
Institution to administer the Fund Loan on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Association;
(c) the Special Account has been opened in accordance with
the provisions of Section 3.01 (b) hereof; and
(d) the Borrower has furnished to the Association evidence
acceptable to the Association that appropriate arrangements have  v
been made for the importation into the Borrower's territory of
pick-up trucks and 4-wheel-drive vehicles to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and the Fund Loan.
Section 7.02. The date    1UJ     Ae      I\$   is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Arti-
cle V of this Agreement and the provisions of Section 6.02 of
this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the
earlier.
Section 7.04. If (a) the Fund Loan Agreement shall have come
into force and effect and the Development Credit Agreement shall
have failed to come into force and effect by the date specified
t            in Section 7.02 of this Agreement, or a later date established by
the Association for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions, or (b) the entire principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account and all charges which shall
have accrued on the Credit shall have been paid before the Fund
Loan Agreement shall have terminated, then, notwithstanding the
provisions of Sections 12.04 and 12.05 of the General Conditions,
the Development Credit Agreement shall be deemed to be, or to
remain, in force and effect but only to the extent required for
orderly settlement of matters of mutual interest to the parties
thereunder, subject to such modifications of the Development
Credit Agreement as shall be agreed between the Borrower, the
Association and the Fund for such purposes.


﻿- 12 -
Section 7.05. If (a) the Fund Loan Agreement shall terminate
in accordance with its terms before the Development Credit Agree-
ment shall have terminated, or (b) the Association shall notify
the Borrower that its appointment as Cooperating Institution
under the Fund Loan Agreement has been terminated, the provisions
of this Agreement shall, to the extent that they relate to the
Fund Loan, forthwith terminate; provided, however, that in the
case described in the foregoing clause (b) such'termination shall
apply only to the responsibilities of the Association as such
Cooperating Institution.
ARTICLE VIII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister for the time being responsible
for Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 30007
Nairobi, Kenya
Cable address:                       Telex:
FINANCE                             96322003
Nairobi                             FOREIGN
NAIROBI                  C
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                 /248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 13 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOFb the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
By             ~.U
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
Ol-
-1-w- M-


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
and the Fund Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Fund Loan, the
allocation of the amounts of the Credit and the Fund Loan to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Amount of the    Fund Loan
Credit Allocated   Allocated           % of
(Expressed in  (Expressed in    Expenditures
Category   SDR Equivalent) SDR Equivalent) to be Financed
(1) Vehicles
and Equip-
ment
(i) Vehi-      370,000         185,000     100% of foreign
cles                                  expenditures and
33% of local
expenditures
(ii) Equip-     185,000          95,000     100% of foreign
ment                                  expenditures,
and 67% of local
expenditures
(2) Civil Works     370,000         190,000     85%
(3) Incremen-
tal Opera-
ting Costs
for the
Project
(i) Sala-     1,850,000        840,000     64%
ries
(ii) Vehi-       930,000        370,000     85%
cle
Oper-
ating
Costs


﻿- 15 -
Amount of the
Amount of the   Fund Loan
Credit Allocated  Allocated             % of
(Expressed in  (Expressed in    Expenditures
Category   SDR Equivalent) SDR Equivalent) to be Financed
(iii) Travel    2,590,000       1,200,000    85%
Allow-
ances
(iv) Bic-      1,570,000        650,000     85%
cycle
Allow-
ances
(v) Sta-         95,000                    85%
tionery
and Print-
ing
(4) Orienta-       1,480,000        370,000     100% of foreign
tion, Train-                               expenditures
ing and                                    and 85% of local
Research                                    expenditures
(5) Consul-        1,670,000        840,000     100%
tants'
Services
and Asso-
ciated
Costs
(6) Refunding of     930,000                    Amount due under
Project Prepara-                            Section 3.02 (b)
tion Advance                               of this Agreement
(7) Initial          560,000        190,000     Amount due under
Deposit                                     Section 3.01 (b)
into Special                               of this Agreement
Account
(8) Unallocated    1,300,000        670,000
TOTAL        13,900,000      5,600,000
70A


﻿- 16 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures' means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association and the Fund that the
proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan shall not be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of,
the Bor wer on goods or services, or on the importation, manu-
facture, procurement or supply thereof; on this basis, if the
amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of items in any
Category decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice
to the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such Category as required to be consistent
with the aforementioned policy of the Association and the Fund.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of expenditures (a) made
prior to the date of this Agreement or the date of the Fund Loan
Agreement, whichever shall be later, (b) under Categories (1)
through (5) unless the Annual Work Plan for the year concerned
shall have been approved by the Association, or (c) under
Category (3) (i) in an amount exceeding an aggregate of
SDR 3,600,000 equivalent.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the Fund Loan or the disbursement percentages set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 above, and without limitation upon the
provisions of Section 3.04 of this Agreement, if the Association
has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit or the
Fund Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit or Fund Loan which
are then allocated to another Category and which in the opinion
of the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and
(ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated


﻿- 17 -
shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to
such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no ex-
penditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and the Fund loan and the Association may, without in
any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy
of the Association under the Development Credit Agreement or of
the Fund under the Fund Loan Agreement, by notice to the Bor-
rower, ca   1 such amount of the Credit and/or the Fund Loan as,
in the AssocTation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of
such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit and/or the Fund Loan.


﻿- 18 -
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 1
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)  the term "Category" means a category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and/or the Fund Loan
as st forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agree nt;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
and-/,gr the Fund Loan allocated from time to time to Categories
(1) bhrough (4) in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement; and
(c) the term "initial deposit" means an amount in Kenyan
Shillings equivalent to the amount allocated to Category (7)
and to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and/or the Fund Loan
Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to the
first sentence of paragraph 3 to this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclu-
sively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provi-
sions of this Schedule.
3.     The Association shall, at the request of the Borrower,
withdraw on behalf of the Borrower from the Credit Account and/or
the Fund Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account the
initial deposit. Thereafter and on the basis of requests by the
Borrower furnished to the Association at such intervals as the
Association shall specify, the     Association  shall further so
withdraw from the Credit Account and/or the Fund Loan Account and
deposit into the Special Account such amounts as shall be
required to replenish the Special Account with amounts equal to
payments made out of the Special Account for eligible expendi-
tures, but only to the extent that the amount of any such
deposit, together with any amount remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such request, shall not exceed
in the aggregate the equivalent of the initial deposit. Except as
the Association may otherwise agree, each such deposit after the
initial deposit shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account and/or the Fund Loan Account under the respective


﻿- 19 -
Categories (1) through (4), and in the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence supporting
the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of
this Schedule.
4.   Prior to or at the time of each request by the Borrower for
a deposit by the Association into the Special Account after the
initial deposit, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
in respect of each payment made by the Borrower out of the
Special Account, such documents and other evidence as the
Association shall reasonably request, showing that such payment
was mae \for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Sched-
ule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by
the Association (a) when the Association shall have determined at
any time that all further withdrawals can be made directly by the
Borrower from the Credit Account and/or the Fund Loan Account, as
the case may be, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph
(a) of Sections 3.01 and 3.02 of this Agreement, or (b) when the
total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and Fund Loan allocated to
Categories (1) through (4) for the Project, minus the amount of
any qualified agreement to reimburse made by the Association and
of any special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Project, shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the
amount of the initial deposit, whichever shall be sooner. With-
drawal from the Credit Account and/or the Fund Loan Account of
the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and/or Fund Loan,
as the case may be, allocated to Categories (1) through    (4) for
the Project shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower and shall, except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, be made only after and to the
extent the Association shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
date of such notice have been or will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   If the Association shall have determined at any time that:
(a) any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for
any expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to para-
graph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association and,


﻿- 20 -
unless otherwise agreed by the Association, prior to any further
deposit into the Special Account by the Association, deposit into
the Special Account or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified; or
(b) any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not
be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
and unless otherwise agreed by the Association, refind to the
Association such amount then outstanding in the Special Account.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project covers 30 of Kenya's 41 districts and aims at
reorganizing and strengthening Kenya's agricultural extension
system and improving linkages between agricultural research and
extension, and introducing the training and visit system as the
basis for the Borrower's extension program.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:
Expansion, by about 744 staff, of MOA's extension and
research staff at different levels.
Part B:
The provision of vehicles, office equipment and audio-visual
aids and construction of offices at the district level.
Part C:
Training of MOA's extension personnel at different levels,
through the conduct of orientation meetings, workshops and
courses and study-tours for extension personnel and selected
officials (within Kenya and abroad).
Part D:
Carrying out of adaptive research and improvement of
interaction between research and extension, through training
courses and the implementation of an on-farm trial program and
on-station trials (as appropriate).
Part E:
Establishment and operation of a monitoring and evaluation
system for the Project.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1987.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition
(edition of July 1980) of the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank.Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March
1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guide-
lines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in. addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Associa-
tion shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange for
the publication of such notice in order to provide timely notifi-
cation to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the
goods and works in question. The Borrower shall provide the
necessary information to update such notice annually so long as
any goods or works remain to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding.
3.   Bidding packages for goods will be prepared on an annual
basis.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procu:ed on the basis of international coM7-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and simi-
lar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery, pur-
suant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account in
the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 23 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedure
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in Kenya
may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Kenya
if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Association
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Kenya equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be Compatred
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this
further comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in


﻿-24-
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for a goods packages, whose individual estimated
cost is less .than $50,000 equivalent, and all contracts for civil
works may be awarded under local procurement procedures accept-
able to the Association.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
1.   With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, and such other informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be incon-
sistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.


﻿- 25 -
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account or the Fund Loan Account
in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit .Account or the Fund Loan Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with
the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for award
and such other information as the Association shall reasonably
request. The Association shall, if it determines that the award
of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the pro-
visions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for its determination.


﻿26 -
SCHEDULE 4
(Section 4.01 of the
Development Credit Agreement)
1.   Responsibility
The overall responsibility for the Project implementation
will be entrusted to the Permanent Secretary of MOA, while the
DDAE will be entrusted, on a full-time basis, with the day-to-day
operations and management of the extension service both tech-
nically and administratively. The Chief Research Officer, Exten-
sion (CROE) within MOA, will be entrusted, on a full-time basis,
with the research activities under the Project. At the Provincial
and District levels, Project implementation will rest with the
respective Provincial Directors of Agriculture (PDA) and District
Agricultural Officers (DAO). The Borrower will ensure that the
positions of DDAE and CROE will be filled at all times with duly
experienced and qualified personnel.
2.   Annual Work Plan
(a) Annual work plans, providing an informative description
of proposed work to be undertaken and a detailed budget -for such
work will be prepared by all stations responsible for implement-
ing activities under the Project. Stations include: headquarters,
Nairobi (including the agricultural information center), the
province, the district and the research station. No later than
October 31 of each year, each station (those already participat-
ing and those scheduled to be phased in) will prepare a detailed
draft annual work plan (which will include physical and financial
requirements and budgets). No later than mid-November of each
year, each PDA will collect the detailed draft annual work plans
from the DAOs in his respective province and send them together
with the draft annual work plan for the province to the DDAE,
Nairobi. No later than mid-November of each year each director of
each participating research station will send to the CROE,
Nairobi, a detailed draft annual work plan. The DDAE and CROE
shall review the draft annual work plans submitted to them by
each station and combine said draft annual work plans into a
summary draft annual work plan.
(b) No later than December 10 preceding the fiscal year
concerned, DDAE and CROE will furnish to the Association, for its
review and comment, the summary draft annual work plan referred
to in paragraph 2 (a) of this Schedule.


﻿- 27 -
(c) No later than May 31 of the year concerned, the
Borrower will furnish to the Association, for its review and
approval, a revised draft annual work plan, taking into account
the Association's comments referred to in paragraph 2 (b) of this
Schedule. The revised draft annual work plan approved by the
Association shall constitute the Annual Work Plan as defined in
Section 1.02 (c) of this Agreement.
3.   Progress Report on Research and Extension Interaction
The CROE NVad MOA's Senior Deputy Director of Agricultural
Research will, by May 31 of each year, prepare and submit to the
Association for its information a report on the progress made
over the preceding year in research and extension interaction,
such report to be prepared in a manner satisfactory to the
Association.
P(C77--


﻿4
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the A sociation
thereunto the            day of
1983.
FOR SECRETARY


