Report No. PIC986
Project Name              Rwanda-Third Water Supply Project
Region                    Africa
Sector                    Water Supply
Project ID                RWPA2247
Implementing Agency       Director of Water and Sanitation
Ministry of Public Works and Energy
B.P. 24
Kigali, RWANDA
Tel: 0-237
Fax: 0-85755
Date Prepared             April 1, 1994
Projected Board Date      December 12, 1994
Objectives
Water supply strategy in Rwanda is dictated by the need to serve
a more important part of the urban poor and of the rural population.
In urban areas, a new house connection policy should be implemented
for the poor neighborhoods of the main cities, including medium-term
credits. The development of the rural sub-sector should be based on
the strengthening of the institutions and policies, delegating
responsibility for operation and maintenance at the local level, and
mobilizing local participation in construction and funding of
operation and maintenance. The proposed project should foster this
principle, taking account of the experience of the second IDA project.
The main objectives of the project would be:
(a) to improve access to safe water for the population living in
poor suburbs and rural areas;
(b) to help the Government make proper institutional
arrangements in urban centers, giving the ownership of the
facilities to a "Societe Nationale", and their operation and
maintenance to a private firm;
(c) to help prepare and implement a new policy for house
connections with payment facilities; and
(d) to increase the rural population's sense of responsibility
for maintaining the water supply facilities and promoting
sustainable development.
Description
The proposed project would include the following components:
(a) reinforcement of the water distribution network of Kigali,
extension thereof in the poor neighborhoods of Kigali and
the secondary cities, and installation of at least 5,000
house connections with credit facilities;
(b) contribution to the new Kigali water supply, through the use
of underground water in the Nyabarongo valley;
(c) completion of Mutobo water supply systems, in the Lava
Region, included in the Second Water Supply Project, but
stopped by the military operations in this region since



October 1990;
(d) rehabilitation and construction of small rural water schemes
throughout the country; and
(e) strengthening of the Directorate of Water and Sanitation
through the provision of technical assistance, equipment and
training.
Cost and Financing
The project is estimated at US$40 million, subject to review of
project scope and sustainability. In addition to IDA and GOR funding,
and on the basis of present experience, several cofinanciers are
likely to be interested in co-financing the proposed project,
including CFD, Austria and Switzerland.
Implementation
The project would be implemented over a five to six year period,
as follows:
(i) the technical and overall supervision of the project would
be vested in the Directorate for Water and Sanitation,
(ii) the Urban Water Company would be responsible for the
execution of the urban water supply component.
Environmental and Social Aspects
The project would contribute to the improvement of the urban
environment. Appropriate detailed design and contractual arrangements
will be prepared to prevent inappropriate works' construction methods
with potentially harmful environmental consequences. Environmental
assessment Category B.
The project would have a substantial positive social impact by:
(i) providing improved water supply service, (ii) improving the
overall sanitary situation of the rural and urban sub-sectors, and
(iii) contributing to the improvement in health conditions of the
population.
Contact Point: Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information based on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 2 -



