Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20419
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 15.1 MILLION
(US$20 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
RWANDESE REPUBLIC
FORA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
May 10, 2000
Water and Urban 2
Country Department 9
Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 2000)
Currency Unit = Franc Rwandais (FRW)
FRW 390 = US$ I
US$ 0.002564 = FRW 1.00
FISCAL YEAR
January I December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL            Adjustable Program Loan
CAP            Community Action Program
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CDC            Comnmunity Development Committee
CPA            Community Project Account
CQ             Consultant Qualification
CRDP           Commnunity Reintegration and Development Project
DEA            Direction de l'Eau et de l'Assainissement/Directorate of Water & Sanitation
EIRR           Economic/Internal Rate of Return
EMP            Environmental Management Plan
FRW            Francs Rwandais
GOR            Government of Rwanda
GPN            General Procurement Notice
GTZ            German Development
ICB            International Competitive Bidding
IDA            International Development Association
LACI           Loan Administration Change Initiative
LIL            Learning and Innovation Loan
MINALOC        Ministere de l'Administration Locale
MINERENA    Ministere de l'Energie, de l'Eau et des Ressources Naturelle
MOU            Memorandum of Understanding
NCB            National Competitive Bidding
NGO            Non-Govenmmental Organization
NPV            Net Present Value
PIM            Project Implementation Manual
PNAS           Food Security and Social Action Project
PA             Partner Agencies
PPN            Promotional Procurement Notice
PRA            Participatory Rural Appraisals
PSP            Private Sector participation
QCBS           Quality and Cost Based Selection
REAP           Responsable de l'Eau et de l'Assaiissement des Prefectures
RWS            Rural Water Supply
SA             Special Account
SOE            Statement of Expenses
SPN            Specific Procurement Notices
UNDP           United Nations Development Programme
UNICEF         United Nations Children's Fund
USAID          United States Agency for International Development
WSP-ESA        Water Supply and Sanitation Program - Eastern and Southern Africa
WSS            Water Supply and Sanitation
WUA            Water Users' Association
Vice President:    Callisto Madavo
Country Manager/Director:    Emmanuel Mbi
Sector Manager/Director:    Letitia A. Obeng
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Richard Verspyck



RWANDA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                        Page
1. Project development objective                                                        2
2. Key performance indicators                                                           2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project       2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                           3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                   4
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                   5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                        6
3. Benefits and target population                                                       7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                        7
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                            8
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies           9
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                            10
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                    11
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                         11
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                            11
2. Financial                                                                           12
3. Technical                                                                           12
4. Institutional                                                                       12
5. Social                                                                              13
6. Environment                                                                         13
7. Participatory Approach                                                              13
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                      14
2. Critical risks                                                                      15
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                      16



G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            16
2. Other                                                                              16
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          16
1. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         16
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          18
Annex 2: Project Description                                                             23
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         31
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                   33
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                               36
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrngements                                        37
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     46
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   47
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  48
Annex IO: Country at a Glance                                                            50
Annex 11: Letter of Sector Policy                                                        52
MAP



RWANDA
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTU2
Date: May 10, 2000                               Team Leader: Richard Verspyck
Country Manager/Director: Emmanuel Mbi           Sector Manager/Director: Letitia A. Obeng
Project ID: P045182                              Sector(s): WR - Rural Water Supply & Sanitation
Lending Instrument: Specific Investrnent Loan (SIL)  Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
O Loan         ; Credit        O Grant        El Guarantee    El Other (Specify)
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 20.00
Proposed Terms: Standard Credit
Grace period (years):                                Years to maturity:
Commitment fee:                                      Service charge: %
F_nan4ing Plan:  ;ource                                    Lot    .      ---            T toa
GOVERNMENT                                                    0.20           0.29          0.49
IDA                                                           7.34          12.66         20.00
COMMUNITIES                                                   0.46           0.47          0.93
Total:                                                        8.00          13.42         21.42
Borrower: RWANDESE REPUBLIC
Responsible agency: MINERENA/CDC
Directorate of Water and Sanitation (DEA), Ministry of Energy, Water and Natural Resources
Contact Person: Mr. Bruno Mwanafunzi, Director, DEA
Tel: +250 08301148                Fax: +250 87331                Email:
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$M):
- Y -2001   E            200        2003        204        2005        20-06
Annual     1.8          2.7         4.2         4.6        4.0          2.7  |
Cumulative     1.8         4.5          8.7       13.3        17.3        20.0
Project implementation period: 2000-2006
Expected effectiveness date: 09/30/2000  Expected closing date:  12/31/2006
OCS PAD Fo, F,ev Ma-dh Z



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project development objective is to increase the availability and sustainability of water supply and
sanitation services (WSS) in rural areas. The specific objectives include: (a) implementing
demand-responsive and sustainable WSS services, by promoting simple water supply and sanitation
systems that are planned, operated and maintained by water users' associations (WUAs) with private sector
support in selected communes; (b) strengthening capacity to manage services, by assisting water users in
planning, implementing and administering services, forming and training water and sanitation committees
and water users associations, and training users in better hygiene practices; (c) building the capacity of
water agencies, communes, users and the private sector to assume roles consistent with the new water
sector strategy; and (d) mobilizing communities' support for the rehabilitation/expansion of major
(regional) water systems and their operation by the private sector.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The achievement of the development objective will be monitored through the following performance
indicators:
*   number of people with access to effective and sustained use of improved community water and
sanitation facilities;
*   major systems rehabilitated through the cooperation of multiple WUAs and functioning with significant
participation from users and the private sector;
3   efficient transition of the role of the Ministry of Energy, Water and Natural Resources (Minerena) from
service provider/investment planner to facilitator and regulator.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: IDA/R99-135                     Date of latest CAS discussion: 06/29/99
The CAS Progress Report (June 1999) for Rwanda recognizes that Rwanda continues to face particular
challenges for sustained growth and poverty reduction after the genocide and civil war in 1994, including
the resettlement and reintegration of displaced families and other victims, achieving peace and stability, and
improving the standard of living of the population. The CAS focuses on five main themes, including
revitalization of the rural economy, with the provision of the social and economic infrastructure (of which
water supply and sanitation are part) required to improve living conditions and investment in human
resource development, including capacity building. Those two themes are central to this project. The
project will increase access by the rural poor to sustainable water and sanitation services; empower local
communities; and strengthen institutions in planning and providing assistance in service planning,
implementation and management, thereby supporting the broader objective of improving the lives of rural
Rwandese. The project is designed as a program, including a pilot phase which will help the Government to
implement its new sectoral policies (as detailed below) and move in the direction of (i) a demand-responsive
approach; (ii) decentralized planning and management services; and (iii) private sector as provider of all
goods and services and public sector as facilitator.
-2 -



2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Rural Rwanda is supplied by a total of about 700 piped water systems that feed into 6,800 standpipes and
2,200 private connections as well as by 17,000 spring catchments and 100 wells fitted with handpumps.
Apart from a few health centers and parish churches, little use is made of rainwater catchment systems
despite generally favorable rainfall data (1,200 mm annually, on average). 44 percent of the total
population has access to a water delivery point that serves less than 200 users, taking into account the
actual condition of facilities. Topography increases the hardships associated with access distances. Given
that Rwanda is spread out over approximately 1,800 hills and that populations have tended to settle in
high-lying areas, women and children are often required to carry water uphill from low-lying springs. One
response to this phenomenon has been the construction of rural piped distribution systems fed by
higher-lying springs or surface water sources where they do occur naturally. Fifty such systems span two
or more communes and ten straddle more than one prefecture.
According to UNICEF surveys, the sanitary situation of the rural population is problematic. Even if 85
percent of the population has access to traditional pit latrines, they are generally poorly maintained and safe
hygienic practices are not prevalent. Only 20 percent of the rural schools and health centers are equipped
with VIP latrines and rural markets are totally devoid of sanitation facilities.
Rural water supply (RWS) in Rwanda has traditionally faced a range of issues from top-down
programming of investments, poor cost recovery, limited private sector participation and high per-apita
investment costs for system construction. Early attempts (starting in 1987 with the Bank-financed Second
Water Supply Project, Cr. 1783-RW) to introduce community participation and transfer the
responsibility/ownership of RWS facilities to the communes failed in the absence of a strong Government
commitment to actual decentralization and its insistence to keep investment decisions at the central level.
These issues have been compounded by deep community-level distrust engendered by the 1994 genocide
and by the demands of post-war reconstruction which placed immediate emergency relief ahead of
longer-term sustainability considerations in the choice of investments. An innovative framework for the
management of water facilities, which was based on the establishment of water agencies at the communal
level ("regies communales") failed to provide the expected sustainability of services, following interference
and conflicts between the communal administration, appointed by the central government and beneficiaries.
It was subsequently recognized that the commune is not the most adequate level for building social
cohesion and sense of ownership among various groups of water users who are actually served by a
multiplicity of point sources and piped systems. Cohesion and ownership should be built through the
association of water users supplied by the same water point or the same water system.
Government Strategy
The sectoral RWS strategy was discussed at a September 1997 workshop (facilitated by WSP-ESA, IDA
and GTZ) and has since been endorsed by the Government. The strategy commits the Govemment to
decentralizing Minerena, and particularly its Directorate of Water and Sanitation (DEA), revising the
project cycle to allow for demand-driven choices, increasing private sector pardcipation (PSP) in the
operation of major systems and integrating sanitation/hygiene education initiatives into RWS projects.
The key elements of that new strategy include:
*   promoting a demand-responsive approach through which communities decide if they want to participate
and their preferred service level based on willingness to pay, contribute to a portion of investment costs
and pay in full operation and maintenance costs of their facilities;
*   decentralizing planning and management of services by (i) making water users' associations the
decision-makers, owners and managers of their facilities, and (ii) making the communes, particularly
-3 -



the Community Development Committees (CDC) able to assist WUAs in obtaining improved services;
*   redefining the roles of various institutions involved in the delivery of water and sanitation services,
including a transitional arrangement and related capacity building to move from a centralized planned
approach to a demand-responsive approach;
*   supporting the private sector (including NGOs) as provider for all goods and services; and
*   redeploying the public sector as facilitator, with Minerena providing assistance and support to the
CDCs and WUAs ("regies associatives" and "comites de point d'eau").
In 1998/99, the Government of Rwanda, through the Ministry of Local Administration (Minaloc),
embarked upon a decentralized, participatory approach to development. Key local structures, CDCs, were
elected from the cell level upward in March 1999. CDCs are provided with administrative and financial
autonomy to ensure participation of the local population in a decision-making process which is
complementary to the local administration. Participatory Rural Appraisals (PRA) were carried out with
the assistance of various donors which helped 40 communes to define local development priorities and
prepare Community Development Plans (CDP).
Implementing the Government's strategy in the rural water and sanitation sector would, therefore, require
close collaboration between the two ministries, with Minerena having primary responsibility for the
product, i.e. ensuring quality, norms and standards of the infrastructure rehabilitated/constructed, and
Minaloc being responsible for the process, i.e. facilitating decentralized decision-making through its key
local structures.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The strategic objective of the proposed project is to demonstrate the merits of a demand-responsive
approach to rural water supply and sanitation and of private sector participation in the operation and
maintenance of major rural WS systems in order to give the Government's strategy real substance on the
ground. It will emphasize a new approach rather than an immediate increase in coverage ratios and will
develop the capacity of all actors (Minerena, private sector, CDCs, water users' associations) to assume
responsibilities consistent with the sector and the decentralization strategies. The following sector issues
will be addressed:
Project cycle and linkage with the GOR's decentralization strategy: The project will assist CDCs --
supported by partner agencies (NGOs and consultants) -- in drawing up annual programs of water and
sanitation investments that meet the demand of community-based groups and their willingness to pay for
improved services. Those programs will be drawn from the water and sanitation component of the
community development plans prepared in the context of the on-going decentralization process. Procedures
have been developed for communities to request funding if and when they are ready with a completed
sub-project proposal, an associated management plan, and a contribution to investment.
Role of Minerena: The project will develop Minerena's capacity to provide guidelines for sub-projects'
design and implementation, to manage training programs for CDCs, water users' associations, local
consultants, NGOs and contractors, to monitor results and act as facilitator between private sector
operators (e.g. for major piped systems) and communities. Minerena's regional offices (REAP) will be the
communes' primary point of contact.
Cost recovery: An initial contribution to investment costs will be sought from rural communities. This
contribution (in cash and/or in kind) will vary with the level of service selected. Investment costs will be
reduced by selecting appropriate design criteria and by setting an upper limit to the level of unit cost per
-4 -



capita that would allow a sub-project to qualify for project subsidies. Operation and maintenance costs
will be clearly identified during the planning phase and will constitute one of the elements of
decision-making by the WUAs. The latter will also have to design and adopt adequate cost recovery plans
as part of their sub-project proposals.
CDC level contracting and implementation capacity: To meet the requirements of a demand-responsive
approach and achieve the Government's decentralization objectives, the project will promote direct
implementation of sub-projects by the CDCs, along the modalities developed by Minaloc. The project will
also ensure that communities have access to appropriate technical assistance and training programs in all
phases of the project cycle, which will strengthen their capacity to assume these new functions.
Sustainability and community management: As indicated above, the project has been designed to
integrate an extensive outreach and training program in all phases of the project cycle. Communities will
be eligible to apply for additional follow-up training, even when it is not associated with the new
investment. Women's participation in all aspects of the program is a key element of sustainability. Through
the pilot phase, within four communes, the project will continuously monitor and adjust its implementation
strategy to ensure that services provided in the communities respond to an effective demand, are adequately
used, and mechanisms are in place for long-tenn sustainability.
Private sector promotion : The project will strengthen the capacity of local private sector and NGOs,
through training as well as promoting a stronger enabling enviromnent and providing incentives for the
entry of small-scale contractors. Under the project, local NGOs and engineering consultants will be
encouraged to associate as partner agencies that will be eligible for training in participatory techniques and
can subsequently guide the communes through the planning, implementation and operation phases of
RWSS investments. The relatively small size and scattered location of many of the works (particularly
under component A) will encourage the participation of small contractors who will receive guidance on
simplified procurement procedures and technical assistance during contract implementation.
Sanitation and hygiene awareness : To maximize health benefits, the project will integrate sanitation and
hygiene education into the outreach and training activities benefiting the rural population. The project will
also promote adequate sanitation facilities for households, schools, health centers and high-density
settlements (imidugudu).
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project comprises four components:
*  Subprojects Component: This component will provide grants to communities through their
CDCs in up to 16 communes. The grants will be used for constructing water and sanitation
facilities. It will also finance technical assistance, training and outreach activities to strengthen
community capacity to plan, implement, operate and maintain water and sanitation facilities in
an effective and sustainable manner. Using a demand-responsive approach and the eligibility
criteria spelled out in the Project Implementation Manual, this component will start in four
communes and will then be extended to 12 other communes.
*   Major Water Supply Systems Component: The goals of this component are (i) to
demonstrate that the decentralized and demand-responsive approach is suitable for
-5 -



rehabilitating major systems; and (ii) to establish sustainable management arrangements for
those systems. The approach will be tested in the Mayaga system. In addition, this component
will lay the ground for completing the Lava Region system and restoring its original
operational capacity.
*   Capacity Building Component: The goal of this component is to strengthen stakeholder
capacity in carrying out the roles ascribed to them in the rural water supply and sanitation
strategy in order to ensure adequate and timely provision of high quality goods and services at
the community level. This will consist of support for: (a) the private sector and NGOs (as
providers of hardware and software services); and (b) the public sector (DEA and CDC) as
facilitators of the sub-sector development and management process.
*   Project Management: This component will include the incremental costs of managing the
project and providing technical assistance to the CDCs.
The total cost of the project (including PPF refinancing) and the costs of the four components are provided
below.
V -M~~~~~~~-
A. Subprojects                       ral Water         12.07       56.3     11.13      55.6
Supply &
Sanitation
B. Rehabilitation of Major Rural Water Rural Water      4.08       19.0      3.73       18.6
Supply Systems                     Supply &
Sanitation
C. Capacity Building               Rural Water          3.05       14.2      3.05      15.3
Supply &
Sanitation
D. Project Management              Rural Water          1.47        6.9      1.34       6.7
Supply &
Sanitation
PPF Refinancing                    Rural Water          0.75        3.5      0.75       3.7
Supply &
Sanitation
Total Project Costs                   21.42      100.0     20.00      100.0
Total Financing Required                    21.42      100.0     20.00      100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project will pilot key policy and institutional reforms that are already spelled out in the sector strategy
document but have yet to become operational in practice. These include (i) redefining and decentralizing the
WSS project cycle at the community level; (ii) shifting implementation responsibilities from the central
govemment to CDCs; (iii) redeploying Minerena from service provider to facilitator/regulator; (iv)
community management of RWSS facilities with private sector participation in the design, construction and
operation of systems; and (v) establishing adequate cost recovery policies.
-6 -



3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits: The project aims to provide basic drinking water facilities to about 370,000 people in rural areas
and will promote improvement of household sanitation and hygiene practices. The project will contribute
to poverty reduction through timesavings, improved productivity and health, especially for women and
children. Secondary benefits from improved health and timesavings in water collection include increased
economic productivity and enhanced opportunities for education and training, particularly among girls.
-    Component A is expected to contribute to health benefits and timesavings associated with the
improved and extended use of safe water and sanitation for approximately 250,000 people in rural
communities in up to ten communes (excluding the area covered by the Mayaga system).
*   Component B, which will finance the rehabilitation of the Mayaga system, will provide the same
benefits for approximately 120,000 water users in six additional communes located in the
Gitarama and Butare prefectures. In addition, this component will lay the groundwork for the
eventual completion of the Lava Region systems.
*   Component C: the enhanced capacities that result from Component C will empower the project
communes to initiate additional activities and to become more active in managing their own
development. Community members, including the users' associations, will benefit in the long-term
from the strengthening of a network of formal and informal institutions that would help plan,
install and provide maintenance of infrastructure facilities. The private sector and NGOs will be
strengthened, leading to increased employment opportunities in rural areas. Minerena and its
decentralized antenna REAPs as well as the CDCs will gain significant institutional capacity in
developing the communal WSS programs and working with communities to implement subprojects.
Target population: The project will target communes and users' groups that have low service coverage
rates, little extemal support for sector investments and high demand for improved services. Criteria have
been agreed on for the selection of communes. Eligibility and prioritization criteria for sub-projects have
been developed to ensure that investments respond to community demand and that eligible users'
associations have equal opportunity in accessing support.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Minerena, assisted by consultants, prepared a draft Project Implementation Manual (PIM) that outlines the
rules and procedures for project implementation. The draft manual is being discussed with stakeholders
involved in community water and sanitation goods and services. This manual will be adopted by project
effectiveness.
Executing agencies
In line with the Bank's CAP initiative and to avoid overlapping and potentially contradictory structures at
the communal level, the present project will follow the institutional and implementation arrangements
alrady developed by Minaloc under the Community Reintegration and Development Project (CRDP).
Project Coordination
Minerena will have primary responsibility for guiding, promoting, facilitating, supervising, monitoring,
evaluating and reporting on project activities. Minerena will also implement the institutional building
component. Project coordination will be deconcentrated at the prefecture level, with the regional offices of
Minerena (REAP) playing a key role in providing technical assistance to the CDC and building private
sector capacity for smooth subproject implementation.
-7 -



Project Execution
The CDCs will be responsible for the implementation of the subprojects on behalf of the WUAs. The
detailed subproject cycle and rules are described in Annex 2.
*   For Component A, CDCs will first validate the water and sanitation component of their
Community Development Plans and pre-select WSS subprojects. WUAs will then develop WSS
subproject proposals with the assistance of partner agencies contracted by the CDC. Subproject
proposals will be submitted to the CDC and Minerena for approval. Communities will deposit the
required cash contribution as a condition of subproject appraisal. Once the subprojects are
approved, DEA and the CDC will enter into a grant agreement, the signing of which will be a
condition of disbursement for the relevant subproject. The CDC will be in charge of contracting
works, goods and services required to execute the subprojects. WUAs will participate in the
selection process and sign off on completed works. WUAs may also directly execute small-scale
subprojects (e.g. point sources and latrines). WUAs will be responsible for sustaining services and
encouraged to undertake participatory monitoring and evaluation of their activities.
*   For Component B, partner agencies will assist WUAs in the six communes wholly or partially
covered by the Mayaga system to prepare subprojects. Once the subprojects closely related to the
Mayaga network are identified and appraised, Minerena will carry out, in parallel, the
rehabilitation of the production facilities and of the main trunk of the network in accordance with
the detailed design studies carried out under the Second Water Supply Project. Partner agencies
will also assist WUAs in setting up an inter-communal water board ("Association
Inter-communale") that can contract a private sector operator for the inter-communal network. As
the Mayaga network serves only about 120,000 of the 300,000 residents of the 6 communes it
reaches (25 of 58 sectors), participating communes would also be eligible for Component A
financing for the remainder of their water supply/sanitation needs.
*   Minerena and Minaloc will manage the execution of capacity-building activities (Component C).
In communes already covered by Minaloc projects, CDCs have been trained in all aspects of the
project cycle. In other communes, however, the Project will finance the training of CDC members
and the setting up of the necessary support structure (communal development agents, communal
accountants) before embarking on participatory rural appraisals, later followed by participatory
monitoring and evaluation by the CDCs. Following ministerial responsibilities, Minaloc would be
charged with implementing this part of the Project according to its procedures, with necessary
funds transferred from Minerena.
Implementation Period
The project will be implemented over a 6-year period (2000 - 2006).
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The first option was a RWSS project devoted to the completion of the water systems partly built under the
Second Water Supply Project (Cr. 1783-RW). The latter spent US$48 million in the Lava Region without
significant impact as the construction of most of the secondary networks was halted by the war. The
drawback of this option was that it was not consistent with the basic principles of the new sector strategy.
Indeed, this option practically dictated where and when investments had to be made, without considering
- 8 -



the effective demand of communities. In addition, security remained a concem in that particular area until
recently. The proposed project will, however, assist in preparing an assessment of the condition of
investments already made and of the scattered rehabilitation efforts carried out by NGOs and emergency
relief agencies in the Lava region; it will help to develop a completion program that will be discussed with
other donors.
A second option was a Leaming and Innovation Loan (LIL). It was also considered, but rejected, because
it would have been too small to allow for significant investments to be made and particularly to address the
issue of the rehabilitation of large systems, such as the Mayaga network. Instead, the design of the
proposed project builds on the experience of the Community Reintegration and Development Project, which
is a LIL.
A third option would have been to channel funds directly to the communities, through CDCs, in the context
of a cross-sectoral community development project. However, this alternative is not recommended, since
the objectives of ensuring effective and sustained use of facilities and supporting the new water and
sanitation policy could be hardly achieved through a broader community development project. The latter
may ensure that investment choices reflect the priorities of the communities in a cross-sectoral framework,
but it would be difficult in that context to improve specific management capacities, promote private sector
participation, and effectively support the redeployment of Minerena. The proposed project, however, will
use cross-sectoral Community Development Plans as a starting point in the identification of the WSS
projects of the communities.
A fourth option was an Adaptable Program Lending (APL). It was also rejected because this project is
mainly designed to ensure a smooth transition from the old RWS strategy to the new one. It is first
imperative to develop the capacity of all actors (Minerena, private sector, communes, water users'
associations) to assume responsibilities consistent with the revamped sector strategy and to test those new
principles before developing and implementing a related countrywide program.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Sectoisse                        Projec -S --tin s
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                  Progress (HP)   Objective (00)
Outside Rwanda:                   Ghana Community Water            S             S
Demand-driven approach, community  Supply & Sanitation II
contracting, use of NGO/Partner
agencies
In Rwanda:                        Second Water Supply              U             U
Major and minor rural WS systems    (completed)
Social Protection, use of small   Food Security & Social Action     S            S
contractors and NGOs              Project (ongoing)
-9-



Demand-driven approach and       Community Reintegration &        S             S
community planning and contracting   Development (ongoing)
for infrastructure and economic
projects
Other development agencies
In Rwanda:
Major RWS network rehabilitation,    KfW: Bugesera Sud - Ngenda
PSP in operation
Integration of water, sanitation and  UNICEF Program
hygiene education; use of NGOs
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The implementation experience with the Second Water Supply Project and community-oriented projects in
Rwanda and experiences with Bank-financed, demand-driven community water supply and sanitation
projects in sub-Saharan Africa, provide the following lessons:
*  Top-down planning and programming of RWS investments, as implemented under the Second
Water Supply Project with foreign consultants and large packages of works executed by foreign
contractors, have proven to be costly and ineffective. It has resulted in low sustainability of RWS
investments and unsatisfactory coverage ratios.
*  The experience under the Second Water Supply Project showed that community willingness to pay
for services may be much higher than expected and this is often not reflected in financial policies
that have high subsidy levels. The project will promote cost recovery schemes based on the results
of a willingness to pay study that is being carried out as part of the project's preparation.
*  The Food Security & Social Action project (PNAS) has shown that to ensure sustainability of the
community infrastructure, communities need to be part of the planning process and contribute to
infrastructure sub-projects, in terms of materials, complementary infrastructure, or labor, before
procurement of a construction contract. The PNAS also demonstrated that there is local
implementation capacity for small contracts. The private sector has responded well; however,
greater flexibility is needed when implementing the project, so as to adjust to the local
entrepreneurial capacity, community's space, interests and capacity, rather than adopting a
common approach to all.
*  The design of the project builds on experiences with Bank-financed, demand-driven community
water supply and sanitation projects in Ghana and Benin. The Ghana Community Water Supply &
Sanitation project in particular has underscored the need for (a) technically well-grounded partner
agencies to advise communities on piped systems; and (b) pre-identification of prospective project
communities that later self-select based on effective demand.
*  It appears from the above experiences that in order to enhance the demand-responsive approach, a
more programmatic approach to fund allocation should be followed, so that communities can apply
for funding once they have met participation criteria and collected capital cost contribution. This
is clearly spelled out in the Project Inplementation Manual developed as part of the preparatory
work of the project.
* Experience under the ongoing Community and Reintegration Development Project as well as
- 1 0 -



similar projects financed by other donors (UNDP, USAID) have demonstrated that communities
are keen on taking on more responsibilities, that CDCs cooperate with local administrators and that
CDPs may be developed and updated in a participatory approach. It also demonstrated that
training must be reinforced to ensure sound management by CDCs and communities, and must
start early in the project cycle. Women are key players in the delivery of community water and
sanitation services and must be empowered to facilitate community action. Special attention has
been given to their representation among the CDCs.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government of Rwanda (GOR) has shown a strong commitment as demonstrated by the following:
*   The GOR has adopted and implemented a decentralization policy. The GOR has created a Ministry
of Local Administration (Minaloc) aimed at streamlining the decentralization process and
empowering local communities, and has completed the electoral process leading to the
establishment of CDCs throughout the country.
*   As noted above, the Government has endorsed the new RWSS strategy. There is ownership of the
national policy as it has been designated by Rwandese in a participatory way culminating in the
October 1999 workshop regrouping all the stakeholders. A working group of the main ministries
and donors represented in Kigali has been set up to oversee the implementation of the strategy.
m   Minerena has fully endorsed the redeployment of its responsibilities and missions in rural areas. It
has been instrumental in disseminating and discussing the sectoral strategy with stakeholders and
donors and played an effective role in the preparation of the Project Implementation Manual.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank and WSP-ESA sponsored the preparation of the sectoral strategy. Both are at the forefront in
promoting the demand-responsive approach to the development of water services in mral areas and small
towns, as evidenced by the World Conference on Community Water Supply and Sanitation, organized in
Washington in May 1998. As there is a need to operationalize the new strategy with a specific project, the
Bank may bring forward the design and implementation experiences accumulated elsewhere in Africa.
More importantly, the Bank will cooperate with the Government in demonstrating that sectoral investment
programs can be prepared and implemented by CDCs and WUAs using a standard institutional and
financial framework developed for multi-sectoral initiatives, thus strengthening the case for community
action programs.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$1.7 million; ERR = 13 % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
The major benefits of this project are improved water services to about 370,000 people in rural areas. Two
types of economic benefits accruing to beneficiaries were estimated: (a) the cost savings associated with a
decrease in the use of a more time-consuming traditional source; and (b) the increase in consumer surplus
on the increased quantity of water consumed. Economic benefits depend on the type of improved water
supply and also on the type of original source of supply (unprotected springs, fetching water or vendors).
- 1 1 -



Because of the demand-responsive nature of the project, water supply facilities to be financed are not
known as a priori. Therefore, the approach chosen is to elaborate typical investments and compute overall
results from an estimate of the proportion of each type of water facility. Computations show that each
facility generates a positive NPV.
Additional benefits are expected from on-site sanitation facilities, although these have not been quantified.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR= % (see Annex 4)
Financial policy for subprojects. The project will apply the new Government cost recovery policy for the
sector of a minimal 10 percent contribution in cash, or in kind, to investment costs and 100 percent cost
recovery for O&M. As mentioned above, the level of the operating costs will be one element of the
decision taken by communities in selecting the type of water service. In order to ensure equity and
economic efficiency, a ceiling will be applied to the amount of investment subsidies per person served.
Subprojects entailing investments costs above the ceiling will be rejected, and the community will be asked
to select a lower level of service.
Fiscal Impact:
The fiscal impact of the project will be twofold. First, the investment costs for improved services will
continue to be subsidized, although at a reduced rate (90 percent instead of 100 percent). Second, budget
subsidies toward operating costs will be entirely eliminated. At present, it is estimated that the budget
contributes about US$I million annually to financing the operating costs of the major systems.
Rwanda initiated development of a Medium Tern Expenditure Framework (MTEF) in 1998, with focus on
the social sectors, including water supply and sanitation. It has been agreed that the MTEF will be refined
and will serve as a basis for (a) the development of a medium-term national investment program for the
sector; and (b) budgeting adequate amounts, which would allow Minerena to carry out its new
responsibilities.
3. Technical:
There are no major technical issues. Water supply options will essentially include protected springs and
gravity-fed piped systems, which are widely adopted in Rwanda. The rehabilitation of the major systems
will not require the use of complex treatment technologies. However, recent experiences with post-war
emergency rehabilitation evidenced that design standards are often set at unrealistic levels, leading to
excessive investment and operating costs, which cannot be supported by beneficiaries. The project will
accordingly impose realistic values for daily water consumption per capita.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies:
Subprojects will use a decentralized approach with key roles played by CDCs, communities and the private
sector. The experience of CRDP shows that CDC members require extensive training before fully
assuming their responsibilities. Minaloc has prepared a comprehensive training program, including
participatory methods, project management, environmental awareness, gender and other social issues.
Capacity building will be provided to project stakeholders to enable them to effectively carry out their roles
(see Annex 2). In addition, Minerena agreed to prepare an action plan by December 31, 2001, to ensure its
conversion into a ministry, essentially responsible for regulating, promoting, facilitating and monitoring
water and sanitation services, including the reorganization of DEA. Minerena agreed to implement that
- 12 -



plan before December 31, 2005.
b. Project management:
Minerena will oversee project implementation and will have primary responsibility in the implementation of
the capacity building component, and to a large extent, in the implementation of the major systems
component. The institutional transition study carried out during project preparation has identified specific
training requirements for DEA and REAP staff. In addition, Minerena will be assisted in (a) delivery of its
financial management responsibilities by a Chief Financial Officer recruited from the private sector; (b)
delivery of its coordination responsibilities by a deputy coordinator recruited from the private sector, and
(c) delivery of its technical monitoring responsibilities by intemational consultants who will perform
periodic technical audits.
5. Social:
A major objective of the Govemment's decentralization strategy is to bring govenmment closer to the people
it is meant to serve. An important part of this approach is the aim to bridge the gap between local
government and the population. Building such partnerships in the short-term would be important for
building trust in the longer-term, a vital element of a functioning state. This partnership needs to be
founded on transparent rules and guidelines. The program would contain the necessary elements to
strengthen this partnership.
6. Environmental assessment:              Enviromnent Category: B (Partial Assessment)
An enviromnental analysis of the project was carried out in February 2000 to assess the environmental and
social situation, with particular emphasis on current hygiene practices, sanitation arrangements, and the
ability of rural communities to manage their water and sanitation facilities effectively. Since the project
areas have not yet been identified, the analysis focused on two communes that were deemed to be
representative of the local conditions the project is expected to face. Consultations were conducted in the
form of meetings with national and local officials, other stakeholders, and field visits.
The analysis outlined that the possible negative impact of subprojects may derive from (i) inadequate siting
of facilities; (ii) inadequate use and maintenance of water delivery points; and (iii) inadequate hygiene
practices. To mitigate that, the analysis developed an environmental mitigation plan, a training program
and developed specific environmental criteria to be used in appraising subprojects. Training tools are
developed to incorporate environmental sensitization and sustainable management of water facilities, as
well as hygiene education into the mobilization and training activities to be carried out by partner agencies
at all stages of the subproject cycle. Particular attention will be given to securing adequate compensation
for crops that may be relocated through pipe laying or construction of water storage facilities.
In addition, a set of enviromnental indicators linked to the quality of water and the sustainable management
of water and sanitation facilities have been developed from the analysis.
7. Participatory Approach (key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced or may
influence; if participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable):
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
The program builds on the extensive participatory work undertaken for the CRDP and other
community-based projects in Minaloc. Specifically, the WSS infrastructure to be rehabilitated or
constructed during the first years of implementation has already been identified by the local population
through participatory rural appraisals. No additional participatory activities were, therefore, necessary for
- 13 -



program preparation. Collaboration with the local population, through PRAs, CDCs and water users'
associations, would continue throughout implementation, building on and reinforcing Minaloc activities.
For the first time, therefore, Minerena would enter into a comprehensive, continuous, and mutually
beneficial relationship with the population.
b. Other key stakeholders:
Other key stakeholders include local government and CDCs, other ESAs, DEA, the private sector
(including NGOs) and other government ministries. Representatives from these groups will meet (at least
annually) to discuss sector performance and specific priority issues. They will have key roles in project
implementation and coordination.
Stakeholders         Identification/      Implementation           Operation
Preparation
Beneficiaries/community       COL                 COL, IMP                 IMP
groups
Private sector/NGOs           COL                 COL, IMP                IMP
Local Government/CDCs         COL                 COL, IMP                COL
Other donors                  COL                 CON            .
COL = Collaboration; CON  Consultation; IMP = Implementation
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The sustainability of the water and sanitation services in rural areas of Rwanda rests on two key elements:
A. Mutual trust between local/central administration and the rural population. Effective decentralization
of decisions and the leading role played by users' associations in planning and designing WSS facilities will
ensure that investment decisions are transparent and demand-responsive. Similarly, building mutual trust
will eliminate the risk of local administration interference with the management of facilities.
B. Community willingness and capacity to manage and sustain services. Experience elsewhere
demonstrates that the sense of ownership by users reinforces the likelihood of successful management and
use of facilities. This sense of ownership will be increased by the up-fiont commitment requested from
users, which will have to take the initiative, prepare a proposal, make cash and in-kind contributions and
undertake organizational responsibilities. To help WUAs manage their services in the long-term, capacity
will be strengthened in community organization, operations and maintenance, financial management,
hygiene education and effective water usage and disposal.
- 14 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
isk                         ; isk .          Rizt  Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Communities will not have the             M         CDC approach will strengthen institutional
willingness nor capacity to develop social          investments by their ability to organize and
cohesion and improve planning and                   mobilize contributions. In addition, component
management capabilities.                             C (capacity building) will enhance the
communities' planning and management
capacity.
Beneficiaries are not willing to change    N         Sanitation sub-components and hygiene
behaviors to improve hygienic practices.            awareness campaigns will accompany water
supply initiatives.
From Components to Outputs
CDCs will not have the capacity to         S        Procurement and contract management
manage a significant number of small                capacities are being developed under the CRDP
contracts efficiently and effectively.              and will be strengthened under the project.
Population will not react favorably to the  N       The project will provide for comprehensive
innovative features of the project,                 communications and marketing campaigns.
particularly community management and
outside private operators.
Local partner agencies, private operators  N         Specific training programs will be implemented.
and contractors do not develop capacities           Technical support will be provided to
in line with new strategy.                          contractors and operators during project
implementation and system start-up.
Government and local administration will   N        The decentralization policy has been initiated,
interfere with demand-driven selection of           fornulated and implemented by the Government.
beneficiary communities and cost
recovery policy.
Local contractors are not paid on time and  M       Procurement packages will be sized to fit
are not provided with a steady flow of               contractors' capacity. DEA/REAPs will
business.                                           monitor contract management.
Overall Risk Rating                j       M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
- 15-



3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Responding to the immense post-war need for shelter and supporting infrastructure, the Government
initiated a resettlement program. Households living in established but scattered homesteads have been
enc3uraged to settle in new development sites (imidugudu). Under the program, potential beneficiaries
participate in the selection of new sites and are required to contribute to the construction of houses in the
new settlements. Basic infrastructure, particularly water supply and sanitation, is not always provided.
The Government confirmed that such resettlement is voluntary and no involuntary resettlement is
envisaged. The project will not include any resettlement. However, as and when WSS subprojects
requested by imidugudu users are included in Community Development Plans, they will be considered and
appraised, and eventually financed by the project if they meet the eligibility criteria.
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
* Establishment of a satisfactory financial management system
*   Project Implementation Manual adopted
* Initial deposit of US$30,000 into the Project Account
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
* Adoption of a program of actions to ensure the conversion of Minerena into a ministry essentially
responsible for regulating, promoting and monitoring the water and sanitation sector, in accordance
with the objectives of the Letter of Sector Policy by December 31, 2001.
*   Implementation of the program of actions by December 31, 2005.
H. Readiness for Implementation
0 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
0 1. b) Not applicable.
O 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
O 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
O 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
0 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
- 16 -



RicharVerspyck                   Letitia A. Obeng    j            Emmanuel Mi              I
Team Leader                      Sector Manager/Director          Country Manager/Director
- 17-



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
RWANDA: Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Improve rural social and    Investments in rural transport, Follow-up of specific  Violence and social instability
economic services          energy and social          measures                   can be reduced
(Theme II, Revitalizing   infrastructure
agriculture and rural
development while protecting
the environment)
Improve access to water and Capacity at community,    Follow-up of specific      Government commitment to
sanitation services in rural  regional and central    measures                   economic reform can be
and urban areas (Theme III, government levels to manage                          sustained in spite of political
Developing human resources  water and sanitation facilities                      situation
and capacity)
International donor support
can be sustained
Project Development        Outcome / Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
Political situation will not
Sustainable improvement of                                                       deter private sector partners;
living conditions through the
use of safe water and                                                             Economic growth will
appropriate sanitation                                                           enhance willingness to pay for
facilities by:                                                                   improved services;
* Promoting simple WSS  WUAs in 16 communes plan, Reports from Communal WS
infrastructure that is    construct, operate and  committees and Progress
planned, operated and   maintain water supply systems reports from REAPs;
maintained by         with assistance from the
communes with private  private sector;
sector support;
Average per capita         Periodic reports from WUAs;
consumption of water from
facilities constructed under the
project exceeds 10 t/cap/day;
80 % of water user
associations in participating   Reports from Conununal WS
communes are operating and  committees
collecting revenues allowing
them to cover O&M costs;
80% of collective latrines
constructed under the project Reports from Communal WS
adequately maintained in   committees
accordance with standards
defined by the Borrower.
- 18 -



* Mobilizing community  Mayaga system rehabilitated  Technical and conmnunity
support for the       with participation by      development audits;
rehabilitation of major  beneficiaries in the design,
systems and their     planning, financing and
operation by the private implementation of the
sector,              rehabilitation;
Private sector operator assures Reports from DEA and
continuous service with   technical audits;
respect to Mayaga system and
collects revenues allowing
them to cover O&M costs;
Average per capita
consumption from the Mayaga Periodic reports from WUA's;
system exceeds 10 1/cap/day;
*  Building capacity of    Water supply system      Technical audit reports;
water authorities, CDCs investments in participating
and the private sector to communes are programmed by
assume roles consistent CDC on the basis of
with new sector strategy. participatory Community
Development Plans;
Private sector is able to guide Technical audit reports.
communities in participating
communes, plan and manage
facilities and provide O&M
services.
- 19-



~~~~~~~~~~~~ 4
Output from each           Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
A. Increased safe water supply Approximately 250,000  Progress reports by DEA and  Communes will develop
and sanitation coverage in 10  additional people have access WS committees       social cohesion and improve
communes;                 to improved services;                                  planning and management
capabilities;
Beneficiaries will improve
hygienic practices.
B. 1 Increased safe water  Water services to the 120,000 Progress reports by DEA and
supply and sanitation coverage people in 6 communes   WS committees
throughout the Mayaga system supplied by the Mayaga
system;
B. 2 Identification of    Investment and assessment   Consultant report
investment needs for       studies for Lava Region
completion of Lava Region   system completed;
system.
C. Reorganized and         Minerena (DEA) and its     Technical audit reports
decentralized administrative  regional offices are able to
services.                  deliver contract management,
community development,
accounting and monitoring
services.
-20 -



~i, r a y it O ~ j e c ti w s ~   ~ '  hN dIca tb r & l   iD- ' ~ I O t i l ~ i i  ~ v t , n   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __io
Project Components I       Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:            (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                              Outputs)
A. Community Subprojects  US$ 12.07 million            Progress reports by          CDCs will manage a
CDCs/DEA, external         significant number of smali j
1. Construction/           US$ 8.82 million            evaluations by international   contracts efficiently and
rehabilitation of piped systems                        consultants/NGO and outside  effectively;
and spring catchments in up                            technical experts
to 16 communes;                                                                     Population will reaci
favorably to the innovative
2. Sanitation facilities and    US$ 0.86 million                                   features of the project,
cisterns for schools, health                                                       particularly community
centers and high-density                                                           management and outside
settlements and promotion of                                                       private operators;
latrines;
Local partner agencies,
3. Partner agencies and local US$2.39 million                                      private operators and
training                                                                           contractors develop capacities
in line with new strategy;
Govermment will not interfere
with demand-driven selection
of beneficiary communuities
and cost recovery policy:
Local contractors are paid on
time and provided wiih a
steady flow of business.
B. Major Water Supply       US$ 5.75 million           Progress reports by
Systems                                                CDCs/DEA, external
evaluations by international
1. Rehabilitation of       US$ 4.08 million            consultants/NGOs and outside
production facilities and main                         technical experts
trunk of Mayaga-Bugesera
system;
2. Community subprojects to  Included in Component A. 1
rehabilitate/expand secondary above.
networks connected to the
system;
3. Mobilization, training and US$ 1.28 million
supervision;
4. Assessment of Lava Region US$ 0.22 million
system;
5. Community development  US$ 0.17 million
assistance in Lava Region.
- 21 -



C. Capacity Building     US$ 1.37 million          Progress reports by DEA and
external evaluations
1. Training for Minerena    US$ 0.61 million
(Kigali and regional offices),
partner agencies (PA's) and
pnvate sector
2. Support to Project    US$ 0.32 million
coordination
3. Monitoring and Evaluation US$ 0.45 million
D. Project Management    US$ 1.47 million          Progress reports by DEA and
external audits
1. Equipment and Vehicles   US$0.56 million
2. Incremental Operating  US$0.92 million
Costs
-22 -



Annex 2: Project Description
RWANDA: Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Community Subprojects Grants: This component will provide grants to conmmunities and schools through
their CDCs in up to 16 communes. The grants will be used for construction of water and sanitation
facilities. It will also finance technical assistance and community development activities to strengthen
community capacity to plan, implement, operate and maintain water and sanitation facilities in an effective
and sustainable manner. Using a demand-driven approach and the eligibility criteria spelled out in the
Project Implementation Manual, this component will start in four communes and will then be extended to
12 other communes.
Major Water Supply Systems Component: The goals of this component are (i) to demonstrate that the
decentralized and demand-responsive approach is suitable for rehabilitating major systems; and (ii) to
establish sustainable management arrangements for those systems. The approach will be tested in the
Mayaga system. In addition, this component will lay the groundwork for completing the Lava Region
system and restoring its original design operational capacity.
Capacity Building Component: The goal of this component is to strengthen stakeholder capacity in
carrying out the roles ascribed to them in the rural water supply and sanitation strategy in order to ensure
adequate and timely provision of high quality goods and services at the community level. This will consist
of support for: (a) the private sector and NGOs (as providers of hardware and software services); (b) the
public sector (DEA and CDC) as facilitators of the sub-sector development and management process.
Project Management: This component will include the incremental costs of managing the project and
providing technical assistance to the CDCs. A description of the project components is given below.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$12.07 million
Subproject Grants: All subprojects will respond to community demand and require a financial
contribution from the community. The subproject cycle is attached to this Annex.
The physical works to be financed are to include:
*  Protected springs;
*   Spring catchments (gravity or pumped) with distribution network, storage and standpipes (house
connection would be paid for by users);
*  Rehabilitation of small piped systems with standpipes;
*  Expansion of distribution networks connected to regional trunk systems;
*  Boreholes equipped with handpumps;
* Rainwater catchment;
*  Household, school, health center and, where feasible, markets and high density rural settlement
latrines;
*  Drainage and wastewater collection.
Other water and sanitation technologies that meet technical, environmental, financial and sustainability
requirements will also be considered.
- 23 -



All civil works will be accompanied by the following community development/technical assistance
activities:
(a)    TA for proposal stage: technical, environmental and financial guidance to assist
communities in making informed choices about prefenred service level option; engineering services
and technical design for water systems; assistance with organizing community contribution; design
of follow-on training programs (hygiene education, financial management, O&M, etc.) and
proposal completion.
(b)    Community development: assistance in subproject implementation (i.e. contracting, works
supervision, procurement of goods, etc.), water user association establishment and training in
administration, operation and maintenance; hygiene education and other relevant tmining included
m the subproject proposal.
Subproject Component Rules
Subprojects related rules and procedures are detailed in the Project Implementation Manual and
summarized below.
Communes selection
Communes will be selected in accordance with the following main criteria: (i) high priority given to the
improvement of water and sanitation services, as evidenced by the existence of a water and sanitation
component in the Community Development Plan; (ii) prevalence of significant health and sanitary problems
linked to the lack of adequate water services, as evidenced by the data on waterbome diseases in the
commune; (iii) existence of a satisfactory record or potential in community management of water services,
as assessed on the basis of criteria set out in the PIM; and (iv) existence of an operational CDC. For
added flexibility, DEA may also take into account additional criteria, including the presence of potential
partner agencies in the prospective commune and its poverty level.
Water and Sanitation Component of the Community Development Plan
REAP and partner agencies will assist the CDC of selected communes to further identify and validate the
water and sanitation component of the Community Development Plan. This will consist in pre-feasibility
work, including the preliminary identification of technical solutions, costing and investigation of water
resources. Once the WS component has been fully identified, CDC will pre-select subprojects with an
aggregate cost consistent with the annual financial allocation of about US$200,000.
Subproject pre-selection and short-listing
Subprojects are pre-selected by the CDC based on criteria spelled out in the PIM. This includes poverty,
existing water and sanitation facilities, expressed willingness of community members to contribute to
investment cost, and to assume full responsibilities for O&M of the selected facilities. Communities will be
requested to submit an application form.
Subproject preparation and selection
Only communities that have submitted an application and been pre-selected will receive technical assistance
- 24 -



in preparing a feasibility study and a funding proposal. Proposals that fully meet the appraisal criteria will
be funded, on a first-come, first-serve basis. Final subproject selection will be made by the CDC on the
basis of relevant criteria specified in the PIM.
Subproject appraisal criteria
The sub-project appraisal process will be undertaken by the technical sub-committee of the CDC, assisted
by the REAP and a partner organization. This is strictly a technical review and its purpose is to ensure that
the sub-project meets all criteria included in the PIM, including minimum service level, environmental,
technical, social, financial and institutional criteria. In addition, Water Users' Associations and other
structures to manage the facilities, recognized by the CDC, will be part of the criteria. Technical assistance
and training for communities will be fully financed by the project.
Financial policy
The investment cost of water and sanitation subprojects shall be financed through a contribution of at least
10 percent, in cash or kind, from the comnmunity and/or institution and a grant of up to 90 percent from the
project. Cash contributions shall be made before sub-project approval. In-kind contributions will be made
throughout the implementation of the sub-project and this would be specified in the sub-project appraisal
document. Different options will be tested for the financial policy for household latrines, including a project
subsidy to cover the slab and vent pipe, or other options that will be agreed between DEA and IDA.
Minimum content of social process
All subprojects shall include technical assistance and community development activities to ensure adequate
assistance to the community in making informed choices, organization, sub-project implementation
(including contracting and works supervision), administering funds, and achieving effective and sustained
use of their facilities. Hygiene and sanitation promotion activities will be clearly defined in all proposals.
Linkage between community and CDC
Communities shall be involved in all stages of the project cycle. Each time a task or decisions that affect
their subprojects are made on their behalf by the CDC, the community shall be consulted or involved.
Communities shall sign-off on all official documentation pertaining to sub-project implementation (i.e.
contract award, payment certificates, completion certificates).
Project Component 2 - US$5.75 million
Major Water Supply Systems Component: This component aims at restoring and expanding water
services in the area supplied by the Mayaga system and at providing support to the rehabilitation of the
Lava region systems, through technical assessments and community development services.
Mayaga-Bugesera system. The rehabilitation of production facilities (water catchment, treatment plant
and headworks) and of the main trunk will be implemented by Minerena on the basis of detailed design
studies carried out by Sogreah consultants. The rehabilitation and expansion of secondary distribution
networks will be planned and executed on the basis of community projects, under the principles and
procedures defined for Component 1.
Lava Region system. The project will first help to finance an assessment of the technical, operational,
- 25 -



social and management conditions of the facilities built under the Second Water Supply Project, and the
investments required to achieve the initial service targets of the systems. It will also assist in the
development and implementation of sustainable operational and managerial arrangements (including the
establishment of private operator(s).
Project Component 3 - US$ 1.37 million
Capacity Building Component: The goal of this component is to strengthen stakeholder capacity in order
to ensure adequate and timely provision of high quality goods and services at the local level. This will
consist of support for: (a) the private sector and NGOs (as providers of hardware and software services);
(b) the public sector (Minerena, REAP); and (c) CDCs and communities. Section 2.3 of the PIM provides
details on capacity building-related activities to be provided. Support and training will be provided on an
as-needed basis, as determined jointly by those receiving support and DEA. A checklist of possible areas
of skills training will be developed for each type of sector actor. These checklists will be used by REAPs,
with the assistance of partner organization, to prepare training plans. A comprehensive and focused
module will be developed and will cover the following aspects: (i) planning skills; (ii) design of funding
request, procurement procedures, monitoring aspects of project implementation and communication skills;
(iii) management and maintenance of water facilities; (iv) supervision and evaluation of project
implementation; (v) financial management of water facilities; (vi) expertise in technologies for WSS in
Rwanda; (vii) maintenance and renewal of water facilities; and (viii) expertise in techniques of latrine
construction and good hygienic practices. Overall orientation would also cover awareness of environmental
concerns and socio-cultural issues, such as gender.
(a) Support to the providers of goods and services: Support will be provided in two ways:
training and simplification of procedures to encourage participation of small-scale
entrepreneurs. The long-term objective is to ensure that there is a competitive and efficient
private sector available at the district level to provide quality goods, works and services to
communities. The project will therefore seek to increase the number of providers, as well as
ensure the quality and competitiveness of their work. Specifically, support will be provided to
water facilities contractors, including masons, consultants, supervisors, spare parts suppliers,
sanitation contractors, area mechanics, and providers of training and community development
services. The training will be contracted out by Minerena to qualified training
institutes/consultants/partner agencies.
(b) Support to CDC actors participating in the project: The project will support CDC
strengthening through (i) orientation courses for CDC personnel; (ii) training for the
Communal WS committee; (iii) training for Water Users' Associations; and (iv) logistical and
operational support.
Orientation sessions will be implemented by REAP for CDC staff, education officers,
school health program coordinators, Water Users' Associations and other relevant
personnel. The orientation will cover information about contracting arrangements,
financial management, etc.
CDC strengthening: Support will be also provided to the CDC, and its sub-committees
strengthening will be tailor-made to complement other ongoing capacity building efforts
from other IDA-financed projects and other donors involved. Eligible expenditures include
staff training, other support to the CDC and environmental health officers.
- 26 -



(c) Minerena's role strengthening (Minerena as a facilitator): Limited funds are available for
consultancy services, equipment and training to support the DEA and REAPs and strengthen
their capacity in their new role as facilitators and no longer service providers. Through this
component, the project will finance activities, such as training programs, participatory
program reviews by all stakeholders, topical research, mass media campaigns for
disseminating hygiene education, external impact assessments, exchanges with other countries,
and other special studies. It will also finance the costs of the contractual staff assisting
implementation (Chief financial officer, Deputy coordinator and assistants to REAPs).
Project Component 4 - US$1.47 million
Project Management: This component will finance:
(a) Initial office equipment for Communal WS committees, REAPs (including office space, if
needed) and DEA, as well as a limited number of vehicles for REAPs, DEA and bikes for the
fontainiers (communal and sectoral caretakers).
(b) Incremental operating costs of Minerena/REAPs to facilitate project implementation and
providing technical assistance to the CDCs. The term "Operating Costs" means the
incremental operating costs arising under the Project on account of maintenance of vehicles,
fuel, equipment, office supplies, utilities, consumables, travel and accommodation,
telecommunication charges, and Project staff salaries but excluding salaries of the Borrower's
civil servants.
THE (SUB)PROJECT CYCLE
As part of the Govemment's decentralization policy, Community Development Committees were set up
throughout the country to represent communities at the cell/sector/commune level. Community development
plans were prepared, through the help of a team of local consultants, to guide the participatory process at
the local level. These CDPs contain: (a) a brief description of the community and the status of its economy
and its social and economic infrastructure; (b) a program of reintegration and development activities, based
on the needs expressed by the communities; and (c) a plan for the implementation of the CDP. The project
will help to finance the water and sanitation component of the CDP. The guiding principle of project
implementation is to empower the communities to identify, plan, contribute to, select, implement and
sustain their facilities. The subproject cycle is as follows:
Information and Selection of Communes
The first stage of the project will inform all communes with CDPs through workshops to solicit their
interest and vet their willingness and ability to be involved. Communes will be assessed and selected on the
basis of criteria defined in the PIM.
- 27 -



Validation and Pre-selection of WSS subprojects list included in the CDP
The selected CDC will review and validate the list of WSS subprojects included in their CDP with the
support of the REAP and a partner agency. The CDC will pre-select subprojects on the basis of criteria
defined in the PIM and prepare a program consistent with the financial and support services available in
one project cycle. The results of this pre-selection will be made public and the CDC will transmit the list of
pre-selected subprojects to the REAP. Those lists are, at the prefecture level, consolidated by the REAP
and transmitted to the DEA.
Proposal Formulation
The CDC and DEA!REAP, in consultation with pre-selected commrunities, will identifys the assistance
required to complete subproject proposals. Partner Organizations, contracted on behalf of CDC by
DEA/REAP, will prepare subproject proposals with, and on behalf of, the selected communities. The
contracts will include technical assistance for community development activities, works supervision,
hygiene education, training of WUAs, establishment of community operation and maintenance capability,
feasibility studies and training. The proposal will contain all the information req-aired to adequately
appraise the subproject and contained in the PIM. The CDC, in consultation with DEA/REAP, will set a
deadline for proposal submission.
Subproject Appraisal
The appraisal process will use clear criteria to evaluate the funding requirements of each proposal.
Appraisal will be undertaken by the communal water and sanitation committee, assisted by the partner
agency who prepared the proposal and the REAP. Once a proposal meets all appraisal criteria, as spelled
out in the PIM. it should be funded.
Appraisal criteria include:
* Technical and environmental feasibility of proposed civil works and goods
* Evidence that community made an informed choice about preferred service level
Evidence that commune is prepared to contribute in kind or cash up to an equivalent of 10 percent
of capital cost
* Facility Management Plan, including procedures for O&M and tariff collection
* Plans for improved hygiene, environmental protection and sanitation
*   Existence of a user organization (Water Users' Association or water committee) ensuring adequate
gender representation and in charge of implementing the proposal
Request for subprojects funding. approval and Funds Disbursement
Appraised subprojects will be submitted to the CDC for review and approval. The CDC (Communal water
and sanitation committee assisted by a partner agency) will review subproject costs, using a standard unit
cost database, and agree with the REAP on the financing and procurement plan for the subprojects. A
timetable will then be established to mobilize the funding required for project construction. Communities
whose subproject proposals are accepted for implementation will open a bank account and deposit the
equivalent of their cash contribution to show commitment, and the REAP will verify that this capital cost
contribution is in the bank before a request for funding is made to Minerena.
- 28 -



The package of the appraisal documents, financing and procurement plans together with requests for
construction funding, will be submitted to the DEA for validation. Once requests are cleared, DEA and the
CDC will enter into a grant agreement. The signing of the grant agreement will be a condition of
disbursement of the relevant subprojects. Funds will then be transferred to the CDC's Community Advance
Account (CAA). No more than 90 days of cash will be advanced at any time. For subprojects being
executed over six months, there would be an initial tranche and upon justification of the first 50 percent, the
CDC would receive the balance.
Construction
Construction involves the building of the facilities by private sector contractors. Contracting for goods and
works will be carried out by both the CDCs, for and on behalf of, communities using procedures detailed in
the PIM.
Completion
All completed works shall be inspected by CDC and the REAP and certified as satisfactorily completed by
the community before the last payment is made. The last payment certificate shall be signed by the on-site
supervisor as provided for in the contract document. This document must be produced by the contractor
before the last payment is made. A sample of the completed works will also be inspected by the REAP.
A subproject completion report shall be co-signed by the community and the CDC to indicate that they are
satisfied with the completed works. A letter will be sent to the DEA notifying them of satisfactory
completion of the project. A financial report will be submitted to the REAP within 60 days of project
completion.
A guarantee period of one year will be provided for the major civil works, and payment conditions will be
established in the contract documents.
Operation and Maintenance
Operation and maintenance anrangements will be the sole responsibility of the community. Backstopping
technical services, however, will be provided by DEA and the REAP. These services could include:
*   Refresher training of communities in the operation and maintenance of their facilities
*  Promoting and establishing linkages to other support facilities
* Support for entering into a service management contract with major piped system operators.
Auditing
DEA accountants will review CDC monthly statements of advance funds and CDC accounts before each
funding tranche is approved and transferred. In addition to the regular intemal auditing procedures followed
by the CDCs, the DEA will hire an External Auditor to review the financial management practices of the
CDCs and communities. This auditor will also visit a sample of communities to verify the quality of the
facilities and the effectiveness of the community training activities. On the financial side, special attention
will be paid to:
*  Compliance with Bank procedures
* Whether community related procurement is being carried out according to methods prescribed in
- 29 -



the implementation manual
*  Whether prescribed methods result in efficient use of funds
*  Whether community reporting is effective
Monitoring and Evaluation
Monitoring and evaluation will be a continuous process carried out by the communities, CDC and
Minerena.
__EROMO
|t(rougli workhps  
MONITORING                                  SELECTION
&                                   OF COMMUNES
EVALUATION                            (by MINERENA and MINALOC)
VALIDATION
AUDI'TING                                 OF WSS LIST
(included in CDP)
OPERATIONS                                PRE-SELECTION
&                                  OF SUBPROJECTS
MAINTENANCE                                     (by CDC)
COMPLETION                              |   PROPOSAL
(Report signed by                         FORMULATION
community & CDC)I
SUBPROJECT
CONSTRUCTION                                 APPRAISAL
(by CDC assisted by
SUBPROJECT FUNDING, 
_APPROVAL & FUNDS
DISBURSEMENT
-30-



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
RWANDA: Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project
~~~,  ~ ~ ~ ~~OMN *N' y. "L96             .'Tt#'
1. Community Subprojects                                    4.83         5.60         10.43
2. MajorRural Systems                                       1.19         2.21          3.40
3. Capacity Building                                        0.81          1.98         2.79
4. Project Management                                       0.38          0.97          1.35
5. PPF Refinancing                                          0.00          0.75         0.75
Total Baseline Cost                                         7.21         11.51        18.72
Physical Contingencies                                     0.17         0.30          0.47
Price Contingencies                                        0.93          1.30         2.23
Total ProjectCosts                8.31         13.11        21.42
Total Financing Required                8.31        13.11         21.42
Physical contingencies of 10 percent have been applied to the Major Systems component only. Physical (or
price) contingencies are not relevant in the case of community subprojects, which will be identified and
costed during project implementation. Any increase in the average subproject cost would be reflected in a
smaller number of subprojects being implemented.
- 31 -



Detailed Project Costs
(US$ Thousands)
Components                          Foreign          Local           Total
A. Community Subprojects
1 New Piped systems                                           2,060          1,374             3,434
2 Rehabilitation ofpipedsystems                                 859            572             1,431
3 Spring Catchments                                             572          1,717             2,289
4. Secondary Networks Mayaga                                   1001            667             1,668
5. Sanitation                                                   327            533               861
6. Partner Agencies                                           1,669           715              2,384
Sub-total Community Subprojects                               6,489          5,579            12,068
B. Major Rural Systems
L Mayaga
ProdlTransmission works                                       2,087          1,391             3,478
Prod/Transmission equipment                                     570             30               600
Supervision                                                     619            155               774
Community Development                                           359            154               513
Sub-total Mayaga                                           3,635          1,730             5,365
2 Lava Region                                                   274            110               384
Sub-total Major Rural Systems                                 3,909          1,840             5,749
C. Capacity Building
L Training
Partner Organizations, private sector                            84             55               141
Sanitation                                                      124             82               206
DEA/REAP                                                         41             27                67
CFO and Coordination                                            192            128               321
Seminars/Workshops                                              116            77                193
Sub-total Training                                             557           371                928
2 Monitoring and Evaluation
Technical Audits                                                213             53               266
Financial Audits                                                106             27               133
Monitoring System                                                41             10                51
Sub-total Monitoring & Evaluation                              360             90               450
Sub-total Capacity Building                                    917           461              1,379
D. Project Management
1 Equipnent and Vehicles                                        241             27               268
Equipment                                                       261             29               290
Vehicles                                                        502             56               558
Sub-total Equipment and Vehicles
2. Ineremental Operating Costs                                 190            127               317
REAP                                                            200            133               333
DEA                                                             160            106               266
CDC                                                             550           367                916
Sub-total Incremental Operating Costs                        1,052            422             1,474
Sub-total Project Management
E. PPF Refinancing                                              750              -               750
GRAND TOTAL                                                  13,117          8,303            21,420
- 32-



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
RWANDA: Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project
This annex presents the results and methodology followed in the economic analysis of the Rwanda
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation project.
Introduction and Methodology
The project would improve water supply and sanitation coverage and services to rural communities
in 10 communes through the construction, extension and rehabilitation of point sources and piped systems,
the extension and rehabilitation of one major water supply system and the promotion of low-cost sanitation
systems. The immediate impact would be a greater quantity of safer water and a more convenient source of
water for about 370,000 people, safer and more convenient wastewater and excreta disposal and improved
hygiene habits. Most benefits would accrue to households, and within households, to women and children
who spend on average one hour per day fetching water (Source: National Inventory of Water Supply;
Minerena!GTZ) and to children under five, whose health is particularly vulnerable to bad quality water.
A cost-benefit analysis was carried out to calculate the economic net present value (NPV) and
internal rate of return (EIRR) of the project. Economic benefits depend on the type of improved water
supply (springs, piped system) and on the extent it is used by the communities, which in tum depends on
the original source of supply (standpipe, protected or unprotected spring, fetching water or vendors).
Because of the demand-responsive approach of the project, it is not possible to know a priori the water
supply facilities to be actually financed throughout the project. Therefore, based on data gathered during
project preparation, the approach chosen is to elaborate typical investments and estimate the proportion of
each financed through the project.
Two types of benefits accruing to the beneficiaries that use the new source were estimated: (a) the
cost savings associated with a decrease in the use of the traditional source; and (b) an increase in consumer
surplus on the increased quantity of water used. Depending on the traditional source used, the cost savings
considered are: the costs saved from not having to buy water from vendors, or the costs saved from not
having to spend time fetching water.
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
Results of the cost-benefit analysis are summarized in the following table:
Technical Options            NPV (US$ million)                EIRR               l
Protected sources                        0.92                          19.4
Rehabilitation of piped systems          0.57                          19.1
New piped system                         -0.42                         8.3
Complex system                           0.42                          11.3
Overall                                   1.67                         12.6
- 33 -



Main Assumptions:
Conversion factors were used to translate financial flows into economic values. It was assumed
that the shadow exchange rate equals the financial exchange rate. Based on IDA norms for projects in
Rwanda, a 10 percent discount rate was used. The period of the analysis is 25 years, starting in 2001.
Water Use and Water Costs. According to UNICEF surveys and diagnostic studies carried out
during the preparation of the project, average per capita consumption ranges from about 5 lcd from
vendors, 8 lcd from fetching water from the river and 10 lcd from an unprotected source or a standpost.
Fetching water is the responsibility of women and children. Water is carried by hand and takes (on
average) one hour daily from traditional sources and half an hour from unprotected springs. Water fetched
from those sources is free. Water is charged about 7.5 FRW per container of 22 liters from vendors, 2 to 5
FRW from standposts. Based on the ex-post assessments conducted in the Second Water Supply Project, it
was assumed that 80 percent of the population would connect to the new supply and that the average
consumption would be 10 lcd from a protected spring and 18 lcd from an improved standpost. Water
would be charged 5 FRW from the standposts and would remain free from the spring. The time spent
fetching water would be reduced from 1 to l/2 hour at the spring.
8.       The table below describes the situation of households in the with and without scenarios.
Water Situation in the  without project scenario" and the " with project scenario"
Project components                    Without Project           With Project                     Remarks
Current Water Situation
Type Service   Distribution Type Service  Distribution
_kd                      c kd       %
Small systems
Protected spring                                                                 Average population = 60 people
Fetching water                         8          40%          8         16%     Spend on averaga 1 hour fetching water
Vendors                                5           10%         5          4%      @ 7.5 FRW I bucket
Spring                                 8           50%        10         80%6    From 3/4 to 1/2 hour fetching water
New gravity-fed system                                                           Average population = 2000 people
Standpipe                              0           0%         18         80%      @ 5 FRW / bucket
Fetching water                         8           40%         8          8%     Spend on averaga 1 hour fetching water
Spring                                 8           50%         8         10%     Spend on average 3/4 hour fetching water
Vendor                                 5           10%         5          2%      @ 7.5 FRW I bucket
Rehabilitated gravity-fed system                                                 Average populaton = 2000 people
Fetching water                         8          20S6         8          7%     Spend on averaga 1 hour fetching water
Spring                                 8          30%          8         10%     Spend on average 3/4 hour fetching water
Standpipe                             10           40%        18         80%      @ 2 FRW / bucket - @ 5 FRW / bucket
Vendor                                 5           10%         5          3%      @ 7.5 FRWI bucket
Complez systems
Estimated population = 63,500 in 2001
Fetching water                         8          20%          8          7%     Spend on averaga 1 hour fetching water
Spring                                 8           30%         8         10%     Spend on average 3/4 hour fetching water
Standpipe                              10          40%         18        80%      @ 2 FRW / bucket - @ 5 FRW / bucket
Vendor                                 5           10%         5          3%      @ 7.50 FRW / bucket
The cost savings of not having to fetch water was estimated as the opportunity of time spent
fetching water and is equal to 30% of the average income in rural areas.
- 34 -



Incremental Operating Costs. Average annual costs of the various types of supply were
estimated on the basis of actual costs registered by water users' associations in the case of piped systems
and protected springs. The operating costs of the Mayaga system (treatment, maintenance and comnercial
costs) are based on the estimates provided by consultants in the rehabilitation studies and checked against
actual data obtained from Electrogaz.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
A sensitivity analysis was carned out to detemnnine the most critical assumptions and the corresponding
switching values which are provided below:
*   Use of water facilities (percentage of people using improved facilities): the switching value is 59
percent, compared to a basic assumption of 80 percent;
*   Per capita consumption (standpipes): the switching value is 15 Ipcd (basic assumption: 18 Ipcd);
*   Water tariff (FRW/bucket of 22 liters): the switching value is 3FRW/bucket (basic assumption: 5
FRW/bucket).
- 35 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
RWANDA: Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Years Ending
June 30
Year 1     Year 2     Year 3     Year 4     Year 5      Year 6    --Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs             1.7        2.7        4.4         4.7        4.2         2.8       0.0
Recurrent Costs              0.1         0.2        0.2        0.2         0.2        0.2        0.0
Total Project Costs            1.8        2.9         4.6        4.9        4.4         3.0       0.0
Total Financing                1.8        2.9         4.6        4.9        4.4         3.0       0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                     1.8        2.7        4.2        4.6         4.0       2.7        0.0
Government                  0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0       0.0        0.0
Central                  0.0        0.1        0.2         0.1        0.0       0.0         0.0
Provincial               0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0         0.0
Co-financiers               0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries     0.0         0.1        0.1        0.2        0.3        0.2        0.0
Others                      0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing       1.8        2.8         4.3        4.8        4.3        2.9        0.0
Main assumptions:
- 36 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
RWANDA: Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Procurement
Guidelines
Procurement will follow the World Bank guidelines for procurement of goods, works and services;
Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (1995 edition revised Januaiy 1999), and
Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (1997 edition revised
September 1997 and January 1999). Preference for domestically manufactured goods will be allowed in
accordance with World Bank Guidelines. National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures will include:
(a) explicit statement to bidders of the evaluation and award criteria; (b) local advertising with public bid
opening; (c) award to lowest evaluated bidder; and (d) foreign bidders would not be precluded from
participation in NCB. Shopping procedures will include inviting quotations from at least three different
suppliers, setting a deadline for submission of quotations and opening them at the same time. The project
will use the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for procurement of goods and works and the Standard
Request for Proposals for selection of Consultants. For small contracts, simpler versions of documents
acceptable to the Bank will be used. These simpler versions will be included in the Project hnplementation
Manual.
Procurement Notices
A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be published in the UN Development Business and in a
national paper of wide circulation as provided for in the Guidelines. The GPN would be updated annually
in case ICB procurement is not completed in the first year of the project. Specific Procurement Notices
(SPN) will be required for goods and works contracts procured on ICB and NCB basis, and for consultant
contracts exceeding US$ 200,000 equivalent. SPNs will be published in local newspapers of wide
circulation.
As part of promoting and creating awareness to the private sector (private sector includes civil
works contractors, suppliers of equipment and spare parts, commune-based contractors and masons) of
business opportunities generated by CDCs and Communities in water and sanitation programns, Minerena
will prepare and publish annually in local newspapers of wide circulation a Promotional Procurement
Notice (PPN) using a format to be prepared and included in the PIM. The PPN will contain information
on estimated demand and contract opportunities by CDCs and communities for construction of protected
springs, small piped systems, storage and sanitation facilities.
Procurement Plans
Except for community subprojects, a global procurement plan covering the entire project period
and a specific procurement plan for the first year of the project showing contract packages, and for each
package its estimated cost and procurement method and processing times until completion (including
bidding documents for items to be procured under ICB in the first year of the project) will be prepared and
sent to IDA before credit effectiveness. By September 1 of each year, the Project will prepare and submit
to IDA a specific procurement plan for the next year. For subprojects to be implemented by CDCs and
communities, no global or annual procurement plans will be prepared, as subprojects will be generated by
the communities from time to time during the project implementation period. However, the appraisal
- 37 -



document of each approved subproject will include a procurement schedule for completing the subproject.
Scope of Procurement
Procurement under the project will involve the following:
* Community subprojects component for facilities estimated to cost US$9.7 million will consist
of, but not necessarily be limited to, protected sources and piped systems, the secondary
networks connected to the Myaga system and sanitation facilities. Communities, through the
subproject appraisal and approval process, will plan these facilities. The community
development part of the component (estimated to cost US2.4 million) will involve community
mobilization and assistance in preparation of subprojects, employment of consultants for
engineering services for design and supervision of water, and for capacity building
activities/training. Contracts under community subprojects will be packaged by CDCs and
procured on the basis of demands from communities, following procurement procedures
specified in the PIM. No ICB procurement is envisaged in community subprojects.
*   The rehabilitation of production facilities and of the main tnnk of the Mayaga system
(including works estimated to cost US$3.5 million and equipment estimated to cost US$0.6
million) may hardly fit the community subproject model and will be carried out in a more
conventional way by Minerena, using ICB and intemational consultants. Supervision and
community development services for this system are estimated to cost US$1.2 million.
Minerena will contract consultant services for the assessment and community development
activities in the Lava Region (estimated to cost US$0.4 million).
3 Goods estimated to cost US$ 0.6 million for sector strengthening and for supporting project
management by Minerena will consist of an initial and limited supply of vehicles, equipment
and miscellaneous items of supplies and furniture. Contracts for these goods will be packaged
by Minerena, incorporated into the project's Annual Work Plan and Budget and procured
following specified procurement procedures. CDCs will also procure a limited amount of
goods as specified in their annual institutional strengthening plan to be approved by Minerena.
3 Capacity Building: sector strengthening and training activities estimated to cost US$1.4
million will cover training of Minerena and CDC personnel in delivering various services
under the subproject components, and also for consultation and review workshops. By
September 1 of each year, the Project would prepare and submit to IDA a training plan for the
particular year for IDA's review and comments before it is implemented.
* Project Management: An estimated amount of US$1. 1 million is included in the project for
financing equipment and incremental operating costs of Minerena and CDCs.
Implementation Arrangements
Procurement for goods, works and services under the subprojects will be carried out by the CDCs
(except for the portion of the rehabilitation of the Mayaga system which will be procured by Minerena)
packaging several subprojects to the extent possible and in accordance with the subprojects prepared by the
communities, appraised by the CDCs and validated by Minerena.
As part of capacity building and in order to ensure paTticipation by communities in the
- 38 -



procurement process of subprojects, the CDC will include selected members of WUA Committee members
in specific procurement steps, i.e. bid opening, evaluation and award of contracts, supervision and
certification of completed contracts. CDCs will receive technical support from the REAPs, as well as from
contracted firms and NGOs in production of technical designs and specifications, bidding documents, cost
data and supervision of engineering consultants. The CDC can also delegate part of its procurement
responsibilities to a partner organization.
The procurement assessment evidenced that the procurement capacity of Minerena is limited and
the CDCs have little or no experience in procurement. The procurement assessment led to an action plan.
The main measures agreed to be undertaken in this action plan are: (i) recruitment of a procurement
specialist for punctual and definite interventions with focus on training and capacity building; (ii)
submission of a satisfactory annual procurement plan for the project's first year; and (iii) the adoption of a
project implementation manual satisfactory to IDA.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Works. Contracts for civil works, estimated to cost more than US$ 250,000, will be awarded on
the basis of ICB. Works contracts estimated to cost more than US$ 30,000, but less than US$ 250,000 (up
to an aggregated amount of US$1,000,000), will be awarded on the basis of NCB. Contracts estimated to
cost between US$ 10,000 and US$ 30,000 will be awarded under simplified bidding procedures, including
advertisement at the commune level. Contracts estimated to cost below US$ 10,000 (up to an aggregated
amount of US$100,000) might be awarded by solicitation of quotations from no less than three contractors.
Goods. Goods contracts, estimated to cost more than US$ 100,000, will be by ICB, contracts
estimated to cost between US$ 100,000 and US$ 30,000 will be by NCB (up to an aggregated amount of
US$500,000), and below US$ 30,000, by shopping procedures (up to an aggregated amount of
US$500,000).
Subprojects. Goods and works required for subprojects will be procured in accordance with
provisions of paragraph 3.15 of the Procurement Guidelines, as specified in the PIM.
Consultants. Consultant services will follow the guidelines. Consultants (or partner agencies) in
charge of supervision of works, technical assistance to communities, community development services and
technical audits will be selected using the Quality- and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) method. Selection on
the basis of qualifications (CQ) or selection of individual consultants will be the most appropriate methods
for selecting training consultants. The contract for supervising the rehabilitation of the Mayaga system
might be awarded (for the sake of efficiency) to the consultants who carried out the final design under the
Second Water Supply Project (up to an amount of US$400,000). Financial audit services may be procured
under contracts in accordance with the provision of Least-Cost Method of Selection specified in the
Consultant Guidelines. Short-lists for contracts estimated to cost less than US$ 100,000 may comprise
national consultants, if a sufficient number of qualified firms are available.
- 39 -



Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                             2.48            1.00           0.10      f    0.00            3.58
(2.23)         (0.90)          (0.09)         (0.00)         (3.22)
2. Goods                             0.58            0.00            0.48           0.00            1.06
(0.58)         (0.00)          (0.48)         (0.00)         (1.06)
3. Services                          0.00      j    0.00             3.05           0.00           3.05
(0.00)         (0.00)          (3.05)         (0.00)         (3.05)
4. Subproject Grants                  0.00           0.00           12.07           0.00           12.07
_________________________ =1    (0.00)  (0.00)       (11.14)         (0.00)         (11.14)
5. Incremental Op. Costs              0.00           0.00            0.91     [     0.00          0.91
!    (0.00)    I    (0.00)    [   (0.78)           (0.00)    l    (0.78)
6. PPF Refinancing                   0.00            0.00            0.75           0.00      1    0.75
_    (0.00)         (0.00)  _       (0.75)    [   (0.00) _         (0.75)
Total                       1     3.06            1.00           17.36           0.00      l    21.42
l    (2.81)         (0.90)         (16.29)__       (0.00) _       (20.00)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA CrediL All costs include contingencies
2! Includes sub-project grants, civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting
services, services of contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance
services, and incremental operating costs.
- 40 -



Goods contracts, estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more, and civil works
contracts under community subprojects, estimated to cost the equivalent of US$ 250,000 or more, will be
subject to review in accordance with the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3(f) Appendix I of the
Procurement Guidelines. The first two contrts for civil works per commune will be subject to prior
review, regardless of cost.
For Consultant services, all terms of reference and single source contracts will, regardless of cost,
be subject to prior review. Contracts estimated to cost US$30,000 for individuals and US$100,000 for
firms or more will be subject to prior review in accordance with the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2
and 3(f) of Appendix I of the Consultants Guidelines. Contracts not subject to prior review will be
selectively reviewed by IDA during project implementation and will be govemed by the procedures set forth
in paragraph 4 of Appendix I of the Consultants Guidelines.
Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
A. Firms            1.59     0.00       0.00      0.13      0.46      0.40       0.00      2.58
(1.59)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.13)    (0.46)    (0.40)    (0.00)    (2.58)
B. Individuals     0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.47      0.00       0.47
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.47)    (0.00)    (0.47)
Total   1.59      0.00      0.00      0.13      0.46       0.87      0.00      3.05
_  (1.59)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.13)    (0.46)    (0.87)    (0.00)    (3.05)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
- 41 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
1. Works                      above 250                  ICB                      All
above 10 and below 250          NCB
below 10           Simplified procedures
2. Goods                      above 100                  ICB                      All
above 30 and below 100          NCB
below 30         National and international
shopping
3. Services                   above 100                 QCBS               All + Single Source
Firms                       below 100             QCBS/CQ/LCS                All TORs
Individuals                 above 30                   CQ                       All
below 30                                        All TORs
4. Subproject grants       Goods and works      Community Participation   First two contracts in each
commune
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:   US$ 8.2 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every four months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
- 42 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Subproject Grants                          11.00               100% of amounts disbursed
Works                                       2.85             100% of foreign and 85% of local
expenditures
Equipment and Vehicles                      1.10             100% of foreign and 90% of local
expenditures
Consultant services & Training              3.05                         100%
Incremental Operating Costs                 0.78                         85%
PPF Refinancing                             0.75                         100%
Unallocated                                 0.47
Total Project Costs                        20.00
Total                                      20.00
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Disbursement would be made on the basis of Statement of Expenditure (SOE) for contracts and
purchase orders with an individual value less than those requiring IDA's prior review. All applications to
withdraw proceeds from the Credit will be fully documented, except for: (a) expenditures of contracts with
an estimated value of US$150,000 each or less for goods and works; (b) US$100,000 or less for
consultants' services provided by firms; (c) US$30,000 or less for individual consultants; and (d) all
training, which may be claimed on the basis of certified SOEs. Documentation supporting expenditures
claimed against SOEs will be retained by Minerena and will be made available for review when requested
by IDA supervision missions and project auditors. All disbursements are subject to the conditions of the
Development Credit Agreement and the procedures defined in the disbursement letter.
Special account:
To facilitate disbursements of eligible expenditures for grants, works, goods and services,
Minerena will open a Special Account in the Central Bank of Rwanda to cover part of IDA's share of
eligible expenditures to be managed and administered by the executing agency. The Central Bank is
expected to provide all banking services normally provided by a commercial bank. Central Bank
management of the Special Account will be monitored by DEA and reviewed during supervision missions.
The Authorized Allocation of the Special Account would be US$1.5 million, covering an estimated four
months of eligible expenditures financed by IDA. The initial advance will be kept at a limited amount while
the project activities get underway, but it will increase once full execution begins. Minerena will be
responsible for submitting monthly replenishment applications (with appropriate supporting documents) for
expenditures. To the extent possible, all of IDA's share of expenditures should be paid through the Special
Account. The Special Account will be audited annually by external auditors acceptable to the Bank.
- 43 -



Project Account
Minerena will also open a Project Account in the Central Bank, into which the Government's
contribution will be deposited in annual tranches to cover its share of eligible expenditures.
Community Advance Accounts
Due to the decentralized approach of the project and following the arrangements agreed in the
CRDP, each CDC will open a Community Advance Account (CAA) in commercial bank branches close to
the geographic location of participating communes. This CAA will be administered by the CDC
Accountant and should be kept separate from any other bank account held by the CDC. In order to
facilitate payment to the CDCs, the Borrower will be authorized by the Bank to withdraw funds in local
currency from the Special Account and use them as an advance, for a period not exceeding 90 days, to the
CAAs. Upon validation of the WSS subprojects program, the Administration sub-committee of the CDC
will prepare an operating budget and financial plan with cash-flow requirements and will require an
advance covering no more than 90 days from Minerena. The CDC Accountant will submit a monthly
report on the advance to Minerena.
Financial Management Arrangements
In order to avoid overlapping and/or conflicts at the basic implementation level, i.e. the communes,
financial management arrangements under the project will follow the model set up in the CRDP and will
avoid duplicating the capacity building efforts already made toward strengthening accounting capabilities
at the level of CDCs. Some minor changes of procedures will be made to take into account the specific
features of the RWSS project, particularly the larger size of WSS subprojects, compared to the
infrastructure community projects financed by the CRDP.
The CDC and Minerena will have principal responsibility for the financial and contract
management at the communal and central level, respectively. Minerena will consolidate the financial
statements of pafticipating communes into the project financial statements that will be audited each year by
an independent auditor.
Financial Management Assessment
An assessment of the financial management capacities was done during project preparation.
Minerena is facing a radical change in its responsibilities and role in the project cycle. Therefore, assessing
its financial management capacity at this stage of project preparation consisted in identifying the needs to
be fulfilled and defining an action plan to show how implementing entities can develop appropriate
financial management capacity in order to ensure that an adequate financial management system in
compliance with Bank's requirements will be in place prior to project effectiveness. The main features of
the action plan agreed upon during appraisal are presented below.
*  The selection of a Chief Financial Officer, with qualifications and experience acceptable to
IDA, is a condition of negotiations.
*  The recruited CFO should then familiarize himself with the project context and assimilate
Bank's and Govemment's requirements for financial management under a training program
agreed with IDA
*  The CFO will have to design/finalize adequate financial management procedures and systems
- 44 -



for accounting and periodic reporting and select the financial/accounting software in order for
the financial management system to be operational by effectiveness
*   Accountants at CDC level should be recruited and/or trained to use project procedures. To
avoid duplication, arrangements should be made to employ existing CDC accountants trained
under similar projects (CRDP)
* The Government will recruit an external auditor acceptable to IDA to undertake the audit of
annual financial statements of the project under terms of reference acceptable to IDA.
Accounting
Accounting will follow standard procedures regarding bookkeeping, setting up financial records
and preparing financial reports. The CFO in Minerena will administer the financial management system
that will follow generally accepted accounting procedures. At the communal level, accounting of
project-related activities will be undertaken by the CDC accountant, under the CDC's Administration
sub-committee.
Financial reporting.
The project's financial statements will comprise: (i) a statement of Source and Application of
Funds for the project during the current financial year, and cumulatively since the start of the project; and
(ii) a balance sheet. The statement of Source and Application of Funds will show project funds from IDA
and counterpart funds on one hand, and expenditures under the main project headings and by main
categories of expenditures. The balance sheet will show Accumulated Funds of the Project, bank balances,
other assets of the project, and liabilities, if any. These two financial statements will be prepared annually
and in accordance with international accounting standards.
In addition to the annual financial statements, agreement will be reached during negotiations to
submit a quarterly report using the LACI models, including financial statements, procurement/contracts
schedule and output monitoring, one month after the end of each quarter. The objective is to familiarize the
project unit with periodic reporting as required under LACI so that by the end of an 18-month interim
period, a reliable project management report (PMR) can be prepared and eventually be used as the basis for
disbursement in place of the traditional disbursement method through SOEs. To facilitate the process of
preparing these quarterly reports, the computerized financial management system will be customized to
generate them automatically.
Auditing.
The financial statements of the project will be audited for each fiscal year by an independent
auditor acceptable to IDA in accordance with standards on auditing, also acceptable to IDA. Audit reports
of reasonable scope and detail would be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of the audited
period. The auditor will provide an opinion on:
* the project financial statements (statement of Source and Application of Funds, Balance Sheet)
* statement of expenditures (SOEs),
* the special account (SA), including the community advance accounts.
The auditors will also provide a management report on Internal Controls outlining for Minerena
and CDCs any recommendations for improving internal accounting controls and operational procedures
identified as a result of the financial statement audit.
- 45 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
RWANDA: Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      18                           24
First Bank mission (identification)             03/15/98                     03/15/98
Appraisal mission departure                     04/10/2000                   04/08/2000
Negotiations                                    05/01/2000                   05/04/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   09/30/2000
Prepared by:
Ministry of Energy, Water and Natural Resources, Directorate of Water and Sanitation
Preparation assistance:
Water and Sanitation Program, Eastern and Southem Africa
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
&          :miNam                               8peeiaIi.y
Richard Verspyck                  Water and Sanitation Specialist, Team Leader
Marie-Chantal Uwanyiligira        Operations Officer
Franz Drees                       Sanitary Engineer
Jean Doyen                        Program Manager, WSP
Aimable Uwizeye                   Country Advisor, WSP
Antoine Sendama                   Country Advisor, WSP
Ernestina Attafuah                Program Assistant
Andrew Makokha                    Water and Sanitation Specialist, WSP
Prosper Nindorera                 Procurement Specialist
Abdul Hajji                       Financial Management Specialist
Marie-Laure Lajaunie              Economist
Edeltraut Gilgan-Hunt             Environment Specialist
Hassane Cisse/K.G. Awunyo         Counsels
David Freese                      Disbursement Officer
Abdou Salam Drabo                 Participation Specialist
Armele Vilceus                    Language Team Assistant
Quality Team
Markus Kostner                    Human Resources Economist (Decentmlization aspects)
Jennifer Sara                     Water and Sanitation Specialist (Demand-responsive approach)
- 46 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
RWANDA: Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Manuel de procedures pour la realisation d'un projet AEPA (draft)
B. Bank Staff Assessments
A. Haji - Financial Management Assessment
P. Nindorera - Procurement Assessment
C. Other
M1NERENA - Actes de l'atelier technique sur la politique sectorielle de 1'eau et de l'assainissement
(GTZ/WSP-ESA/IDA Financing)
Geomatric Technology Corporation - Etude de la refonte du cycle des projets et de la transition
institutionnelle:
Analyse de la situation actuelle du secteur de l'eau et de l'assainissement
Cycle des projets communautaires participatifs
Plan d'action pour la transition institutionnelle et le renforcement des capacites
Document cadre d'6laboration d'un projet pilote
Dr. Gaspard Bikwemu - Preparation du projet d'alimentation en eau et d'assainissement en milieu rural:
Analyse environnementale
DEA - Inventaire national de l'AEP (GTZ Financing)
CEGEAC - Rapport d'evaluation de la sensibilisation de la population a l'autogestion des infrastructures
hydrauliques
J. B. Bwakaneye - Etude de diagnostic des adductions complexes (WSP-ESA Financing)
CEGEAC - Etude des modalites de gestion des adductions complexes (WSP-ESA Financing)
Sogreah - Etude de rehabilitation des systemes complexes : adduction Mayaga-Bugesera
*Including electronic files
-47 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
RWANDA: Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions           disbursements
Project ID     FY   Borrower                       Purpose                                       IBRD       IDA       Cancel.   Undisb.        Orig   Fnrm Revd
P051931        1999 Rwanda                     CRDP                                                 0.00       5.00       0.00       4.36       0.30       0.00
P057294        1999 Rwanda                     EC.REC.CREDIT                                        0.00      75.00       0.00      33.08      19.62       0.00
P002237        1991 Rwanda                     HEALTH & POPULATION                                  0.00      19.60       0.00       1.51       1.24       1.25
P058038        2000 Rwanda                     LIL AGRICULTURE                                      0.00       5.00       0.00       4.81      -0.30       0.00
P002262        1994 Rwanda                     PRIVATESECTOR                                        0.00      12.00       0.00       1.39       1.51       0.00
P002241        1993 Rwanda                     Rw-Energy Sector                                     0.00      26.00       7.01       5.25      12.73       5.72
P002261        1992 Rwanda                     Rw-PNAS                                              0.00      19.10       0.00       1.18       0.77      -0.13
P002242        1991 Rwanda                     Rwa-Education Sect. Cr                               0.00      23.30       0.00       1.26       2.05       2.05
P002238        1990 Rwanda                     TRANSPORT SECTOR                                     0.00     85.00        0.00      33.23     -14.71      16.17
Total:        0.00      270.00        7.01       86.07      23.21      25.'
RWANDA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                                     Disbursed
IFC                                          IFC
FY Approval                Company                                   Loan    Equity         Quasi    Partic         Loan    Equity        Quasi    Parti
Total Portfolio:                  0.00        0.00        0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00        0.00        0.0
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval               Company                                        Loan        Equity         Quasi        Partic
1998                      AEF Highland                                   .526          0.00          0.00          0.00
Total Pending Commitment:                      .526          0.00          0.00         0.00
- 48 -



Annex 10: Rwanda at a Glance                                                 9/13/99
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                       Saharan      Low.
Rwanda    Africa  income       Development diamond*
1998
Population, mid-year (mfilions)                     8.1       628     3,515                Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atas method, USS)                   230       510      520
GNP (Atlas rmthod, USS billions)                     1.9      323     1,844
Average annual growth, 1992-98
Population (%)                                      1.6       2.8       1.7                    /               G
Labor force (%)                                     2.3       2.6       1.9     GNP                           pGross
per                            primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available. 1992-983                           capita                     enrollmerst
Poverty (% of population below national povety line)  70
Urban population (% of total population)              6        33       31
Life exPectancY at birth (yrars)                     40        51       63
Infant mortality (Per 1,000 iive births)            124        91       69
Child malnutrition (% ofchilrn under 5)              29         ..       ..              Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% OfPoPulation)                44        47       74
Illiteracy (9 of poPulation age 15+)                 37        42       32
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-age poPulation)  89       77      108
Male                                               89        84      113                 Low-ncome group
Female                                             88        69      103
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977    1987      1997      1998
Economic ratlos
GDP (US$ billions)                          0.8     2.2       1.9       2.1
Gross domestic investment/GDP              1S.1    15.7      10.0       99                    Trade
Exports of ,oods and services/GDP          14.3     7.5       7.7       5.3
Gross domestic savings/GDP                 11.7      4.0     -7.7      -7.3
Gross national savings/GDP                 19.6      92       -1.0     -3.3
Current account balance/GDP                 2.8    -8.5      -7.7      -8.3     .o/si
Interest paymenis/GDP                       0.1      0.3      0.6       0.3     Domesc i                   Investment
Total debtUGDP                             11.3    28.1      63.2      58.7    Savings
Total debt serviceexports                   0.9    13.8      23.8      17.6
Present value of debt/GDP                    ..      ..      33.2      33.1
Present value of debt/exports                ..      ..    403.3    578.4
Indebtedness
1977-87  1988-98    1997     1998  1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                4.4    -3.6    10.9       10.0       6.8               Rwanda
GNP per capita                     1.1    -4.6    -5.6        7.3        ..                 Low-iome group
Exports of goods and services      7.6    -9.6    13.4    -12.2        13.4
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977    1987      1997      1998     Growth rates of output and investment (%)
{% of GDP)                                                             34        0 -
Agriculture                                51.1    41.3      37.5      34.0      5 
Industry                                   23.3    19.5      26.0      23.5     s
Manufacturing                            15.6    11.8       19.0     15.9      0o
Services                                   25.6    39.2      36.5      42.5    .so       9 3   ss  sr   97   9a
Private consumption                        71.0    82.5      97.0      96.3    -'1W
General government consumption             17.3    13.5      10.7      11.0                    GO[         GOP
Imports of goods and services              17.7    19.1      25.4      22.4
1977-87  1988-98     1997     1998      Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                 2.4    -4.9       7.8       9.1   rs
Industry                                    6.3    -2.3      16.4       9.8    30
Manufacturing                             6.1      1.4      16.6     10.4
Services                                    9.4    -3.0       9.9      11.2                                 97
-30.
Private consumption                         4.1     0.0      20.8       5.6 8                    f
General govemment consumption               4.2    -4.3      -2.6      27.7
Gross domestic investment                  11.4    -7.0      28.3      30.0   -90
Imports of goods and services               9.5     5.9      43.0       4.7                  Exports       Imports
Gross national product                      4.4    -3.6      10.8       9.9
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
-49 -



Rwanda
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977    1987      1997      1998      Inflation (%)
Domestc prices                                                                    so
(% change)
Consumer prices                              13.7     4.1       12.0      6.8                        10
Implicit GDP deflator                        13.5     0.7       18.6      5.2    40
Government finance                                                                20 -     _         _     _      _
(% of GDP, Incudes current grants)                                                o
Current revenue                                ..    13.5       17.1     15.2            03   94   95   95   97   98
Current budget balance                         ..    -0.1        5.7      3.6                   GDP deflator  -CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                        ..    -9.6       -2.5     -2.8
TRADE
1977    1987       1997     1998      Export and import levels (USS millons)
(US$ millions)
Total exports gob)                           126      114        93        62    500
Coffee                                       ..      92         45       27    400
Other agriculture                            ..       8         21       23
Manufactures                                 ..       2         18        9     300
Total Imports (cif)                            ..    313        343      329      2-
Food                                          ..     24        54        49
Fuel and energy                              ..      52        32        40    100
Capital goods                                        96         62       61      0o  i
92  93  94  95  96  97   98
ExDort orice index (1995=100)                  ..      79       117        89
Imoort orice index (1995=100                   ..      86        95       87               aExports     * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..      93       123       103
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1977    1987      1997      1998      Current account balance to GDP raio (%)
(US$ miNlions)
Exports of goods and services                137      160       144       109 o
Imports of goods and services                17       42        44       47       -
Resource balance                             -39    -252       -330      -358
Net income                                     -4     -14        -15       -6
Net current transfers                         65      126       201       191     -a
Current account balance                       21    -140       -144      -173     -8
Financing items (net)                        -23        5       181       196    -10
Changes in net reserves                        2      135        -37      -23    -12
Memo:
Reserves includino aold (SS millions)         83      164       153       170
Conversion rate (DEC. iocailUSS)             92.8    79.7      301.5    312.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977    1987      1997      1998
fUSS nillions)                                                                    Composition of total debt, 1998 (USS milrions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          87      605      1,176    1,222
IBRD                                         0        0         0         0               F    G 57
IDA                                         30      251       558      639
Total debt service                             1       24        37        21           E: 155
IBRD                                         0        0         0         0
IDA                                          0        3        10        9
Composition of net resource floms                                                                                8: 639
Official grants                             34       70       447                   D 8
Official creditors                          24       92        67        81
Private creditors                            4        0        30
Foreign direct investment                    5       18         1
Portfolio equity                             0        0         0         ..: 5
World Bank program
Commitments                                 14       38         ..       50     A - IBRD                     E - Biateral
Disbursements            9       39        83       67    ~~~~~~~~~~~~B - IDA    0  Other mulbiateral  F - Private
Disbursements                                9       39        83        67       c-zrG- Short-termri
Principal repayments                         0        1         6         5     C - IG -
Net flows                                    9       39        77        62
Interest payments                            0        2         4         4
Net transfers                                9       37        73        57
Development Economics                                                                                              9/13/99
- 50 -



Additional
Annex No.: 11
RWANDA: Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Letter of Sector Policy
REPUBLQUE RWANDAISE                                        Kipgl,le   8  5. Z oc
No  .V1-./13/04.212000
MINISTERE DE LENERGIE,
DE LVEAU ET DES
RESSOURCES NATURELLES
2kLet: transmission de la kettre   Banque Mondiale
de po/ltique sectorielle     18.18 H Street N.W.
au RWADA                     A I'attn de Monsieur le Prdsident
de la Banque Mondiale
Monsieur le Pr6sident,
J'ai I'honneur de vous transmettre, en
annexe, la lettre de politique sectorielle de l'Eau et Assainissement qui refl&te les
lignes directrices de notre vision du secteur.
Certes, notre politique dans le secteur de
I'Eau et Assainissement n'est pas figee mais plut6t dynamique et pourra donc etre
revue apr6s une certaine p6riode si cela s'avere necessaire pour une meilleure
gestion.
Vous en souhaitant bonne r6ception,
je vous prie d'agreer, Monsieur le Pr6sident,   I  e    ma tres haute
consid6ration.
M ini4  Iau
eit d   eses
Cools your information:
- Mission Residente de Is Banque Mondiale au Rwanda
KIGALI
- Monsieur Richard VERSPYCK
Charg6 de projet
WASHINGTON
- 51 -



1.    INTRODUCTION
Depuis bien longtemps, les infrastructures d'AEPA etaient realisees et entretenues grace aux
subventions du Gouvemement et autres donateurs avec une absence quasi totale de la
participation de la population beneficiaire.
Depuis 1973, le nombre de systemes d'AEPA commen,ait a devenir tres important de sorte que 1'
Etat n'arrivait plus A faire face aux depenses pour les nouvelles infrastructures d'eau et celles
d'entretien - exploitation des existants.
II a ete convenu de transferer les frais lies A la gestion des installations aux populations usageres
(principe de paiement d'eau). La gratuite du service hydraulique longtemps pratiquee n'a pas
facilite le paiement de l'eau et ralenti le processus de transfert des activitds de gestion aux
communautes.
Apres les 6venements tragiques (genocide) de 1994, l'intervention dans le secteur d'AEPA dont
les infrastructures avaient et endommagees par la guerre a ete caracterisee par une anarchie alors
que l'Administration n'etait pas encore organisee pour assurer la coordination des divers
intervenants. Toutes les interventions concemaient essentiellement la rehabilitation sans que les
intervenants se soucient de la future gestion et sans implication des communautes.
En 1997 le, pays est sorti doucement de la phase d'urgence pour entrer dans le developpement:
C'est A cette periode que la DEA a 6labore sa politique sectorielle en matiere d'eau et
assainissement.
Etant donne que la population a ete longtemps consideree comme un beneficiaire passif des
actions de developpement y compris celles de I'AEPA et que l'Etat jouait le r6le centralisateur
(executant et gestionnaire sans capacite) la nouvelle politique introduit un changement profond de
participation des communautes.
On notera que le mauvais etat actuel des systemes d'AEPA est dui A la non-participation de
population beneficiaire dans la gestion surtout que probablement ces installations ne repondent
pas necessairement a ses besoins.
Par ailleurs le secteur prive est presque absent dans le domaine d'eau et assainissement
particulierement dans la gestion et il n'y a pas de cadre formel pour encourager sa participation.
Le manque de coordination des acteurs favorise des interventions anarchiques et une possible
concentration des divers intervenants dans une meme region au detriment des autres (absence
d'equite) ainsi qu'une utilisation irrationnelle des ressources disponibles.
Si l'on considere le developpement acquis au niveau des infrastructures d'eau par rapport a celles
d'assainissement on se rend compte qua ce volet a e  legue au dernier echelon alors qu'il est aussi
important voire meme tres important si l'on veut ameliorer les conditions de vie de la population.
- 52 -



Actuellement l'assainissement se limite aux simples latrines familiales. Les problemes lids A l'eau de
pluie, aux d6chets tant solides que liquides et A I'education de P'hygi6ne n'ont pas connu un
developpement adequat.
Reconnaissant que l'eau est une ressource importante dont depend le bien etre economique et
social, le pays concentre son effort dans la formulation d'une politique sectorielle et de strategies
afin de definir les nouvelles orientations basees sur les changements intervenus dans le pays et qui
s'inspirent des nouveaux principes de gestion integree des ressources en eau
II.    La nouvelle strategie
Le secteur de l'Eau et de 1'Assainissement ne peut se developper et perenniser ses acquis sans
avoir une ligne de politique claire et comprise par tour les acteurs afin qu'elle beneficie de leur
soutien dans sa mise en application.
Ainsi, apres les annees1995 A 1997 caract6risees par les actions d'urgence de rehabilitation des
infrastructures d'AEPA endommagees par la guerre et le genocide de 1994, la Direction de l'Eau
et Assainissement a adopte, en septembre 1997, une politique de 1'Eau et Assainissement bas6e
sur 5 objectifs generaux:
>     Assurer l'approvisionnement de toutes lesfamilles en eau potable accessible en
quantite suffisante
Faciliter l'accas de toutes lesfamilles a un systame d'assainissement adequat
)     Encourager la participation et la gestion communautaire dans toutes les activites du
secteur
>     Assurer laprotection, la conservation la rifhabilitation et la mise en valeur de toutes les
ressources en eau et les bassins versants
>     Entreprendre toutes les activites de diveloppement du secteur suivant un processus
favorisant lesprojets basis sur uneforte participation communautaire et qui proposent des
options financieres et technologiques viables pour un diveloppement durable du secteur.
La mise en application de cette politique permettra l'augmentation du taux de desserte en AEPA
actuellement en dessous du seuil souhaite et une utilisation rationnelle des ressources en eau.
Principes de mise en muvre
1. Decentralisation
La decentralisation appuyee par des mesures d'accompagnement telles le renforcement des
capacites locales A la gestion du secteur AEPA comprenant le developpement institutionnel et de
1'expertise locale, I'accroissement du niveau de participation des communautes et la promotion de
la participation du secteur prive restera une priorite du MINERENA.
- 53 -



La participation a la gestion communautaire se traduira par une amelioration du niveau de
participation et de controle des communautes sur les projets. Ceci nous amene a une refonte du
cycle des projets afin que les beneficiaires puissent avoir des responsabilites de gestion des
systemes et le contr6le sur les decisions sur le choix de ces systemes.
La methodologie d'implantation des projets d'AEPA devra suivre I'approche participative et
l'approche par la demande reelle des beneficiaires.
A cet effet, les comites de developpement communautaires, dont les membres sont elus par les
communautes, recemment mis en place dans toutes les communes appuieront ces derniers dans la
planification de son d6veloppement global et un accent sera mis a leur collaboration avec les
structures de gestion des systemes d'AEPA.
2. R6oe du secteur prive
La politique d'AEPA tant en milieu urbain que rural vise l'augmentation du taux de desserte et une
perennisation des infrastructures. L'implication du secteur prive surtout dans l'exploitation des
systemes retiendra l'attention du Ministre. En milieu rural, les exploitants prives seront
encourages pour gerer les systemes complexes.
Le r6le de l'Etat se limitera a faciliter la regulation du secteur, a lP6laboration des politiques et a la
mobilisation des financements.
En milieu urbain, le cadre institutionnel reglementaire etjuridique approprie sera bient6t mis en
place en vue de casser le statut de monopole actuel d'ELECTROGAZ et passer a une
liberalisation du secteur.
Le paiement de l'eau consommee et une tarification reelle tenant compte du renouvellement des
systemes seront appliques.
3. Assainissement
L'assainissement ayant reste un parent pauvre de tous les projets d'AEPA, il est temps que les
institutions administratives et structures privees tiennent compte de cette lacune et reconsiderent
l'importance de I'assainissement dans l'amelioration des conditions de vie des populations.
II est indispensable qu'a tout projet AEP rural soit associe un volet assainissement.
II est en outre urgent de concevoir un assainissement approprie pour les nouveaux types d'habitat
groupe.
La gestion rationnelle des dechets devient une priorite si l'on considere leur variete et quantite
croisante. Certes, le cas des ecoles, des prisons et des hopitaux dont les effluents polluent
fortement notre environnement et constitue un risque majeur pour la sante e publique retiendra
notre attention. Le code d'assainissement en attente d'approbation permettra une protection de
Irenvironnemerit en imposant aux pollueurs d'en supporter les couits inherents aux dechets
produits. Des plans d'assainissement appropries devront etre elabores et executes. lis tiendront
compte des quartiers soit qu'ils sont ou seront densement peuples. Les eaux usees et pluviales
surtout en milieu urbain exigent des systemes d'evacuation et de traitement adequat avant d'tre
rejete dans le milieu recepteur.
- 54 -



4. Gestion des Ressources en Eau
Etant donne, les usagers multiples de l'eau et les besoins croissants des differents secteurs
utilisateurs, la regulation de l'utilisation de l'eau requiert l'etablissement des mecanismes equitables
de distribution de la ressource et une bonne connaissance des ressources en eau disponible et une
planification rationnelle de leur utilisation est indispensable;
la reconnaissance de la valeur sociale et economique de l'eau est une des conditions pour sa
valorisation.
La finalisation du plan directeur de gestion des ressources en eau nous conduira a disposer d'un
cadre d'utilisation rationnelle.
On s'attellera a la mise sur pied d'un systeme de donnees et d'informations de gestion des
ressources en eau grace au systeme d'information existante en place a la Direction de l'Eau et
Assainissement qu'il importe de consolider.
5. La Coordination
Le secteur ayant ete caracterise par un manque de coordination entre les differents intervenants
bien que leurs actions soient complementaires, une structure de coordination devra 8tre mise sur
pied pour une meilleure gestion et un developpement de ce secteur.
Les echanges d'idees et d'experiences a travers les groupes thematiques de travail constitueront un
cadre adapte pour un ajustement de la politique sectorielle qui se veut dynamique et realiste.
Le succes de cette politique dependra de la bonne coordination des acteurs et de la participation
active de tous les intervenants notamment des communautes appelees a perenniser les
infrastructures d'AEPA. II est clair que l'on ne peut atteindre ce qui est souhaite sans le concours
de tout et chacun. De plus la population devra plus qu'auparavant, comprendre que les
infrastructures d'AEPA lui appartient en premier lieu.
- 55 -



- 56-



MAP SECTION



I



2'301                                           25&00'                                         29P30                                           3d400'                                             0
- 1 00
)               ~UGANDA
RWANDA
DEM. REP                                                                         "IV~y AR~
NATIONAL CAPITAL                                             OF CONGO                                                                                                                         R A~   AA8
Lake4 
0  PREFECTURE CAPITALS                                                                      RUhBl~~                          U~O      OR EOANATIQNAL
-IT                                                                                    BI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1RUNQA                                                      PALRK 
COMMUNE BOUNDARIES                                                      (         NATfONA,. A0NYA,                        NYBAiyumba
RWTRERE ~ ~   ~NKL,          CYAWNG6,/8A _D
MAIN ROADS                                                                                      N 0/ERA 500 iZIRTEATOmVIT                                 NTColT
A  ~~~~~         '~1 GATONDE                  4' CE/PGO
-. INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                            8,4/T       'IIjAI RAOA                                                      GAAHV 
*         1 ~~~~~~.I         i    NBESE                                           UTR
KA/TFOST        A/RS                      ATIE/   AE                                    ACR
MNAE     A CCWEORSHASK                                       E,                                 WH     ,OA
AESEKE    TATEAY/  004444  STEM   RATOMOC   .    0/1/                 Lake~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ak    i
RCTE,R0~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~lKMR -.k
OA'ARO    KIRA    itRA  maDMAA
I          OWEEEE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~kTUW 
2,00,                                                                                                        BUJNG~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 AM  EOA044C   EANDA   MN
GAAS             AE           AE MABAAR/HA           /'                   BTRAENA              CA CAR      f                ORARONDO
~~~~~'REENZ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4MSMI                                                                                              KIAARA0
2030'                             A' ~~~~~~~~  80   ,                RIRRARRO                        OTYAZE                                               Rogwero\             _______~~~~~~itaam.(~)'  UGNA  ak
UOA  taM Vrctor,o                                ,.,       <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  M0~~WTA  MA .         U4IG                                                               GSEARKR
KENYA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SK
- ~~  CT//HAAG       RE                    '            .            '(~WARE                                   Lake
ANDA                    NE                                  IT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UKNOLk
BURUNDI                                      *-\.-x                      /            0/A/H/RET         RARER~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U5BE  OVERTI
Take Vict.,                       5511        (       ~                                               uar       *.0/A,
REPO ~ ~ ~ ~ KEY LoG                                                                                                                                            La 
-I,                       REP'V'                                                                            TAAREEE0GEA   .                                                                 This mop wosOrepored by the Mop   w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MUGSA  C
RI,                                                           /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~23'M. NUG k'                    YMAAE ~          A                                                                                                                    qO
NIAMIUYI  E T  k- MUMOMW'                               SW         KIOMTPS0             1    0   0   5   035A04   5                 0.50U/ito TeNordBok.2
OF                                                                             .                                                                                       he oudorie, colRs, dE,.FTtR    n
CON~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~90                                                                                                                                                        3,Ol EoselM RocpoA  fsc "yk-1FNMULG
2000'                                                                     EEI'EO                                          20      hooodoRieo.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ILMTES0    0    5202    3     5    0455  D,,  ,t 1Th   oJ  a,.7



