Report No. PID7124
Project Name                     Rwanda-Rural Water Supply and Sanitation (@+)
Project
Region                           Africa Regional Office
Sector                           Rural Water Supply & Sanitation
Project ID                       RWPE45182
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT
Implementing Agency
Address DEA/COMMUNES
Directorate of Water and Sanitation,
Ministry of Energy, Water and Natural
Resources
Address:
Contact Person: Mr. Bruno Mwanafunzi,
Director, DEA
Tel: + 250 08301148
Fax: +250 87331
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                March 21, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         April 10, 2000
Projected Board Date             June 6, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
Rural Rwanda is supplied by a total of about 700 piped water systems that
feed into 6,800 standpipes and 2,200 private connections as well as by
17,000 spring catchments. Coverage ratios vary based on the statistical
criteria applied: 72t of the total population has theoretical access to a
water point that serves less than 200 users, but the actual percentage is
much smaller, due to the bad condition of facilities. Topography
increases the hardships associated with access distances. Given that
Rwanda is spread out over approximately 1,800 hills and that populations
have tended to settle in high-lying areas, women and children are often
required to carry water uphill from low-lying springs. One response to
this phenomenon has been the construction of rural piped distribution
systems fed by higher-lying springs or surface water sources where they do
occur naturally. Fifty such systems span two or more communes and ten
straddle more than one prefecture.According to UNICEF's surveys, the
sanitary situation of the rural population is problematic. Even if 85
percent of the population has access to traditional pit latrines, they are
generally poorly maintained and safe hygienic practices are not
prevalent. Only 20 percent of the rural schools and health centers are
equipped with VIP latrines and rural markets are totally devoid of
sanitation facilities.Rural water supply (RWS) in Rwanda has traditionally
faced a range of issues from top-down programming of investments, poor
cost recovery, limited private sector participation and high per-capita
investment costs for system construction. Early attempts to introduce
community participation and to transfer the responsibility/ownership of
RWS facilities to the communes failed in the absence of strong Government



commitment to actual decentralization and its insistence to keep
investment decisions at central level. Those issues have been compounded
by deep community-level distrust engendered by the 1994 genocide and by
the demands of post-war reconstruction which placed immediate emergency
relief ahead of longer-term sustainability considerations in the choice of
investments. An innovative framework for the management of water
facilities, which was based on the establishment of water users
associations failed to provide the expected sustainability of services,
following interference and conflicts between the communal administration,
appointed by the central government and beneficiaries. It was
subsequently recognized that the commune is not the most adequate level
for building social cohesion and sense of ownership among various group of
water users who are actually served by a multiplicity of point sources and
piped systems.Government Strategy The sectoral RWS strategy commits the
government to decentralizing the DEA, revising the project cycle to allow
for demand-driven community choices, increasing private sector
participation (PSP) in the operation of major systems and integrating
sanitation/hygiene education initiatives into RWS projects. The key
elements of that new strategy include:promoting a demand-responsive
approach through which communities decide if they want to participate and
their preferred service level based on willingness to pay, contribute to a
portion of investment costs and pay in full operation and maintenance
costs of their facilities;decentralizing planning and management of
services by (1) making communities the decision-makers, owners and
managers of their facilities, and (2) making the communes, particularly
the Community Development Committees (CDC) able to assist communities in
obtaining improved services;redefining the roles of various institutions
involved in the delivery of water and sanitation services, including a
transitional arrangement and related capacity building to move from a
centralized planned approach to a demand-responsive approachsupporting the
private sector (including NGOs) as provider for all goods and services;
andredeploying the public sector as facilitator, with DEA providing
assistance and support to the CDCs and water user associations ("regies
associatives").In parallel, the Government has actively promoted
decentralization and participation through local elections at the level of
cells, sectors and communes. Communal councils established Community
Development Committees (CDCs) with administrative and financial autonomy
to ensure participation of the local population in a decision-making
process which is complementary to the local administration. Participatory
Rural Appraisals (PRA) were carried out with the assistance of various
donors which helped 40 communes to define local priorities and prepare
community development plans (CDP).
2. Objectives
The project development objective is to increase the availability and
sustainability of water supply and sanitation services (WSS) in rural
areas. The specific objectives include: (a) implementing
demand-responsive and sustainable WSS services, by promoting simple water
supply and sanitation systems that are planned, operated and maintained by
communities with private sector support in selected communes; (b)
strengthening community capacity to manage services, by assisting
communities in planning, implementing and administering services, forming
and training water and sanitation committees and water users associations,
and training community members in better hygiene practices; (c) building
the capacity of water agencies, communes, users and the private sector to
-2 -



assume roles consistent with the new water sector strategy; and (d)
mobilizing communities' support for the rehabilitation/expansion of the
Mayaga-Bugesera system and its operation by the private sector.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank and WSP-ESA sponsored the preparation of the sectoral strategy.
Both are at the forefront in promoting the demand-responsive approach to
the development of water services in rural areas and small towns, as
evidenced by the World Conference on Community Water Supply and Sanitation
organized in Washington in May 1998. As there is a need to operationalize
the new strategy with a specific project, the Bank may bring forward the
design and implementation experience accumulated elsewhere in Africa.As
importantly, the Bank will cooperate with the Government to demonstrate
that sectoral investment programs can be prepared and implemented by CDCs
and communities using a standard institutional and financial framework
developed for multi-sectoral initiatives, thus strengthening the case for
community action programs.
4. Description
The project comprises four components, as follows:
1. Subproject Grants: this component will assist water users associations
in ten communes to plan, finance and execute improved water and sanitation
facilities. WUAs will select technologies and service levels (from simple
protected sources to piped systems and sanitation facilities for
schools). The project will provide technical assistance and community
development assistance and grants to execute the subprojects.
2. Rehabilitation of Major Rural Water Supply Systems: this component will
help to rehabilitate a major piped system serving six communes in the
Mayaga Region. The rehabilitation and expansion of the secondary networks
will follow the participatory and decentralized approach of the first
component. This component will also help to assess the condition of the
systems in the Lava Region and finance related community development
activities.
3. Capacity Building: this component will help all actors and stakeholders
to acquire and maintain technical, social and management capacities
required to carry out their respective roles, through training, evaluation
and exchange of experiences. This component will also help to set up a
decentralized monitoring system.
4. Project Management: this component will help to finance incremental
operating costs of DEA and CDCs related to the execution of the project.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Government                       0.07
IDA                              20.00
COMMUNITIES                      0.88
Total Project Cost               20.95
6. Implementation
DEA, assisted by consultants prepared a draft Project Implementation
Manual (PIM) that outlines the rules and procedures for project
implementation. The draft manual is being discussed with stakeholders
involved in the community water and sanitation goods and services. This
-3 -



manual will be adopted by the project effectiveness. Executing agenciesIn
line with the Community Action Program initiative and to avoid overlapping
and potentially contradictory structures at communal level, the present
project will largely follow the institutional and implementation
arrangements already developed by the Ministry of Local Administration
under the Community Reintegration and Development Project (CRDP).Project
CoordinationDEA will have primary responsibility for guiding, promoting,
facilitating, supervising, monitoring, evaluating and reporting on project
activities. DEA will also implement the institutional building component.
Project coordination will be deconcentrated at the prefecture level, with
the DEA's prefecture services (REAP) playing a key role in providing
technical assistance to the Community Development Committee (CDC) and
building private sector capacity for smooth subproject
implementation.Project ExecutionFor Component 1, CDCs will first validate
and pre-select WSS subprojects already identified in their Community
Development Plans. WSS subproject proposals will then be developed by
communities with the assistance of partner organizations contracted by the
CDC. Subproject proposals will be submitted to the CDC and DEA for
approval. Communities will open bank accounts and deposit the required
cash contribution as a condition of subproject appraisal. CDC will be in
charge of contracting works, goods and services required to execute the
subprojects. Communities will participate in the selection process sign
off on completed works. Small-scale subprojects (e.g. point sources and
latrines) may also be directly executed by communities. Communities will
be responsible for sustaining services and encouraged to undertake
participatory monitoring and evaluation of their activities.For Component
2, DEA will select a partner organization to assist communities in the six
communes wholly or partially covered by the Mayaga-Bugesera network to
prepare subprojects. Once the subprojects closely related to the Mayaga
network are identified and appraised, DEA will carry out in parallel the
rehabilitation of the production facilities and of the main trunk of the
network in accordance with the detailed design studies carried out under
the Second Water Supply Project. DEA will also assist communities in
setting up an inter-communal water board ("Association Inter-communale")
that can contract a private sector operator for the inter-communal
network. As the Mayaga-Bugesera network serves only about 120,000 of the
300,000 residents of the six communes it reaches (25 of 58 sectors),
participating communities would also be eligible for Component 1 financing
for the remainder of their water supply/sanitation needs.DEA will
coordinate capacity-building measures (Component 3) defined with the
assistance of project cycle consultants and the local partner
organizations.Implementation PeriodThe project will be implemented over a
6-year period (2000 - 2005).
7. Sustainability
The sustainability of the water and sanitation services in rural areas of
Rwanda rests on two key elements:A. Mutual trust between local/central
administration and local communities. The effective decentralization of
decisions and the leading role played by communities in the planning and
design of the WSS facilities will ensure that investment decisions are
transparent and demand-responsive. Similarly, building such mutual trust
will eliminate the risk of local administration interference with the
management of facilities.B. Community willingness and capacity to manage
and sustain services. Experience elsewhere demonstrates that the sense of
ownership by communities reinforces the likelihood of successful community
- 4 -



management and use of facilities. This sense of ownership will be
increased by the up-front commitment requested from communities which will
have to take the initiative, prepare a proposal, make cash and in-kind
contributions and undertake organizational responsibilities. To help
communities manage their services in the long-term, capacity will be
strengthened in community organization, operations and maintenance,
financial management, hygiene education and effective water usage and
disposal.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The implementation experience with the Second Water Supply Project and
community-oriented projects in Rwanda and experiences with Bank-financed,
demand-driven community water supply and sanitation projects in
sub-Saharan Africa, provide the following lessons:The design of the
project builds on experiences with Bank-financed demand-driven community
water supply and sanitation projects in Ghana and Benin. The Ghana
Community Water Supply & Sanitation project in particular has underscored
the need (a) for technically well-grounded partner organizations to advise
communities on piped systems and (b) for pre-identification of prospective
project communities that later self-select based on effective
demand.Experience under the on-going Rwanda Community and Reintegration
Development Project as well as similar projects financed by other donors
(UNDP, USAID) have demonstrated that communities are keen on taking on
more responsibility, that CDCs cooperate with local administrators and
that CDPs may be developed and updated in a participatory approach. It
also demonstrated that training must be reinforced to ensure sound
management by CDCs and communities, and must start early in the project
cycle. Women are the key players in the delivery of community water and
sanitation services and must be empowered to facilitate community action.
Special attention have been given to their representation among the
CDC.The Rwanda Food Security & Social Action project (PNAS) has pointed
out that to ensure the sustainability of community infrastructure, there
is a need to have communities be part of the planning process and
contribute to infrastructure sub-projects, in terms of materials,
complementary infrastructure, or labor, before procurement of a
construction contract. The PNAS also demonstrated that there is local
implementation capacity for small contracts. The private sector has
responded well, however greater flexibility is needed when implementing
the project, so as to adjust to the local entrepreneur capacity,
community's space, interests and capacity rather than adopting a common
approach to all. The experience under the Rwanda Second Water Supply
Project showed that community willingness to pay for services may be much
higher than expected and this is often not reflected in financial policies
that have high subsidy levels. The project will promote cost recovery
schemes based on the results of a willingness to pay study that is being
carried out as part of the project's preparation.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        The project will sensitize communities to the
environmental aspects of their subprojects, and train them in the
sustainable use of water and sanitation facilities. The approach is meant
to incorporate environmental concerns into the project design and focuses
on environmentally sound criteria for construction methods, waste water
- 5 -



disposal techniques, and appropriate on-site latrine location. The
proposed training programs will primarily focus on water source
contamination, ground water depletion and vegetation loss, reduction in
waste water production, erosion prevention and control, proper human waste
disposal, and hygienic use of water and sanitation facilities. The latter
will be further supported through the project's hygiene education
strategy. The monitoring component of the proposed project will include
monitoring water quality, particularly spring water contamination. The
Project Implementation Manual will include a section covering
environmental criteria for subproject appraisal, compensation guidelines,
environmental requirements for contractors, and terms of reference for
technical assistance.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Richard Verspyck
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 473 45 33
Fax:   (202) 473 82 49
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending March 24, 2000.
- 6 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it is
prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental
Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public Information Document
(PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.
-7-



