Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3368-RW
Development Credit Agreement
(Rural Water and Sanitation Project)
between
RWANDESE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated August 7, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3368-RW
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 7, 2000, between RWANDESE REPUBLIC (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter, dated May 5, 
2000, from the Borrower describing its objectives and policies with 
respect to the reform of the water and sanitation sector in its territory 
and designed, inter alia, to ensure an adequate transition from the 
existing framework of development and management of water and sanitation 
services investments based on state intervention to a decentralized 
system of development and management of such investments by local 
communities and the private sector (hereinafter called the Letter of 
Sector Policy); and
(B) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has 
Page  2
requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of 
the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development 
Credit Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999), with the modifications set forth below, 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set 
forth below, and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said 
Section are accordingly renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
“12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the 
Association determines 
meets the requirements set forth in 
Section 11 of Resolution No. 194 of the Board of 
Governors of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; and 
‘Participating Countries’ means,  collectively, all such countries.” ; and
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise 
agree, no withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of 
expenditures in the territories of any country which is not 
a 
Participating Country or for goods produced in, or services supplied 
from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a 
decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII 
of the Charter of 
the United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Beneficiary” means: (i) a community represented by a 
Community Development Committee (as hereinafter defined) to which or for 
whose benefit a Grant (as hereinafter defined) is made, or proposed to be 
made; or (ii) a Community-Based Group (as hereinafter defined) to whom or 
for whose benefit a Sub-Grant (as hereinafter defined) is made or 
proposed to be made;
(b)
“Commune” means a legal entity of the Borrower, established 
pursuant to the Law of November 23, 1963 on Communal Organization to 
exercise limited jurisdiction over a designated area and population 
within the territory of the Borrower, as amended to the date of this 
Agreement;
(c)
“Participating Commune” means a Commune selected by MINALOC 
(as hereinafter defined) and MINERENA (as hereinafter defined) to 
participate in the Project in accordance with the criteria set forth in 
Page  3
paragraph 5 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(d)
“Community-Based Group” means any group of two or more 
individuals residing in a Participating Commune that organizes itself for 
the purpose of submitting and carrying out a Subproject (as hereinafter 
defined);
(e)
“Community Development Committee” or “CDC” means a committee 
made of members of the administration of a Participating Commune and 
elected representatives of its population, established and operating as 
an autonomous legal entity with powers to carry out activities under the 
Project;
(f)
“Community Development Plan” means a plan prepared by a 
Community Development Committee containing a phased and costed program of 
development activities based on the needs expressed by the population of 
the Commune where it is located, including a list and description of any 
planned Subprojects;
(g)
“Grant” means a grant made or proposed to be made by the 
Borrower through DEA (as hereinafter defined) to a Community Development 
Committee for the purpose of financing Subprojects (as hereinafter 
defined) under Part A of the Project;
(h)
“Sub-Grant” means a grant made or proposed to be made by a 
Community Development Committee to a Community-Based Group for the 
purpose of financing a Subproject (as hereinafter defined) under Part A 
of the Project;
(i)
“Grant Agreement” means an agreement between the Borrower 
represented by MINERENA (as hereinafter defined) and a Community 
Development Committee setting forth the terms and conditions under which 
proceeds of the Credit shall be made available to a Community Development 
Committee for the purpose of financing Subprojects (as hereinafter 
defined) under Part A of the Project;
(j)
“MINECOFIN” means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance and 
Economic Planning;
(k)
“MINALOC" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Local Government 
and Social Affairs;
(l)
“MINERENA” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Energy, Water 
and Natural Resources;
(m)
“DEA” means the Directorate of Water and Sanitation of 
MINERENA;
(n)
“Partner Agency” means a non-governmental organization or 
other public or private entity established and operating under the laws 
of the Borrower, selected to participate in the Project in accordance 
with the criteria specified in paragraph 7 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement;
(o)
“Project Implementation Manual” means the manual referred to 
in sub-paragraph 1 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(p)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
Page  4
(q)
“Subproject” means a water supply or sanitation activity 
proposed by a CDC or a Community-Based Group, within the scope defined in 
Part A of the Project and financed or to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit;
(r)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(s)
“Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 
3.02 (a) of this Agreement;
(t)
“Initial Amount” means the initial amount referred to in 
Section 3.02 (b) (i) of this Agreement;
(u)
“Rwandese Franc” means the currency of the Borrower;
(v)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation 
advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the letter 
agreement signed on behalf of the Association on December 16, 1998  and 
on behalf of the Borrower on December 23, 1998;
(w)
“Second Water Supply Project” means the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement (Second Water Supply 
Project) dated August 14, 1987 (Credit No. 1783 RW) between the Borrower 
and the Association; 
(x)
“Project Year” means the 12 month period beginning from the 
Effective Date and ending 12 months thereafter and each successive 12 
month period following thereafter;
(y)
“Communal Water and Sanitation Committee” means a 
Subcommittee established by a CDC for the purpose of monitoring the 
operations of Water Users’ Associations;
(z)
“Water Users’ Association” means the Régies associatives, 
established to manage water systems pursuant to the Presidential Decree 
No. 292/04 dated May 15, 1987;
(aa)
“Project Executing Units” or “PEUs” means institutional 
units of the Borrower carrying out components of the Project; and
(bb)
“Community Advance Account” means the account referred to in 
Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development 
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifteen 
million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 15,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from 
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for: (i) expenditures made (or, if the Association shall 
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works 
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit; and (ii) amounts paid (or, if the Association 
Page  5
shall so agree, amounts to be paid) by the Borrower on account of 
withdrawals made to meet the reasonable cost of goods, works and services 
required for any Subproject in respect of which the withdrawal from the 
Credit Account is requested.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in its Central Bank on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall cause each CDC to:
(i)
open and maintain in Rwandese Francs, an advance 
account of the Special 
Account, denominated 
Community Advance Account, in a financial institution 
acceptable to the Association on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the 
Association, including, in 
the case of a commercial institution, appropriate 
protection against set off, seizure or attachment, to be used by 
such CDC 
exclusively for the purposes of 
financing works, goods and services required 
under 
the Project; and
(ii)
withdraw from the Special Account and deposit into 
each Community Advance 
Account the amount needed 
to cover Eligible Expenditures for a period not 
exceeding ninety days, and thereafter replenish said Advance 
Account in 
accordance with Paragraph 7 of Schedule 
5 to this Agreement.
(d)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to 
itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project 
Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay 
all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized 
amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2006, or such 
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall 
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a 
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn 
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of 
each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty 
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the 
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from 
the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 
30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may 
be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date 
in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as 
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of 
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in 
the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to 
Page  6
the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time 
to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be 
payable semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, 
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual 
installments payable on each April 1 and October 1, commencing October 1, 
2010 and ending April 1, 2040. Each installment to and including the 
installment payable on April 1, 2020 shall be one percent (1%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent 
(2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national 
product (GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for 
three consecutive years the level established annually by the Association 
for determining eligibility to access the Association's resources; and 
(ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, 
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by 
them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment 
of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower 
to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the 
principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring 
the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount of the Credit 
as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in paragraph (a) 
above falling six months or more after the date on which the Association 
notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph (b) have 
occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a 
minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise 
the modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu 
of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the 
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to 
time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision 
shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to 
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's 
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, 
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01.(a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
Page  7
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through MINERENA and other 
Project Executing Units with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, 
environmental and sanitation practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance 
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 
(a) of this Section, and except as the Borrower and the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall:
(a)
open an account in Rwandese Francs in its Central Bank (the 
Project Account), and thereafter maintain said Project Account under 
terms and conditions acceptable to the Association until the completion 
of the Project;
(b)
deposit into the Project Account: (i) an initial amount 
equivalent to $30,000 to finance the Borrower’s contribution to Project 
expenditures for the first three months of the First Project Year; (ii) 
an additional amount of $90,000 to finance the Borrower’s contribution to 
Project expenditures for the remaining period of the First Project Year;
(c)
thereafter replenish the Project Account every 12 months 
following the end of the First Project Year, by depositing therein the 
amounts agreed upon with the Association and required to finance the 
Borrower’s contribution to Project expenditures for each subsequent 
Project Year; and
(d)
ensure that funds deposited into the Project Account in 
accordance with paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section shall be used 
exclusively to finance expenditures under the Project other than those 
financed from the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General 
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months 
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be 
Page  8
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with 
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in 
respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower, 
as well as any entities responsible for carrying out the Project or any 
part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section 
including those for 
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but 
in any case no later than 
six months after the end of each 
such year, the report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but 
in any case no later than 
six months after the end of each 
such year, the report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, 
the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
with paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association 
has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal from the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine 
such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 
4.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action 
plan acceptable to the Association for the strengthening of its financial 
management system for the Project in order to enable the Borrower, no 
later than eighteen (18) months after the Effective Date, or such later 
date as the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project 
Management Reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which: 
Page  9
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of 
funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the 
period covered by said report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period 
following 
the period covered by said report, and (B) 
shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the 
Credit during the six-month 
period following the period covered by said 
report;
(ii)
(A)
describes physical progress in Project 
implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the 
period covered by said report, and (B) explains 
variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; 
and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the 
Project and expenditures under 
contracts financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance 
with guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the 
Association no later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter, 
a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 501. The following events are specified as additional 
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement 
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower has adopted the Project implementation Manual, 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
the Borrower has established an adequate financial 
management system, satisfactory to the Association to ensure proper 
monitoring of the Project activities; and
(c)
the Borrower has opened the Project Account and has 
deposited therein the Initial Deposit referred to in Section 3.02 (b) (i) 
of this Agreement
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the 
General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for Finance 
and Planning is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
Page  10
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and
   Economic Planning
B.P. 158
Kigali
Rwandese Republic
Cable address:
Telex:
MINFIN-RWANDA
22687
MINFIN-RAW
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 
477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.
RWANDESE REPUBLIC
By /s/ Dr. Richard Sezibera
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Emmanuel Mbi
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so 
Page  11
to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Grants
   8,300,000
100% of amounts 
disbursed
(2)
Works
   2,150,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures and 85% 
of local expenditures
(3)
Equipment
     830,000
100% of foreign
and vehicles
expenditures and 90%
of local 
expenditures
(4)
Consultants’ services,
   2,300,000
100%
audit and training
(5)
Operating Costs
     600,000
85%
(6)
Refunding of Project
     575,000
Amount 
due pursuant
Preparation Advance
to Section 2.02 (d) 
of
Advance
this Agreement
(7)
Unallocated
     345,000
TOTAL
  15,100,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “Operating Costs” means the incremental operating 
costs arising under the Project on account of maintenance of vehicles, 
fuel, equipment, office supplies, utilities, consumables, travel and 
accommodation, telecommunication charges, and Project staff salaries but 
excluding salaries of the Borrower’s civil servants.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and
(b)
expenditures under Category (1) unless the Grant has been 
made in accordance with the procedures and terms and conditions set out 
or referred to in sub-paragraph 3 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and 
Page  12
in more detail in the Project Implementation Manual.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to 
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for: (i) works under 
contracts not exceeding the equivalent of $250,000 each; (ii) goods under 
contracts not exceeding the equivalent of $100,000 each; (iii) 
consultants’ services under contracts not exceeding (A) $100,000 each for 
consulting firms, and (B) $30,000 each for individual consultants; and 
(c) training and Operating Costs, all under such terms and conditions as 
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in: (i) 
increasing the availability and sustainability of water supply and 
sanitation services in the rural areas of the Borrower’s territory; (ii) 
strengthening the capacity of (A) communities to plan water supply and 
sanitation investments and manage water supply and sanitation services, 
and (B) agencies responsible for water supply services, communes, water 
users and the private sector to carry out their respective 
responsibilities under the Borrower’s water sector strategy; and (iii) 
mobilizing community support for (A) the rehabilitation or expansion of 
the major regional water systems, and (B) the operation by the private 
sector of the said systems.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon 
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Subprojects
1.
The carrying out of Subprojects for the improvement of rural water 
supply and sanitation services, including Subprojects for:
(a)
the protection of springs;
(b)
the provision of spring catchments (gravity and pumped) with 
a distribution network, storage and standpipes;
(c)
the rehabilitation of small piped systems with standpipes;
(d)
expansion of distribution networks connected to regional 
trunk systems;
(e)
the drilling of boreholes equipped with hand-pumps;
(f)
the construction of rainwater catchments;
(g)
the construction of sanitation facilities, including 
latrines for households, schools, health centers and (where feasible) 
markets and high density rural settlement areas; and
(h)
the construction of systems of drainage and disposal of 
rainwater and waste water.
2.
Preparation of water and sanitation of components of Community 
Development Plans, through the provision of technical advisory services 
Page  13
and training to CDCs.
3.
Design and execution of the engineering components of Subprojects, 
including the technical design of water systems.
4.
Capacity Building for Community-Based Groups:
(a)
assisting communities to (A) organize themselves into Water 
Users’ Associations to facilitate the provision of their contributions to 
the Project, and (B) make informed choices about their preferred water 
supply and sanitation service level options;
(b)
carrying out of training programs for communities 
participating in the Project, including training courses in hygiene 
education, financial management and completion of Subproject proposals; 
and
(c)
strengthening Community-Based groups to carry out 
Subprojects, including:
(i)
the provision of training in (A) contracting, works 
supervision and 
procurement of goods, (B) the 
establishment of Communal Water and Sanitation 
Committees and Water User Associations, and (C) training in 
administration, 
operation and maintenance of 
Subprojects;
(ii)
hygiene education; and
(iii)
any other relevant training required by Subproject 
proposals.
Part B:
Major Water Supply Systems
1.
(a)
The restoration and expansion of water services in the area 
supplied by the Mayaga system, including the rehabilitation of: (i) the 
water catchment, treatment plant, headworks and other production 
facilities of the Mayaga system; and (ii) the main trunk of the said 
system.
(b)
The provision of technical advisory services for the 
carrying out of Part B.1 (a) of the Project and for the management of the 
said system.
2.
Support for the rehabilitation of the Lava Region systems, 
including: (i) an assessment of (A) the technical, operational, social 
and management conditions of the facilities built under the Second Water 
Supply Project, and (B) the investments required to achieve the initial 
service targets of the said systems; and (ii) the development and 
carrying out of sustainable operational and management arrangements, 
including facilitating the operation of the systems by private sector 
entities.
Part C:
Capacity Building
1.
Strengthening stakeholder capacity to ensure adequate and timely 
provision of goods, works and services for the water supply and 
sanitation sector, consisting of:
(a)
Strengthening the capacity of CDCs to carry out their 
Page  14
functions under the Project through:
(i)
the holding of orientation courses for CDC staff, 
members of the Communal 
Water and Sanitation 
Committees, school health program coordinators and the 
personnel of the Water Users Associations, to provide 
participants in such 
courses with relevant 
information about Project matters, including information 
about contracting arrangements and financial management;
(ii)
the provision of technical advisory services to and 
logistical support to 
CDCs, their subcommittees 
and staff.
(b)
Provision of adequate training, including on procurement, to 
service providers and Partner Agencies;
2.
Strengthening MINERENA’s capacity to carry out its functions under 
the Project, through:
(a)
the provision of technical advisory services to MINERENA 
staff assigned to the Project;
(b)
the carrying out of (A) water supply and sanitation program 
reviews, (B) topical research and special studies, (B) mass media 
campaigns for the dissemination of hygiene education, (C) external impact 
assessments of the Project, and (D) exchange programs with other 
countries on matters relevant to the Project.
Part D:
Project Management
1.
Strengthening the management and supervision capacity of MINERENA 
and the CDCs, through: (i) the provision of office space to the 
sub-committees of the CDCs and regional offices of MINERENA; and (ii) the 
acquisition of office equipment, vehicles, motorcycles and bicycles.
2.
Carrying out of monitoring and evaluation activities and audits of 
the Project.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2006.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and 
August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to 
“Bank member countries” and “member country”  shall be deemed to be 
Page  15
references, respectively, to “Participating Countries” and “Participating 
Country”.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and 
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 
thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Prequalification
Bidders for works shall be prequalified in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in 
bid packages estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each.
(c)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and 
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of 
the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Works estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of 
the Guidelines.
3.
Community Participation
Goods and works required for Subprojects shall be procured in 
accordance with paragraph 3.15 of the Guidelines and as specified in the 
Project Implementation Manual.
Page  16
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $10,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of 
written quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors 
in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a 
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the 
Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be 
made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the 
required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the 
contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding 
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project 
shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (i) each contract for (A) goods estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $100,000 or more, and (B) works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $250,000 or more; and (ii) the first two contracts for 
civil works in each Participating Commune, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: 
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” 
published by the Association in January 1997 and revised in September 
1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in 
paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to 
“Bank member countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be 
references, respectively, to “Participating Countries” and “Participating 
Country”.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
Page  17
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the 
preceding paragraph. The short list of consultants for services estimated 
to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely 
national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 
of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection
Financial audit services may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for training may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Single Source Selection
Technical advisory services for Part B.1 (a) of the Project which 
are estimated to cost less than $400,000 equivalent per contract, may, 
with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
4.
Services for training which meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, 
the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project 
shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, 
and each contract for the employment of individual consultants estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 
Page  18
5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to all contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms, and each contract for the employment of consultants on 
the basis of single source selection procedures, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants 
shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  
The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have 
been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
A.
Project Implementation Manual and General Provisions
1.
(a)
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a 
Project Implementation Manual in a form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association. The Project Implementation Manual shall, inter alia, set out 
the eligibility criteria, policies, procedures, guidelines and standard 
contracts for the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with 
the Project Implementation Manual, and except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, shall not amend or waive any provision of the Project 
Implementation Manual, if such amendment or waiver may, in the opinion of 
the Association, materially or adversely affect the carrying out of the 
Project.
(c)
The Borrower shall: (i) carry out Parts B, C and D of the 
Project through MINERENA; and (ii) to that end, appoint and assign to the 
Project MINERENA staff with qualifications and experience satisfactory to 
the Association.
2.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the 
indicators agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association for the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association, on a six monthly basis, 
beginning six months after the Effective Date, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
subparagraph (a) above on the progress achieved in the carrying out of 
the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out 
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
period following such date;
(c)
review with the Association, every semester, starting six 
months after the Effective Date, or such later date as the Association 
shall request, the reports referred to in subparagraph (b) above, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion 
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on 
Page  19
the conclusions and recommendations of said reports and the Association’s 
views on the matter;
(d)
no later than thirty months after the Effective Date, carry 
out jointly with the Association a mid-term review. Such review shall 
assess the overall progress made in the carrying out of the Project; the 
result of the monitoring and evaluation activities; and progress on 
procurement, disbursement and other financial management issues;
(e)
furnish to the Association through MINERENA biannual 
financial reports summarizing progress made in the carrying out of the 
respective Community Development Plans, including Subprojects reviewed 
and approved and progress made in the carrying out of Project-related 
activities and disbursement of funds; and
(f)
submit annual reports to the Association, beginning on a 
date twelve months after the Effective Date. Such reports shall address, 
as a minimum, evaluation of Subprojects during the preceding twelve-month 
period, the carrying out and supervision of Project activities, 
procurement, rate of disbursements and any specific operational issues 
that have presented difficulties and for which guidance from MINERENA has 
been sought.
3.
(a)
Following approval by MINERENA and MINALOC of a Community 
Development Plan that includes a water and sanitation component, MINERENA 
may, as representative of the Borrower, enter into a grant agreement with 
the concerned CDC for the financing of selected activities under such 
component under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, 
including terms and conditions specified in the relevant model agreement 
attached to the Project Implementation Manual. The provisions of the 
Grant Agreement shall require :
(i)
the CDC to provide evidence showing that the CDC has 
(A) appointed an 
accountant with adequate 
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the 
Association, and (B) established a an accounting system 
satisfactory to the 
Association;
(ii)
the CDC to (A) carry out the water and sanitation 
component of the Community 
Development Plan with due 
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with 
sound technical, financial, managerial, environmental and 
sanitation 
standards, and (B) maintain adequate 
records to reflect, in accordance with 
sound accounting 
practices, the operations, resources and expenditures in 
respect of every Subproject financed out of the 
proceeds of any Grant made to 
the CDC;
(iii)
the CDC to maintain adequate records for each 
Subproject for which it makes a 
Sub-Grant;
(iv)
the CDC to provide all such information as the 
Association or the Borrower 
shall reasonably 
request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, 
operations and financial condition of the CDC and the 
benefits to be derived 
from the Subproject; and 
(v)
the Borrower to suspend or terminate the right of the 
CDC to the use of the 
proceeds of the Grant upon 
failure by the CDC to perform its obligations under 
the Grant Agreement.
(b)
Each CDC shall, out of the proceeds of the Grant, make a 
Page  20
Sub-Grant to each Beneficiary meeting the eligibility criteria and 
conditions set out in the Project Implementation Manual under a decision 
which shall set forth  the rights and obligations of the Community 
Development Committee and the Beneficiary of the Sub-grant. The decision 
shall include, in particular, the following provisions:
(i)
the Beneficiary carries out the Subproject for which 
the Sub-Grant is made 
with due diligence and 
efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, 
financial, managerial, environmental and sanitation 
standards and practices;
(ii)
the Beneficiary maintains adequate records for the 
Subproject;
(iii)
the Beneficiary procures goods, works and services to 
be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Sub-Grant at a 
reasonable price, account being taken also of 
other 
relevant factors such as (A) time of delivery and efficiency and 
reliability of the goods and availability of 
maintenance facilities and spare 
parts therefor, and (B) in 
the case of services, the quality of such services 
and the competence of the parties rendering such services;
(iv)
the Beneficiary uses the goods, works and services to 
be financed out of the 
proceeds of a Sub-Grant 
exclusively in the carrying out of the Subproject;
(v)
the Borrower or the CDC may at any time, by itself or 
jointly with 
representatives of the Association, if 
the Association shall so request, 
inspect 
any goods, works, plants and construction included in a Subproject, 
the operation thereof, and any relevant records and 
documents;
(vi)
the Beneficiary provides all such information as the 
Association, the Borrower 
or CDC shall reasonably request 
relating to the foregoing and to the 
administration, operations and financial condition of the Beneficiary and 
the 
benefits to be derived from the Subproject; and
(vii)
the CDC suspends or terminates, in consultation with 
MINERENA the right of the 
Beneficiary to the use of the 
proceeds of the Sub-Grant upon failure by such 
Beneficiary to perform its obligations under the decision awarding 
the Sub-Grant.
B.
Overall Project Implementation
4.
(a)
The Borrower shall establish and maintain within DEA a water 
project team in a form and with functions and resources satisfactory to 
the Association. The water project team shall be headed by a national 
coordinator, assisted by staff (including a deputy coordinator, a rural 
water supply engineer, a chief financial officer and a social scientist), 
all of whom shall have qualifications and experience satisfactory to the 
Association.
(b)
DEA shall be responsible for the day to day management of 
the Project and the coordination of Project activities in accordance with 
the Project Implementation Manual. DEA’s functions shall include:
(i)
assisting Project Executing Units in the preparation 
Page  21
of annual work programs 
and budgets for their respective 
components of the Project;
(ii)
coordinating all aspects of Project execution with 
the relevant Ministries of 
the Borrower;
(iii)
supervising and coordinating the actions of the CDCs;
(iv)
ensuring that the Borrower’s contribution to Project 
expenditures is 
adequately budgeted;
(v)
evaluating the water and sanitation components of the 
Community Development 
Plans;
(vi)
disbursing Grants to CDCs and maintaining adequate 
financial records with 
respect to the Grants;
(vii)
preparation and submission of replenishment requests 
and withdrawal 
applications to the Association;
(viii) monitoring the carrying out of the Project and 
submitting the required 
technical, financial and 
other Project reports to MINALOC, MINECOFIN and to 
the Association;
(ix)
initiating studies and capacity building efforts 
necessary to the achievement 
of the objectives.
C.
Specific Project Implementation Arrangements: Selection of 
Participating Communes
5.
MINALOC and MINERENA shall select communes eligible to participate 
in the Project in accordance with criteria set out in the Project 
Implementation Manual and the following provisions of this paragraph, 
namely:
(a)
The Commune must:
(i)
attach a high priority to the improvement of water 
supply and sanitation 
services, as evidenced by 
the existence of a water supply and sanitation 
component in its Community Development Plan;
(ii)
be affected by significant health and sanitary 
problems related to the lack of 
adequate water services, as 
evidenced by the data on water-born diseases in 
the Commune;
(iii)
have a satisfactory record or potential in community 
management of water 
services, as assessed on 
the basis of the criteria set out in the Project 
Implementation Manual; and
(iv)
have established a CDC and such CDC has become 
operational.
(b)
In addition to the above criteria, DEA may, for added 
flexibility in the selection of Participating Communes, also take into 
account additional criteria, including the presence of potential Partner 
Page  22
Agencies in the prospective Commune, and its poverty level.
(c)
All decisions regarding the carrying out of the Project in a 
Participating Commune shall be taken by the CDC of that Commune.
D.
Preparation, Evaluation and Approval of Community Development Plans 
with Water and 
Sanitation Components 
6.
MINERENA shall advertise publicly and request expressions of 
interest from potential Partner Agencies to assist CDCs in the 
preparation of the water and sanitation components of Community 
Development Plans.
7.
Potential Partner Agencies shall be required to have: (i) proven 
experience in comparable community development activities in the 
territory of the Borrower and in participatory project design and 
implementation; (ii) proven technical expertise in their area of 
intervention; (iii) adequate financial and administrative capacity; and 
(iv) been registered and have the legal capacity to contract under the 
laws of the Borrower.
8.
Following the selection of Partner Agencies in accordance with the 
criteria set forth in the preceding subparagraph, MINERENA shall, 
whenever necessary, enter into contracts, in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, with such 
Partner Agencies to assist CDCs in the preparation and presentation of 
the water and sanitation components of Community Development Plans.
9.
The water and sanitation components of a Community Development Plan 
shall contain: (i) a phased and costed program of water and sanitation 
activities, based on the needs expressed by the CDCs of the concerned 
Commune; and (ii) a detailed implementation plan including a list and 
description of the planned Subprojects and a description of the role that 
Beneficiaries will play in the implementation of the Subprojects.
10.
The water supply and sanitation components of Community Development 
Plans may not be financed from the proceeds of the Credit unless they 
have been reviewed and approved by MINERENA. In evaluating the water and 
sanitation components of a Community Development Plan submitted by a CDC, 
DEA shall verify whether said component of the Community Development Plan 
satisfies the following criteria: (i) envisages water and sanitation 
activities that reflect the needs and preferences of the populations of 
the concerned Commune and can be implemented in accordance with the 
time-table and disbursement schedule included in the plan; and (ii) 
allows for periodic adjustment in content, funding requirements and 
implementation arrangements.
E.
Approval and Implementation of Subprojects
The approval and implementation of Subprojects shall be subject to 
the following procedures, criteria and terms and conditions:
11.
Subprojects shall be prepared by a Community-Based Group, with the 
assistance of a Partner Agency if necessary, and submitted to the CDC for 
its evaluation in accordance with the criteria specified in the Project 
Implementation Manual. In evaluating Subprojects, the CDC shall in 
particular take into account the following criteria, as further detailed 
in the Project Implementation Manual: the capacity of the Beneficiaries 
to sustain the operation and management of the Subproject as evidenced by 
a management plan including provision for the recovery of operating 
costs; the average investment costs per person served; and the compliance 
with environmental criteria. 
12.
Before approving any Subproject, the CDC shall submit it to 
MINERENA for its review. In reviewing Subprojects, DEA shall ensure that 
they are consistent with the objectives of the relevant Community 
Page  23
Development Plan and have been appraised in accordance with the criteria, 
policies and procedures set forth in the Project Implementation Manual. 
13.
(a)
The decision approving the Subproject shall set forth the 
rights and obligations of the CDC and the Beneficiary of a Sub-Grant, in 
particular, the obligation of the Beneficiary of such Sub-Grant to 
contribute, in cash or in kind, 10% of the total cost of financing the 
Subproject. This percentage may be increased or decreased depending on 
the specific circumstances of the Subproject or the Beneficiary and in 
accordance with the criteria specified in the Project Implementation 
Manual.
(b)
A CDC may enter into a contract with a Partner Agency to 
assist a Beneficiary of a Sub-Grant, in the preparation and 
implementation of a Subproject. Such contract shall provide, inter alia, 
for: (i) specific terms of reference for the Partner Agency based on the 
requirements of the Subproject; (ii) the terms of payments by the CDC to 
the Partner Agency, which shall be based on a predetermined payment 
schedule that shall be part of every Subproject proposal; and (iii) the 
right of the CDC to withhold payments to the Partner Agency and suspend 
or terminate the activities under the Subproject if the Partner Agency 
fails to comply with its obligations under the contract. Payments for 
expenditures incurred for Subprojects shall be effected by the CDC on 
behalf of Beneficiaries of Sub-Grants in accordance with the procedures 
set forth in the Project Implementation Manual.
(c)
The Borrower shall ensure that all procurement and 
contracting of consultants’ services to be undertaken by CDCs and Partner 
Agencies for specific Subprojects are carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement and the Project Implementation 
Manual.
(d)
The Borrower shall closely monitor the performance of CDCs 
and Partner Agencies and, to that end, shall require adequate reports 
from them and shall, through MINERENA, undertake visits to the CDCs and 
to the local offices of the Partner Agencies.
F.
Role of MINERENA in the Management of the Water Sector
14.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
adopt no later than December 31, 2001, a program of actions, 
satisfactory to the Association, designed to ensure the conversion of 
MINERENA into a ministry essentially responsible for regulating, 
promoting and monitoring the water and sanitation sector, in accordance 
with the objectives of the Letter of Sector Policy.  Such actions shall, 
in particular, include, adequate measures to revise the structure, 
functions and activities of MINERENA in order to make them consistent 
with the objectives of the said Letter of Sector Policy; and
(b)
implement no later than December 31, 2005, the actions 
described in the program referred to in the preceding subparagraph.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through 
(5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services, as well as 
Page  24
amounts paid or to be paid under Grants, and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent 
to $1,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, 
provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 3,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that 
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit  into 
the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such 
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association requests for 
deposits into the Special Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association the documents and 
other evidence required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of 
which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been 
paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, 
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably 
request, furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that 
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Page  25
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the 
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the 
Association, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) 
of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to 
the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the 
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to 
the eligible Categories for the Special Account, minus the total amount 
of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such 
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that 
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure 
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or 
(ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide 
such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit 
into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the 
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that 
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to 
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such 
outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to 
the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special 
Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account 
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the 
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
7. 
(a)
The Borrower shall withdraw from the Special Account and 
deposit into each Community Advance Account an advance for a period not 
exceeding ninety days to allow the relevant CDC to finance Sub-grants for 
approved Subprojects and other Eligible Expenditures. Advances shall be 
made by the Borrower to a Community Development Committee upon receipt 
Page  26
and approval by DEA of a quarterly work plan and funding requirement 
submitted by the Community Development Committee. Each subsequent advance 
shall be contingent upon satisfactory justification of the preceding 
period's advance with sufficient financial reporting on a monthly basis 
to ensure that cost overruns or unexecuted projects are identified. 
(b)
Payments out of Community Advance Accounts shall only be 
made for Eligible Expenditures in respect of Categories (1) and (5) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(c)
Any withdrawal from any Community Advance Account must be 
justified to the Borrower by the same documentation and other evidence 
regarding Eligible Expenditures.
