                                                                                                          94427
                                                                                                      October 7, 2009



                                                                  Links:
                                                                  - What is IDA?
                                                                  - Our Work in Rwanda


                                                                  More on Rwanda:
                                                                  - Borrowing History
                                                                  - Data & Statistics
                                                                  - Research
                                                                  - Contact Us




To remain on track to reach the Millennium Development Goal of 85 percent water supply
coverage by 2015, access will have to expand steadily while new and existing systems remain
operational and affordable. Annual funding for water must at least be sustained at its recent
level. Funding for sanitation and environmental health promotion will have to be increased and
restructured. Related operational approaches will have to be upgraded. Under the countrywide
decentralization policy, these challenges will have to be met largely at the district level despite
pervasive capacity gaps. Rapid urbanization calls for targeted programs to serve poor urban
households and enlist consumer engagement and feedback in the regulatory process for water-
supply and sanitation services.




IDA’s Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project targeted provision of basic drinking water
facilities to serve about 370,000 people in rural areas and the promotion of better household
sanitation and hygiene. The project’s simple water supply and sanitation systems are planned,
operated and maintained by water users' associations (WUAs) with private sector support in
communities that most need improved services. Grants—along with technical assistance—go
directly to communities for constructing water and sanitation facilities.




By the time the project period ended at year’s end 2007, an estimated 472,000 people had
gained access to improved water services.


Highlights:
- Water coverage In Rwanda stood at about 73 percent in 2008, up from about 55 percent in
2005.


- By December 2006, more than 12 percent of the country’s 830 water-pipe systems were
privately managed. Eleven months later, in November 2007, the project target was reached with
20 percent of 850 systems under private management.


- Rwanda’s government significantly increased direct financing from the national budget for
district water supply projects—providing US$2 million in 2006 and US$7 million in 2007.
- Some 70,000 students benefited from improved school hygiene thanks to adequate sanitation
facilities and water tanks.


- So far, nine community development committees are able to program and execute water supply
and sanitation investments, assisted by four partner organizations.


- In 2008, four piped water schemes (136 kilometers) serving 84,000 people and 20 public
ecosanitation latrines were completed.


- Around 6.9 million of a projected population of 9.5 million Rwandans had access to safe water
in 2008.




- IDA provided US$20 million.
- Along with other donor partners, IDA helped the government lay the groundwork for a unified
implementation framework that provided the basis for harmonized donor support in the water
sector. The framework is based on the government’s national strategy and program and medium-
term expenditure framework.
- IDA promoted community participation in investment and maintenance decisions, and private
sector participation in the provision of water-supply and sanitation services.
- IDA introduced a key management reform for water supply systems through development of
public-private partnerships between decentralized water districts and local private operators.




IDA continues to provide policy advice and financing through budget support. District water
supply projects and sanitation services will subsequently be financed from the national budget
and implemented using national capacity and procedures. All water supply systems will be
managed by local private operators under the control of district authorities. Under these
provisions, Rwanda is expected to reach the Millennium Development Goal target of providing 85
percent of its population with potable water by 2015.




Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project (2000–07)
Project documents
