Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFMClAL USE ONLY
Rept No. 11366
PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM (PESAP)
(IDA CREDIT 1833-NIR AND AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT A-031-NIR)
NOVEMBER 12, 1992
Africa Region
Sahel Department
Country Operations Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.00             = CFAF 272 (1992)
CFAF 1 million      =  US$3,676
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCEAO          -      Banque centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
BDRN           -      Banque de developpement de la Republique du Niger
CCCE           -      Caisse centrale de cooperation economique
CNCA           -      Caisse nationale de credit agricole
NIGELEC        -      Societe nig6rienne d'electricite
OPT            -      Offices des postes et telecommunications
OPVN           -      Office des produits vivriers du Niger
ORTN           -      Office de radio-diffusion et television du Niger
PEIDP          -      Public Enterprise Institutional Development Project
PEs            -      Public Enterprises
PESAP          -      Public Enterprise Sector Adjustment Program
PFP            -      Policy Framework Paper
PIP            -      Public Investment Program
RINI           -      Riz du Niger
SAL            -      Structural Adjustment Operation
SFA            -      Special Facility for Africa
SNE            -      Societe nationale des eaux
SNTN           -      Societe nationale de transport du Niger
SONARA         -      Societe nigerienne d'arachides
SONIBANK       -      Societe nigerienne de banques
SONICHAR    -         Societe nigerienne de charbon
SONIFAME    -         Societe nig6rienne de fabrication m6talliques
STB            -      Soci6te tunisienne de banques
UNC            -      Union nationale des cooperatives
UNCC           -      Union nigerienne de credit et cooperadon
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
WaeNngon, D.C. 20433
U.SA
O0Mb. of Dked.or4o.n.al
Operdon Evuaud
November 12, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THED PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Program Completion Report on Republic of Niger -
Public Enterprise Sector Adjustment Program (PESAP)
(IDA Credit 133-NIR and African Faciity Credit A-031-NIR)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled 'Program Completion Report on
Republic of Niger - Public Enterprise Sector Adjustment Program (PESAP) (IDA Credit 1833-NIR and
African Facility Credit A-031-NIR)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office.
The PESAP was an extension of the macroeconomic adjustment tiforts being puruod under
SAL I, focussed on public resource management and public enterprise reform. Very few of the objectives
were achieved, and the overall outcome was clearly unsatisfactory. Many of the condidons were fiufilled
on paper only, and were not followed by substandve implementation. Te program eventually deraUed
to the point that the Govtrnment refrained from submitting further disbursement request; about 10% of
the original credit amount was cancelled.
The Government did not comment on Parts I and m of the PCR and did not prepare Part n.
While the PCR is fairly comprehensive, one pp in the analysis (as wel as In the Preident's Report) is
the inadequate discussion of the impact of neighboring countries, especially Nigeria, or the development
of land-locked Niger.
The PCR acknowledges that the very poor outcome of this operation was due in part to the fact
that preparation and appraisal were hasty and superficial. In order to Increase the effectiveness of Its
assistance to Niger in the future, the Bank will have to focus more intensely on a number of issues,
including the internalization of adjustmnent programs, the impact of the external environment (Including
Nigeria), more realistic phasing of the reforms together with more precise conditionality, and the Impact
of liberalization on the development of the informal sector.
This being an adjustment operation, it is being audited simultaneously with the audit of Niger
SAL I.
Attachment
l'Thi document hca a rdricted diitibution and my be used by recipient only in the performance of their official duties. Is contest
may not otherwiae be diaclobd without World Bnk authorization.






FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
pROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR AD-IUSTMENT PROGRAM (PESAP)
(IDA CREDIT 1833-NIR AND AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT A-031-NIR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE           .................................... ..............i
EVALUATION SUMMARY                 ....................          ...................
PART I: PROGRAM REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  ............1
A. PROGRAM IDENTITY  .......               ....................1.......... 
B. INTRODUCTION                          ................                                       1
C. A BRIEF LOOK AT NIGER'S ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM: SAL I ...                         ......        2
D. PREPARATION AND DESIGN OF PESAP .................                                           3
E. PROGRAM RESULTS .........................                                                   4
F. MACROECONOMIC PERFORMANCE ..... ..............                                              7
G. IMPLEMENTATION AND MONITORING OF THE PROGRAM  ..........                                    9
H. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS ...............................                                    10
PART II: PROGRAM REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ...                          .....        12
PART III& STATISTICAL DATA   ...................................                                  13
Project Timetable      .......................            .....................               13
Mission Data        .......................            .......................                13
Cumulative Credit Disbursements ...... ............                ................           14
PESAP Disbursements               .........................................                   14
StaffInputs       ........................             .......................                IS
ANNEXES:
1: Status of Conditions          ........................................                     17
2: Staus of Public Enterprise Divestiture Program  .......................                    21
3: Studies in Support of Adjustment ......      ............. .                               24
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipient only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I



PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM (PESAP)
(IDA CREDIT 133-NIR AND AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT A-031-NIR)
PREFACE
This is the Program CompiZon Report (PCR) for the Public Enterprise Sector Adjust'nent
Program (PESAP) in Niger, for which IDA credit 1833-NIR In the amount of SDR 46 million (US$60
million equivalent) and Special Facility for Africa credit A-031-NIR in the amount of SDR 15.4 million
(US$20 million equivalent) were approved on June 25, 1987. The closing date for the credits was
September 30, 1990. The credits were not fully disbursed and SDR 5.8 mllion were cancelled on
October 5, 1992.
The PCR was prepared by the Country Operations Division of the Sahel Department (Preface,
Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III). The Borrower was asked to prepare Part II during a supervision
mission in December 1991 but no reply has been received. The Borrower was reminded of the
responsibility for Part n b' letter dated May 22, 1992, transmitting a copy of this report to the Borrower
for comment; to date, no reply has been received.
Preparation of this PCR was based, inter alia, on the President's Report, the Development
Credit Agreement and Letter of Development Policy, supervision reports, correspondence between the
Bank and the Borrower, and internal Bank memoranda and reports.






- ii -
PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORI
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
(IDA CREDIT 133-NIR AND AFRICAN FACILITY CREDff A.031-NIR)
EVALUATION SUNMARY
Progam Objectiv
1.        The Government of Niger undertook an adjustment program from 198S to 1990 supported by
the IMP, the Bank and the donor community. TMe program as outlined in utesive Policy Framework
Papers (PFP) was meant to address the internal and external imbalances resultig from the coilapse of he
uranium market in the early 1980s following a period of overexpansion of the public sector (pam. 4)Y
The program aimed to increase the efficiency of resource use, strengthen the country's resouwe base and
improve the public finance posidon and balance of payments. As an extension of the macroeconomic
adjustment efforts, the main objectives of the PESAP were to: (i) reinforce controls on public expenditure
and elaborate sound sectoral strategies to guide future investments; (U) liberalize prices and design
incendve policies to encourage private sector development; (iii) enhance public enterprise (PB) autonomy
and accountability; (iv) rationalize the parastatal sector through privatdzations, liquidations and restrctring
programs; and (v) complete the parastatal sector's financial restructuring through debt settlement and
measures to instill financial discipline. The overall macroeconomic progrm was agreed in the context of
the PFP.
Imlementaio Exorience
2.        Preparation of the operation started in 1984 as part of SAL I (para. 3). In order to ieet ihe
deadline to qualify for SPA funding which required that an operadon be approved before June 30, 1987,
thorough preparation of the program, by allowing Government adequate dme to develop measures fully,
was to some extent foregone. As implementation of SAL I was considered reasonably on track at the time,
Government was not asked to take many measures up-front, but rather was given te benefit of the doubt
on the basis of past performance (para. 13).
3.        The PESAP was made effective in January 1988. Implementation of public enterprise policy
reform was made difficult, however, because the accompanying macroeconomic measures did not bring
about the expected improvement in the overall economic and financial situation of the country. However,
tranches were able to be released on the basis of, iner alisa, the liquidation of a number of parasatals,
preparation of restructuring plans and performance contracts for a number of PBs, and adoption of
measures to grant adequate subsidies to PEs. After third tranche release, there wu serious slippage in the
execution of the adjustment program, specifically with regard to: arrears settlement, credit recovery of
the bankrupt BDRN and implementation of banidng sector reforms (SONIBANK share capital, para. 28).
These problems were compounded by the continued disappointing results from the macroeconomic
adjustment measures. Beginning May 1990, the Government refrained from submitting further
disbursement requests as it realized that its program had gone off-track. As the closing date approached,
M All cross-references are to paragraphs in the main text.



- iv -
Governn ent requested extra time to meet agreed performance targets which related to key public enterprise
reforms. In addidon, progress was expected in meeting targets agreed under the PFP. Thus the closing
date of September 30, 1990, was not extended, but a deadline of December 31, 1990, was agreed at which
time the credit would either be closed or the closing date extended retroactively should the program get
back on track. The Government, however, turning its attention to dealing with rising polidcal and social
disturbances, paid less attention to the program and failed to meet the agreed conditions. The credit
account will be closed once the special accounts are recovered. Approximately SDR 5.8 million will be
canceled (paras. 21-29).
4.        The results of the pubUc enterprise divestiture program were mixed. Of the 54 public
enterprises for which diagnostic studes had been undertaken In 1984, by the end of the period covered by
the SAL and the PESAP, 24 were privadzed and six were liquidated. Five others were Integrated into
Government services, transferred or transformed into cooperadves, or leased to private business. This
acdvity took place before or during the SAL, not under the PESAP. The impact on the remaining PEs
will be studied in the first quarter of FY93 (under IDA Cr. 1838). Public Enterprise reforms under the
PESAP Included the introducton of new legislation for the PE sector, preparation of conta"- rogmme
for major PEs, and implementation of a management information system, which, inter alia, facilitates
tracling cross-debts between Government and PEs and among PEs (para. 19).
5.        Government consisently failed to meet revenue targets (set in the context of the PFP) and thus
was unable to pay its bills and meet other financial commitmnents agreed In the contpgamtes.
Rather than face up to expenditure management issues, an increase In tax revenues was optimistically
assumed would fill future financing gaps. The short-fall in resources perpetuated the global arrears
problem (para. 16).
6.        Due to the polidcal and social situation, the Government was reluctant to tackle civil service
Issues head-on. The wage bill, representing approximately 42% of current expenditures in 1990, was
consistently above targets agreed In the PFP. The Government, who undl recently guaranteed employment
to unlversity graduatu, has accepted that It can no longer do so due to budgetary implicadons, but has not
been successful In implemendng this new policy (para. 17).
7.        Improvement of public investment programming begun under SAL I continued during the
period covered by the PESAP. Sectoral composition of investments was basically along the lines of the
Government's development strategy as outlined In its Letter of Development Policy (para. 5). However,
due to unrealistic investment programming beyond the country's implementadon capacity, the rate of
implementadon of the PIP showed a downward trend, averaging 54% over 1987-90. The decline was due
chiefly to slow Government procurement procedures and lack of counterpart funds (para. 18).
8.        Public enterprises' financial discipline began to improve undl mid-1989 when the Government
experienced a severe lquidity problem which resulted in the recurrence of cross-debts. Legisladon was
passed and statutes adopted giving P&s greater autonomy. However, PEs were never fully responsible for
their financial management as they knew Government would be obliged to pay their arrears to ensure
PESAP tranche release. There were also successes In the PE sector: OPVN (grain marketing agency)
abandoned Its price sabilizadon funcdon, RINI (rice markeedng) was restuctred and SONARA (peanut,
cowpeas marketing) was liquldated. Among other reforms, new lgisladon for the PE sector was
introduced with a view to ensuring more autonomy for P3s, and X   =ntfor major PEs were
prepared (para. 19).



. v -
9.        Recommendadons of the study on the industrial and trade incendive system regarding the
Investment Code have begun to be implemented. A major achievement under the program was the
abolidon of the old system of Import licenses. Business establishment Ucenses have also been abolished
and replaced by a simpler registration system. Quandtative import restrictions on rice, cement and
vegetable oil have been replaced by import tariffs. As for price liberaization, controlled profit margins
have been eliminated, as have most official price ceilings (para. 20).
Sustainability
10.       With regard to the financial management of PEs, strict adherence to the _
adopted under the program wili be needed for sustained results. A management informadon system has
been implemented to track cross-debts among PEs and between PEs and Government. Concerning
investment programming, better implementadon of earlier measures would help to rationalize the selection
process for investment and ensure selection and funding of projects with an acceptable rate of return. As
for price liberalization, the Government has successfully implemented a number of important measures
including the eliminadon of all controlled profit margins by July 1990 (para. 29).
11.       The current macroeconomic situation is, however, grim. Government needs to take urgent
measures to address its public finance situation. The emergency program it proposes Is a first step in the
right direction but much more will needed.
Findings and Lessons Learned
12.       The PESAP embodied the economic management reform program over the 1987-90 period,
the need for which was clearly recognized at the time by Nigerien decision-makers. Analysis of PESAP
implementadon, however, Illustrates the complexity of the economic management issues and the problems
which can undermine commitment to adjustment. Commitment is difficult to gauge: the adjustment
program had enjoyed the strong support of the Government of President Kountche. In retrospect It appears
that measures were taken not because the major actors in the Government were committed but because the
President wished it so as performance slowed significantly after his death In November 1987. The ensuing
deterioration of the political, economic and social situation made It Increasingly difficult even for those who
may have been committed to convince the Nigerien people of the need to continue implementing measures
(para. 38).
13.       The program was designed to build on previous reforms under what was considered at that
time reladvely successful results of SAL I. This next phase of the adjustment program might have been
more successful had measures focused at the macroeconomic level, emphasizing, inter alia, institutional
development and capacity building, and civil service restructuring. The Government would also have had
more time to strengthen its fiscal situation and reduce the deficit to sustainable levels before undertakdng
PE reforms. As it turned out, the PESAP was too ambidous given the Government's capacity to
implement reforms, especially under difficult political circumstances. The Bank's previous experience in
public enterprise reform (including privatizadon) was also limited, and for this reason the magnitude of
the complexides involved, both technical and political, was not fully appreciated during program
preparation. Moreover, the Bank and Government had deliberately focused on the divestiture half of the
equadon with a view to alleviate the PE burden on the budget, with little attendon paid to developing a
coherent divestiture strategy. A greater effort to prepare a strong divestiture program might have brought
better results although this is by no means certain. Other aspects of the adjustrnent program (containment
of scholarships and the wage bill, PE reforms resulting in loss of jobs) met with strong opposition,
especially from students, unions and, more recently, opposition parties (para. 38).



- vi -
14.       Finally, condtidons for the program as described in the Credit Agreemnents (IDA, SFA) lacked
precision with regard to the macroeconomic program. This may have led to differing interpretadons of
what constituted satdsfactory performance under the program as the Government looked strictly at
conditions cited in the Credit Agreements, while the Bank also focused on the overall macroeconomic
environment. Hence, differences in percepion and expectadons of the program between the Government
and the Bank emerged at the time of tranche release missions. The Bank also became embroiled at times
in the details of sector reforms. When faced with Government resistance to implementation of measures
to increase PE autonomy, the Bank found itself micro-managing at the level of the Individual insdtudon
through the cont-rrogm=  in order to address issues that would have been more efficiently dealt with
at the sector level (para. 38).
15.       The Government has recently formulated an emergency economic and financial recovery
program aimed to lead the country back towards a viable macroeconomic and financial framework. The
Bank, in this and other contexts, continues to discuss with the Government the long-term structural and
development issues that must be addressed which cowd justify further IDA adjustment support.



pROGRAM COMLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADlTUSTlUENT PROGRAM (PESAP)
(IDA CREDIT 1833-NIR AND SFA CREDIT A-031-NIR)
PART I: PROGRAM REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. PROGRAM IDENTrIY
Program Name:             Public Enterprise Sector Adjustment Program
Credit No.:               IDA Cr. No. 1833-NIR
SFA Cr. No. A-31-NIR
Effecdveness Date:        January 20, 1988
Closing Date:             September 30, 1990
IDA Credit:
Approved:                SDR 46.0 million (US$60.0 milion equivalent)
Disbursed:               SDR 40.9 million (US$54.6 miUion equivalent)
SFA Credit:
Approved:                SDR 15.4 million (US$20.0 miUion equivalent)
Disbursed:               SDR 14.7 mUion (US$19.8 million equivalent)
Region:                   Africa
Country:                  Niger
B. IaNTRODCTION
1.        Two credits in support of Niger's Public Enterprise Sector Adjustment Program (PESAP) were
approved by the Execudve Directors on June 25, 1987, and were made effective on January 20, 1988.
The Credits were released as planned in three tranches, the first upon effeciveness and the second and
third upon fulfillment of tranche release condidons. Shortly after release of the tird tranche, the program
was derailed and no further disbursements were made (para. 28). The PESAP was preceded by a first SAL
(IDA Cr. 1660-NIR and SFA Cr. A-12-NIR), and an Economic and Financial Management Improvement
Project (Cr. 1493-NIR) which supported the Nigerien Government's adjustment program trough trainng,
studies, equipment and technical assistance. The PESAP was supported by the ongoing Public Enterprise
Istitudonal Development Project (PEIDP, Cr. 1838-NIR, US$5.5 million) approved in July 1987.
2.        The structural adjustment program of Niger concentrated on measures to improve public
resource management, rehabilitate the parastatal sector, and reform agricultural policy. The first phase
of the program was supported by a Structural Adjustment Credit of US$60 million, approved by the
Executive Directors in February 1986 and fuily disbursed by the end of 1987. To date, IMP assistance
to Niger's adjustment program has included four successive sand-by arrangements and annual
arrangements under the Structural Adjustment Facility and the Enhanced Structural Adjutmat Facility.
3.        Reform of the public enterprise (PE) sector had been originally foreseen by the Government
as part of SAL I and, indeed, a major PE policy reform component was part of the SAL (para. 7). The
decision to split off the bulk of parastatal reform from the SAL and create a separate PE projet came in



late 1984 as more dme was needed to study parastatal sector issues (para. 5). This enabled the SAL,
whose top priorides were to be public investment and public resource management, to move forward and
receive IDA support In early 1986, much sooner than would have been possible for the more
comprehensive PE program first envisaged. Preparadon of the PESAP (then referred to as the Public
Enterprise Reform Project, PERP) continued concurrently with SAL preparadon. As originally conceived,
the PESAP/PERP had both adjustment and investment/technical assistance components. At appraisal, the
technical assistance component of the project was developed into a separate operadon (the PEIDP). PESAP
effecdveness had been projected for the fall of 1986 so the sector radonalization process initiated under
SAL I could be followed up and implemented promptly. Preparadon, however, took more dme than
anticipated and the PESAP was made effective in January 1988, seven months after Board approval.
C. A BRIEF LOOK AT NIGER'S ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM: SAL I
4.        In the late 1970s, with funding from uranium sector receipts, Government embarked on an
ambidous development program focused on Increasing public sector investments and public enterprise
creation. Unchecked expansion of the public sector became unsustainable, when, in the late 1970s,
uranium prices on the world market began to drop dramadcally thus reducing one primary source of
government revenues. The Government, however, did not scale back expenditures, relying instead on
increased borrowing from commercial banks, in the expectadon of a rebound of uranium prices that never
came. In 1983, Government undertook a stabilization program to correct large internal and external
imbalances, followed by a structural adjustment program, launched with the Bank's help In 1986.
5.        Originally, the idea had been to 'cast our nets widely" in terms of the economic and
Insdtudonal policy issues that might be covered by a structural adjustment program, that is, to try to
idendfy the critical policy areas which the Government should focus on in a multi-year adjustment
program, and then to Idendfy the detaied paciage of reforms which would consdtute SAL 1. The
Government's September 1983 letter requesdng IDA assistance linked the need for quick parastatal reform
to adjustment in order to re-establish radonal use of government resources. In 1984, public Investment
became the main item on the SAL I adjustment agenda as PE issues inidally part of the SAL prov.d more
ime-consuming to analyze than andcipated. Moreover, the short-lved SAL (presumably 18 months) would
give enough dme to establish a sector framework, Including the role of PBs and the Government's
obligadon to them, but follow-up would take longer. Thus, under the SAL, IDA would help prepare the
restructuring programs, Improve the sector-wide policy environment and play a catalytic and coordinating
role with other donors. In the end, reforms under SAL I focused on (i) pubUlc sector resource
management, (U) the parastatal sector, and (iii) agricultural policy.
6.        At the beginning of SAL I, significant efforts were made to foster efficient public resource use.
The insdtudon of a three-year rolUng investment program Improved medium-term planning, and shifted
the emphasis of public expenditure toward rural development and human resources. The budgets adopted
In 1985/86 and 1986/87 reflected new expenditure priorities Including containment of the wage bill through
hirng and wage caps and increased provisions for materials and supplies and for road maintenance.
Measures were taken to reduce subsidies and Improve cost recovery in higher educadon, health, irrigation
and water supply. Later, some of these efforts slipped as polidcal, economic and social pressures mounted
(para. 31).
7.        Under the public enterprise component of the SAL, Government abolished all monopolies and
quasi-monopolies (except for petroleum products). Government also liberalized consumer product prices
substandally, which had a posidve impact on product availability and prices. A number of enterprises were



privatized, liquidated or integrated into government agencies. Development of a new legal framework was
started which would govern the relationship between Government and the PEs.
8.        In agricultural policy, the most significant reform was the removal of the official producer
price regulation system. Elimination of the food security agency's (OPVN) price stabilization function was
started under the SAL (and concluded under the PESAP; see Annex 2). Subsidies for agricultural
implements were eliminated while subsidies on other inputs were reduced progressively.
9.        SAL I represented the very first stage of adjustment efforts by introducing basic policy
reforms. Deepening public sector management reforms fell to the PESAP and the accompanying TA
operation while the macroeconomic side of the equation was covered by the program agreed in successive
Policy Framework Papers (PFP). As in similar operations, the reforms under the adjustment program,
including restructuring PEs and public sector management, go against many vested interests and require
strong Government commitment and determination. While this was present under President Kountche who
had been the primary proponent of the adjustment program among the country's leadership, performance
slowed significantly after his death in November 1987.
D. PREPARATION AND DESIGN OF PESAP
Program Description and Obiectives: Maior Focus of PESAP
10.       The PESAP aimed to extend and deepen the reform process, particularly in the areas of public
resource management and parastatal reform. This program focused on: (i) reinforcing controls on public
expenditure and elaborating sound sectoral strategies to guide future investments; (ii) price liberalization
and incentive policies to encourage private sector development; (iii) enhancing public enterprise autonomy
and accountability; (iv) rationalizing the parastatal sector through additional privatizations, liquidations and
restructuring programs; and (v) completing the sector's financial restructuring through debt settlement and
measures to instill financial discipline.
1l.       The growth obiectL   projected at the beginning of the PESAP were modest due to Niger's
resource constraints. The adjustment program would help Niger to achieve an average of 2.9% p.a.
growth, chiefly from the agriculture sector but also, marginally, from the trade and industry sectors.1'
Greater financial discipline was to reduce the risk of a recurrence of arrears among public enterprises and
between PEs and the Government. The improvement in the overall financial and fiscal situation would be
reflected in current account deficit/GDP and overall budget deficit/GDP ratios averaging approximately
2% over the adjustment period, while the gross investment/GDP ratio was projected to reach 12%, up from
an estimated 10.3% in 1986 (Annex 1, PESAP PR).
12.       To lay the groundwork for the PESAP, IDA and other donors financed numerous studies.
Audits were completed for most PEs to prepare for the rehabilitation program. Feasibility studies for
questionable investments (e.g., the expansion of the Malbaza cement plant) were undertaken, as well as
studies to look into Niger's commercial possibilities and growth prospects, for example through trade with
Nigeria. Studies were also undertaken to prepare further adjustment measures (a list of studies appears
as Annex 3). The IMF lent assistance in the design of fiscal reforms including measures to increase
revenues, to reduce distortionary effects of the tax system and to strengthen tax administration.
1' Without adjustment, it was assumed growth would be even lower.



E. PROGRAM RESULTS
13.       The PESAP President's Report states that, following implementation of SAL I, the first phase
of adjustment was considered successful: it was thought that the foundations for further adjustment had
been set. The only risks were thought to be the vagaries of the weather and Niger's continued vulnerability
to declining uranium prices. These risks, however, were said to be minimized by the commitment of
Government and the strong private sector response. It was also expected that the PEIDP would strengthen
capacity to implement the program. As it turned out, much more was needed in fiscal and civil service
reforms, Government commitmnent weakened as it focused on dealing with political and social disturbances,
and the private sector response was limited to the agricultural sector whose growth was more likely due
to good weather than to policy reforms under the SAL. The PEIDP did, however, do its part through
studies and by offering support in key areas which resulted in some successes (para. 29).
14.       During the program period (1987-90), developments in the external sector were characterized
by a further drop in uranium revenues and competition from Nigeria which successively devalued its
currency. Real GDP growth remained closely tied to erratic rainfall patterns, and thus jumped from
negative to positive growth from year to year, averaging 1.6% over the period 1987-90. At the same time,
the population growth rate ranged from 3.2% to 3.4% p.a., and per capita income continued to decline
in real terms from US$300 to US$269 from 1987 to 1990. Contributing factors to low GDP growth
include: (i) competition from Nigeria after devaluation of the naira; (ii) decreases in the price of uranium
which led to a 25% decline in earnings from 1984-1989 and additional 18% and 7% declines in 1990 and
1991, respectively; (iii) poor fiscal performance; (iv) a very low implementation rate of the public
investment program due to slow Government procurement procedures and lack of counterpart funds;z. and
(v) an average annual decline in agricultural prices of 0.6% during the program period in response to good
harvests and in part reflecting price liberalization measures taken which masked any reflection of this
sector's growth in GDP.
15.       The PESAP included a total of 32 reform actions in the following main policy areas: public
resource management, incentives policies, legal and institutional reforms, financial restructuring and
rationalization of the PE sector. While the results of the macroeconomic program were disappointing,
progress was made on the PE reform side especially during the first two years of the PESAP.
Implementation of these reforms inevitably slowed, when Government was unable to live up to its financial
obligations to the PEs as stated in the respective contrats-programmes (para. 19).
16.       Resource mobilization: Government failed to meet targets set in the context of the PFP which,
in turn, were regularly revised downward given Government's performance (see table below). In fact, tax
revenue projections were consistently overestimated: the ratio of tax revenues to GDP declined from
10.5% in 1985 to 7.5% in 1990, and yet figures agreed in the context of the PFP always projected an
upward movement. Greater emphasis was placed on taxes filling future finance gaps rather than on
expenditure containment. The short-fall in resources perpetuated the global arrears problem whose roots
were in the expansion of the parastatal sector (and the burden on the budget that implies) during the
uranium boom in the 1970s.
2' The implementation rate of the PIP averaged 54% of the total over 1987-90, largely due to delays in
procurement, and dropped to 32% in 1991 due to the extremely difficult political situation. The
Government has estimated the rate for 1992 at 42%, reflecting the improvement on the political front,
but it will take time for implementation to improve significantly.



- 5 -
17.      Public emoployment: Due to the political and social situation, the Government did not show
the commitment to tackle civil service issues head-on. The wage bill was consistently above targets set
in the PFP. In fact, it increased progressively from about 38% of current expenditures in 1987 to 42%
in 1990 and an estimated 54% in 1991. Although the Government has accepted that it can no longer
guarantee employment, it has not been successful in implementing an agreed hiring freeze due to political
pressure. When the system of pre-recruitrnent of university students was formally abolished, Government
employed graduating students by extending the compulsory period of national service.
18.       Public investment programming: Improvement in investment programming was reflected in
the fact that, unlike in the past, the Government's three-year rolling Public Investment Program (PIP)
contained only projects for which funding was obtained or reasonably assured.
TAX REVENUES AND WAGE BILL OVER PROGRAM PERIOD (1987-1990)
l __________________                (CFAF   billion)
l                   I      1987            1988            1989            1990
TAX REVENUES
projected
1986 SAF                 67.5            74.1            83.1            89.6
revised
1987 SAF                                 65.1            71.7            78.7
1988 Article IV                                          61.5            67.7
1990 Article IV                                                          63.6
1990 PFP                                                                 62.0
actual                    57.9            54.0            55.2            51.3
WAGE BILL
projected
1986 SAF                 28.2
revised
1987 SAF                                 29.6
1988 Article IV                                          32.8            34.9
1990 Article IV                                                          33.7
1990 PFP                                                                 35.0
actual                  28.0            29.4              33.7            35.5
Source: Niger PER
Moreover, sectoral composition was basically along the lines of the Government's development strategy
as stated in the Letter of Development Policy, although the human resources sector allocation usually came



- 6 -
up short, and, within education, the sub-sectoral allocations still favored university education over primary
and secondary education. Despite a reduction of the overall investment envelope in 1989 from about 100
billion to 70 billion CFAF, the rate of implementation of the PIP continued on a downward trend during
the period covered by the PESAP due to slow Govermnent procurement procedures. As the Government's
revenue situation worsened, lack of counterpart funds became a further impediment to investment
(para. 14).
19.       Public enterprise sector:  A number of PE reforms were implemented including the
introduction of new legislation for the PE sector, preparation of contrats-rgrammme for major PEs,
continued divestiture of several enterprises, and implementation of a management information system for
PEs. Under the new sector framework, financial discipline in the public enterprises had begun to improve
until the Government's severe liquidity problem when transfers could no longer be effected and cross debts
both between the Government and PEs and among PEs recurred. Progress was made in reducing
Government's role through public sector divestiture, although a recent report revealed the need for a more
coherent divestiture strategy in Niger.2' A policy of greater autonomy for enterprises remaining in the
public portfolio was adopted under the PESAP (i.e., legislation exists) but was not fully implemented.
Moreover, during the program period, enterprises realized that they were not completely responsible for
their financial management as the Government was obliged to pay their debts in order to ensure tranche
releases, which were conditional on settlement of cross-debts. Although the PE sector reforms did not
meet all their objectives, their achievements should not be discounted. (For details of the status of the
restructuring program for selected public enterprises, see Annex 2 .
20.       Trade reforms and price liberalization: A study on the industrial and trade incentive system
was undertaken under the Industrial Development Project (Cr. 1225-NIR). Recommendations regarding
the Investment Code have begun to be implemented. Quantitative restrictions on imports (e.g., on rice,
cement) have been replaced by a system of import tariffs. The old system of import licensing was
abolished (except for petroleum products) and business establishment licenses were replaced by a new
registration system which is less complicated and restrictive. As for price liberalization, the number of
products subject to official price ceilings has been reduced from 27 to 5. The objective of setting tariffs
for the three basic public services -- water (SNE), power (NIGELEC) and telecommunications (OPT) -
to ensure financial self-sufficiency, defined as the ability to cover operating costs, meet debt service
obligations, and contribute a reasonable share toward new investment, has been to a large degree
successful: tariffs for NIGELEC and OPT have been set at an adequate level, but not so for SNE. As
for Government arrears to the utility companies, the Government has been swapping them against long-
term debts owed to Government by NIGELEC and OPT, and thus has used the approximate CFAF 10.2
billion in long-term debt (which in turn is owed to France) to settle its own electricity and telephone bills.
This technique, however, has not provided for a permanent solution to the systematic underfunding of
Government's electricity and telephone consumption and may have serious implications for NIGELEC's
financial management.
' Mbida-Essama, Bonaventure. "Private Sector Development Study", two parts: October 31, 1991, and
April 13, 1992.
' The Public Enterprise Institutional Development Project will finance a comprehensive study on the
impact of the PESAP restructuring program on PEs. The study should be completed during the first
quarter of FY93. Hence the results of the restructuring program are not covered in detail in this report
but will be covered in the PCR for the PEIDP.



- 7 -
F. MACROECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
21.       The credit was to be disbursed in three tranches and was expected to be fully disbursed within
15 months of credit effectiveness. The first tranche of US$30 million equivalent (US$10 million from IDA
and US$20 million from the African Facility) was made available upon credit effectiveness in January
1988. The second tranche (US$20 million from IDA) was released following fulfillment of almost aUl
conditions in November 1988, six months later than expected (para. 25). Two conditions were slipped to
the third tranche (US$30 million from IDA) which was released in December 1989, almost a year later
than scheduled. Due to serious problems in the macroeconomic program, Government decided, in May
1990, not to request further disbursements (para. 28). The credit closing date of September 30, 1990, was
allowed to lapse with the intent to extend it retroactively should the Government succeed in getting the
program back on track. As this did not happen, the Bank will cancel the undisbursed balance of SDR 5.8
million once the special accounts are recovered.5'
22.       Effectiveness was originally planned for December 1987. Besides those foreseen under the
General Conditions, the following were conditions of effectiveness and first tranche release: the Borrower
undertook to: (i) revise the thresholds for procurement; (ii) take appropriate measures to grant adequate
subsidies to PEs during FY87/88 and to avoid the recurrence of arrears; (iii) take all necessary actions to
initiate the liquidation of Air Niger; and (iv) adopt statutes for SNE.
23.       Although in general fulfillment of conditions was slow, the major stumbling block to
effectiveness was condition (ii). Government made very low allocations, for example, for payment of its
own utility charges and argued that they were adequate due to cost saving measures that were instituted
(e.g., air conditioning would not be used, use of telephone would be limited to official business).
Agreement was finally reached on budget allocations, however that did not ensure the actual transfer of
funds to utilities, and arrears recurred. With regard to SNE, IDA gave no objection to the draft statutes
for this PE, and agreed to allow their adoption to be delayed to release of the second tranche.
24.       For second tranche release the Borrower undertook to: (i) approve a budget for FY87/88 and
a public investment program for the period 87/88 to 89/90; (ii) revise its sector development strategies;
(iii) reduce the list of products subject to fixed price controls; (iv) revise the legal statutes of aU PEs to
conform with the general legislation on PEs; (v) prepare performance contracts for NIGELEC (electric
company), SONICHAR (coal agency) and SNTN (transport agency); (vi) implement a new personnel salary
policy in PEs; (vii) complete the liquidation of UNCC (credit union) and SONIFAME (metal production);
and (viii/a) prepare restructuring plans for OPVN (food security), RINI (rice marketing) and ORTN (radio,
television) and (viii/b) make progress in the implementation of BDRN's (development bank) revised action
plan.
25.       A first review mission visited Niger in January/February 1988 and concluded that reforms
were being implemented albeit behind schedule. Progress in fulfilling the conditions was much slower than
anticipated due in part to the transition to a new Government after the death of President Kountche. A
major concern was to ensure adequate allocations in the govermnent budget to prevent recurrence of arrears
to PEs, especially to OPVN, ORTN, NIGELEC, and OPT. In the course of two further missions,
5' The Government owes SDR 2.3 million (US$3.1 million equivalent) of the IDA credit and SDR
246,000 (US$ 332,100 equivalent) of the SFA credit. By telex of December 11, 1991, the
Government was asked to justify the expenditures or reimburse these amounts to IDA. The Resident
Mission is following up.



- 8 -
remaining issues were resolved or clarified. Six of the conditions for second tranche release were fully
met, while action on the two remaining conditions was deemed to have been substantially met: 28 public
enterprises had revised their charters and four more were under revision (condition iv); and all measures
for the liquidation of UNCC and SONIFAME had been taken (condition vii) except for payment of their
outstanding debts which would be settled with the counterpart funds from the second tranche. Initially
planned for March 1988, second tranche release was approved in November 1988.
26.       For the purpose of third tranche release, the Borrower undertook to: (i) adopt its revised
procurement regulations; (ii) make progress in the preparation of an action program on civil service
reform; (iii) prepare performance contracts for OPT, OPVN and ORTN; and (iv) make progress in the
following: CNCA's (agricultural credit agency) debt recovery, ORTN's reform program, OPVN's
restructuring plan, BDRN's revised action plan, and RINI's restructuring program.
27.       Missions to review progress towards the release of the third tranche visited Niger in May,
September and November 1989. The last mission concluded that conditions had been substantially fulfilled
except for agreement on the 1989/90 budget. Upon fulfillment of this condition, the Government was
informed in December 1989 of approval by the Executive Directors for the release of the third tranche.
28.       During the May 1990 supervision mission some serious slippages in the execution of the
adjustment program were observed, specifically with regard to: (i) cross debt/arrears settlement, (ii) credit
recovery of the bankrupt BDRN and (iii) implementation of banking sector reforms. The Government,
aware that its program was off track, indicated that it would refrain from submitting further disbursement
requests. Subsequently at the Annual Meetings in September 1990, the Nigerien delegation failed to
produce convincing evidence that the program was back on track. The Delegation asked however that they
be given more time to meet performance targets and a deadline of December 31, 1990, was agreed. The
Government and the Bank agreed on three major criteria which had to be satisfied for disbursements to
resume: (i) cross debt/arrears settlement; (ii) BDRN debt recovery; and (iii) raising the capital of the
newly-created SONIBANK with minimum private participation and maximum public sector participation
of 30% each. In addition, progress was expected in meeting targets oudined in the PFP and agreed
measures with regard to liquidation of agreed PEs and improvement of PE management as foreseen under
the PESAP. These condidons were not met.
29.       Progrm sustainability. The program has had the following positive results:
(a)    Financial management of PEs has improved somewhat due to the adoption of contra
programmus. Strict adherence to them will be needed if further benefits are to emerge.
(b)    The ability to clearly idendfy cross-debts is the first step in solving the arrears problem. A
management information system has been implemented to do this.
(c)    Although it remains majority publicly owned, SONIBANK, created after the liquidation of the
development bank, BDRN, is functioning fairly well thus far and on fully private sector
principles.
The sustainability of measures on the macroeconomic level is somewhat less clear. However, some
positive points have emerged:
(d)    Public investment programming has improved as obvious white elephants have been kept out
of the investment program, and monitoring has ensured that feasibility studies are done for all
projects with due attention given to an acceptable rate of return.



-9 -
(e)    Liberalization of markets was promoted through the elimination of monopoly marketing with
the liquidation of SONARA and OPVN abandoning its price stabilization function. The
number of products subject to controlled profit margins was reduced from 200 to 64 in 1986
and gradually to zero by July 1990.
G. IMPLEMENTATION AND MONITORING OF THE PROGRAM
30.       Borrower performance: Under SAL I, an Interministerial Committee was established to
prepare and ensure effective program implementadon. The Committee was chaired by the Minister of
Planning and comprised the Minister of Finance and Ministers of the technical ministries involved in the
program. This Committee continued to exist under the PESAP to monitor the implementation and impact
of the adjustment program, prepare future adjustment measures and work with IDA to review progress.
While the SAL had been under the aegis of the Ministry of Finance, a Ministry of Tutelie was created to
oversee project implementation of the PESAP as well as directly supervise certain PEs. This may have
resulted in a loss of focus on macroeconomic objectives. The Ministry of Tutelle was later dissolved and
the responsibility for the PESAP passed to the Ministry of Finance.
31.       The National Conference held between July and November 1991 was highly critical of
adjustment and the Bank. The content of numerous speeches not only reflected incomprehension regarding
adjustment on the part of many opinion leaders and the Government's lack of success in convincing the
Nigerien people of the need for adjustment measures, but also the fact that adjustment did not have a
visible positive impact for the population. In fact, jobs had been lost as the PE sector shrunk, and
competition due to liberalized imports and removal of other trade restrictions contributed to reduce activity
in Nigerien industries. As a result, the Government faced heavy political pressure from powerful special
interest groups (unions, students) who fought the implementation of measures that would directly affect
them. At the same time, the Bank was not aware of the nature of underlying polidcal constraints. The
Government was not always transparent, sometimes agreeing to measures it was unable to implement,
politically or otherwise, (e.g., cutfing back the wage bill) in order to obtain tranche release.
32.       Bank performance: Due to the difficulty in fulfillment of conditions, the PESAP was
supervised frequently from HQ and monitored almost daily by the Resident Mission. Besides participants
from the country operations division, sector colleagues from the agriculture, industry and energy, and
public sector divisions reviewed progress of various components. The Bank became too involved in micro-
management (institudonal aspects) at the level of performance contracts rather than focusing on the broader
issue of PE financial performance (e.g., decreasing PE dependence on Government so subsidies could be
phased out or instilling PEs with responsibility for payment of arrears). This was due chiefly to the
Government's uneven implementation of revised legisladon to allow for PE autonomy. Since the issues
could not be addressed on the broader, legislation level, the Bank did so on a case by case basis through
involvement in the detail of individual PEs' statutes.
33.       The Bank was not aware of the extent to which there was lack of cooperation between technical
ministries and the Ministries of Plan and Finance, and the Interministerial Committee did not have a
positive influence in this regard. Lack of cooperation was an impediment to successful implementation
of the program. Technical ministries did not feel they were part of the decisions which had an impact on
their functioning and focused on preserving their interests and those of their constituents. The Bank did
not expect the loss of focus on and commitment to the adjustment program after the death of President
Kountche and as the political and economic situadon worsened.



- 10-
34.       A good dialogue helped settle differences between the Bank and other donors, especially with
regard to policies or restructuing of PEs (e.g., OPVN's price stabilization function, RINI's pricing
policy). Bank staff kept donors informed of progress either by meeting with their representatives in the
field during supervision missions or at their headquarters on the way to and from Niger. This practice
improved coordination among the donors and kept conflicts to a minimum. Donors usually supported the
Bank when it held firm regarding progress toward tranche release.
35.       Disbursement and Procurement. The Credit was disbursed against import bills and there were
no significant delays in disbursements, once the tranches were released. The BCEAO was responsible for
collecting import invoices and preparing disbursement applications and did so with fair accuracy.
36.       Reporting and Audiding.  The Development Credit Agreement (DCA) provided that the
Government and IDA would periodically exchange views on the execution of the program and that, prior
to such exchange, the Government would submit a report to IDA. The Directwr des participations filed
periodic, in-depth reports which did not necessarily express the official views of the Government but were
extremely informative. The Government was not in conformity with audit covenants. The DCA called
for yearly financial audits of the Credits. The report of the sole audit performed on the IDA and SFA
Credits was drafted during the auditor's mission in January/February 1992 and will shortly be transmitted
to IDA.
H. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS
37.       The PESAP program was designed to deepen reforms begun under SAL I and was expected
to be a continuation of what was considered at that time a relatively successful operation (para. 13). It
eventually became apparent, however, that the SAL had not accomplished all that was hoped, especially
as regards sustainability in key areas such as fiscal and civil service reforms. What government
commitment there may have been weakened significantly as the political situation deteriorated and, when
confronted by students, labor unions and opposition political parties, the Government was pressured to
satisfy special interests.
38.       With the benefit of hindsight, it appears that the Niger economy would have been better served
had the Government pursued adjustment on a broader, macroeconomic level at this time, with emphasis
on institutional development and capacity building, civil service restructuring, and banking sector reform.
This would have also allowed the Government time to build a stronger fiscal situation and to reduce the
deficit to sustainable levels before undertaking PE reforms. Greater progress in the main macroeconomic
reforms prior to the start of parastatal reform would have enhanced the chances for success in the financial
rehabilitation of the PE sector while ensuring that political opposition to adjustment was dealt with in
advance. The problems of the PESAP fall broadly into two categories: the quality and complexity of the
program, and political commitment. The PESAP's most important lessons may be summarized as follows:
(a)    The program was developed and was being carried out during a period when experience in
public enterprise reform (including privatization) was still relatively limited, and the
Government's capacity to implement reforms either due to their complexity or to political
impact (wage bill, scholarships, employment) was weak.
(b)    The lack of precision in the Credit Agreements with regard to the macroeconomic program
may have led to differences in perception and expectations of the program between the Bank
and the Borrower. This resulted in disappointment at the time of tranche release missions



- 11 -
when it was clear there was slippage in the implementation of the overall macroeconomic
program. A more specific statement of expectations would have helped both in the
implementation and monitoring of measures.
(c)    This phase of the adjustment program might have been more successful with a narrower focus
on the restructuring of a few key enterprises, thus allowing the Government to give due
attention to burning macroeconomic issues (fiscal and civil service reforms, restructuring of
uranium sector).
(d)    Country ownership is key to the adjustment process. In the case of Niger, adjustment was
never internalized, especially in public opinion, given the program's minimal positive impact
thus far. Implementation of the policies agreed by Government thus became increasingly
difficult: the social and political climate became tense and the dialogue between the
Government and interest groups extremely difficult as the latter fought the implementation of
reforms that would directly affect them, such as the containment and eventual decrease of the
wage bill, or the full implementation of reforms reinforcing the PE autonomy.
(e)    Success depends on communication at all levels: in the case of the PESAP, between the
Borrower and the Bank, within Government, and between Government and groups affected
by the program. The Government had agreed to a set of measures at the beginning of the
program and the PFP was to provide adequate assurance of the macroeconomic framework.
And yet, the Bank often appeared to dictate conditions, because the Government tended to see
measures as something to be negotiated with a tranche release mission rather than as solutions
to structural problems. The Government needed to decide for itself the necessity of measures
and seek commitment at all levels. Another manifestation of poor communication was the
apparent alienation of the technical ministries which felt they were rarely consulted in advance
on measures they were expected to implement (e.g., trade incendve reforms). A third avenue
of communication not pursued was more frequent contact between the Bank and the
Government, on the one hand, and Nigerien private sector enterprises, on the other, especially
when the policies which would affect the private sector were being developed. This would
have helped avoid the negadve interpretadon on the part of the enterprises regarding many
adjustment measures.
39.       Niger is currently going through a difficult democratic process.  Given the country's
deteriorating economic and financial situadon, certain political groups in attendance at the National
Conference demonstrated in their criticisms of the adjustment program their failure to appreciate the gravity
of the problems facing Niger. In light of the uncertain transidon in which the country finds itself,
resumption of IDA adjustment support depends on a change in policy orientation in light of the economic
and financial realities. Since the Conference, the Government has formulated an emergency economic and
financial recovery program which aims to lead the country back towards a viable macroeconomic and
financial framework.



- 12 -
PART II: PROGRAM REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
40.        The Bank has formally requested that the Government of Niger submit a Program Completion
Report.@'
Y  During mission discussions witi Government in December 1991 (see Aide-memoire) and by letter of
May 22, 1992.



- 13 -
PART III: STATISTICAL DATA
PROJECT TIMETABLE
First Mention in Files (as independent    January 1984
operation)
Initiating Memorandum
Letter of Development Policy              May 28, 1987
Negotiations                              May 1987
Board Approval                            June 25, 1987
Signing of Credit Agreement               October 23, 1987
Effectiveness                             January 20, 1988
Second Tranche Release                    November 17, 1988
Third Tranche Release                     December 21, 1989
Original Closing                          September 30, 1989
Actual Closing                            September 30, 1990
I______________    MISSION DATA-
Month/Year         No. of        No. of
l_   __Weeks                Persons
Appraisal             Mar 87
Negotiations          May 87                1              5
Supervision I         Jan/Feb 88            3              7
Supervision II        May/Jun 88            2              6
Supervision III       Aug/Sep 88            3              3
Supervision IV        Nov 88                2              3
Supervision V         Mar 89                2              3
Supervision VI        May/Jun 89            4              6
Supervision VII       Aug/Sep 89            2              5
Supervision VIII      Nov 89                2              5
Supervision IX        Apr 90
Supervision X         Nov 90                3              4



- 14 -
CUMULATIVE CREDIT DISBURSEMIENTS
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   (US$   M ill )  __   ____________
CY88          CY89           CY90
(i) Total Amount of Credits        80.0
(ii) Actual disbursed              46.6           6.0           20.8
(iii) (ii) as % of (i)             58.3           7.6           25.9
(iv) Cumulative amount (%)         58.3          65.9           91.8
PESAP DISBURSEMENTS
______ _____ _____ (U S$   1 6mili ns   _ __ _ _ __ _ _
DATE         |_IDA CREDIT    | SFA CREDIT
CY88 Ql             11,055,208.72     5,304,333.73
Q2              6,851,605.53      5,172,314.42
Q3              3,265,327.44      2,592,957.65
Q4              10,342,338.61     3,028,821.45
TOTAL CY88    31,514,480.30       16,098,427.25
CY89 Q1             9,839,066.62       960,634.83
Q2             - 4,757,987.46      0
Q3              0                  0
Q4              0                  0
TOTAL CY89      5,081,079.16       960,634.83
CY9O Q1             14,021,712.64     1,792,044.39
Q2              3,973,079.64       961,930.56
TOTAL CY90      17,994,792.28     2,753,974.95
TOTAL CY88-90    54,590,351.74      19,813,037.03



- 15 -
--  :-:  :;               i     :                  j  -          ;    ieeki
m '.--:--.:.:.:. ,...,:,-, . ,.,, .-N CU-..,j .. . .., ...,,.jr .. ........
FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88   FY89    FY90  I PY91 I PY92
LENP    50.8    47.0       33.5  |         |_l_l_l
LENA      =        =        13.5      =       =                  =
LEN                         8.5
SPN                         0.5      41.1    81.6    54.3       14.0     10.5
PCR                                                                      7.0*
TOTAL STAFF INPUTS: 362.3 staff weeks
* estinate






17 -             ~~~~ANNEX 1
- 17 -                     Page I of 3
STATUS OF CONDITIONS
CONDITIONS OF EFFECTIVENESS
(Planned for September 1987; Actual date: January 20, 1988 )
a. Increase award colling for    July 23. 1987  Decree adopted by
whlch current procurement                      Councll of MinLiters
procedures apply.                              raLming ceillng ftom
milllon to 5 mlLlon
CFAF.
b. Appropriate measures to        January 1988   Adequate subsLdLes were
grant adequate subsLdLes to                    made to allow for
PE  Ln FY87/88 and to                          effectiveness of PESAP,
avold recurrence of arrears,                   but arrears dld recur.
c. Initiation of Alr Nlger's      May 7. 1987    Letter to Director
liquLdatLon.                                   General of Alr Nlger
lnltiatlng lts
liquidation.
d. Adoptlon of statutes for       September 24,  Ordonnance creatlng
SNE.                           1987            SNE.
SECOND TRANCHE RELEASE
(Planned date: March 1988; Actuals November 17, 1988)
a. Adoptlon of 1987/88 budget                     Budget and Lnvestment
and 1987/88-1989/90 public                     program reflect
investment program.                            prLorltLes  and
sectoral strategles of
Government.
b. Updating of sectoral           Aprll 1987      Updated in the context
strategLes.                                    of Government's Five-
Year Plan.
c. Reduction of number of                         Reduced to 5 (from
products subject to official                   original 27 ln 1985)
prlce ceilLngs.
d. Revision of legal charters    September        Legal charters of 28
for PEs remaining ln the       1988            PEs revised.
sector.
May 1989        Remainlng four charters
revised for third
tranche release.



-18 -                         ANNX I
Page 2 of 3
e. Formulation of performance                       Performance contracts
contracts for NIGELEC,                           jointly prepared by
SONICHAR and SNTN.                              Government and PZ
management.
f. Implementation of new PE                         New performance based
salary policy,                                   salary policy
introduced.
g. Completion of liquidation                        All steps for
of UNCC and SONIFAME.                            liquidation concluded
except for settlement
of outstanding debts.
Settled with
counterpart funds of
second tranch-.
h. Preparation of restruc-                          Restructuring plans in
turing plans for OPVN,                           the progress of being
RINI and ORTN.                                   implemented.
i. Progress in the implemen-                        Recently concluded
tation of BDRN's revised                         audit will further
action plan.                                     progress on BDRN's
rehabilitation plan.
THIRD TRANCHE RELEASE
(Planned for September 1988; Actual: December 21, 1989)
a. Revision of procurement         April 27,        New central procurement
regulations                     1989             code adopted.
b. Progress in preparation of    June 1989          Government abolished
an action plan for civil                         system of pre-
service reform.                                  recruitment.
Redefined roles of
Ministries as basis for
analysls of civil
service.
Intensifying 'voluntary
departure program.
c. Formulation of perfor-          June 1989        Performance contracts
mance contracts for OPT,                         migned.  Allocations in
OPVN, and ORTN.                                  Government budget
consistent with
financing plan of PEE.



-19 -                       ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 3
d. Satisfactory progress on                       CFAF 2,262 million out
CNCA's loan recovery                           of CFAF 9.280 million
effortsl                                       collected.  Remaining
debt irrecoverable.
Satisfactory progress in       July 1989       ORTN reform plan
implementing restructuring                     finalized in
programs for BDRN, RINI,                       conjunction with
ORTN, and OPVN.                                performance contract.
BDRN reduced staff by
200 by Dec
1989. New management
team sought. STB
became manager of good
portion of portfolio
from which SONIDANK
created.
April 1989     RINI restructuring plan
finalized. RINI no
longer in n-ed of
Government subsidies.
OPVN manager of food
security stock of
80,000 tons. Price
stabilization function
abandoned.






21-                            ANN    2
Page 1 of 3
STATUS OF PUBLIC ENTREPRISZ DIVESTITURE PROGRAM1
Name & Actlivty    Action taken                                                     I
Air Nlger         Declslon taken to llquidate in 1987.  Operations have coased
and buyers for airplanes have been found.
Airline
BDRN              Attempt to rehabilltate, begun under SAL, unsuccessful.  Only
part of development lendLng portfollo recovered.
Nat'l dev, bank   Industry/trade portfollo of BDRN wlth addltlonal capital.
converted to new bank, SONIDANK, under management of TunLsian
firm STS. Intent was for mln2imwu 30% prlvate sector and
maximum 30% Government partlclpatlon. Public partLcLpation
currently above this level. Government stlll committed to
reducLng particLpatLon but progross dependent on recoverLng
debts of BDRN and freeing up Lnvestors' funds blocked there.
CNCA              LiquLdated.  CFAF 2,262 million out of total outstandLng debts
of CFAF 9.280 were collected. The remaLnLng debt ls
Agrlcultural      consLdered irrecoverable.  Government named task force to
credit            design now agrlcultural credLt system but no results to date.
MALBAZA           FeasibilLty study done. Results recommendod against expansion
of plant and, ln fact. recommended plant closlng. Government
Cement plant      dld not agree to close Malbaza for fear of closure of Nigerian
border (as ln the past) and serlous unemployment that would
result.
NIGZLZC           Contrat-oroaramme approved and partLally implemented.
Budgetary transfers not forthcoming and Government not payLng
ZlectrLc power    lts own electrlclty blIls, however Government has paLd
NIGELEC's arrears to the France  Arrears to NXIELEC equal
recelpts for 8 blling months (contrat-oroaramme provides for
4 months). Regarding procurement, there ls a delay in
government process of approxLmately four months for approval
of NIGELEC'S blds. StudLis to restructure and streamlLne
NIGELEC and energy sector- nderway under Cr. 1880-NIR.
OPT               CCCE's rehabilLtatLon project underway.  It was agraed that
tarlffs would be sot to allow for PE's self-sufflclency,
Tel*communl-      however OPT is stlll ln arrears to lts suppliers due to
catLons           Government arrears whlch perslst.
V Information for this table comes from the reports on prlvatlzatlon of B. )bLda-
Zssama dated October 31 and November 23. 1991, and Aprll 13. 1992. and the tranche
release memoranda dated September 30. 1988. and December 18. 1989.



ANNEX 2
- 22 -                      page 2 of 3
Name A Activity    Action taken
OPVNI              Policy reform begun under SAL with follow-up under PZSAP
resulted in OPVN's abandoning its explcit price stabilization
Security grain    function. Now Its sole function is management of food
stock             security stock (80.000 ton ceiling). A series of legal
agreements with the donor community were finalized to ensure
that (a) food aid li coordlnated jointly by OPVN and the
donors, (b) OPVN's financial situatlon in monitored through
regular audlts and review of performance lndlcators and (c) ad
hoc food ald dlitributlon li avoided.
ORTN               New accounting system was introduced and a        acil TV and
radlo llcence fee was lntroduced, to be levled by NXGZLZC on
Radio   TV         behalf of ORTN. Government does not have resources to effect
transfers foreseen ln contrat-nroaramm.e ORTN's deflclt li
being flnanced through deficits to OPT and NIGELEC.
RINI               RINI has been restructured and new accounting system has been
put ln place. It has benefltted from higher world market
RLs du Nlger       prices of rlce and no longer needs Government
*ubsldles.Government set an lmport duty of 14% and a tax to
offset fluctuatlons ln world market prices (-taxe de
parequatlon") the proceeds of which are no longer earmarked
for the rice sector but go dlrectly into the Government
budget.
SICONICER          Declson to llquldate taken ln July 1990.
Groundnut oLl
processing
SNCP               Fully prlvatlzed.  Went bankrupt because lt was requlred to
purchase skins at a flxed price, above lts competitors'.
Hlde a skins       Resultlng liquidity problem was a factor ln lts bankruptcy.
agency
SNT               Marketing activlties prlvatlzed. New owners have not paLd in
full for acquliltlon of company. They attrlbute thelr
TSl-vlzion         inabililty to the failure to Government to respect the
marketing          commitment to award them a number of service contracts.
SNTN               SNTN is generally respectlng lts commitments under the
contrat-_roaramme.  In the past, it was able to make up the
Urban & road       deficit from its urban transport service from the transport of
transport          uranium. Wlth the decreased actlvlty in the uranlum sector,
SNTN will have to stop lts urban transport service lf
Government arrears are not paid.



ANNX 2_
- 23-                          Page 3 of 3
Name & Activity    Action taken
SONARA            Monopoly on these products abolished in 1986/87.  Prlco at
which it could buy peanuts set by Governmont while its
Marketing board   competitors could determine their own purchasing price.
for peanuts and   SONARA suffered serious losses.  Restructurlng plan was
cowpeas           prepared in 1989 and the decision was taken to privatize
wlthin a year or liquidate. Private buyer could not be found
and decision to liquidate was taken in June 1990.
SONICERAM          Decision to liquidate taken in November 1990 after 15 months
of efforts to privatize. Sirnce then, former general manager
Brick factory      has consistently intervened to prevent the sale of some key
assets in the hope of finding a foreign partner to resum
plant operation. Head of State gave support to this in
writing. No detailed accounts of items sold have beon kept by
the liquidators.
SONICHAR          CCCE's rehabilitation project underway.  SONICHAR is
respecting its obligations under the contrat-orooramme.
Coal mining        Government has fulfilled its obligations, except for the fact
that it imposed personnel recruitments on the enterprise in
1988 and 1989. For the most part, SONICHAR has respected its
commitments under the contrat-oroaramme.
SONIFAME          Liquidated in 1987 as condition of thlrd tranche release.
Metal/furniture
UNCC               Liquidated in 1987 as condition of third tranche release.
Figures from Ministry of Finance indicate that subsidies
Agricultural       continued being paid to UNCC in the amount of 100 million ClAN
credit/            in 1989 and 1990 and 50 million CFAF in 1991.
input supply



- 24 -
MUZ^L3
STUDIES IN SUPPORT OF ADJUSTMENT
Agricultural credlt
Petroleum product marketing
Cost recovery
Strategy and polLcies of agrlculture sector
Civl2l servic, study
Rehabliltation of ORTN
FeasLbillty study of cement plant (Malbaza)
Procurement system
Management lnformation system
Program for commerclal expansLon
ORTN Preparatlon of accountlng system and plani management audlt
Purchase and marketlng procedures of OPVN
Executlon and supervision of trainlng program for Government
AdmLnLstrators and PEs
Industrlal and trade lncentlve system
Assessment of private sector development potentlal
SONARA's prLcing and marketlng polLcLes
Task Force on new system of agrlcultural credlt
OPVN OrganlzatLon and structure; personnel requlrements
Cross-debts
AnalyaLs of PE accounts
Reform of agrlcultural credit system
Reorlentatlon of agrlcultural research
Reform of civll servLce
Banklng sector study
Evaluatlon of fLrat phase of structural adjustment
Soclal impact of adjustment (with UNDP)
Recurrent expendlture study
Incentlve study



