Page  1
                                       November 29, 1988
Royal Netherlands Embassy
Economic Division
4200 Linnean Avenue, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20008
          Attention Mrs. R.V.M. Jones-Bos
     Re: NIGER - Credit No. 1833  NIR  (Public  Enterprise  Sector
         Adjustment)
         Dutch Grant
Dear Mrs. Jones,
     The International Development Association (the "Association")
was very pleased to receive your letters of October 24, 1988, and
November 8, 1988, announcing the Netherlands' authorities decision
to make a grant (the Grant), in an amount equivalent to four million
five hundred thousand guilders to cofinance the Public Enterprise
Sector Adjustment Credit (Credit No. 1833 NIR) in Niger.
     The Grant will be administered by the Association in
accordance with the "Arrangements for the Administration of certain
funds to be made available by the Minister for Development
Cooperation of the Netherlands" dated December 11, 1986 (the
"Umbrella Agreement").  Accordingly, it is agreed that the Schedule
to the Umbrella Agreement will be amended by adding the Public
Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit to the list of jointly
cofinanced projects.  A letter of the formal amendment of said
Schedule, addressed to the Minister for Development Cooperation of
the Netherlands and duly signed by the Association, is attached for
forwarding to the Minister.
     Pursuant to the Umbrella Agreement, it is agreed that the
entire amount of the Grant will be transferred promptly to the T
account of the International Development Association with De
Nederlandsche Bank N.V. Upon receipt of the funds, the Association
intends to enter into a development grant agreement with Republic of
Niger as soon as possible.
     We look forward to our cooperation in this important project
for Niger, and we thank you for your continued support for our
cofinancing program.
     Very truly yours,
                                        Michael J. Gillette
                                                Director
                                        Sahelian Department
                                             Africa Region
