Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 1833 NIR
           (Public Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit)
                              between
                         REPUBLIC OF NIGER
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                       Dated August 20, 1987
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 1833 NIR
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated August 20,  1987,  between REPUBLIC OF NIGER
(the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT  ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
     WHEREAS (A)  the  Association  has  received  a  letter dated
May 28, 1987 from  the  Borrower  describing a program of actions,
objectives and  policies  designed  to  achieve  adjustment of the
Borrower's  public  enterprise   sector  (hereinafter  called  the
Program), declaring the Borrower's  commitment to the execution of
the Program, and  requesting  assistance  from  the Association in
the financing  of  urgently  needed  imports  required during such
execution;
     (B)  the Borrower has also  requested the Association, acting
as Administrator of a Special Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa (the
Page  2
African  Facility)  established  by  its  Executive  Directors  by
Resolution No. IDA 85-1  of  May  21,  1985, to provide additional
assistance in support of the Program,  and by an agreement of even
date  herewith  between  the   Borrower  and  the  Association  as
Administrator of the African Facility (the African Facility Credit
Agreement), the Association is agreeing to provide such assistance
in an aggregate  principal  amount  equivalent  to fifteen million
four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 15,400,000); and
     (C)  on the basis  inter  alia  of  the  foregoing, the Asso-
ciation has decided  in  support  of  the  Program to provide such
assistance to the Borrower by  making the Credit in three tranches
as hereinafter provided;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section  1.01.   The   "General   Conditions   Applicable  to
Development  Credit   Agreements"   of   the   Association,  dated
January 1, 1985, with  the  modifications  thereof set forth below
(the General  Conditions)  constitute  an  integral  part  of this
Agreement:
     (a)  Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
          "'Project' means the  imports  and other activities that
     may be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit pursuant to
     the  provisions  of  Schedule  1  to  the  Development Credit
     Agreement.";
     (b)  Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
          "(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or
     such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
     Borrower and the Association,  the Borrower shall prepare and
     furnish to the Association  a  report,  of  such scope and in
     such detail as the  Association  shall reasonably request, on
     the execution of the Program  referred  to in the Preamble to
     the Development  Credit  Agreement,  the  performance  by the
     Borrower and the Association  of their respective obligations
     under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment
     of the purposes of the Credit."; and
     (c)  the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "SITC"   means   the    Standard   International   Trade
Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United
Nations, in 1986, Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3;
     (b)  "CFAF"  and  "CFA  Franc"   mean  the  currency  of  the
Borrower;
     (c)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (d)  "BCEAO" means the Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique
de l'Ouest;
     (e)  "BDRN"  means  the   Banque   de   Dåveloppement  de  la
Råpublique du Niger;
     (f)  CNCA means the Caisse Nationale de Crådit Agricole;
Page  3
     (g)  "NIGELEC" means the Sociåtå Nationale d'Electricitå;
     (h)  "OPT" means the Office des Postes et Tålåcommunications;
     (i)  "OPVN" means the Office des Produits Vivriers du Niger;
     (j)  "ORTN" means the Office  de Radiodiffusion et Tålåvision
du Niger;
     (k)  "RINI" means Riz du Niger;
     (l)  "SNDE" means the  Sociåtå  Nationale de Distribution des
Eaux;
     (m)  "SNTN"  means  the  Sociåtå  Nationale  de  Transport du
Niger;
     (n)  "SONICHAR" means the Sociåtå Nigårienne de Charbons;
     (o)  "SONIFAME" means the  Sociåtå Nigårienne de Fabrications
Måtalliques;
     (p)  "UNCC"  means  the   Union   Nigårienne   de  Crådit  et
Coopåration; and
     (q)  "Fiscal Year"  means  the  Borrower's  fiscal year which
runs from October 1 to September 30.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  an  amount  in  various currencies
equivalent  to   forty   six   million   Special   Drawing  Rights
(SDR 46,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Program,
open and maintain in CFAF a  special account in BCEAO on terms and
conditions satisfactory  to  the  Association.  Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special  Account  shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing  Date  shall  be September 30, 1989
or  such  later  date  as  the  Association  shall  establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge at the rate  of  one-half of one percent (1/2 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time.  The commitment charge shall accrue from a date
sixty days after the date  of  the Development Credit Agreement to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
     (b)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall   reasonably  request;  (ii)  without
restrictions of any kind imposed  by,  or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.05. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
Page  4
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 1 and
November 1 commencing November  1,  1997,  and ending May 1, 2037.
Each installment  to  and  including  the  installment  payable on
May 1, 2007 shall be one-half  of  one percent (1/2 of 1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
     Section 2.08.  The  currency  of  the  Republic  of France is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
     Section 2.09. (a)  BCEAO  is  designated as representative of
the Borrower for the  purposes  of  taking  any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
     (b)  Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing,  the
Borrower  hereby  entrusts  BCEAO   with  responsibility  for  the
preparation of withdrawal  applications  under  the Credit and for
the collection of the documents and other evidence to be furnished
to  the  Association  in   support   of  such  applications;  such
withdrawal  applications  shall  to   the  extent  practicable  be
consolidated so as to apply for withdrawal of aggregate amounts of
not less than CFAF 400,000,000 equivalent.
                            ARTICLE III
                       Particular Covenants
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from
time to time, at the  request  of  either party, exchange views on
the progress achieved in carrying  out the Program and the actions
specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     (b)  Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association for its  review and comment a report on
the progress achieved in carrying  out the Program, in such detail
as the Association shall reasonably request.
     Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with  consistently  maintained   sound  accounting  practices  the
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
        (i)    have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) of  this  Section including those for
               the Special Account  for  each Fiscal Year audited,
               in accordance with  appropriate auditing principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
       (ii)    furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each  such  year,  a  certified  copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
      (iii)    furnish to the  Association  such other information
Page  5
               concerning said records and  accounts and the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
        (i)     maintain or cause to  be maintained, in accordance
                with paragraph (a)  of  this  Section, records and
                accounts reflecting such expenditures;
       (ii)     retain,  until  at   least   one  year  after  the
                Association has received the  audit report for the
                Fiscal Year in which  the last withdrawal from the
                Credit Account was  made,  all records (contracts,
                orders,  invoices,   bills,   receipts  and  other
                documents) evidencing such expenditures;
      (iii)     enable   the   Association's   representatives  to
                examine such records; and
       (iv)     ensure that such records and accounts are included
                in the annual audits  referred to in paragraph (b)
                of this Section and that  the report of such audit
                contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
                whether the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
                during such Fiscal Year,  together with the proce-
                dures  and  internal  controls  involved  in their
                preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to support the
                related withdrawals.
                            ARTICLE IV
                  Additional Event of Suspension
     Section 4.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following  additional  event is specified, namely,
that an event has occurred which shall make it improbable that the
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  5.01.  The   following   events   are  specified  as
additional conditions  to  the  effectiveness  of  the Development
Credit Agreement within the  meaning  of  Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
     (a)  the Borrower has revised  the thresholds for procurement
in a manner satisfactory to the Association;
     (b)  the   Borrower    has    taken   appropriate   measures,
satisfactory to the  Association,  to  grant adequate subsidies to
public enterprises during  Fiscal  Year  1987/88  and to avoid the
recurrence of arrears;
     (c)  the Borrower has taken  all necessary actions, satisfac-
tory to the Association, to initiate the liquidation of Air Niger;
and
     (d)  the Borrower has adopted  statutes  for SNDE in a manner
satisfactory to the Association.
     Section 5.02. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
Page  6
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. Except as provided  in Section 2.09 (a) of this
Agreement, the Minister of  the  Borrower responsible for planning
is designated as representative  of  the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Minist®re du Plan
          B.P. 862
          Niamey
          Niger
          Cable address:                      Telex:
            MINIPLAN                             5463 NI
            Niamey
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INDEVAS                          440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                   REPUBLIC OF NIGER
                   By /s/ Joseph Diatta
                                         Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                   By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   Subject to the provisions  set  forth  or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of  the  Credit  may  be withdrawn from the
Page  7
Credit Account for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in  respect  of the reasonable cost of goods
required during the execution  of  the  Program and to be financed
out of such proceeds.
2.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  expenditures for goods  included  in  the following SITC
groups or sub-groups:
     Group    Sub-group                 Description of Items
      112         -                     Alcoholic beverages
      121         -                     Tobacco,    unmanufactured
                                        tobacco refuse
      122         -                     Tobacco,      manufactured
                                        (whether or not containing
                                        tobacco substitutes)
      525         -                     Radio-active           and
                                        associated materials
      667         -                     Pearls, precious and semi-
                                        precious  stones, unworked
                                        or worked
      718        718.7                  Nuclear    reactors,   and
                                        parts     thereof;    fuel
                                        elements     (cartridges),
                                        non-irradiated,        for
                                        nuclear reactors
-
     Group    Sub-group                 Description of Items
      897        897.3                  Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                        platinum    group   metals
                                        (except watches  and watch
                                        cases) and  goldsmiths' or
                                        silversmiths'        wares
                                        (including set gems)
      971           -                   Gold,         non-monetary
                                        (excluding  gold  ores and
                                        concentrates)
     (b)  expenditures in the currency  of  the Borrower for goods
or  services  supplied  from   the   territory  of  the  Borrower,
excluding, if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another
country, expenditures  in  such  currency  for  goods  or services
supplied from the territory of such other country;
     (c)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;
     (d)  expenditures for goods  procured under contracts costing
less than CFAF 3,000,000;
     (e)  expenditures for goods  supplied  under a contract which
any national  or  international  financing  institution  or agency
other than  the  Association  shall  have  financed  or  agreed to
finance; and
     (f)  expenditures for goods intended  for a military or para-
military purpose or for luxury consumption.
3.   No withdrawal  shall  be  made  and  no  commitment  shall be
Page  8
entered into to pay amounts  to  the Borrower or others in respect
of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit:
     (a)  after  the  aggregate  of  the  proceeds  of  the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit  Account  and  the  total amount of such
commitments shall have  reached  the  equivalent of SDR 8,000,000,
unless the Association shall  be  satisfied, after the exchange of
views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement: (i) with the
progress achieved by  the  Borrower  in  the  carrying  out of the
Program,  and  (ii)  that  the  actions  described  in  Part  A of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement  have been taken and are satisfactory
to the Association; and
     (b)  after  the  aggregate  of  the  proceeds  of  the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit  Account  and  the  total amount of such
commitments shall have reached  the  equivalent of SDR 23,000,000,
unless the Association shall  be  satisfied, after the exchange of
views as described in  Section  3.01  of  this Agreement: (i) with
the progress achieved  by  the  Borrower  in  the  carrying out of
the Program, and (ii)  that  the  actions  described  in Part B of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement  have been taken and are satisfactory
to the Association.
4.   If, after any such exchange  of views, the Association is not
so satisfied and  this  situation  shall  not  be rectified by the
Borrower within 90 days  after  notice thereof by the Association,
then the Association may,  by  notice  to the Borrower, cancel the
amount of the Credit  unwithdrawn  from  the Credit Account or any
part thereof.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                            Procurement
1.   Contracts for the  procurement  of  goods  to be purchased by
public  entities  and   estimated   to   cost  the  equivalent  of
CFAF  300,000,000  or   more   each   shall   be  awarded  through
international competitive  bidding  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines), subject to the
following modifications:
     (a)  Paragraph 2.8  of  the  Guidelines  is  deleted  and the
following is substituted therefor:
     "2.8 Notification and Advertising
          The international  community  should  be  notified  in a
     timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
     advertising invitations to apply  for inclusion in a bidder's
     invitation list, to  apply  for  prequalification, or to bid;
     such  advertisements  should  be   placed  in  at  least  one
     newspaper of general  circulation  in  the Borrower's country
     and, in addition, in at least one of the following forms:
        (i)    a  notice  in   the   United  Nations  publication,
               Development Forum, Business Edition; or
       (ii)    an  advertisement  in  a  newspaper,  periodical or
               technical    journal    of    wide    international
               circulation; or
      (iii)    a notice to local  representatives of countries and
               territories referred to in the Guidelines, that are
               potential suppliers of the goods required."
     (b)  The following is added at  the  end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
          "As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
Page  9
     the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
     used in  international  trade  and  specified  in the bidding
     documents."
     (c)  Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
2.   Contracts for  goods  to  be  purchased  by  private or mixed
entities and contracts for goods  estimated to cost the equivalent
of less than CFAF 300,000,000  each  shall be awarded on the basis
of the normal  procurement  procedures  of  the  purchaser of such
goods.
3.   With respect to each contract  referred  to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule,  the  Borrower  shall  furnish  to the Association,
prior to the submission to  the  Association of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of
such contract, two  conformed  copies  of  such contract, together
with the analysis of  the  respective bids and recommendations for
award, a description of  the  advertising and tendering procedures
followed and  such  other  information  as  the  Association shall
reasonably request.
4.   With respect to each contract  referred  to in paragraph 2 of
this Schedule,  the  Borrower  shall  furnish  to the Association,
prior to the submission to  the  Association of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of  funds  from  the Credit Account in respect
thereof, such documentation and information as the Association may
reasonably request to  support  withdrawal applications in respect
of such contract.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs  3 and 4 of this
Schedule, where payments under a  contract  are  to be made out of
the proceeds of the Special  Account,  the copies of such contract
or the documentation and  the  information  to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to  the  provisions  of  paragraph 3 or para-
graph 4 of this Schedule, as  the  case may be, shall be furnished
to the Association as  part  of  the evidence required under para-
graph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
6.   The provisions of the preceding  paragraphs  3, 4 and 5 shall
not apply to contracts  on  account  of  which the Association has
authorized withdrawals from  the  Credit  Account  on the basis of
statements of expenditure.
                            SCHEDULE 3
              Actions Referred to in Paragraph 3 (b)
                  of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
A.   For purposes of the Second Tranche release:
1.   The Borrower has approved  a  budget  for fiscal year 1987/88
and a public investment program for the period 1987/88 to 1989/90.
2.   The Borrower has revised its sectoral development strategies.
3.   The Borrower has  reduced  the  list  of  products subject to
fixed price controls.
4.   The Borrower has  revised  the  legal  statutes of all public
enterprises in  the  sector  so  as  to  conform  with the general
legislation on public enterprises.
5.   The Borrower has prepared performance contracts for  NIGELEC,
SONICHAR and SNTN.
6.   The Borrower  has  implemented  in  public  enterprises a new
personnel salary policy.
7.   The  Borrower  has  completed  the  liquidation  of  UNCC and
Page  10
SONIFAME.
8.   The Borrower has: (a)  prepared restructuring plans for OPVN,
RINI and ORTN; and,  (b)  made  progress  in the implementation of
BDRN's revised action plan.
B.   For purposes of the Third Tranche release:
1.   The Borrower has adopted its revised procurement regulations.
2.   The Borrower  has  made  progress  in  the  preparation of an
action program on civil service reform.
3.   The Borrower has prepared performance contracts for OPT, OPVN
and ORTN.
4.   The Borrower has made progress in the implementation of:
     (a)  CNCA's debt recovery;
     (b)  ORTN's reform program;
     (c)  OPVN's restructuring plan;
     (d)  BDRN's revised action plan; and
     (e)  RINI's restructuring program.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of  the  reasonable  cost  of  goods  required  during the
execution of the Program and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and
     (b)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount in CFAF
equivalent to  SDR  8,000,000  to  be  withdrawn  from  the Credit
Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph
3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special  Account  shall  be  made  exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from  the  Credit  Account  and  deposit in the
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  furnish  to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special  Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify.  On  the  basis  of  such requests, the
Association shall withdraw  from  the  Credit  Account and deposit
into the Special  Account  such  amounts  as  shall be required to
replenish the  Special  Account  with  amounts  not  exceeding the
amount of payments made  out  of  the Special Account for eligible
expenditures.  Each  such  deposit   shall  be  withdrawn  by  the
Association from the Credit  Account  in the respective equivalent
Page  11
amounts as shall have  been  justified  by the evidence supporting
the request for such deposit  furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of
this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to  or  at  the  time of such request, such
documents and other evidence  as  the Association shall reasonably
request,  showing  that  such   payment   was  made  for  eligible
expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Association  when  either  of the following situations
first arises:
        (i)    the  Association  shall  have  determined  that all
               further withdrawals  can  be  made  by the Borrower
               directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
               the  provisions  of   Article   V  of  the  General
               Conditions and  paragraph  (a)  of  Section 2.02 of
               this Agreement; or
       (ii)    the total unwithdrawn  amount  of the Credit, minus
               the amount  of  any  outstanding special commitment
               entered into by the Association pursuant to Section
               5.02 of the General  Conditions with respect to the
               Program, shall be equal  to the equivalent of twice
               the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Credit  shall  follow such
procedures as  the  Association  shall  specify  by  notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
date of  such  notice  will  be  utilized  in  making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount  not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this  Schedule,  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph  4  of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into the
Special Account (or, if  the  Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal  to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof  not  so  eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Association into  the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such  outstanding  amount  for crediting to the
Credit Account.
