OFFICIAL
DOCU)M EN Tc-S
AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT NUMBER A-31 NIR
African Facility Credit
Agreement
(Public Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the
SPECIAL FACILITY FOR SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA
Dated                   20        , 1987


﻿AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT NUMBER A-31 NIR
AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    Au3uS+   JO            , 1987, between
REPUBLIC OF NIGER (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL FACILITY FOR SUB-
SAHARAN AFRICA (the Administrator).
WHEREAS (A) the Executive Directors of the International
Development Association (IDA) have established by their Resolution
No. IDA 85-1 of May 21, 1985 (the Resolution), a Special Facility
for Sub-Saharan Africa (the African Facility) constituted by the
funds which shall be contributed by the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and other donors and
administered by IDA, acting as Administrator of the African
Facility, for the purpose of, and in accordance with, the
provisions of the Resolution;
(B) the Administrator has received a letter dated
May 28, 1987 from the Borrower describing a program of actions,
objectives and policies designed to achieve adjustment of the
Borrower's public enterprise sector (the Program), declaring the
Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and
requesting assistance from the Administrator in the financing of
urgently needed imports required during such execution and the
Administrator has determined that such assistance would be in
accordance with the provisions of the Resolution;
(C) the Borrower has also requested IDA to provide
additional assistance in support of the Program, and by an
agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and IDA (the
Development Credit Agreement), IDA is agreeing to provide such
assistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to forty
six million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 46,000,000) (the IDA
Credit);
(D) the Borrower and the Administrator intend, to the extent
practicable, that the proceeds of the African Facility Credit
provided for in this Agreement be disbursed on account of
expenditures in respect of the Program before disbursements of the
proceeds of the the first tranche of the IDA Credit provided for
in the Development Credit Agreement are made; provided, however,
that non-eligible expenditures under this Agreement shall be
financed out of the proceeds of the IDA Credit; and


﻿-2-
(E) on the basis inter alia of the foregoing, the
Administrator has decided in support of the Program to extend the
African Facility Credit to the Borrower as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the International Development
Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereof
set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral
part of this Agreement:
(a) the term "Association", when used in the General
Conditions, means the International Development Association acting
as Administrator of the African Facility, except in the phrase
"member of the Association" in Sections 2.01 (5), 4.02 (b) and
6.02 (e) thereof;
(b) the term "Development Credit Agreement", "Credit" and
"Credit Account", when used in the General Conditions, are amended
to read "African Facility Credit Agreement", "African Facility
Credit" and "African Facility Credit Account", respectively;
(c) the second sentence of Section 5.01 is deleted;
(d) in Sections 6.02 and 7.01, the term "Association" shall
also include the International Development Association acting in
its own capacity;
(e) Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
"'Project' means the imports and other activities that
may be financed out of the proceeds of the African Facility
Credit pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to the
African Facility Credit Agreement.";
(f) Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
Borrower and the Administrator, the Borrower shall prepare
and furnish to the Administrator a report, of such scope and
in such detail as the Administrator shall reasonably request,


﻿- 3 -
on the execution of the Program referred to in the Preamble
to the African Facility Credit Agreement, the performance by
the Borrower and the Administrator of their respective
obligations under the African Facility Credit Agreement and
the accomplishment of the purposes of the African Facility
Credit."; and
(g) the last sentence of Section 3.02 is-deleted.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Part II member of IDA" means a member of IDA with
respect to which the terms and conditions of membership are those
prescribed in the Articles of Agreement of IDA for countries whose
names are listed in Part II of Schedule A to those Articles;
(b) "Development Credit Agreement" means the agreement of
even date herewith between the Borrower and IDA for the Program,
as such agreement may be amended from time to time; and such term
includes the "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of IDA, dated January 1, 1985, as applied to such
agreement, and all schedules and agreements supplemental to the
Development Credit Agreement;
(c) "SITC" means the Standard International Trade
Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United
Nation in 1986, Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3;
(d) "CFAF" and "CFA Franc" mean the currency of the
Borrower;
(e) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(f) "BCEAO" means the Banue Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique
de 1'Quest; and
(g) "BDRN" means the Banque de D6veloppement de la
R6publique du Niger.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE II
The African Facility Credit
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the African Facility Credit Agreement, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to fifteen million four hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 15,400,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the African Facility Credit
may be withdrawn from the African Facility Credit Account in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b) Withdrawals shall be made only on account of
expenditures for goods procured in the territories of: (i) any
Part II member of IDA; (ii) any country designated by the
Administrator as meeting the provisions set forth in paragraph 4
(f) (ii) and (iii) of the Resolution.
(c) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Program,
open and maintain in CFAF a special account in BCEAO on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Administrator. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1988 or
such later date as the Administrator shall establish. The
Administrator shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to IDA a commitment
charge at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the African Facility Credit not
withdrawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue
from a date sixty days after the date of the African Facility
Credit Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts shall be
withdrawn by the Borrower from the African Facility Credit Account
or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as IDA shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any
kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii)
in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or
selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.


﻿- 5 -
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to IDA a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum
on the amount withdrawn from the African Facility Credit Account
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay to IDA the principal
amount of the African Facility Credit in semiannual installments
payable on each May 1 and November 1 commencing November 1, 1997,
and ending May 1, 2037.   Each installment to and including the
installment payable on May 1, 2007 shall be one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the Republic of France is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.09. (a) BCEAO is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
(b) Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the
Borrower hereby entrusts BCEAO with responsibility for the
preparation of withdrawal applications under the African Facility
Credit and for the collection of the documents and other evidence
to be furnished to the Administrator in support of such
applications; such withdrawal applications shall to the extent
practicable be consolidated so as to apply for withdrawal of
aggregate amounts of not less than CFAF 400,000,000 equivalent.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Administrator shall
from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program.
(b) Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Administrator for its review and comment a report
on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such
detail as the Administrator shall reasonably request.


﻿-6-
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall othervise
agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds
of the African Facility Credit shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, subject to the eligibility
restriction set forth in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the African Facility
Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Administrator;
(ii) furnish to the Administrator as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Administrator shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Administrator such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the audit
thereof as the Administrator shall from time to
time reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the African Facility Credit Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)   retain, until at least one year after the
Administrator has received the audit report for
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from
the African Facility Credit Account was made, all
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing such
expenditures;


﻿-7-
(iii)   enable the Administrator's representatives to
examine such records; and
(iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included
in the annual audits referred to in paragraph (b)
of this Section and that the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such fiscal year, together with the proce-
dures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Events of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified: (a) an
event has occurred which shall make it improbable that the
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
(b) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the IDA Credit made to the
Borrower in support of the Program shall have
been suspended, cancelled or terminated in
whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
Development Credit Agreement providing
therefor; or
(B) the IDA Credit shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Administrator that:
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of
the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
under such agreement, and
(B) adequate funds required during the execution
of the Program are available to the Borrower
from other sources on terms and conditions


﻿-8-
consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified namely,
that the event specified in paragraph (b) (i) (B) of Section 4.01
of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph
(b) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Designation of Administrator
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the African Facility
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions, namely, that all conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement, except for the
effectiveness of this Agreement, have been fulfilled.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.03. In the event that the Executive Directors of
IDA decide to terminate the functions of IDA as Administrator of
the African Facility pursuant to paragraph 10 of the Resolution,
the Administrator may, by notice to the Borrower, designate
another party which, on the date specified in such notice, shall
assume part or all of the rights and obligations of the
Administrator under this Agreement in accordance with the
Resolution and such decision of the Executive Directors, as
specified in such notice.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 (a) of this
Agreement, the Minister of the Borrower responsible for planning
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿-9-
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minist&re du Plan
B.P. 862
Niamey
Niger
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINIPLAN                            5463 NI
Niamey
For the Administrator:
Administrator of the African Facility
(International Development Association)
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
/      T          Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL FACILITY FOR
SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA
By  5       7CKoVT            A
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of
the African Facility Credit
1.   Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the African Facility Credit may be with-
drawn from the African Facility Credit Account for expenditures
made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods required during the execu-
tion of the Program and to be financed out of such proceeds.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or sub-groups:
GrouR    Sub-group                  Description of Items
112         -                     Alcoholic beverages
121         -                     Tobacco, unmanufactured
tobacco refuse
122         -                     Tobacco, manufactured
(whether or not containing
tobacco substitute)
525         -                     Radio-active        and
associated materials
667         -                     Pearls, precious and semi-
precious stones, unworked
or worked
718         718.7                 Nuclear reactors, and
parts    thereof, fuel
elements (cartridges),
non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors


﻿- 12 -
Group    Sub-group                 Description of Items
897         897.3                 Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals
(except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths' or
silversmiths' wares
(including set gems)
971         -                     Gold ,  non-monetary
(excluding gold ores and
concentrates)
(b) expenditures in the currency of the Borrower for goods
or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower,
excluding, if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another
country, expenditures in such currency for goods or services
supplied from the territory of such other country;
(c) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;
(d) expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing
less than CFAF 3,000,000;
(e) expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency
other than the Administrator shall have financed or agreed to
finance; and
(f) expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-
military purpose or for luxury consumption.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
1.   Subject to the eligibility restrictions set forth in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement, contracts for the procurement of goods
to be purchased by public entities and estimated to cost the
equivalent of CFAF 300,000,000 or more each shall be awarded
through international competitive bidding in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines), subject to the
following modifications:
(a) Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:
"2.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a
timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a bidder's
invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to bid;
such advertisements should be placed in at least one
newspaper of general circulation in the Borrower's country
and, in addition, in at least one of the following forms:
(i)    a notice in the United Nations publication,
Development Forum, Business Edition; or
(ii)    an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
technical journal of wide international
circulation; or
(iii)    a notice to local representatives of countries and
territories referred to in the Guidelines, that are
potential suppliers of the goods required."
(b) The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
"As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
used in international trade and specified in the bidding
documents."
(c) Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.


﻿- 14 -
2.   The above-mentioned eligibility restrictions shall be stated
in the tender or prequalification documents for the procurement of
goods pursuant to paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
3.   Contracts for gocds to be purchased by private or mixed
entities and contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent
of less than CFAF 300,000,000 each shall be awarded on the basis
of the normal procurement procedures of the purchaser of such
goods.
4.   With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Administrator,
prior to the submission to the Administrator of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the African Facility Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids and
recommendations for award, a description of the advertising and
tendering procedures followed and such other information as the
Administrator shall reasonably request.
5.   With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 3 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Administrator,
prior to the submission to the Administrator of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the African Facility Credit
Account in respect thereof, such documentation and information as
the Administrator may reasonably request to support withdrawal
applications in respect of such contract.
6.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 4 and 5 of this
Schedule, where payments under a contract are to be made out of
the proceeds of the Special Account, the copies of such contract
or the documentation and the information to be furnished to the
Administrator pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 4 or
paragraph 5 of this Schedule, as the case may be, shall be
furnished to the Administrator as part of the evidence required
under paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
7.   The provisions of the preceding paragraphs 4, 5 and 6 shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Administrator has
authorized withdrawals from the African Facility Credit Account on
the basis of statements of expenditure.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods required during the
execution of the Program and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the African Facility Credit in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(b) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of
CFAF 1,500,000,000 to be withdrawn from the African Facility
Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Administrator shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the African Facility Credit Account
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the
Borrower shall have requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Administrator requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Administrator shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Administrator shall withdraw from the African Facility Credit
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amounts as shall
be required to replenish the Special Account with amounts not
exceeding the amount of payments made out of the Special Account
for eligible expenditures. Each such deposit shall be withdrawn by
the Administrator from the African Facility Credit Account in the
respective equivalent amounts as shall have been justified by the
evidence supporting the request for such deposit furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.


﻿- 16 -
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Administrator, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Administrator shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible
expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Administrator when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i)    the Administrator shall have determined that all
further withdrawals can be made by the Borrower
directly from the African Facility Credit Account
in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section
2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii)    the total unwithdrawn amount of the African
Facility Credit, minus the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered ito by the
Administrator pursuant to Section 5,.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Program,
shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the African Facility Credit
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the African
Facility Credit shall follow such procedures as the Administrator
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Administrator
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Administrator shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator, deposit into
the Special Account (or, if the Administrator shall so request,
refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No


﻿-17 -
further deposit by the Administrator into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Administrator shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator,
refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount for crediting
to the African Facility Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


