TA 'l WwAl.
Document of
The World Bank                                 6. X,
FO OFFICIA Rini TO SOUTH ASA
IR ORMATION GENTR
C   £.    1 '1  1 c  -0 Tt                     Report No. 6468-IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
NATIONAL WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA VOLUME I
ANNEXES 8-14
(Annexes 5,6 and 7 will be issued separately).
February 13, 1987
?
South Asia Projects Department
Irrigation II Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorkimton.



CURRENCY QUIVALENTS
US$1.00     =  Rupees (Rs) 13.0
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES (METRUC SYSTEM) 1/
1 meter (m)                             =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                        3  0.62 miles (mi)
i hectare (ha)                          =  2.47 acres (ac)
I million cubic meters (Mm3)            o  804 acre-feet (ac-ft)
1 cubic foot per second (cfs or cusec) w  0.0283 cubic meters per second (m3/s)
1 kilogram (kg)                         =  2.2 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (t)                        =  2,205 pounds (lb)
I thousand million cubic feet (TMC)    m  28.317 million cutic meters (Mm3)
FISCAL YEAR
GOI, GOAP,      April 1   -  March 31
GOG, GOK,
GOTN
1/ Wherever source material contains non-metric units, they have been
converted using the above equivalents.
.



FREQUENTLY USED ABBREVIATIONS FoR OFFICERS
ADA             -   Assistant Director of Agriculture
AE              -   Assistant Engineer
CE              -   Chief Engineer
CI              -   Canal Inspector
DDA             -   Deputy Director of Agriculture
DEE             -   Deputy Executive Engineer
EE              -   Executive Engineer
JDA             -   Joint Director of Agriculture
LDC             -   Lower Division Clerk
SE              -   Superintending Engineer
VC              -   Vice Chancellor
VEW             -   Village Extension Worker
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AD                  Department of Agriculture
*        AND              -   Agricultural Engineering Departmeat (Tamil Nadu)
AP              -   Andhra Pradesh
APAU            -   Andhra Pradesh Agricultural University
*        APM              -   Adjustable Proportionate Module
CAD             -   Command Area Development
CADA            -   Command Area Development Authority
CADD            -   Irrigation Utilization and Command Area Development
Department (see IU and CADD)
CCA             -   Cultivable Commanded Area
CCF             -   Construction Conversion Factor
CWC             -   Central Water Commission
DC              -   Distributary Committee
DIC             -   District Irrigat*ion Committee (Tamil Nadu and Andbra Pradesh)
FAO             -   Food and Agriculture Organization
GCA             -   Gross Commanded Area
GlIP            -   Gross National Project
GOAP            -   Government of Andhra Pradesh
cOI             -   Government of India
GOK             -   Government of Karnataka
GOM             -   Government of Maharashtra
GOTN            -   Government of Tamil Nadu
IBRD            -   International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICAR            -   Indian Council of Agricultural Research
ICB             -   International Competitive Bidding
ID              -   Irrigation Department or Irrigated Dry
IDA             -   International Development Association
IDB             -   Irrigation Development Board (AP)
IMTI            -   Irrigation Management & Training Institute (Tamil Nadu)
IU and CADD     -   Irrigation Utilization and Command Area Development
Department (see CADD)
IW              -   Irrigated Wet
LB              -   Left Bank
LCB             -   Local Competitive Bidding
LLC             -   Low Level Canal
M&E             -   Monitoring and Evaluation
MC              -   Minor Committee
MITP            -   Maharashtra Induction Training Program
MWR             -   Ministry of Water Resources
MSL             -   Mean Sea Level
NA              -   Not Applicable



NABARD          -   National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development
NARP            -   National Agricultural Research Project-
NSP             -   Nagar3unasagar Scheme
NWMP            -   National Water Management Project
OC              -   Outlet Committee
OEM             -   Operation and Maintenance
PAP             -   Project Affected Persons
PPC             -   Project Preparation Cell
PPF             -   Project Preparation Fund
PPM             -   Project Preparation and Monitoring Wing (of ID)
PPMC            -   Project Preparation and Monitoring Cell (Andhra Pradesh)
PWD             -   Public Works Department
R&B             -   Roads and Bridges
RB              -   Right Bank
RD              -   Revenue Department
RDS             -   Rajolibanda Diversion Scheme
RWS             -   Rotational Water Supply
SCF             -   Standard Conversion Factor
SDV             -   Supplementary Data Volume
Saic            -   Srisailam Right Branch Canal
SR8             -   Sriramasagar Scheme
Ss              -   Sathanur Scheme
TMC             -   Thousand Million Cubic Feet
TN              -   State of Tamil Nadu
T&V             -   Training and Visit (system of agricultural extension)
YEW             -   Village Extension Worker   -
VWS             -   Vanivilas Sagar Scheme, Karnataka
WALAMTARI       -   Water and Land Management Training and Research
Institute (Andhra Pradesh)
WALMI           -   Water and Land Management Institute (Karnataka)
WMC                 Water Management Cell
GLOSSARY
Anicut                -   Barrage
Ayacut                -   Command Area served by a barrage
Chak                  -   Area served by watercourse, typically 15 ha to 40 ha
District              -   The lowest administrative unit where the State
Government is directly involved
Hot Season            -   March to May
Kharif                -   Wet Season (June to September)
Laskar                -   Irrigation Department Field Worker
Neergati              -   Man who irrigates on behalf of farmers
Participating St&tes  -   Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, and Tamil Nadu
Rabi                  -   Dry season (October to February)
Shejpali              -   Irrigation water supply system used in Gujarat
and Maharashtra
Taluka                -   A sub-division of a district
Warabundi             -   NW India rotational water system
PROJECT TERMINOLOGY
Proiect               -   The entire National Water Management Project



INDIA
NATIONAL WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA VOLUME I (SDV I)
Table of Contents
Annex 5   - The Rajolibanda Sub-project
Annex 6   - The Vanivilas Sagar Sub-project
Annex 7   - The Sathanur Sub-project
Annex 8   - Institutional Strengthening
Annex 9   - Agricultural Research
Annex 10  - Agricultural Extension
*         Annex 11  - Linkages Between Agriculture and Irrigation Agencies
Annex 12  - Farmer Involvement
Annex 13  - Monitoring and Evaluation
Annex 14  - Training



ANNEX 8
Page 1
INDIA
NATIONAL WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Institutional Strengthening
1.      The Operation and Maintenance (04N) of irrigation facilities is a
specialized activity, requiring specific skills, experience and craining.
Ideally, operations should be planned at the State level on a basinvide
basis. Water allocations among schemes within a basin would be defined and
communicated to scheme-level authorities. At the scheme level, an officially
constituted Board or Committee, representing concerned Government agencies
(Revenue, Irrigation, Agriculture, CAD) and the users, would have management
responsibility, and would agree to the annual and seasonal operational plan.
A single organization would have responsibili5;y for water delivery in accord-
ance with the operational plan from the diversion point to the Government
outlet, as well as supervisory responsibility, as necessary, for organizing
distribution among the farmers below the outlet4 The organization of main-
tenance activities should directly parallel that of operation, with
State-level allocation of funds and programming of wQrk among schemes, and
scheme level staff responsible for all works within the project area and for
supervising farmer maintenance activities below (and possibly above) the
-Government outlet.
2.      Under the proposed NWNP, rationalization and specialization of the
O&M organization would be initiated at the State level, and fully implemented
at the scheme level. The detailed arrangements for implementing the NWMP,
and the support to be provided, would reflect individual State circumstances
(see below), but in each participating State:
(a)  The Project Preparation Cell (PPC) would prepare NWMP sub-project
proposals in close coordination with the proposed O&M cells, and
would manage NWMP implementation;
(b)  An O&M cell will be established/strengthened to give direction to
the State's O&M activities, and support and monitor scheme OEM
programs;
(c)  A scheme level committee with both official and farmer representation
will have decision-making responsibility for the scheme, will meet
before each irrigation season to approve the operational plan and
define the rules for its implementation, and after each season to
evaluate the experience gained;
(d)  A single OUM agency will be assigned responsibility for water
delivery within each scheme in accordance with the decisions of the
committee subject to the overall policy of the State Government;



ANNEX 8
Page 2
(e) Agricultural supporting services will be programmed in support of,
and to complement, -the irrigation management plan adopted; and
(f) Systematic linkages will be developed between the O&M agency, other
Government agencies and the farmers.
3.      This annex describes the State and scheme level arrangements for O&M
in each of the participating States, how these are to be supported under the
NWMP and how the NWMP itself will be implemented. Annexes 9, 10, 11 and 12
describe the programming of agricultural supporting services (Annex 9 -
Agricultural Research, Annex 10 - Agricultural Extension), linkages between
agencies (Annex 11) and farmer participation (Annex 12). Annex 13 describes
how monitoring and evaluation will be undertaken within this institutional
framework and Annex 14 describes supporting training activities.
The PPCs and O&M Cells
4.      An important component of the project will be to strengthen the
capacity of the State Irrigation Departments to:
(a) plan, implement and monitor scheme improvement projects such as those
included under the NWMP, and
(b) to provide ongoing OlM policy, planning and implementation support.
The former will be the responsibility of the existing Project Preparation
Cells (PPCs), the latter increasingly of the newly formed OEM cells. As the
O&M cells develop and become established, the balance of responsibilities
between the PPCs and O&M Cells may change.
5.      The PPCs were in each case established with assistance from IDA
through previous Project Preparation Funds (see para 3.27 of the Main
Report). Their original purpose was to prepare investment projects to stand-
ards suitable for forwarding toe Bank and other international financing -
agencies. Based on data collected and compiled by other units, l/ the PPC
was to formulate projects in terms of water and land use,-infrastructural
development, operational guidelines and the financial and economic value
development (e.g. as contained in the Eive Year and Annual-Development Plans)
and with the master plan for the river basin concerned. In practice, while
they formed part of the State plan, such projects have seldom been placed
within a comprehensive basin plan. Water allocations between schemes may be
made in accordance with an interstate agreement (e.g. for the Krishna and
Godavari), or may reflect the accumulation of water rights, but river basin
master planning as such has still to develop on a systematic basis, in part
due to the complications of interstate issues.
1/ Notably those responsible for: (a) basic resource investigations, e.g.
climate, soils, hydrology, groundwater, etc, (b) engineering surveys and
investigations, (c) socio-economic and related surveys, (d) scheme opera-
tions (for  axsin   cebmes) and (e) technical se"rvice  (e.0. research.



ANNEX 8
Page 3
6.      Given their functions, formulation of the NWMP for IDA financing was
entrusted to the respective PPC in each of the participating States. Thus,
while the essential focus of the NWMP is on O&M, the project was formulated
by a project investment planning unit. Since they are already
well-established, it is proposed that they continue to be responsible for
implementation and progress monitoring of the NWMP and, in each. case, divi-
sions will be established in the PPC for this purpose. However, it is cru-
cial that the O&M focus of the NWMP be maintained. This will lie achieved
both through the approach to sub-project preparation (SAR, Annex 4) and,
increasingly, by involving the newly formed O&M cells closely in sub-project
formulation. Ultimately, it is possible the latter will assume full respon-
sibility for the 4WNP.
7.      The PPCs will continue to be responsible for preparing investment
projects for foreign financing. Since there is no reason for adopting dif-
fering standards for foreign and locally-financed projects, it is expected
that they will increasingly assume responsibility for all project preparation
and in some cases this has already occurred. It will also be important to
ensure that all projects are placed within a coherent basin plan, and con-
sideration needs to be given to how the activities of the PPCs can be
integrated with the incipient efforts at basin planning being initiated in
the States. Similarly, it must be placed within the context of statewide
planning (normally undertaken in the office of the Secretary or
Engineer-in-Chief) which establishes priorities between projects and allo-
cates investment resources. Finally, consideration needs to be given to how
the three levels of planning (at the state, basin and project levels) are
best organized in relation to basic resource investigations, its data collec-
tion activity.  Separation of planning and resource investigations may
mitigate against the effective integrated planning of water resource develop-
ment.
8.      The O&M Cells at the State level will increasingly set State
policies, criteria and standards for O&M : monitor field operations at the
basin and project levels to ensure consistency and the maintenance of stand-
ards : and evaluate performance to ensure that experience is fully shared
across basins and schemes. Until basin-wide operations are fully estab-
lished, it would also help ensure that scheme level operations are consistent
with those of other schemes in the basin l/ and would provide advice and
support to scheme level O&M staff.
9.      An important function of the O&M cell will be to set policies and
approve operating rules to be used in planning and design of new projects.
1/ Ideally, such an activity would be done by a basin-wide authority which
would assess each year's water supply, allocate this among basin schemes,
coordinate reservoir operations to maximize benefits (from power and
other purposes as well as irrigation) according to basin-wide operating
rules, and provide hour-by-hour coordination during periods of flood.
Based on these allocations, the scheme level committee,would decide on
annual and seasonal operations, and the scheme O&M staff (the level of
direct action and interaction with the users) would be responsible for



ANN&KX 8
Page 4
This will be particularly important in relation to the planning of NWNP
sub-projects (para 6) and ultimately the O&M cells may take over full respon-
sibility for the NWMP. In the meantime, and for investment projects
indefinitely, the O&M cells will participate in evolving the operational plan
for individual sub-projects, and in assessi-g the staff and facilities (com-
munications, equipment, offices, shops, housing) required for project O&M.
It would provide to the PPC cost estimates for the O&M of schemes under study
and establish the nature of the water delivery service to be provided. For
existing schemes (e.g. modernization, upgrading, etc), this would be done in
close consultation witb the scheme O&M staff and beneficiaries, and in new
schemes in consultation with potential users.
10.     Implementation of the NIMP will provide experience with improved O&M
planning procedures at the scheme level.  To assist the O&M cells in assess-
ing this experience, and in evolving statewide programs and policies for O&M,
the credit provides for a detailed review , to be carried out under Terms
of Reference satisfactory to IDA, of existing procedures and financial
requirements for operation and maintenance of irrigation projects and the
potential for involving farmers in O&M.  It is hoped that these reviews would
lead to a mutually agreed program for upgrading O&M performance State-wide
SAR, paras 6.15-6.17).
B. ANDHRA PRADESH
Overall Institutional Structure
11.     The'recent merger of the Irrigation and the IU & CAD Departments 1/
has created a unified irrigation agency under the Secretary, Irrigation.  The
ultimate structure of this agency is still under discussion, but it is
expected to evolve over time with two main wings (see Chart 1):
(a) A planning and construction wing, coordinated by the Engineer-in-
Chief, responsible for the planning, design and construction of new
investment projects; and
(b) An O&M wing, headed by a Commissioner (CAD/OEM) also in the rank of
Engineer-in-Chief , responsible for the operation and maintenance
of completed projects.
12.     The Engineer-in-Chief (Construction Wing) will continue to be respon-
sible for establishment matters, (staff will belong to a unified service
although, over time, it is expected they will increasingly specialize, e.g.
in design, construction, O&M, etc). He will also have responsibility for
1/ A Government Order merging the two departments into an "Irrigation and
CAD Department" were issued on May 12, 1986. A merger committee has been
established to recommend the detailed organization of the new department,
--_  - - _'2'           - --_6    C._r   -A _____:  IL Z  : t:- -        -a: _ ____1 -



ANNEX 8
Page 5
planning and budgeting, and for coordinating departmental matters. Chief
Engineers will be responsible for:
(a) centralized activities (the Project Preparation & Monitoring Cell,
Investigations and Water Resources, the Central Design
Organization, I/ the AP Engineering Research Laboratory and Mechani-
cal) 2/;
(b) general construction and implementation (Major Irrigation, Drainage &
Flood Control, Medium Irrigation & Inland Water Transport, Minor
Irrigation, and Groundwater); and
(c) major individual projects (currently Nagarjunasagar, Sriramsagar,
Sri Sailem and Telugu Ganga).
13.     The Commissioner (CAD/O&M) will be assisted by a Chief Engineer (O&M
Cell/Water Management) 3/ with line staff organized on a river basin basis
(tentatively with Chief Engineers responsible for the Godavari and Northern
Sector, Krishna any) with, depending on scheme size, the SE, EE or AES in
charge of reporting through an appropriate hierarchy to the respective river
basin CE. Initially, the Commissioner is assuming responsibility for the O&M
of the Sriramsagar project, and detailed recommendations have been forwarded
to Covernment suggesting how responsibilities will be divided with the CE
(Sriramsagar) (Construction). Once this has been achieved, and the
experience evaluated, it is expected that O4M of other schemes will be
gradually transferred from-the respective existing CEs to the Commissioner.
It is inadvisable to force the pace in these transfers but it is expected
that it will be complete within, say, two to tbree years.
The PPMC and O&M Cell
14.     Under the Andhra Pradesh Irrigation II Project (Cr.1665-IN/Ln.2662-IN),
GOAP was committed to a review of the functioning of the PPMC 4/ by end
December, 1986. This has essentially been done and it is proposed that the
CE (PPMC) will have four major units under him (Chart 4) responsible respec-
tively for Sriramsagar, Sri Sailem (the two projects included under the AP
Irrigation II Project), the NWMP and the EEC-supported Medium Irrigation
Project). Each unit will be financed under the respective project (thus only
the costs of the NWMP circle under a SE will be met from the NWMP credit
(SAR, Table 8). In addition, the CE (PPMC) has attached to his unit respon-
sibility for the State's Dam Safety Cell financed from State funds.
1/ Reporting directly to the Engineer-in Chief.
2/ The Director General (WALAMTARI) currently should be included in this
list but logically would report to the Commissioner in the longer term.
3/ In the longer term, the Director General (WALAMTARI) and the Director
(Groundwater) may report to the Commissioner.
4/ In Andhra Pradesh, the PPC is known as the Project Preparation and
_   *,   -  -_ . . 4   _=n



ANNEX 8
Page 6
15.     As currently established, the PPMC is responsible only for for-
eign-aided projects. For the NWMP, in addition to the formulation and
preparation of sub- project-proposals, the PPMC will assist scheme staff in
implementation, monitor project implementation, submit regular progress
reports and maintain project accounts (including requests for financial
provisions and the collation of expenditures for reimbursement from IDA). It
will also manage the funds included under the credit for special studies and
programs designed to strengthen its capacities on specific subjects (SAR,
para 3.11).  To assist the PPMC in carrying out the rigineering surveys, and
the preparation of detailed designs and estimates needed for individual NWMP
sub-projects, a special division has been created under the Designs Organiza-
tion on secondment to the PPMC.
16.     The O&M cell will be established under a Chief Engineer (Water
Management/OWM) reporting to the Commissioner (CAD/O&M). The tentative
organizational structure is given in Chart 4 and the staffing and related
costs, which will be met from the credit, in SAR, Table 8). While the
ultimate structure has yet to be finalized, it is expected that the O&M cell
will have three units for operations (each corresponding to a river basin),
one unit for maintenance, and an agricultural unit under a JDA. The CE
position has already been created (it was previously the CE (Water Manage-
ment) position in the erstwhile IU , CAD Department). It is expected addi-
tional staff will be appointed in 1987/88 and that the cell will reach full
strength within two years.
Organization at the Scheme Level
17.     Seasonal decisions are taken by the CAD oprganizations or, in their
absence, by the District Irrigation Development Board (IDB) chaired by the
Collector. Four CADAs have been created: for Nagarjunasagar Left Bank,
Nagarjunasagar Right Bank, Sriramsagar and Tungabhadra respectively.
Seasonal decisions are initiated at seasonal 'workshops' (or committees) held,
in the project area 1/ and attended by Government officials, farmers and
their representatives. Recommendations adopted by the workshops are sub-
sequently reviewed at the State level by the CAD Board (previously chaired by
the Secretary IU & CADD), and by its Working Committees for each scheme, and
appropriate Government orders are issued. In the case of the Tungabhadra
complex, decisions on reservoir operations are taken by the Interstate Tun-
gabhadra Control Board, but there appears to be some ambiguity at the
sub-project level as to whether the CAD organizations or the respective IDB
is responsible. For the Rajolibunda Diversion Scheme (RDS), for instance,
the IDB has been responsible, with CADA officials participating in the IDB
meetings.
18.     The impact of the recent merger on the CAD institutions has yet to be
clarified. Nevertheless, it seems probable that the present practice of
seasonal workshops at the scheme level with subsequent review and approval at
the State level, which has worked well, will be retained. In contrast, the
1/ Given their size, a number of meetings at different locations in the



ANNEX 8
Page 7
role of the IDB in relation to specific schemes has not always proven satis-
factory. Not only may a scheme fall within more than one district, but the
IDB reviews irrigation matters throughout the district and may give inade-
quate or unfocused attention to the requirements of a specific echeme. For
all NWMP sub-projects it has therefore been agreed that seasonal 'workshops'
(or committee meetings) analagous to those for schemes with a CADA will be
established to take management and seasonal decisions. Increasingly, as O&M
is organized on a river basin basis, the decisions at a scheme level will be
taken within the framework of basin level allocations and the final review
and approval may be taken by a body comparable to the existing CAD Working
Committees, but organized by river basin rather than by major scheme. 1/
19.     With the merger of the previous Irrigation and IU & CAD Departments,
many of the problems previously encountered in ±oordinating the activities of
field level Irrigation and CAD staff will be resolved. A single O&M
organization, ultimately reporting through an appropriate hierarchy to a
basin CE (para 13), will be responsible for:
(a)  system operations and water delivery from the diversion point to the
Government outlet;
(b) maintenance and and minor construction work, including CAD works
below the Government outlet; and
(c) contacts with the beneficiaries on irrigation matters, including-such
supervisory functions over farmer O&M activities below (and poten-
tially above) the Government outlet as may be necessary.
Systematic linkages will be established with other Government agencies,
notably the Agricultural Department (Annex 11), and consideration is being
given to whether, for the larger schemes, an agricultural office (staffed by
seconded AD personnel), immediately under the Administrator (SE), should be
created to provide day-do-day advice to the scheme level O&M staff and to
provide .a direct link with the Agricultural Department.
C. KARNATAKA
Overall Institutional Structure
20.     The Irrigation Department comes under the Secretary II-in the Minis-
try of Public Works, Electricity, Irrigation and CAD. To date, staff have
been transferable between irrigation and other public works (roads, build-
ings, public health engineering) but new recruits have in recent years had to
opt for one or the other, and by end-1986 a specialist irrigation cadre will
have been fully created. Under the Secretary II, Chief Engineers are respon-
sible for:
l/ Essentially this function is performed by the Tungabhadra Control Board
for schemes served by the Tungabhadra.Dam, although in both Andhra
Pradesh and Karnataka, State level CADA and District institutions also



ANNEX 8
Page 8
(a)  centralized activities (Water Resources Development, the Karnataka
Engineering Research Institute, Mechanical, the WALMI and, to be
established, the .PPC/O&M Cell (see below));
(b) general design, construction and O&M (Irrigation North, Irrigation
South and Minor Irrigation); and
(c) major individual projects (currently Upper Krishna, 1/ Tungabhadra
and Hemavathy). (See Chart 2.)
In contrast to the newly established Andhra Pradesh structure, there is no
clear separation between the planning, design and construction of new
projects and the O&M of completed projects. Each Chief Engineer (apart from
those responsible for centralized activities) allocates staff within his
jurisdiction depending on requirements. Thus, while staff at lower levels
tend to be assigned either to new construction or to O&M, even at the EE
level they may have responsibilities for both. This organization only par-.
tially reflects river basin considerations although operations at the scheme
level are unified even where the scheme falls in more than one District (e.g.
Tungabhadra, Bhadra, etc).
21.     The CADA Administrators report to the Secretary I in the same Minis-
try, but liaise closely with the Secretary II on all matters pertaining to
system operations. Five CADAs have been established (for the Cauvery Com-
mands, Bhadra, Tungabhadra, Ghataprabha/Malaprabha and Upper Krishna respec-
tively), each headed by an Administrator, responsible for the coordinated
development of the command area. In all cases other than Upper Krishna,
where he has been a senior IAS official, the Administrator is an engineer of
senior CE rank. The Administrator is assisted by staff seconded from other
departments (Agriculture, Irrigation, Cooperatives) and is either Chairman or
Secretary of the CADA Board (on which other Government agencies, local
leaders tad farmers are represented).
22.     Largely for historical reasons, and in contrast to other States, the
Director, (Groundwater) reports to the Secretary of Mines. Field staff are
allocated on a district basis and are responsible for geological survey,
groundwater monitoring, and public development of groundwater resources.
The PP/O&M Cell
23.     A Project Preparation Cell (PPC) was established in 1985 with Bank
assistance provided through the PPF included under the UP Tubewells II
Project (Cr.1332-IN). It is headed by a Superintending Engineer, reporting
to the CE (Water Resources Development Organization) and is responsible for
the preparation of projects for submission to foreign financing agencies. In
this capacity, it has had responsibility for the preparation of NWMP
sub-projects although, given its fairly recent creation, it has depended to a
considerable extent on the active participation of field level ID staff. The
1/ Recently as many as five CEs have been appointed for various aspects of



ANNEX 8
Page 9
engineering surveys and the preparation of detailed designs and estimates for
individual NWMP sub-projects have, in particular, been undertaken by the
field ID staff, strengthened as necessary by reallocation of staff by the CE
concerned.
24.     In addition to a wide range of activities relating to water resources
(including resource investigations, hydrology, inter-State water disputes,
preparation and investigation of new (non-foreign financed projects), the CE
(WRDO) is also responsible for establishment and personnel matters. With the
creation of a separate Irrigation Cadre (para 20), this responsibility has
assumed considerably greater importance since personnel matters were pre-
viously largely handled on a Ministry-wide basis. Given this work load, and
the wish to give the PPC heightened importance, GOK intends to establish an
expanded PP/O&M Cell under a separate CE, responsible initially for the
preparation and monitoring of foreign financed projects (including the NWMP).
Over time, it is intended that it will increasingly assume responsibility for
the preparation of all projects.  Its proposed structure is given in Chart 5
and the staffing and related costs, which will be met from the credit, in the
SAR, Table 9.
25.     While the creation of a PP/O&M Unit under a separate CE will provide
increased authority to the unit, care will need to be taken in its future
to ensure that:
(a) all projects in the State, whether financed locally or by a foreign
agency, are prepared to comparable standards;
(b) project planning and preparation are fully consistent with both State
level planning and basin planning; and
(c) planning and investigations are mutually supportive.
State planning (preparation of the Five Year and Annual Development plans) is
currently undertaken in the office of the Secretary II under the Deputy
Secretary (Irrigation).  Basin planning has still to be developed systemati-
cally although a Committee on River Basin Planning, chaired by a senior -
retired official and with the CE (WRDO) as Secretary, has been established.
The CE (WRDO) also coordinates water allocations between projects in the
context of his responsibility for interstate water disputes and discussions.
26.     Initially, the PP/O&M unit will be responsible for formulation,
preparation and monitoring of both investment projects (e.g. UKP) and the
NWMP. In the context of the latter task, it will assist scheme staff in
implementation, monitor progress, maintain project accounts, and manage the
funds included for special studies and programs (para 3.17 of the Main
Report). It will also increasingly help develop State policies, criteria and
standards for O&M generally (para 8).  In view of the Irrigation Department's
present structure, and in particular the fact that construction and O&M are
not clearly separated, no separate O&M cell (as in Andhra Pradesh and Tamil
Nadu) is initially proposed. Over time however, and as its responsibilities
expand, it can be expected that the PP/O&M cell will bifurcate, in particular
if a similar bifurcation takes place in the State's field organization
between staff responsible for planning design and construction of new
projects, and those responsible for O&M. If this occurs, then the PP element



ANNEX 8
Page 10
could develop into a fully-fledged basin and project planning unit, and
similarly the O&M/ NWMP element into an O&M policy and support unit as in the
other two States.
Organization at the Scheme Level
27.     Irrigation decisions in Karnataka are taken by the scheme-level
Irrigation Consultative Committee (established under the Karnataka (then
Mysore) Irrigation Act of 1965). This committee comprises both official and
non-official members (who may be farmers) nominated by the State, and may be
chaired by the CADA Administrator, District Collector (for schemes falling
wholly within one District) or such-other member as may be nominated. Where
the scheme falls in more than one district, this committee ensures that the
differing interests are fully represented, and that discussions focus on the
specific scheme under consideration. Involvement of the CADA Administrator
and other CADA staff ensure coordination with the CADA Board which is
primarily responsible for the systematic development of the command area.
The CADA Board does not, however, have specific responsibility for seasonal
irrigation decisions.
28.     ID staff are responsible for all construction, maintenance and O&M
and for this purpose are normally organized on a scheme basis. Only in the
Upper Krishna Project have CAD works below the Government outlet been under-
taken by CADA staff (normally seconded from the Irrigation Department). In
other schemes, the ID has undertaken all these works according to a program
agreed with CADA and with funds provided through the CAD budget. 1/ Problems
of coordination between ID and CADA staff in relation to irrigation matters
have therefore largely been avoided. CADA's responsibility for mobilizing
farmer involvement may, however, have resulted in some ambiguity. Under the
project, it is proposed that the ID increasingly assume responsibility for
direct interaction with the farmer beneficiaries and for supervising farmer
O&M activities below the Government outlet (Annex 12).
D. TAMIL NADU
Overall Institutional Structure
29.     The Public Works Department, reporting to the Secretary (PWD), is
responsible for both irrigation and buildings, and PWD staff, although
usually having specialization in one or the other, are transferable between
the two activities. The CE (Irrigation) is responsible for all major and
medium irrigation schemes in the State, except for the construction of major
new programs (currently only Periyar Vaigai being modernized under a Bank
supported project 2/ (Cr.1468-IN/SF.16)) for which Special CEs may be
appointed. Although the CE (Irrigation) is in principle responsible both for
1/ It is expected that a similar arrangement will also soon be introduced
on the Upper Krishna project.
2/ O&M of the Periyar Vaigai scheme remains, however, the responsibility of
A,-  A                                      _      rv  {  t_ O-_ Po  4-  :   :UA A 



ANNEX 8
Page  1
new projects (other than Periyar Vaigai) and for the O& of completed
projects, in practice the latter is his major preoccupation since Tamil Nadu
has already exploited most of its available water supplies (Annex 3). With
the expected appointment of a new CE (PPC/NWMP), responsible for the planning
of all new projects and programs, the CE (Irrigation) will essentially only
be responsible for O&M. In addition to the CE (Irrigation) and the Special
CE (Periyar Vaigai), the Secretary (PWD) is supported by CEs responsible for
Minor Irrigation, Groundwater and Buildings, and by the Directors of the
Pondi Research Institute and the Irrigation Management and Training Institute
(Chart 3). Field staff are organized on a district basis, reporting as
appropriate to the respective CEs in Madras.
30.     Tamil Nadu has had no CAD organization, and PWD staff are fully
responsible for the O&M of all irrigation schemes, as well as for permanent
interaction with farmers and for such supervision of their OEM activities
below the Government outlet as may be required. However, in order to allow
the State to obtain access to funds provided under the centrally-sponsored
CAD program, the Agricultural Engineering Department (AED) in the Ministry of
Agriculture was made responsible for construction of CAD works below the
Government outlet. In this context, and to avail itself of the funds
provided for the 'warabundi' program, AEDt has also undertaken some promotion
of farmer organization and related activities. The involvement of AED in
command area development, if only on a temporary basis (once the CAD works
are completed, AED staff in principle are withdrawn), has created problems of
coordination with PWD staff. To avoid these problems in future, a Government
Order has recently been issued (dated May 26, 1986) instructing all AED staff
involved in CAD activities to work under the direction of the respective SE
for the district, and to implement such activities according to a program
laid down by him.
The PPC aad OM Cells
31.     The PPC.in Tamil Nadu was initially established with assistance from
the Bank (SAR, para 3.27) to prepare the proposed Cauvery Delta Modernization
Project. For this reason, it was located in Thanjavur under a Director (SE
rank), with a coordinating office located in Madras-under the direction of
the Officer-on-Special-Duty (OSD) (Cauvery). It has been responsible not
only for general preparation activities but also for the detailed designs and
estimates of proposed projects. Initial preparation of NWMP sub-projects was
entrusted to the OSD (Cauvery) working with scheme officials and subsequently
a special division (Tirunelveli) and a special sub- division (Sathanur) were
established to undertake detailed preparation.
32.     Both the PPC ana the OPD (Cauvery) report to the CE (Irrigation).
However, GOTN intends to consolidate all project preparation and planning
under a separate CE responsible for the preparation and monitoring not only
of foreign financed projects (Cauvery Modernization, NWMP) but also locally
financed projects. The proposed structure of the PPC/NWMP cell is given in
Chart 6 and the staffing and related costs, which will be met from the
credit, in SAR, Table 10. Creation of this separate organization under a CE
will provide increased authority to the Unit. In effect, it will assume
responsibility for programming all major and medium irrigation development in
the State, as well as for surveys and investigations in relation to specific



ANNEX 8
Page 12
projects. Care will need to be taken that such project planning and prepara-
tion are placed within a basin framework. Basin studies for the
Periyar-Vaigai, Ponniar and Thambaraparani basins have been initiated with
UNDP assistance in the Institute for Water Resources which is also respon-
sible for maintaining basic hydrological and other resource data. The Direc-
tor of this Institute reports to the CE (Groundwater). Consideration should
be given to how the activities of the CE (PPC/ NWMP) and those of the
Institute can best be coordinated.
33.     With the appointment of a separate CE (PPC/NWMP), the CE (Irrigation)
will essentially confine his activities to the O&M of completed projects.
Since most water resources have been exploited in the State, O&M is the major
activity. To assist the CE (Irrigation), a State level O04 policy and sup-
port unit will be developed in his office under the Senior Deputy CE (0&M).
The proposed structure of this unit is still under discussion but a tentative
organization is presented in Chart 6 and the proposed staffing and related
costs, which will be met from the credit, in Table 3(b).  It is expected that
the unit will be fully staffed within two years.
Organization at the Scheme Level
34.     Field operations in Tamil Nadu are organized predominantly on a
District basis. Seasonal decisions are normally taken by the District
Irrigation Committee (DIC) chaired by the District Collector. Where a scheme
falls wholly within one district (e.g. Thambaraparani in Tirunelveli District
or Kodayer in Kanya Kumari) 1I this may be broadly satisfactory; but where a
scheme falls in more than one district (e.g. Sathanur) inconsistencies and
conflicts may arise. Furthermore, the DIC is concerned with many other
issues which divert attention from those relating to the scheme concerned.
Assurances will therefore be obtained from GOTN that a scheme level committee
(comparable to the seasonal workshop in Andhra Pradesh (para 18) and the
Irrigation Consultative Committee in Karnataka (para 27)) will be established
for all NWMP sub-projects.
35.     PWD operations are similarly organized on a district basis, and PWD
staff may have a range of responsibilities outside the major scheme concerned
(maintenance of buildings, minor irrigation, etc). Where a scheme falls in
more than one district, operations may be divided between two or more dis-
trict PWD offices. To ensure unified operations, assurances will be obtained
from GOTN that a single PWD organization will be responsible for the opera-
tion and maintenance of each NWMP sub-project. In most cases, it is expected
that this will be the office in the District accounting for the major part of
the command. In the longer term consideration will be given to reorganizing
PWD operations on a basin rather than a district basis.
36.     With the recent decision that all AED activities in the command will
come under the control of the PWD (para 30) the latter will be effectively
responsible for all system operations, maintenance and minor construction
1/ The Radhapuram Canal sub-command in the Kodayer system is located in
neighbouring Tirunelveli District and for this reason is represented on



ANNEX 8
Page 13
below the Government outlet, and contacts with the beneficiaries on all
irrigation matters. Provided a scheme-wide committee and O&M organization
are established, problems of coordination and integration of O&M activities
should be avoided.
E. G01
37.     The GOI Water Management Cell (WMC) in the Ministry of Water Resour-
ces8was established in late 1984 to help prepare and promote the NWMP. Its
technical staff, comprising a Chief Engineer (WM) and a Joint Commissioner
(O&K), were actively involved in all stages of project preparation, both in
discussions with the States on the overall project design and in relation to,
the preparation of individual sub- projects. Under the project, its staffing
will be strengthened and it will be responsible for coordinating overall
project implementation, and for providing administrative and technical sup-
port to the NWMP Appraisal Committee.  It will bx the focal point for ensur-
ing that all States apply the guidelines in a systematic and comparable
manner, and for organizing workshops and training programs involving more
than one State. It will initiate discussions with additional States on their
potential participation in the program and help identify pilot projects. It
will also be responsible for preparing the Project Completion Report. The
SANR Table 9 summarizes the staffing and related costs, which will be met
from the credit.
P.  APPROVAL AND CLEARANCE OF NWMP SUB-PROJECTS
38.     Primary responsibility for selection, preparation and approval of
sub-projects will rest with the State Governments concerned. However, GOI
clearance will be required to ensure consistency and adherence to NWMP
criteria. Sub-projects will be prepared by the respective State PPC and will
be cleared as follows 1/ (Schedule A under the Credit Agreement).
(a) An initial Scheme Summary covering the background to the proposed
sub-project and an outline of the operational issues to be addressed
will be presented to the NWMP Appraisal Committee in GOI.  The pur-
pose of this summary would be to obtain preliminary clearance of the
proposal and hence confirm eligibility of detailed preparation costs
for financing under the NWMP.
(b)  Following clearance of the Scheme Summary, the State PPC, working
closely with the State O&M Cell, the project authorities and other
Departments and Agencies as appropriate, will prepare a full Scheme
Report in accordance with the guidelines laid out in Annex 4.
1/ These procedures will not be needed in relation to the three sub-
projects appraised by IDA during formal appra:sal of the NWNP:
Rajolibunda Diversion Scheme in Andhra Pradesh, Vanivilas Sagar in Kar-



ANNEX 8
Page 14
(c) State Technical and Administrative Clearance will be by a Committee
or Committees established at the State level, and will be provided in
close consultation with the beneficiaries and following any local
discussions and approvals as may be decided by the State Government.
In Karnataka, a single committee will be established, chaired by the
Secretary II (PW, Irrigation, CAD and E Dept) comprising members
drawn from other technical agencies and coopted scheme level staff.
In Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu, technical review will be by a
committee chaired by a senior ID engineer, and administrative
clearance will be by a committee chaired by the Secretary Irriga-
tion/PWD.
(d) GOI Clearance will be by the NWMP Appraisal Committee in the Ministry
pf Water Resources 1(WR), chaired by the Additional Secretary, Water
Resources and comprising appropriate officials drawn from the mW,
CuC, the Ministry of Agriculture and ICAR.
(e) IDA Approval would be based on the final scheme reports following
COI clearance. An understanding will be reached with GOI and the
States that IDA will be kept informed of the processing of scheme
proposals.
39.     As indicated in (c) above, the form of the State approval, and the
nature of the local discussions with the beneficiaries, will be flexible so
as to respond to the requirements of the different States. Formal approval
by local bodies (e.g. the District Irrigation Committee) would raise dif-
ficulties which may be extraneous to the primary purpose of the proposed
project. Nevertheless, consultation with the beneficiaries is an essential
part of formulating a scheme proposal and where, as in the case of the
Sathanur project in Tamil Nadu, significant changes in the operating rules
are envisaged, complex local discussions with both the farmers and the Dis-
trict Authorities may be required.
40.     Proposals by non-participating States will be cleared and approved in
a comparable manner, although, since this will be confined to one or two
pilot projects, it will not be necessary for the States to establish a formal
committee or committees at the State level ((c) above).



INDIA
NATIONAL WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
PPC/O&M Urn: Kamotnka - Organation Chcat
SFCi1E1A1Y 1I
PWNCAD&E
CE (WMO)
SE (PPC)      SE (O&M)    SE (INVESfGAI1ONS)  SE (CAWME   ARONOV)    SE (HYDROLY)   ECONOS        lECHNICAL     REGISTRAR
Li   rLStAFF  LSWFF                                                                                E_
EE    EE       EE     E                                                                                AE            DROFRCE&
OtM? STAFF
-AEE2   AE2      AEE2   AEE2
AE4   AE      AE4  AE4
WkIdBco* 330822
I~~~~~~~~~~~I



INDIA
NATIONAL WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
PPC and O&M Units: Toarnlnodu -O-gonrzatlon Chadt
StCr*tARv
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C    '  * GAKt
i H                           EF            EE          A     fRNI4S      EE              E E            EE            * FF            F
JMITWiIUAtKSN)    ((AIM P)     (ilMP        (FC ASK)         FCOCIS      (AMNtRAiO)    (MItENC)    (OEAtIS)              SYSWiM        EVAIIJAIIO
C-F (PPC)                                                        & MANTENANCE)
SIA14~~~~~~~~~



INDIA
NATIONAL WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
PPC and o&M Uns: Andhw Pradesh - OrganizalIon Chat
SECQEAQY
QRIaGATK M
ENATtE INNNR-NIE
NEW PFOJECTS. ETC.
CE (PMCE(WEAR 
CE _PC                                                                           MNAGEMENT/ObU)
I~~~ I
l           I                                I          -'                    I               I     .                                           I
DCE              EE              EE               EE           E (NWMP)           DC               SE               SE               EE              EE
(ADMINSTRATION)  (SRIRAMA SAG)    (SRI SALEM)       (EEC TASKS)                   (AfMWSMATION).  (MA   lNANCE)    (OPERATON)  (SSMSANAVYSIS)  (EVAIUATION)
AGRICUI.URE/    AGRICIJTURE/    AGRCULTURE/      AGRICUTURE/                                       AGRIOAALTURE/
ECONOMCS  -ECONOMICS            ECONOMS          ECONOvl                                          ECONOMICS
SUPPORT                                                        PRCGECD A          S                              GODAVARI
STAFF          ENGINEERING     ENNEI           ENGIEERING                         STAfF F          9w0R
SUPPORT   -    SLUfPORT         SU9PPORT     PROQECT B                             SrAFF      KISHNA
j   STAFF           STAFF           STAFF
_   _J         _               _                  PROJECT C. ETC.                                  PENNER
liAxid BO* - 30B223
I9
et
Ch



I            ~~~~~~~~J



ANNEX 9
Page 1
INDIA
NATIONAL WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Research
Agricultural Research in India
1.      Agriculture is constitutionally a State subject in India, and thus
agricultural research is primarily a State responsibility. State Agricul-
tural Universities undertake this function on behalf of the State government
and receive the main part of their financial support from the State, mostly
in the form of non-plan grants which are often inadequate for their effective
functioning. The Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) serves as a
national coordinating and supporting agency, and provides additional assis-
tance to SAUs in performing their duties.
The Ipian Council of Agricultural Research.
2.      The Indian agricultural research system is a cooperative program
between the Government of India (GOI) and the individual States. GOI's
contribution is funded through ICAR. The latter is not only active in manag-
Ing research programs of its own through its Central Institutes but also
serves as the national coordinating body for research carried out in the
different States.
State Agricultural Universities
3.      The SAUs were established with the objective of creating a system
of scientific education and research which would serve the needs of the
farming community. Their basic objectives were similar to those established
under the United States of America's Land Grant College System, and several
U.S. universities provided teams of technical advisors to assist in the
planning and development of the first SAUs. Their development has been very
uneven, resulting from differences in the political environment, the strength
of university leadership, and the extent of State government support. Most
SAUs, including those in Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu have,
however, now matured into vigorous institutions, capable of meeting most
needs of their farming communities. They have been assisted in this by two
IDA supported projects: the first and second phases of the National Agricul-
tural Research Project (NARP I and NARP II, Cr. 855-In and Cr.1631-IN).



AIX 9
Page 2
National Agricultural Research Project
4.      NARP I (effective in January 1979) had limited objectives, designed
to strengthev the capability of the SAUs to conduct zonal research in support
of reformed statewide agricultural extension projects. ICAR supported
Central Research Institutes, and the All India Coordinated Research projects,
were excluded from the project, as ICAR had adequate funds at that time to
finance these programs. The project focussed, in particular, on research
oriented towards the needs of the main agro-ecological zones.  Special
emphasis was given to foodgrains (cereals and pulses) and oilseeds, espe-
cially those grown under rainfed conditions, and on the integration of crop-
ping patterns and animal husbandry practices. A main feature was the
decentralization of research away from the main campus through-the estab-
lishment, where not available, of research stations and sub-stations in the
121 agro-ecological zones identified in the country. In addition, regular
and effective contact was established between research and extension through
the fortnightly training and monthly workshops. The expression of research
needs by the extension service on behalf of the farming community has become
an effective tool exerting pressure on SAUs to deliver farmer-oriented tech-
nology.
5.      WARP Il, which became effective in April 1986, has extended and
broadened the approach promoted under NARP I, having the following com-
ponents:
(a)  Completion of unfinished NARP I sub-projects (those that have not
completed five years of operation);
(b)  Expansion of the scope of NARP to cater to the priority needs of each
agro-ecological zone, including: (i) new areas of research such as
irrigated farming, animal-drawn farm implements, horticulture, com-
mercial field crops, agro-forestry, and animal nutrition, (ii)
programs for field testing and refining research results, and (iii)
facilities at Regional Research Stations for training Subject Matter
Specialists of the DOA;
(c)  Provision of funds for individual research activities on priority
topics emerging or identified during project implementation and not
covered under (b) above;
(d)  Strengthening of research administration of two State Agricultural
Universities; and
(e)  Continued funding of the ICAR Project Unit, including provision for
training of research scientists.
6.      The main emphasis is on the relevance of the research programs to
farmer needs.  In order to make this possible, each of the Zonal Research
Stations is required to prepare a basic Status Report for the station service
area. This Status Report, which includes a detailed descripti6n of
agro-climatic features and water management operations, tries to identify the
different farming situations from the farmer perspective. It also describes
the adoption pattern of recommended technologies. Based on this analysis,
re,earch strategies and programs are to be developed which will form the



ANNEX 9
Page 3
basis of new or additional zonal sub-projects to be sanctioned and financed
by ICAR under NARP II. Research support for NWMP would be mainly adaptive
and operational in nature and will be structured and financed as part of the
NARP zonal (new or supplemental) sub-projects.
The ICAR Coordinated Project for Research on Water Management
7.      The ICAR Coordinated Program covers 7 agro-ecological zones at 34
locations in 18 states representing 29 command areas. The program is imple-
mented by a staff consisting of 1 Project Coordinator, 2 Zonal Coordinators,
141 Senior Scientists, 152 Junior Scientists and about 250 support staff.
Its major research efforts have concentrated on developing optimum irrigation
schedules for different crops and cropping systems, including inter-cropping.
The same tests have often been run for kharif and 'ihi (sometimes also for
summer) in order to find the most efficient and ecowimic use of irrigation
water. In many experiments, fertilizer levels were included to determine the
*        interaction of irrigation and fertilizer so as to improve overall crop water
efficiency. Experiments have been conducted to determine the reduction in
crop yields with different durations of submergence/saturation during the
growth phases of the crops, so as to work out field drainage requirements.
Additional observations taken on these experiments have shown that, with
shallow water tables, crops can often meet their consumption requirements
(evapo-transpiration) to a large extent from the capillary rise from the
water table and the adjoining saturated zone.
8.      The main aspects. of ICAR*s coordinated crop water management research
which have yielded usable results for further applied and operational
research are:
(a) irrigation scheduling and water balance of crops, inter-cropping
systems and crop sequences under constrained irrigation conditions;
(b)  methods of irrigation and field levelling;
(c)  reduction of percolation losses from paddy fields;
(d)  monitoring of groundwater table development;
(e)  contribution of groundwater table to crop growth and
evapo-transpiration; and
(f)  on-farm water management.
9.      Most of the experimentation has been done on station and the results
are mostly site specific, except for those of the modest on-farm water
management research program. The experimental results obtained have shown
great variability between locations as a result of differences in: (a) soil
characteristics; (b) effective rooting depth and intensity; (c) crop specific
fluctuations of the ratio between potential and actual evapotranspiration;
(d) field irrigation methods; and (e) soil moisture changes resulting from
upward or downward water transmissions.



ANNEX 9
Page 4
10.     Operational on-farm research in paddy systems has demonstrated sig-
nificant water savings with: (a) intermittent water supply; (b) shortening
of supply time from head to tail below the outlets; and (c) shortening of the
field preparation and transplanting period.
11.     Methods of improved field layouts and landshaping using animal drawn
equipment have also been effectively developed and demonstrated in a few
command areas.
Status of Research in Participating States
12.     The SAUs which would participate in support of the NWMP (in Andhra
Pradesh, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu) have strong dynamic leadership, a number
of well trained and experienced scientists, and have made satisfactory
progress in implementing NARP programs. Research has been decentralized as
per the NARP concept and all the Zonal Research Stations have been estab-
lished. TNAU has Water Technology Centers at Coimbatore and Madurai, and has
initiated effective operational research in the Periyar Vaigai project.
Karnataka has performed effective crop water management research in the past
and is currently cond';cting operational research in the Upper Krishna
project. Andhra Pradesh has not yet started with adaptive research but its
Zonal Research Station at Guntur in the Krishna/Godavari zone has produced
cotton and pulse varieties for the Nagarjunasagar project which suit the
on-going changes in crop water management and cropping patterns in this
project.
Methodology for Crop Water Management Research
13.     The research methodology to be used would be a function of the
research needs perceived not only by farmers and extension workers, but also
by those who manage irrigation schemes. There are a number of ways in which
this operational cesearch could be designed according to the needs of users,
beneficiaries and managers. Its major objectives would be to:
(a) generate technology which farmers can adopt within the technical and
operational limitations of existing schemes;
(b)  diagnose operational constraints with a view to improving management
and the use of water;
(c) measure the impact of changes in water manageiuent on cropping pat-
terns, and of the timing of farm operations which follow from a
change in cropping patterns;
(d)  conduct research on farmers' fields with alternative crops and crop-
ping sequences in order to prepare contingency cropping patterns in
case of water shortage;
(e)  establish crop growth and yield response to different levels of water
supply over the total growing periods for specific crops and crop
sequences; and



ANNEX 9
Page 5
(f) record and monitor factors influencing the supply of water which
could disturb and change the underlying assumptions for designing
water delivery schedules.
These could include occurrence, frequency and geographical distribution of
local rainshowers, temporary or permanent shallow water tables, and residual
soil moisture reserves at the beginning and end of an irrigation season. In
addition to these objectives designed mainly to improve scheme managemert,
there are a number of research topics which would mainly affect farmers
directly (on-farm crop and input research).
14.     These water management objectives require a methodology which covers.
whole hydraulical units subject to the same operation system, such as outlet
sluice commands, distributaries, or for example, whole tank or tubewell
commands. Instead of artificially introducing variability in irrigation
conditions, the variability of real situations would be used to establish
correlations between certain farming (water management) situations and crop-
ping patterns, timing of operations, quantity and quality of inputs used
other than water and, finally, yields and overall farm productivity. This
variability will be further enhanced by selecting certain hydraulic units
(for example commands of outlet sluices, minors, or even distributaries) and
establishing an improved water management system in those commands. Results
would then be compared with those in an unimproved situation to see how
farmers respond in both systems.
15.     This approach has major advantages over the classical controlled type
of experimentation in the sense that the farm management factor can be intro-
duced as an independent variable. The latter is an indication of how farmers
endowed with equal resources (land, equipment, bullocks, labor) optimize the
use of these resources with regard to farm output. In operational research,
with a strong orientation toward improving water management through better
farm management, the isolation, definition and quantification of the factor
of farm management is essential.
16.     The major operational research tasks would be: diagnostic analysis of
the system (minor, distributary, tank command), investigation of the way
water delivery works in relation to design, and evaluation of farmer
response. Constraints associated with water availability, farm size, inputs
and marketing opportunities would be identified.  Where is is not possible to
analyze a full command area in this manner, a stratified sampling technique
would be adopted. Observed cropping patterns, methods and timing of field
preparation, sowing and harvesting, and yields, would be correlated with the
operational features of the irrigation system, such as the actual timing and
quantity of water scheduling, the reliability of water delivery and com-
munication between the Irrigation Department and farmers. Complementary
socio-economic data on farm size, number of holdings, labor and equipment
availability, opportunities for off-farm labor employment, marketing oppor-
tunities etc., would be analyzed.  The results could be used as part of
project preparation and a a reference point for further monitoring and
evaluation work.



ANNEX 9
Page 6
17.     This diagnostic and yield gap analysis, started in a modest way with
the Status Reports prepared under NARP, would be extended and undertaken in
more detail for command areas located within the service territory of the
Zonil4 Research Station so as to establish:
(a) The major yield determinants under the actual farming and water
supply situation;
(b) The constraints preventing adoption of recommended technology; and
(c)  Farmers' innovations in the field of irrigation and drainage technol-
ogy and their use of the system to their best advantage.
18.     Elements of both the benchmark survey and the diagnostic and yield
gap analysis would be updated every two years. Where the Irrigation Depart-
ment or CADA is responsible for monitoring the timing and quantity of water
delivery, the SAUs could measure the impact of water management on changes in
cropping patterns, timing of farm operations and farm output.
Water-balance Studies
19.     The conjunctive use of groundwater (either from wells or by direct
consumption through capillary rise) in meeting crop water requirements would
be studied for canal and tank commands and well-irrigated farms.
Water-balance studies would be undertaken for well defined command areas
where interference from other sources, such as run-off and groundwater
seepage from adjacent areas, can be excluded. So far, very limited research
has been undertaken in India on this subject (research in Haryana is an
exception) despite an alarming rise in groundwater tables and increased
waterlogging in many commands. These problems clearly indicate that the
combined contribution of rainfall and irrigation water is often in excess of
crop water requirements. Techniques for water-balance studies and, in par-
ticular, for groundwater movement, have still to be developed in India. It
would be advisable for the SAUs and Water Technology Centres to seek associa-
tion with specialized research centres or firms oversees which have built up
expertise in this field. Moreover, SAUs should include hydrologists in their
water management research teams.
20.     Research on new crops, varieties, cropping sequences, agronomic
techniques, fertilizers, etc., for command areas would be carried out on
farmers' fields within the technical and operational limitations of a command
area. These farmers would be selected in unimproved as well as improved
outlet commands. In fact, improved water management in one or more outlet
commands or minors would be part of the experimentation. A good example is
the work started by ICAR in the Bhavanisagar command and the Water Technology
Center of TNAU in the Periyar Vaigai project. One of the most promising
results has been the development of contingency plans for management in case
of water scarcity, which could find a wide application in other command area.
The same would be possible for crops and cropping patterns.



' ANNEX 9
Page 7
Research Priorities Required for Agricultural Planning in NWMP Projects
21.     Site specific information on soils is inadequate in all initial
projects.  Additional detailed soil surveys at a scale of 1:10,000 at least,
would have to be implemented over time to assess the suitability for irriga-
tion, crops and water delivery schedules. The factors to be determined are:
(a) soil texture and structures;
(b)  permeability and percolation rates;
(c) soil depth available for root .development and occurrence of hard
layers impeding rooting development;
(d) determination of water holding capacity;
(e)  soil acidity and electrical conductivity, indicating salinity
and alkalinity hazards; and
(f) slopes and micro-relief.
22.     The occurrence of permanent or perched water tables and temporary
ground water flows on shallow and sloping lands overlying low permeable
strata should be described and mapped on irrigation maps of scale 1:10,000.
Similarly, areas with impeded drainage and waterlogging need to be surveyed
and mapped to indicate the quality of groundwater and its effect on s8ril
salinity and/or alkalinity.
23.     The prevailing cropping systems such as rice-based, rice-ID, pure
ID crops, tree crops and mixed tree/ID crops, need to be inventoried and
mapped, using irrigation maps of a scale of 1:10,000 or larger.
24.     Cropping calendars such as the timing of field preparation and plant-
ing in relation to rainfall and current water scheduling, and availability of
animal and manpower need to be analyzed. Actual water availability from
rainfall and irrigation should be compared with requirements of crops and
cropping calendars. New cropping sequences and systems would have to be
evaluated against current available energy and manpower on the farm and
additional requirements to be assessed. For example, coconut expansion in
Karnataka is explained because of the steady incomes and low labor require-
ments of this crop, and as a consequence of the accumulation of the necessary
investment capital by the farmers.
25.    The economic and financial consequences of water management systems
and their effect on subsequent cropping patterns, yields and farm incomes
would have to be monitored by the farm economists of the crop water manage-
ment teams. In particular, the timing of operations needs to be adequately
recorded and analyzed.  If, for instance, in an area with similar production
constraints (e.g. poor soil, irregular rainfall or inadequate irrigation),
500 farmers are selected, all with the same farm size and dispersion of
holdings, the same number of traction animals, tillage equipment and family
labor, the farm output and financial results of those 500 farmers will show a
very wide range of variability with differences up to 200X or even more. The
variations in farmer output (yields and cropping patterns) are most often due



ANNEX 9
Page 8
to the timing of the various farm operations. A farmer's judgement oh the
optimal use-of his resources could be inspired entirely by his need to maxi-
mize farm output under the given constraints and risks. On the other hand,
personal considerations such as time off for religious or communal duties,
and off-farm economic activities, could influence his judgement. Neverthe-
less, the farm management factor exists, and can be identified and rated in
each series of farm observations. Another management factor which needs to be
assessed is the condition and availability of inputs such as farm equipment,
traction animals, seeds and fertilizer, so that they can be used when the
farmer judges the time is right.
Research Priorities for On-farm Research
26.     Soil tillage and land preparation of paddy land, as well as for ID
crops, are still mostly done with the country plough and local narrow or
levelling plank, and are open for considerable improvement. Implements
adapted to local soil conditions, such as animal drawn reversible ploughs,
ridgers, planters, and fertilizer drills suitable for various ID crops, need
to be developed and tested under farming conditions. In addition, implements
for landshaping to suit the particular irrigation requirements of crops and
soils are urgently needed.
27.     In conjunction with improved implements, techniques for appropriate
landshaping such as graded contour borders, wide bed-furrow or ridge furrow,
border-cum-furrow or border-cum-corrugation, need to be tested on farmers'
fields. Water application to tree crops could be greatly improved by low
cost gravity drip systems substituting for basin irrigation. Crop specific
cultivation practices (such as direct sowing, dibbling of pre-germinated rice
seeds in the mud, and traditional transplanting) would be compared under
farmers' conditions. For ID crops, available technology on field preparation
methods, plant spacings adapted to the selected field, preparation methods
and optimal timing of sowing, need first to be screened and tested on
research farms in the command areas, and the most promising technologies
further tested in on-farm trials. The same approach would be followed for
testing different crops and cropping sequences.
28.     Varietal research and testing would have to focus on the need to
shorten crop growth duration, and hence water consumption, to respond to the
constraints imposed by the water scheduling systems adopted. This varietal
testing would consist of initial screening on research farms located in the
command areas selected for inclusion in NWMP, and testing of the most promis-
ing varieties on farmer's fields.
Research Programs in Support of NWMP
29.     Andhra Pradesh.  The major irrigation command areas in Andhra Pradesh
are Nagarjunasagar,, Sriramsagar and Tungabhadra Projects. The Zonal research
Station at Jagtial in Northern Telangana is preparing an adaptive research
program in crop water management, which would include an adaptive research
farm in the Rajolibunda Diversion Scheme. This could be the Kurvipa seed
farm located in D29, the sub-station in Rudrur, Nizambad. In addition,
distributaries would be identified in the RDS and Tungabhadra commands (in
consultation with ID and DOA) for operational research as described above.
Similarly, an adaptive research screening farm and appropriate distributaries



ANIEX 9
Page 9
are being identified by the Agricultural Research Station at Garikapadu (at
Guntur) for the Nagarjunasagar right canal, although similar facilities for
the left bank canal command areas are yet to be identified. The Zonal
Research Station at Nandyal would identify and prepare an adaptive research
program for the Srisailam Project and a new project to be developed over the
next ten years with IDA/Bank assistance (Ln.2662-IN/Cr.1665-IN).
30.     Karnataka.  The University of Agricultural Sciences (UAS) in Ban-
galore is preparing adaptive research programs for the following command
areas incLuding all those selected for the NWMPP:
Upper Krishna Project        -   Sub-station Trabhavi
Vanavilas Sagar Project      -   Sub-station near Uiriyur
*                Bhadra Project                -   Sub-stations at Honnaville and
Kathalgere
Tungabhadra LB               -   Sub-station at Siruguppa
Malaprabha Project           -   Zonal Research Station near Dharwar.
Preparation of these programs is in an advanced stage as part of the sup-
plemental zonal sub-projects to be financed under NARP II.
31.     Tamil Nadu.  TNAU is preparing supplemental zonal sub-projects which
would include adaptive research programs for crop water management in the
following zones:
(a) North Eastern Zone: Zonal Research Station at Vridhachalam to service
well-irrigation, and the Sathanur Project in which well-irrigation is
an important water source.
(b)  Cauvery Delta Zone: Zonal Research Station at Aduthurai and the Soil
and Water Management Institute at Kattuthottam, Thanjavur, to service
the Cauvery Delta.
(c) Southern Zone: Zonal Research Station at Arruppukkottai and the Water
Management Institute at Madurai serving Periyar Vaigai command and
the paddy experiment station at Ambasamudram to service the Tham-
raparani command area.
(d) The Kodiyar project area which would receive research support from
the Rice Research Sub-station at Tirupathisaram.
32.     The draft of the proposed research programs will be sent to ICAR and
the Association for review before finalization.
Institutional Arrangements for Crop-Water Management Research
33.     Given the interactions with other line departments such as Irrigation
*        Department, DOA, and, last but not least, the farmers, in the field of opera-
tional research, a clear definition of the responsibilities and account-
abilities of each of the partners is necessary. At present, crop water
management research is conducted by ICAR, IARI and'a number of SAUs. Future
partners in operational research could be the Irrigation Department or CADA,
DOA, individual farmers or farmers' organizations and private firms. Without
this interaction between research below the outlet by SAU and DOA, and



ANNEX 9
Page 10
management above the outlet by the Irrigation Department, research efforts
would have limited impact. The same applies not only to research in canal
commands, but also to that in tank commands, tubewell or riverlift commands
or even farmers' own shallow wells wherever they occur in NWMP sub-projects.
The inter-actors might not always be the same, (for instance, the Irrigation
Department is not involved in on-farm shallow wells, small tanks and private
tubewells) and in these cases the research team of DOA and SAU would work
directly with the farmers or Minor Irrigation Department.  Alternative
methods of water distribution and methods of analyzing and managing water on
minors,_distributaries and main systems as a whole are not widely studied,
analysed or taught.  Simulation studies carried out in the context of prepar-
ing operational plans under the NWMP represent one approach, but ground
verification by SAUs would also be necessary.
34.     ICAR is providing financial and technical support for Crop Water
Management research directly to the SAUs. This is mostly in the form of the
Coordinated Project for Research on Water Management which is operated at
35 centers located at the main campus or Zonal Research Centres of the SAUs.
No formal arrangements have been established as yet for joint research arran-
gements with other agencies, such as Irrigation Departments, CADAs and DOAs
as suggested above. However, the first steps have been set in the context
of the NWMP to assure cooperation and establish a mechanism whereby the SAU
becomes a regular partner in the preparation of modernization or management
improvement projects. This can best be achieved by involving the SAUs in the
diagnosis of current schemes jointly with the Irrigation Department, and DOA
in the identification and preparation of new sub-projects to be considered
for inclusion under NWMP. The SAU task would be to:
(a) review the proposed improvements in water management;
(b) support the management improvement through operational research,
preferably in the projects where modernization or management improve-
ment is the major objective; and
(c) evaluate the impact of improved water management on cropping and
patterns, timing or operations and yields.
35.     During the implementation of water management improvement programs,
operational research is essential to develop and support changes in water
scheduling, cropping patterns, crops and varieties, and onfield application
techniques which have to accompany the changes in crops and cropping pat-
terns. Since farmers are essential partners in the operational research and
their group cooperation is required (for instance when it comes to
experimenting with whole sluice commands), the DOA agents (e.g. VEws), who
are the most directly in contact with the farmers, become essential partners.
They should assist with the creation of outlet user groups or associations
and supervise on a frequent basis the on-farm experiments in the same manner
that they are involved with other on-farm trials.
36.     The role of the Irrigation Department in Operational Research would
be four-fold:



ANNEX 9
Page -ll
(a) To review the research program on its merits. Since they are going
to be a "beneficiary" as well as a partner in the operational
research program, their preferences for research topics as well as
location should be heard and considered;
(b) To become a full partner when it comes to the diagnostic analyses of
a scheme and to be fully responsible for all aspects concerning water
delivery;
(c) To participate in actual experimentation with water scheduling. For
instance, in certain selected outlet commands, minors and dis-
tributors they would be responsible for the agreed mode of opera-
tions; and
(d) As part of their normal monitoring responsibilities, to measure and
time the flows distributed to each part (distributary, minor) of the
system).



ANNEX 10
Psge 1
INDIA
NATIONAL WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Extension
Agricultural Extension in India
1.      Soon after independence, GOI began sponsoring a number of programs
designed to meet the need for more effective, country-wide agricultural
development; the Community Development Program in 1952, the National Exten-
sion Service Blocks in 1953, the Intensive Agricultural District Program in
1960, and the Small and Marginal Farmers Development Program in 1969-70.
Despite their proliferation, these programs covered only a small portion of
the farmers, generally the wealthy. Recognizing that a new approach was
required to achieve a more broadly-based increase in agricultural output, and
in response to changing rural and administrative conditions, GOI, with IDA
assistance, introduced an approach (tried earlier in other countries) which
is generally known as the "training and visit system" (T&V). It was first
tried in India through pilot projects in the Rajasthan Canal Command Area
Development Project (Cr. 502-IN, 1974) and in the Chambal Command Area
Development Project in Madhya Pradesh (Cr. 562-IN, 1975). Since 1977, it has
been adopted by an increasing number of states on a statewide basis. It aims
at increasing productivity on farms by simultaneously addressing:
(a) the transfer of new agricultural technology from research to the
farmer; and
(b) feedback from the farmer to research and other government organiza-
tions to ensure research responds to actual farm problems.
Some of the changes introduced are organizational (single-line control,
exclusive responsibility), others are operational (fixed, regular contact
between farmers and extension, coverage, mobility, housing in the field), and
still others relate to the linkage between research and extension (regular
meetings and workshops of extension and research staff, systematic feedback
of farmers' problems and responses to research);
2.      Under the system of multi-purpose field workers which the T&V system
replaced, extension personnel were burdened with heavy paper work and such
non-extension duties as input delivery and administration of various sub-
sidized schemes. These tended to dissipate extension efforts and divert
attention and resources for the primary extension purpose. There were
usually too few staff to cover the farming community adequately. They lacked
mobility to reach farmers systematically and regularly, had practically no



ANNEX 10
Page 2
training in relevant technology, and saw limited prospects for advancement.
Most extension personnel had low status, low pay and poor morale. In addi-
tion, there was virtually no linkage between extension and research. Without
this linkage, it is difficult to justify the considerable investment being
made in agricultural research. Improved technology is of little benefit if
it cannot be made available to farmers and, conversely, it is difficult to
develop useful research unless there is sound feedback between farm and
research, both roles for extension.
3.      Over the past ten years, considerable efforts have been made to
improve agricultural extensicn and research. Experience has confirmed what
was recognized when the T&V approach was first introduced on a large scale;
that in a democratic state with a well-entrenched bureaucracy, institutional
change takes time, especially where large numbers of people are involved.
The 16 states which have introduced, or are about to introduce, improved
agricultural extension with IDA assistance, will eventually reach about 70%
of India's farm families. In these states, there are to be some 66,000
village extension workers (VEWs), 8,800 agricultural extension officers
(AEOs), 3,300 subject matter specialists (SMSs), 900 sub-divisional agricul-
tural officers (SDAOs); 60 assistant SDAOs, 400 district agricultural
officers (DAOs) and assistant DAOs, and 60 zonal joint directors and addi-
tional directors of agriculture. The extension service represents only a
small part of the total civil service in any state (e.g., in Andhra Pradesh
only about 1%) but because of the close and often unique field relationship
with farmers (who represent the vast majority of every state's population),
agricultural extension is particularly vulnerable to outside pressures for
purely non-technical reasons. Although geared to existing institutions,
substantial reorganization was needed in all states to deal with the major
problems experienced under the former structure. The new system also called
for major attitudinal changes on the part of extension staff, farmers,
agricultural researchers and government officials, both within and outside
departments of agriculture. Given these circumstances, as experience with
these projects confirms, firm commitment at government level and strong
departmental management are central to successful implementation.
The T&V System: Main Characteristics
4.      The trai?hing and visit (T&V) extension methodology provides farmers,
on a regular and systematic basis, current advice on farming practices best
suited to their specific conditions, emphasizing proven practices with
immediate impact on production and income. It is accomplished by a regular
system of training and of visits by field staff, supported by professional
advisors from within the state's Department of Agriculture and agricultural
research institutions. The system calls for a single line of command from
the Director of Agriculture to the village extension worker (VEW) and the
merging of all agricultural field staff, including those engaged in
crop-specific agricultural development programs, in a unified service,
employed exclusively on agricultural extension.  To reflect their exclusive
role, such workers are called VEWs. Non-agricultural village level
activities are handled by the village level workers (VLWs) with the Community
Development Department, and other staff.
5.      The number of farm families covered by every extension worker varies
depending on population density, accessibility, intensity of farming and



ANNEX 10
Page 3
other measures of need. Normally, between 700 and 800 families are served by
a VEW, divided into eight groups each visited regularly on a given day during
a two-week cycle. The VEW works primarily with 8 to 10 contact farmers
selected within each group. Extension messages are kept simple,- concentrat-
ing initially on the most important crops in the locality and the most impor-
tant aspects of crop cultivation at that time. Emphasis is placed on improv-
ing cultural practices. At a later stage, use of inputs and more sophisti-
cated cropping systems may be emphasized. The VEW is supervised in the field
by AEOs, each supervising about 8 VEWs. VEWs receive the extension message
for the fortnight at training sessions held on a fixed day in each fortnight
by SNSs. Training and visits take nine days per fortnight. The three other
working days in the period are devoted to field trials, making up missed
visits, and performing occasional office work.
Technical Support and Supervision
6.      This general pattern calls for staff at the sub-divisional and dis-
trict levels strong enough to ensure satisfactory supervision, training and
guidance. Sub-divisional level staff include a sub-divisional agricultutral
officer (SDAO) with an assistant SDAO (ASDAO) in large sub-divisions so as to
keep a ratio of about 6 to 8 AEGs per supervisor. To strengthen technical
support and training, a team of SNSs at sub-divisional level is provided,
initially one each in agronomy, plant protection and training. At the dis-
trict levelt a district agricultural officer (DAD) supervises the work of
sub-divisional staff, while specialists provide additional technical support
in such specialties as water management, farm implements, entomology and
horticulture. SMSs divide their time equally between field visits (including
support for lower level staff), research (including field triaks), and train-
ing.
Status of Extension in Participating States
7.      In all the participating states, a T&V system of extension is in
operation and all the sub-projects are covered by Bank-assisted extension
projects. In Tamil Nadu, the project is financed under Cr. 1137-IN effective
from July 1981 and closing June 1986. The second supportive phase of the
project may be covered under NAEP-IV. An overall VEW farm family ratio of
1:1000 is maintained. A contingency provision exists for 300 as necessary,
although GOTW so far has not felt the need to invoke this. Six to eight VEWs
are supervised by a deputy agricultural officer. The sub-division is under
the charge of DAO, who supervises 6-10 deputies. A Joint Director Agricul-
ture oversees all the activities of the Agriculture Department at the dis-
trict level and he is assisted by a deputy director extension and a team of
three SMSs. The DAO also is assisted by three SMSs, one each in Agronomy,
Plant Protection and Training/Communications. The Tamil Nadu Extension
Project is being implemented satisfactorily. Field visits and trainings are
'conducted regularly. Research support to extension has been effective. The
project has no major problems. The performance of middle level managers
needs some attention, and improved training and research support to boost
crop water management extension is necessary. GOTN is addressing these
issues. The staff position is satisfactory, with most extension workers in
position.



ANNEX 10.
Page 4
8.      Karnataka completed the first phase of a reorganized agricultural
extension service under the Bank-assisted Composite Extension Project,
(Cr. 862-IN (1979-1984). A second phase project, providing further support,
is in operation under the National Agriculture Extension Project II,
Cr. 1569-IN, effective July 1985. This project will close in June 1990. The
PCR indicates that agricultural extension activities under the reorganized
management system was well established under the first phase. Field visits
have been effective in passing on relevant production know-how. Research
extension linkages through monthly workshops have increased the knowledge and
skills of SMSs. Joint field visits by scientists have helped in identifying
production constraints. Farmers have appreciated the role played by the
extension service in-command area pilot projects such as the Upper Krishna
Project. However, under NAEP-II, the second phase project has encountered
problems, including inadequate budget support to ongoing activities which
has affected mobility of extension workers particularly, and the transfer of
2,000 field staff to the Rural Development Department following a court
action, which has led to staff shortages.  At the district level, management
techniques for establishing goals and priorities were found to be ad hoc and
need support.  Another area that needs attention is minimizing the turnover
of SMSs and identification of persons specialized in specific fields. The
agriculture assistant (AA) family ratio is, in principle, 1:400-800. Seven
to eight Ms would be supervised by an assistant agriculture officer (AAO).
The district is divided into Talukas (sub-divisions) headed by an ADA. For
every three talukas, one cluster taluka is identified and a team of three.
SMSs are provided. These SMSs operate in all the three talukas. There are
teams of four SMSs in every district. The district is headed by a principal
agriculture officer. Under the NAEP-II, more SMSs positions have been
provided at the district level. One such SMS would be a soil and water
management SMS, and another for farm implements wherever necessary. All the
NAEP projects support training as a priority sector and include all
categories of training from induction training/orientation to SMS upgradation
courses. Field study tours have also been include. All the NWMP
sub-projects fall within an area where extension is well organized.
9.      Andhra Pradesh Agriculture Extension Project, financed under
Cr. 1219-IN effective from June 1982, is coming to a close in March 1988.
Continued support to strengthen the service would come under the NAEP-IV.
The project had to pass through critical periods since the transfer of exten-
sion staff from the Rural Development and Command Area Development Depart-
ments to the Department of Agriculture was not implemented. Now that this
problem has been resolved, it is anticipated that the project will progress
to establish the system throughout the state. The command areas are, as of
today, well staffed and staffing would not be a major impediment.
Research/extension coordination is cordial and monthly workshops and joint
field visits are done regularly.
10.     In addition to the extension service operated by the DOA, in each of
the participation states the SAU has a Department of Extension with
activities in all the agro-climatological zones. Its main functions are to:



ANNEX 10
Page 5
(a) assist with the technology transfer of SAUs to the extension service
at the monthly workshops;
(b) prepare extension brochures and leaflets; and
(c) develop new methods of technology transfer.
Role of Agriculture Extension in Comnand Areas
11.     Agriculture extension services operate in irrigated command areas in
basically the same way as in other areas. They are single-function, single
line-of-command, technical services responsible for providing farmers
directly with technical advice on how to increase their agricultural produc-
tion and incomes, and for ensuring feedback from farmers to research and
other agricultural support services.
12.     The role of the agricultural extension service in improving the water
management of irrigation systems is crucial.  A well organized extension
service (following the T&V system) provides the framework for information
flows between farmers, farmer groups and the key agencies involved. As the
timing and value of water delivery above the outlet improves through better
water management by the Irrigation Department, so would farmers' utilization
of the additional and reliable water supply. Thus, extension assists the
farmers in better utilization of existing technology and assures feedback to
the research stations on technology constraints identified through regular
and close contact with farmers. Extension also has a role in monitoring the
response of supply agencies to increased demand of farmers for improved
services. Extension provides a structure through the already established and
operating routines of fortnightly training and monthly workshops, for regular
feedback to Irrigation Departments, CADAs and other development and input
supply organizations.
13.     The command areas represent one or more farming situations within an
agro-ecological zone. In the context of this zonal concept, the main respon-
sibilities of the agricultural extension service in irrigated command areas
are to:-
(a) develop through on-farm research, jointly with staff of the zonal
agricultural research stations, appropriate production recommenda-
tions, especially for irrigated agriculture, and transfer these
recommendation to the farmers;
(b) train farmers, in the course of field visits, in general improved
practices for irrigated agriculture;
(c) advise input supply agencies of the current and future input demands
and the required supply situation;
(d) assist the ID in the formation of farmer/outlet groups; and
(e) perform all the usual extension functions (e.g., regular field visits
and provide feedback to research and agricultural support services on
field conditions and farmers' reactions to production recommenda-
tions).'



ANNEX 10
Page 6
Situation and Status of SMSs in Crop Water Management and Farm Implements
14.     One of the weakest links in the potential for improving the water
delivery system is the low efficiency with which most water is applied and
used on the farm. Most VEWs, AOs and higher level extension personnal are
not acquainted with improved field techniques for on-farm water distribution,.
application and field drainage, nor with the farm implements required to
apply these improved techniques.
15.     Training facilities exist in Tamil Nadu (Water Technology Center
TNAU, Madurai) and Karnataka (Training Institute for Minor Irrigation, UAS,
at Dharwar). Specialized training facilities for SMSs at WALAMTARI, Andhra
Pradesh have yet to become operational. In addition to formal training, SMS9s
require a practical hands-on training which could best be started in the
first batch of sub-projects to be implemented under the NWMP.  To that
effect, the SAU involved will start small training and screening farms in
each scheme, and an operational research program (in whi.ch the new SMS would
actively participate) in crop water management will be started to generate
improved on-farm irrigation agronomy technology (Annex 9). In States where
experienced staff for training SMSs and scientists in on-farm water manage-
ment is insufficient, consultants made available under NARP or by bilateral
assistance would be used by the SAUs.
16.     Foremost amongst extension objectives in new projects would be to
assist farmers in using water when first received (often on sloping erodible
land) instead of waiting for full landshaping by the State Land Development
Corporation (which is clearly impractical). This problem has been tackled
in the Upper Krishna Scheme by CADA/DOA staff, demonstrating on farmers'
fields simple farm layouts for irrigation using existing slopes and methods
of irrigation for different crops developed by UAS. A large number of simple
demonstration plots on farmers land (including introduction of crops new to
the area) have been established. This has been done separately from the
normal T&V system, which works independently throughout the command area.
This type of irrigation development work is badly needed in both new and
existing commands, since the additional workload cannot yet be effectively
done by the normal extension staff. However, when SMSs in water management
become available, VEWs and AOs in command areas should be trained during
special, as well as regular fortnightly, training seminars, particularly in
the practical skills required to survey a farm and mark out the required
field irrigation layout.
Contact With Other Agencies
17.     Based on the annually projected and adjusted cropping pattern,
estimates of required farm inputs should be prepared following the research
recommendations for that particular farming situation. Estimated input
requirements would be brought to the attention of the public and private
input suppliers and credit organizations, advising them also on the expected
timing of farm operations with the new water management plan and subsequent
timing of input deliveries.



ANNEX 10
Page 7
18.     The extension service also has an important role in advising the ID
or CADA on the identification and establishment of farmers' groups, since
they are far more intimately and directly involved with farmers and villages
than ID so far.
19.     Feedback to research on farmers' needs would be achieved through:
(a) the monthly workshops; (b) joint diagnostic visits made with SAU scien-
tists in connection with Status Report preparation and update; (c) evaluation
of farm trials by the SAU scientists; (d) joint surveys with SAU scientists
(including SMSs) of the most important crops 3 or 4 times during the crop
season (just after sowing, during mid-season and near harvest) to observe
production trends, weather effects and incidence of pest and diseases; and
(e) diagnostic analysis of selected distributories of minors.
Extension Organization and Staffing in Command Areas
20.     Operational adjustments in normal extension activities are required
to enhance their effectiveness in irrigated command areas. Some of these
adjustments could be:
(a) Delineation of VEW Circles. VEW circles, and farmers' groups within
these, would be delineated so that they (entire circles or some
farmers' groups within circles) include, to the extent possible,
either irrigated or non-irrigated fields/farmers. Extension opera-
tions are easier to implement if most farmers in a circle or group
have either irrigated or un-irrigated fields. Most farmers, however,
have both irrigated and non-irrigated land and so a rigid delineation
is difficult to attain. Farmers' groups in command areas would,
wherever feasible, coincide with a set of irrigation outlets, which
may be different laterals, but which should form a contiguous area.
In delineating circles and groups, allowance would be made for areas
likely to be irrigated in the near future.
(b) Delineation of AEO Ranges. AEO ranges would be delineated, where
feasible, in such a way that an ABO would be responsible for VEWs
who are working either in predominantly irrigated or non-irrigated
areas. However, the basic principle of contiguous VEW circles and a
contiguous area under the charge of an AEO should be followed. The
AEO would ensure that all major crops and production systems of all
farmers in his range are adequately served by the extension service.
(c) Intensity of Field Staff Coverage. The intensity of coverage by
extension field staff (VEW, AEO) in NWMP sub-projects should be
increased until the operational changes in water management, cropping
patterns and improved on-farm irrigation techniques, have been well
established and adopted. Due attention would be given, however, to
other relevant factors, such as the uniformity of production systems.
and practices, ease of communication and settlement density.  Con-
sideration may also be given to double the frequency of the VEW visit
to each farmers' group to once in seven days rather than once in two
weeks (spending a half-day with each of the eight farmers' groups in.
his circle) during the first two years of the project; frequency of
visits would depend, inter alia, on cropping activities and the water
management system.



ANNEX 10
Page 8
(d)  Specialized Technical Support.  Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs) in
irrigation agronomy and/or water management, and in specialized crops
grown in command areas (as well as SMSs in other basic subjects), are
likely to be required at each operational level (sub-division, dis-
trict and head-quarters). In major command areas, consideration may
be given to having a Joint Director of Agriculture responsible only
for overseeing extension and other Department of Agriculture
activities in the command area as a whole. At Departmeirt of Agricul-
ture headquarters, there would be a senior DOA officer with overall
responsibility for coordinating the Department's input into irriga-
tion planning, liasing with the Irrigation Department's O&MNCells
and/or CADA, and providing technical guidance to SMSs in irrigated
areas.  He could be seconded to the ID O&M Cell as has been done in
Karnataka.
(e)  Contact Farmers.  The number of contact farmers in each farmers'
group which covers an entirely, or mostly, irrigated area would be
increased to about 15 in view of the usual compactness of the area.
Leaders of outlet groups would be included among the contact farmers.
Progress in Support of NWMP
21.     No special extension programs in NWMP sub-project areas have so far
been initiated in any of the three participating States. Extension programs
to support NWMP would consist of:
(a) Delineation of AEO and VEW circles as outlined above;
(b) Development of a training program for water management SMSS with the
SAUs as indicated in Annex 9, and the programming of the number of
trainees according to the implementation schedule of NWMP. The
target density would be one SMS per sub-division and the high turn-
over of SMSs (not longer than 3 years in a certain position) should
be taken into account when determining the annual number of trainees;
(c) Operational research and on-farm research as envisaged in Annex 9
would involve the SMSs more closely with research and the generation
of technology and hence provide more professional stimulus. A good
SMS could be taken on by the SAUs as junior scientists in irrigation
agronomy; and
(d) In order to plan and implement these support and training programs,
the appointment of special JDAs in command areas and a senior DOA
official in the O&M Cell as recommended in para 3.16(d) should be
ensured as part of the state's committment to NWMP.



ANNEX 11
Page 1
INDIA
NATIONAL WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Linkages Between Agriculture and Irrigation Agencies
General
1.     The proposed NWMP aims to strengthen the capacity of the State
Government institutions to plan, implement and evaluate improved irrigation
manageMent  practices.  The emphasis is on the preparation of an operational
plan for water delivery, and therefore on the role of the Irrigation Depart-
ment. Nevertheless, the role of the Agricultural Agencies is crucial, both
in the preparation of the operational plan and during implementation.
Linkages between the Extension and Research agencies are an integral com-
ponent of the T&V system of agricultural extension (Annex 9). This Annex
briefly reviews how similar linkages will be established between these
agricultural agencies and the Irrigation Departments.
Preparation and Approval of NWMP Sub-projects
2.      Primary responsibility for the preparation of NWMP sub-projects will
lie with the Project Preparation Cells (PPCs) within the respective Irriga-
tion-Departments. Agricultural staff, on secondment to the PPCs from the
Departments of Agriculture, will participate in this process and be respon-
sible for the agricultural planning aspects of sub-project preparation. For
each scheme, the process will involve diagnostic analysis of scheme perfor-
aance in association with local irrigation and agricultural staff, and in
consultation with the farmers (Annex 4). The seconded staff will be respon-
sible for ensuring that the local agricultural extension staff are fully
involved in this process, and that the local research establishment are fully
consulted, and that available research results are reflected in the opera-
tional plan proposed. Where necessary, they will initiate additional
resource surveys and data collection by the appropriate agencies (e.g. soil
surveys, groundwater mapping and assessment, cropping pattern and yield data,
agro-economic surveys, etc) and will ensure that these are completed as a
basis for sub-project preparation. They will contribute to establishing the
agricultural objectives of the operational plan, and ensure that the water
distribution techniques adopted adequately serve the requirements of the
cropping plan. Together with the local extension and other staff, they will
ensure that the proposals are fully discussed with the farmers and that
farmer response is reflected in the proposals submitted.
3.      Primary responsibility for clearance and approval of NWMP
sub-projects will rest with the State Government concerned.  A committee or
committees will be established at the State level for this purpose (Annex 8)



ANNEX 11
Page 2
on which both the Department of Agriculture and the SAU will be represented.
Following State clearance, the sub-project proposal will be submitted to the
NWMP Appraisal Committee in the GOI Ministry of Water Resources to ensure
that it follows the guidelines established for the project. The GOI Ministry
of Agriculture and ICAR will be represented on the Appraisal Committee.
4.      Implementation of the NWMP scheme investments will be primarily the
responsibility of the Irrigation Department. Progress will be monitored by
the PPC which will submit regular progress reports to GOI and IDA. Given
ongoing agricultural extension (Annex 9) and agricultural research (Annex
10) programs supported by the Bank, no additional provision is-made under the
NWMP for these supporting services. As 4iscussed in the earlier annexes,
however, within the framework of these other programs, measures would be
taken to ensure they respond to the requirements of the NWMP.
Operational Decision-Making
5.      State Level.  At the State level, there exist a number of mechanisms
for ensuring coordination between irrigation and agricultural agencies on
irrigation matters. These include the Irrigation Coordinating Committee or
similar, usually chaired by the Agricultural Production Commissioner, and
comprising the Secretaries of Irrigation, Agriculture, Cooperatives, the Vice
Chancellor of the SAU, and other members. This high level committee makes
recommendations to the State Government concerned on all matters relating to
the construction and operation of irrigation projects. 1/ Within the
framework of the administration of CAD activities, there is also in some
cases a State level body (e.g. the CAD Board in Andhra Pradesh) which reviews
Command Area Development and operational proposals for all schemes included
under the program in the State. In other cases, the Working Committee (as in
Andhra Pradesh) or the CAD Board (as in Karnataka) for individual schemes may
include State level representation.
6.      District Level.  The District Irrigation Committee (in Tamil Nadu) or
Irrigation Development Board (in Andhra Pradesh) is chaired by the District
Collector and has both official and non-official (including MLAs, farmer
representatives, etc) membership. It reviews all irrigation matters in the
district. While in the past this has included operational matters relating
to major schemes in the District, this has not always proved an effective
mechanism for taking scheme-level decisions. Not only may a scheme fall in
more than one district, but involvement of representatives from throughout
the district may prevent an adequate focus being given to the requirements of
a specific scheme. Under the project, therefore, scheme-level committees
will be established (as in Karnataka) for all NWMP sub-projects.
7.      Scheme Level.  In Karnataka, an Irrigation Consultative Committee,
with both official and farmer representation, has decision-making respon-
sibility for system operations. In Andhra Pradesh, similar seasonal
"workshops" are held in the command area for those schemes coming under the
CAD program, although their recommendations are subject to the final decision
1/ Comparable State and Zonal Committees have been established under the
.~~~ *          .           .        .   _  .   _ a   



ANNEX 11
Page 3
of the state-level CAD Board and its Working Committees. Under the project,
a scheme-level committee wi*ll be established for all NWMP sub-projects.
Within the framework of basin-wide water allocations, this committee will
have responsibility for system operations. It will meet prior to each
irrigation season to approve the operational plan, and define the rules for
its implementation, and after each season to evaluate experience gained.
Interaction Between Irrigation and Agricultural Agencies at the Scheme Level
8.      The scheme committee will be the primary decision-making body for
operational matters and will provide a framework within which irrigation and
agricultural officials can coordinate their activities, both with each other
and with the farmers. Nevertheless, there will be a need for additional
technical interaction both at the planning stage for a season's operations
and during implementation of the seasonal plan.
9.      At the Seasonal Planning Stage.  Full objective discussion of the
technical issues will be difficult at the pre-seasonal scheme committ?e
meeting, given the pressures from differing interests and the role of the
Committee as a management decision-making body. Discussions between irriga-
tion and agricultural staff will therefore be needed prior to the seasonal
meetings to evolve a coordinated set of technical recommendations to be
submitted to the Scheme Committee. Within the framework of the approved
operational plan for the schemet these recommendations would cover such
factors as reservoir operations, canal opening and closing dates, and irriga-
tion schedules, inter alia taking into account climatic conditions, water
availability and the evolving cropping pattern.  -Based on the recommended
seasonal plan, the irrigation and agricultural officers would schedule their
staffing and other activities, and following approval of the proposed plan,
modified if necessary, the input supply agencies (both private and public)
would be advised of complementary input requirements (e.g. for seeds, fer-
tilizers, pesticides, credit, etc) and farmers informed of what to expect.
10.     During Implementation.  The T&V extension system provides an
appropriate framework for regular interaction with the Irrigation Departments
and other input supply agencies. Monthly workshops at the district level
provide a forum for senior officials to review seasonal production con-
straints, update production recommendations and modify operational plans and
procedures. Although these are not held oA a command area basis, the fact
that they are already established argues in their favour as a regular meeting
ground. Similarly, the fortnightly training sessions for VEWs provide an
appropriate forum for interaction at a lower level. It will not be necessary
for ID (or other input supply) staff to attend the full session but:
(a) at the monthly workshop, the AEE/EE concerned would brief the exten-
sion and research officers regarding the programmed distribution of
water and take note of any special requirements, farmer reactions and
cropping developments: and
(ii)  at the fortnightly training session, the AR concerned would brief the
VEWs on the schedules for the coming period and on O&M requirements
of.the sub-command concerned, and would in return be advised regard-
ing any problems faced by the farmers.



ANNEX 11
Page 4
The effectiveness of these arrangements would be increased to the extent that
AO and VEW circles can be reorganized for predominantly irrigated areas and
can be adjusted on a distributary/minor/outlet basis. In addition to par-
ticipation at the regular monthly and fortnightly sessions, it would be
desirable for ID and Agricultural staff to make joint field visits to discuss
matters of mutual interest and to get firsthand experience of farmers reac-
tions and problems.                   _
11.     The virtue of ID involvement in the regular T&V mechanisms would not
be confined to improved coordination between irrigation and agricultural
staff. Through their regular field visits, the VEWs can provide a channel for
the wide dissemination of information to the farmers and, similarly, a
mechanism for feeding farmer reactions back up the system.
A Possible Management System for ID Staff
12.     The T&V system provides for a regular system of interaction
up-and-down the agricultural extension hierarchy and between the extension
service and the farmers.  While a system as intensive as this is not required
for ID staff, there are strong arguments in favour of regular meetings -
between officer level and grassroot level ID staff, and b¢tveen the latter
and farmer representatives. A regular system ofzueetings among ID staff
could do much to improve communications within the department and help ensure
all staff work with a common purpose.  As under the T&V system of extension,
such meetings c-ould be combined with a regular training program (Annex 14).
The extent to which regular meetings (visits) between ID staff and farmers
can be established will probably be a function of the pace at which farmer
organizations are established (Annex 12). Nevertheless, even if regular
visit schedules are a long way off, this does not negate the principle that
-the AE, Works Inspector and Laskar should be in direct contact with the
farmers, and that there should be regular interaction between those respon-
sible for water delivery and the users.



ANNEX 12
Page 1
INDIA
NATIONAL WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Farmer Involvement
General
1.      Experience has shown that it is not usually possible to provide
individualized service to individual farmers and plots with the infrastruc-
ture available in surface irrigation projects in India. Consequently, at
some leveltin the system, control must be transferred to the farmers.
However, farmers cannot be expected to organize themselves effectively to
perform their role if the supplies they receive are unreliable. Thus, the
first step in ensuring effective farmer participation is to frame an opera-
tional plan that is realistic in terms of the available infrastructure. Once
this is done, and the plan has proved generally acceptable to the farmers,        _
consideration needs to be given to the form of such participation. Some form
of cooperation universally exists and informal organizations have been set up
in many schemes. These concentrate on water distribution and maintenance
below the Government outlet, but in some cases they have a broader role (e.g.
those in the tail end reaches of the Rajolibunda Diversion Scheme in Andhra
Pradash, see Annex 5), and it is possible to envisage their full integration
in the management of the scheme (e.g. through elected representatives on the
scheme committee). The speed with which this can be achieved will vary from
scheme to scheme and will in part depend on the effectiveness of the opera-
tional plan. No single approach or structure will be appropriate for all
situations, but within the context of the NWMP water user associations will
be promoted which build on existing forms of organization, follow hydrologi-
cal boundaries (outlet/minor/distributary), and focus on irrigation manage-
ment and system maintenance, initially in the minor system but ultimately
throughout the scheme.
Farmer Participation in Evolving an Operational Plan
2.      In preparing operational plans, and selecting interventions for
inclusion under the NWMP, it is essential to understand and take into account
farmer needs and aspirations. Thus:
(a) all aspects of cropping developments in the command need to be
studied, taking into account how socio-economic conditions have
evolved over time; and
(b) a clear understanding needs to be reached as to how farmers are
likely to respond to changes in system operations and management.



ANNEX 12
Page 2
3.      Ways in which such an understanding of the farmers' position can be
obtained will vary. Farmers or their representatives can be consulted for-
mally (e.g. through an hierarchy of farmer committees) or informally (e.g.
through calling farmer meetings, field visits by the preparation team, etc).
Alternatively, formal surveys can be undertaken to establish initial base
line conditions and to monitor evolving farmer conditions and responses to
management, changes-.-The guidelines set out in Annex 4 suggest an approach to
the diagnostic analysis of scheme problems which coultd use any or all of such
techniques.
4.      Once an operational plan has been formulated, it'is important to
obtain farmer concurrence so that they are committed to what is proposed and
are fully aware of what to expect.  How such concurrence is to be obtained in
relation to an NWMP sub-project proposal has been left to the discretion of
the State Government concerned (Annex 8) since a formal approval mechanism
might lead to unresolvable local conflicts (e.g. between headenders and
tailenders). In some instances, a complex series of district and local
discussions may be necessary, leading to formal agreement to revise the
system operation rules (as has occurred for the Sathanur scheme in Tamil
Nadu). In other cases, informal diGcussions leading to modification of
previous practice on a season-by-season basis may be all that is required.
5.      Once the NWMP sub-project proposal has been cleared and approved by
the GOI Appraisal Committee, the Scheme Committee, on which farm rs are-
represented, will decide how the revised. operating rures are to be applied in
each irrigation season.- Similarly, the Scheme Committee will evaluate the
season s outcome as a basis for further modification and refinement, while
the ID, in cooperation with the farmers, will be responsible for implementa-
tion of the scheme investments.
6.      In addition to obtaining Scheme Committee approval for a seasonal
operational plan, mechanisms will be required to ensure that farmers are
fully aware and informed in terms of what they are to expect.  If they do not
know what their rights are, or what water they can expect, then they have no
basis on which to respond to the operational plan. Information can be passed
through the extension service, through formal or informal farmer meetings, or
through the media (radio, newspapers, pamphlets, notices, etc). All these
mechanisms should be used to create widespread awareness of the water
delivery plan, ensure that farmers respond to the opportunities created, and
enable input supply agencies to prepare for its requirements.



ANNEX 12
Page 3
Experience with Farmer Organizations
7.      Existing forms of cooperation between farmers include informal arran-
gements for distributing water and maintaining field channels, joint employ-
ment by neighbouring farmers of a common irrigator to manage water (espe-
cially for paddy), l/ and more formal arrangements based on village or dis-
tributary organizations (for instance in the tail reaches of the RDS in
Andhra Pradesh where up to 300 farmers covering perhaps 1,000-1,500 ha com-
bine to regulate the allocation of the uncertain supplies received). 2/
Government sponsored organizations have also been promoted, especially in the
context of the GOI centrally-sponsored 'warabundi' program, under which CADA
staff (in Tamil Nadu, AED staff - see Annex 8)organize an outlet committee in,
cooperation with the farmers, and establish a rotational schedule (often
detailed on a board at the head of the field channel) for distribution of
water by time between the participating farmers. Up to Rs.350 per ha is
spent on ancillary facilities, including construction of a measuring flume,
distribution boxes, marginal realignments and improvements, the 'warabundi'
board, etc, with this financed by a GOI grant. Under the Andhra Pradesh
Irrigation Utilization and CAD Act (1984), a legal framework has been estab-
lished for forming these committees, but legal registration has rarely, if
ever, been invoked, and such committees in all three States have generally
been informal, even if 'officially' sponsored.
8.      Experience has shown that organizations sponsored by CADA and AED
have rarely outlasted the active involvement of CADA/AED staff, 3/ in par-
ticular if supplies are uncertain and the detailed time schedules prepared
are almost invariably ignored. In contrast, those forms of organization and
1/ The common irrigator can become very adept at adjusting flows to local
topography, soil characteristics and crop needs and typically cooperates
well with neighbouring common irrigators so long as flows are adequate.
In the event of reduced supplies, this cooperation increasingly breaks
down and those at the head pre-empt supplies to safeguard their crop and
those at the tail suffer.
2/ A register is maintained whereby individual farmers receive water, when-
ever it is received, in strict rotation, the frequency and timing of each
farmer's turn being a reflection of the pattern of supply during the
season in the distributary/minor. This is similar to the 'osra-bundi'
system of UP (which should be distinguished from the 'warabundi' system
of NW India under which security is assured to a certain level, and
farmers have their turn at a specified time of the week if the minor is
running at that time.
3/ A well-documented case is Sriramsagar (Pochampad) in Andhra Pradesh where
a pilot program in the late 1970s/early 1980s, focussing on farmer
organizations and rotation. below the outlet, initially had an impressive
impact on production (see GOAP/FAO IBRD CP: tAndhra Pradesh Rotational
Water Distribution Project," Draft Preparation Report, Annex 1, 1981).
However, not only was it concentrated in areas with secure supplies to
the Government outlet, but, when the leadership behind its original



ANNEX 12
Page 4
cooperation which have evolved voluntarily out of a 'felt need' by the
farmers concerned are usually permanent. This is particularly the case in
paddy areas, given the extreme sensitivity of paddy to water stress, but
examples also exist (e.g. in RDS) where farmer organizations have arisen in
response to uncertain supplies, primarily for ID crops. The latter in par-
ticular imply that there is considerable potential for developing more exten-
sive water user associations, but also suggest that they should not be forced
by outsiders according to a rigid pre-ordained blueprint (as has occurred
under the 'warabundi' program), but should evolve in response to farmer
needs, preferably building on forms of organization that already exist.
Clearly, the need for local leadership is paramount, and only if such
organizations serve a purpose recognized by the participating farmers will
they be maintained.
A Possible Future Structure
9.      Subject to the above reservations, water user associations will be
promoted in the context of the NWMP to assume responsibility for O&M below
the Government outlet and to participate incteasingly in the management of
the scheme as a whole. Logic, as well as practical evidence (not only from
India), suggests such associations should be organized along hydrological
boundaries : should concentrate on irrigation management issues (and should
not evolve, at least initially, into multi-purpose institutions) : and should
establish direct contacts with ID staff (at the outlet level with the Laskar,
at the minor/distributary level, if committees at these levels are created
with the AE). All farmers served by the irrigation system would belong to a
water user association, and an hierarchy of representative cowmittees might
be built up as follows (the number of levels in the hierarchy depending on
the size and complexity of the system):
(a) Outlet Committees
Each outlet having 15-20 famers might form an outlet association (if
there are more than 15-20 farmers, additional groups might be formed,
contiguity of area being maintained in forming such groups). Each
outlet association would elect a comittee of 3-5 members and a
chairman who would become a member of the minor/ distributary commit-
tee. Functions of the outlet committee would include: distribution
of water as per the scheduled rotational water supply; maintenance
of field channels and field drainage channels; prevention of
unauthorized use of water; modification of rotations within the chak
if necessary; and redressal of grievances of farmers within the
chak. All aspects of irrigation management that concern farmers in
the chak would be the general concern of this committee.
(b) Minor/Distributary/Branch Committees
The chairmen of all outlet committees on a minor/distributary would
form a minor/distributary committee and among them in turn elect a
chairman. Functions of the minor/distributary committee would be
to help resolve problems that arise between outlet associations;
ensure the outlet committees are functioning; liaise closely with
ID/CADA staff; and, in association with ID staff, distribute water
equitably between outlets and farmers in the event of unexpected



ANNEX 12
Page 5
shortages. Depending on the size and complexity of the system,
chairmen of the minor/distributary committees might form committees
at a higher level in the system and ultimately provide farmer repre-
sentation at the scheme level committee.
10.     As argued above, such organizations are only likely to prove effec-
tive if water is distributed according to a realistic and predictable opera-
tional plan, and if they reflect farmer needs and perceptions. Subject to
these pre-conditions, they would increasingly lead to a situation where
farmers participate fully in the management of the system and perhaps
ultimately generate a feeling of common ownership of the scheme as a whole,
with its concomitant impact on disciplined water use, improved O&M and col-
lective responsibility. l/
Establishment of Permanent Water User Associations
11.     The emphasis should be on voluntary water user associations.  Never-
theless, if these organizations are to be established on a permanent basis,
some administrative santtions may be required to make them effective and to
ensure that they are not taken over by the rich and powerful. This might
include laying down election procedures where the traditional farmers' repre-
sentation system fails, ensuring representation by small farmers, ensuring
representation from the head/middle/tail, defining a quorum, establishing the
duties and responsibilities of various officers, etc. The extent to which
legal sanctions would be required to enforce such administrative arrange-
ments, and to regulate abuses, would have to be carefully considered.  Too
much regulation and control by government agencies, particularly for existing
associations, should be avoided.
12.     The promotion of water user associations would need to be followed by
changes in the responsibilities, attitudes, and perhaps organization of
government agencies. The ID/CAD authorities should have primary respon-
sibility for promoting such associations (possibly assisted by e;.tension
officers). if the Extension Service is also organized on an outlet basis,
then linkages between systems operations and agricultural research and exten-
sion would be much easier to establish. In matters relating to systems
operations and water distribution, the associations/committees would
cooperate directly with the systems operators (ID/CADA), and the laskar will,
in particular, have to provide the appropriate cooperative link between the
farmers and the operating agency. In matters relating to on-farm irrigation
practices, the associations/committees would, over a period, provide an
effective framework for extension advice to individual famers, with committee
members possibly acting as contact farmers under the T&V system. As exten-
sion officers gain a better understanding of the way the system operates, the
extension advice provided would improve and the lessons learnt from field
applications could be fed back through the extension service into the
1/ The role of water user associations in O&M, and the effect this might
have on O&M activities and funding by the State Government, will be
assessed in the context of the proposed O&M reviews in each State (see



ANNEX 12
Page 6
research and planning process, leading in turn, if necessary, to revisions of
the operational plan.
Training Needs
13.     Functionaries of the various committees should be trained to enable
them to perform their responsibilities and exercise their rights. They
should be instructed how to conduct meetirigs, record minutes and operate an
information system. They should be aware of the role of other departments
(Agriculture, Revenue, input agencies) in irrigation water distribution and
crop production. The training opportunities provided by the Agriculture
Department under the extension services should support the efforts of the ID
(See Annex 14).



ANNEX 13
Page .1
NATIONAL WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Monitorina and Evaluation
1.      The Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) program to be implemented under
the NWMP will have three main functions:
(a) To monitor physical and financial progress of NWMP components as a
basis for reporting to Government and the Bank. This will be done by
PPC staff (with assistance from scheme based staff) for as long as
the project is under implementation.
(b)  To monitor operations and maintenance at the scheme level.  This will
have three elements:
(i) au internal information system to monitor operation on a day-
to-day basis. The use to which the data is put will depend on the
current operational plan. For most schemes two distinct operation
modes have been identified.
- A demand mode in the kharif based on response to rainfall and
pulsed into the system blocks in discrete doses
- A pre-scheduled mode in the rabi, again pulsed into the system
blocks in quantas.
The first mode requires a real time decision capability to switch
the block on or off, and for this immediate feed back data is
necessary. The operational block, the criteria for switching and
the responsibility level for making the operational decisions will
have been specified in detail in the operational plan.
The second mode normally requires no real time decisions and the
monitoring function is to make sure that, while running, the
system is not grossly in default (due to breaches or interference)
and to provide a basis for post season analysis of performance.
(ii) a seasonal/annual reporting system to the Scheme Committee based
on data gathered in (i) above, to record how closely the opera-
tional plan was followed, present information on water use,
irrigated areas and production, and evaluate the season's outcome;
and



ANNEX 13
Page 2
(iii) *a seasonal/annual reporting system to monitor departmental
activities for maintenance.
These will be the responsibility of scheme level staff, with
technical guidance from the State level O&M Cells.  I
(c) To evaluate the impact of the operational interventions supported
under the project on an independent and in-depth basis. This will
be the responsibility of staff of the State O&I Cell 1/ with
specified studies sub-contracted as required to independent research
institutes, Government agencies or private consultants.
2.      Whereas the NWNP monitoring program ((a) above) will last only as
long as the project, the other two elements will develop into a permanent
information and reporting system designed to deliver information in ways
which increase the effectiveness of irrigation management. The distinction
between "monitoring" by scheme-staff ((b) above) and 'evaluation' by inde-
pendent agencies ((c) above) is in practice far from clear-cut since these
two activities are two ends of a continuum, with the informatiot generated by
the monitoring program feeding directly into the evaluation process.  Care
will be needed in all cases to coufine data collection, monitoring and
reporting to that which can be used effectively and to avoid overloading
scheme aud State staff with unnecessary activities.
Monitgrin of the NWMP
3.      The monitoring of NWNP components will be undertaken by the PPC and
scheme ID staff so as to provide GOI and the World Bank with the information
required for normal project supervision.
4.      For each sub-project, an implementation program will be prepared
based on the approved designs and estimates and in advance of any expendi-
tures. Thereafter, progress reports will be prepared half-yearly (for
semesters to end-September and end-March respectively) M} presenting physical
and financial progress on the following:
(a) surveys and investigations;
(b) scheme investments (including roads and buildings);
(c) procurement of vehicles and equipment;
(d)  O&M activities (including staffing);  and
(e) training programs.
1/ Although in the long term these activities will be the responsibility of
the State O&M Cells, in the earlier years they may be undertaken by the
PPCs (see Annex 8).
2/ The report to end-September will provide information ou progress achieved
during the previous construction season (usually to end-June or there-
AhnotA) anti nrnvidn a hasis fnr ,gtablighina an imalnmantatinn nroaram



Page 3
5.      Draft reporting formats will be developed to be supported by brief
explanatory notes.  Report preparation will be the responsibility of the ID
officer in charge (Superintending or Executive Engineer). Reports will be
submitted to the appropriate officer in the PPC to be summarized and collated
in a State Report. The State Report will also present information on State
level progress and components, budget allocations and expenditures, 'Com-
pliance with Credit Covenants', 'Compliance with the Recommendations of
Previous World Bank Review Missions', reimbursement applications and disbur-
sements and perhaps other matters.
Monitoring O-erations at the Schme Level
A. Data Collection and System Control: ODeratioMs
6.      A data collection and management information system will be estab-
lished at the scheme level to record basic dats and provide the scheme
management with the information necessary to implement the approved opera-
tional plan and to make operational decision that may prove necessary (para
:(b)).
7.      Before each season a detailed water budget will be drawn up specify-
ing the water to be allocated to each distributary command or group of dis-
tributaries. jI The period for which water will be budgeted will be either
an irrigation issue (where this is clearly specified, for instance for inter-
mittent schedules) or a week or fortnight (for instance for continuous
supply). 2/ The implied water requirement at the heads of the branch and main
canals should also be presented, together with the water loss assumptions.
8.      The internal information system will cover the following:
(a) Rainfall and climate. The ID staff would:
(i) during the scheme preparation review the location of rain gauges
aud climate stations, to ensure that the command is satisfactorily
covered, and relate all parts of the command to a specific climate
station;
(ii) check the accuracy of these climate stations; and
1/ It is assumed that a distributary command would normally be an
appropriate accounting unit.  The level at which water is to be allocated
will, however, need to be clearly defined for each scheme, taking into
account its characteristics and the practical problems of water distribu-
tion and measurement.
2/ The basis for budgeting water by distributary command would be set out
in the operational, plai. A summary should be prepared, setting out the
basic principles, to guide staff in preparing the water budget, and a
h,r;4  njl t tnn  a nm1%n   tha h.uloat  hnsildA ha an,hmittaA attntimo hnw thkhn



Page 4
(iii) establish reporting procedures and responsibilities to ensure that
the ID officer in charge receives regular reports.
(b) Water availabiliy. The ID staff would:
(i)  establish appropriate gauge recorders for river inflows, reservoir
storages, etc. and check their accuracy on a regular basis; and
(ii) establish procedures and responsibilities for recording water
availability/storage at appropriate intervals.
(c)  Crop establishment and harvesting.  For paddy this should cover
establishment of nurseries, puddling/transplanting, and harvesting.-
For other crops it should cover sowing and harvesting. A11 estimates
should ee presented on a distributary command or group of dis-
tributaries basis, depending on the accounting unit for the water
budget. The ID staff would:
(i) establish procedures for recording these area statistics to an
* acceptable level of accuracy; and
(ii) establish reporting procedures and responsibilities so that the ID
officer in charge receives regular reports.
(d) Water Deliveries. These should be presented on the iame basis as
for the water budget. The ID staff would:
(i)  establish appropriate measuring devices throughout the distribu-
tion system to allow spot checks on system performance;
(ii) check the accuracy of these devices on a regular basis;
(iii) establish procedures and responsibilities for recording discharges
at appropriate intervals; and
(iv) establish procedures aud responsibilities for calculating total
water deliveries.
9.      In most cases, adequate data collection procedures will already be in
place in which case they should be described and utilized, if necessary
modified to accord with the requirements set out above. During the course of
project implementation, computer-based data handling and retrieval systems
will be introduced, initially in the larger systems but subsequently more
widely.
B.  Seasonal/Annual Regorting:  Onerations and Agriculture
10.     A seasonal/annual reporting system will be established to provide the
scheme committee with an assessment of how closely the operational plan was
followed, evaluate its impact on cropped areas and agricultural production
and, if appropriate, suggest modifications for subsequent seasons/years.
Taking this report into account, the scheme committee will decide on the
-             p   v                                -i---   A   1    1   ^   A_   *  ; 1 ~X __ _ _ £ & _ A__* __ ; ^_ * ^ 1 



AUE  13
Page 5
(a) Raiufall and climate (by climate station);
(b) Water receipts and availability;
(c) Reservoir operations (working tables);
(4) Water deliveries (by sub-command);
(e) The timing of crop activities (by sub-command);
(f) Irrigated areas by major crops (by sub-command); and
(g)  Crop yields and production.
11.     With the exception of crop yields and production, these summary
presentations will be derived from the data collection and retrieval system
established by the Irrigation Department (see above). Arrangements would be
ma4e with the appropriate agricultural agency (CADA, AD, etc) to provide
regular and reliable crop yield estimates. In addition, irrigated and crop
area estimates made by the Irrigation Department may be compared and corre-
lated with those derived from other sources (Agriculture, Revenue, etc). 1J
12.     The operational plan initially approved will establish the basis for
evaluating operational performance. The extent to which it was adhered to,
and the reasons for any deviatiois, will be described ant assessed (e.g.
reservoir operations, opening and closing dates, irrigation schedules, water
deliveries, etc).
C. Departmental O&M Activities
13.     A management informatiou and reporting system will be established
covering Departmental activities. Among aspects to be covered would be:
(a)   Budgetary allocations and expenditures;
(b)   Staffing and related matters;
(c) Scheme investment programs (e.g. NWMP works, OFD works, other works;
(d)   Maintenance activities and programs;
(e)   Buildings, vehicles aud equipment;
(f)   Measurement and data collection programs;
iJ In the longer term the coverage of the seasonal/annual report on opera-
t;4nn  mAv 1 h,noA&in&A tn ;rnitA. onti AtnVitift Aa nAPA Ann1v_ for-



ANNEX 1
Page 6
(g)   Farmer organizations and meetings; and
(h)   Training activities.
14.     An appropriate system will need to be developed and reporting formats
prepared, taking into account specialist OEM advice.  As in the case of
operations, establishing an O&M plan would provide the basis for monitoring
departmental activities aud for evalpating performance and identifying
problem areas.  There will be sow- overlap between the'reports on operations
and those on departmental activities, and consideration will need to be given
to how they should be coordinated and prepared.
15.     The above refers to an information and reporting system for the ID
OWM organixation. Comparable systems would be developed for other depart-
ments and agencies active in the comuand area as a basis for monitoring their
activities, evaluating their performance and identifying problem areas.
lndegendent Evaluation ProraMs
16.     The programs outlined above for monitoring operations at the scheme
level would be implemented by scheme level ID staff. In addition, funds have
been included under the project to undertake independent evaluation and other
studies, both in major schemes and, possibly, across schemes and States.
Among subjects that could be covered are:
(a) Periodic verification/consistency checks of the assumptious used, and
information generated by the implementing agencies. Possible areas
to be covered include:
si) water measurement and recording;
(ii) seepage and operational losses; and
(iii) estimation of irrigated areas.
(b) Evaluation studies of th impact of revised operational interventions
on agricultural production and farmer welfare. These could cover:
(i)  the impact of the operational interventions on agricultural
production and value-added;
(ii) the impact on farmer incomes in relation to location in command
size of farm;
(iii) the adequacy of water delivery in relation to evolving cropping
patterns and crop water requirements;
(iv) groundwater utilization and its relationship to canal water
deliveries;
(v)  farmer attitudes to the operational interventions and the perfor-
mance of water users associations;



ANNX-i1
Page 7
(vii) the performance of the line departments in the implementation of
the operational plan.
(c) Special studies on problems or issues not covered by routine surveys
and studies.
17.     The surveys and studies to be undertaken under the independent
evaluation program would employ normal sampling techuiques designed to estab-
lish inferences according to a predetermined level of precision. The aim
would be to provide a reporting service which complemented the generation of
information through the normal activities of the line departments. Together
with the latter, the information collected would be analyzed in terms of its
implications for the operational procedures and practices being implemented,
and reports, including recommendations for modifying the latter (if
appropriate), would be submitted to the scheme authorities, scheme committeen
and Government.
Administrative Arrantements for iU
18.     The PPC in each State will be responsible for monitoring implementa-
tion of the NWMP and for preparing the bi-anual State reports for submission
to GOI and the Bank. 1/ They will ensure that the scheme staff submit timely
information for inclusion in the bi-annual reports.
19..   For the larger schemes, a planning, data handling and monitoring unit
will be establish in the office of the SE inter alia to prepare seasonal
operational plans, monitor scheme operations and prepare the proposed
seasonal/annual reports. These units will establish appropriate links with
agricultural and other agencies in the command area. For smaller schemes,
the RE or ARE in charge will be directly responsible. The O&M cells at the
State level (initially also the PPCs) will help introdduce M&E practices at
the scheme level, develop reporting formats and procedures, and monitor
progress. Until basin-wide organizations are established, they will ensure
consistency in the operations of inter-dependent schemes.
20.     The O&M Cells (initally also the PPCs) will also commission evalua-
tion and other studies from outside agencies, and will establish links with
H&E activities in other State departments, notably the M&E Units in th
Agricultural Departments. Based on the reports and information collected
from the scheme staff, independent agents and cousultants, and other Govern-
ment M&E units, the OM cells (initially also the PPCs) will help evolve O&M
policies statewide and ensure that information regarding  successful and
unsuccessful interveutions is shared across schemes and basin.



ANNEX 14
Page 1
INDIA
NATIONAL WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Training
Introduction
1.      Improved water management practices would need training of concerned
staff both at GOI and State/Scheme level.  The GOI level training would
essentially consist of widening the existing knowledge in water management
practices supported by appropriate study tours. The State level training
would be concernet with planning, design, implementation and operational
stages of the project. Each stage would require specific skills for which
the project would provide the know how.  In addition, orientation training of
concerned scheme senior staff and information of farmers on their specific
part in the project would be provided. The State/Scheme level training needs
could be classified into six levels (refer also to the attached table).
(a) Orientation
(b) Planning
(c)  Design
(d)  Implementation and Operation (two levels)
(i)  Officers
(ii)  Work inspectors
(e) Farmers
A.  GOI Training Level
2.      The water management cell of the 00I would receive training on
aspects corresponding to their catalizing role in the NWMP. This would
consist of seminar type meetings lasting about 2 weeks. Yearly refresher
courses of about 3 days duration would provide for further in-depth training
and new recruits as well as reorientation training based on experiences
gained during the course of the project. World Bank staff would participate
in these seminars as may be appropriate.  In addition, appropriate study
tours abroad would be financed for four staff members to further broaden
their technical skills in water management practices.



ANNEX 14
Page 2
8. State/Scheme Level Training
Orientation Training
3.      Training for senior officers directly or indirectly involved in the
NWKP would be provided. Such training would consist of: (a) information on
the project objectives and its approach; (b) an overview of water resources
and their best use for optimum crop production and financial returns to
farmers; (c) the role and support needed from CADA, the Agriculture Depart-
ment and other institutions; (d) the importance of monitoring and evaluation;
and (e) an overview of policy implications that might arise for other
scheme's.
4.      The officers in question might comprise Deputy Secretaries (Irriga-
tion and Agriculture), Chief Engineers, Superintending Engineers, Directors
of Agriculture, CADA Administrators, representatives of financial institu-
tions, etc.  The total number of officers to be trained would be about 20 for
each State. The orientation training would be done in form of a seminar or
workshop similarly to the interstate workshop on Warabundi held in Hyderabad
in 1980. Such a workshop wopld be held for 3 days initially with follow-up
workshops yearly for 2 days over the remaining project period. The follow-up
workshops would allow experiences gained from various projects to be -
presented, analysed and discussed. Statewide and regional policy decisions
may result from these exchanges.
5.      The orientation training program would be organized by one or other
of tho State training institutes. Contributions to the workshop would be
expected from the Institute's staff, guest speakers and officers familiar
with the NWMP approach, and staff from the World Bank.
Training for Planning
6.      The PPCs/O&M units 1/ established in each State fulfill an important
role in the entire NWMP. To be effective they would need a combined
knowledge of most aspects of irrigation sciences, irrigation engineering,
agriculture, hydrology and economics. Needless to say, such breadth of
experience is difficult to find. The O&M would therefore be a most important
target group for training. A number of options can be proposed, some of
which may be combined:
(a) Intensive training courses through lectures over 2 months depending
upon the background of the trainees;
(b) In-service training by specialists financed under the credit and/or
the World Bank;
(c)  Study tours to other States and neighboring countries with comparable          A
irrigation management problems; and
1/ Initially PPC staff may be primarily concerned although, in the long



ANNEX 14
Page 3
(d) Longer term courses of say 6 months to 1 year, mainly of younger
staff, at appropriate institutions or colleges.
7.      The final selection of a training program will probably differ
between the States depending upon the existing expertise within the PPC/O&M
units as well as within the State. For instance, it is possible that Tamil
Nadu will opt for an in-service approach supported by IMTI while Andhra
Pradesh might opt for an intensive training course at its well-established
WALAMTARI.[ Karnataka, which does not yet have an equivalent water management
institute established, may opt to utilize training courses in one of the
other States.
8.      The PPC/O&M units may comprise 6 to 8 persons for training from each
State.  After the final decisions have been taken by the States as to how the
individual training should be done, specific training programs could be
designed. In any event, refresher courses would be needed half yearly during
*         the first 2 years and thereafter one refresher course per year.  New staff
members of the PPC/O&M units, which arrive during the course of the project,
would receive in-service training as well as participate in the refresher
courses. The refresher courses would incorporate any experiences gained so
far and wouid provide increasingly sophisticated training. These courses
could be held on interstate basis with rotating chairmanship and would last
for about one week.
Training in Engineering Design
9.      The new operational plans would have to be supported by revised
hydraulic designs. These may include:
(a) Revised control structures in the delivery system some of which could
be self regulating, such as long crested weirs with or without gates,
improved offtakes and outlets of the baffle type or design of water
tight gates;
(b) Design of structures for measuring water flow at specific locations
or design of calibrated section throughout the irrigation system;
(c) Design to support operations at full supply levels in all canals
whenever they are operated;
(d) Design the delivery system under consideration of water losses;
(e) Advanced methods of lining vulnerable sections.
10.     The training would be provided to design engineers of the appropriate
department in each State. In total, 21 design engineers would be provided
training. Such training could best be done through a workshop to be held
A         initially for 2 weeks possibly organized by IMTI or WALAMTARI.  A refresher
training for one week yearly should be held thereafter.



ANNEX 14
Page 4
Implementation and Operation
11.     The training needs for the actual operation of the individual schemes
are of a different nature and should not be confused with the above. Here it
is of the foremost importance that the staff understands what the new opera-
tional plan and agricultural plan are all about. This aspect hardly needs a
training program for engineers, as field staff generally interact with the
PPC/O&M units in devising those plans (for agriculturists see below).
However, the actual running of the schemes including mastering of day-to-day
problems needs careful pre-thinking and training at all levels, which is best
done through workshops. A typical example would be to prepare irrigation
scheduling along a main canal for an expected cropping pattern or operations
supplemental to rainfall. There are many other training needs to be ful-
filled, many being project specific, such as on-off operations in lined or
unlined canals, regulation of water levels in canals with over-capacity, the
feeding of tanks inside the command areas, distribution of water in extreme
scarcity situations, yearly rotations, etc.  Another aspect of training would
be concerned with the intended functions of the physical structures proposed
by the PPC/O&M units, particularly the measuring devices, including their
construction, and any new types of structures.
12.     The agricultural aspects would be fully integrated into the training
proposals. These are threefold. Firstly, a general information seminar
should explain the role of agriculture in the new plan and what is expected
of it. Secondly, the specific task of the agricultural officers should be
covered through a workshop type approach, the subjects including, the
expected cropping pattern and its crop water requirements at minor or dis-
tributary levels, communication with the operational center of each scheme,
long-term prospectives, optimizing net return to farmers, etc. Thirdly,
workshops are needed to enable agricultural officers to understand the
Warabundi system and how it could be integrated with the NWMP if desired.
13.     The training for implementation and operation would be at two levels:
(a)  Scheme level Officers from the ID, CADA, Agriculture Department and
perhaps other agencies would receive training focussed on the opera-
tional plan proposed so that they: (i) fully understand its objec-
tives and rationale; (ii) acquire the necessary skills for its suc-
cess, and (iii) are aware of their responsibilities in its implemen-
tation. The training program would be developed by. the Training
Institute in each State working closely with the PPC/O&M Units, and
drawing support from other institutions as appropriate. The initial
program would be held at the institute or in the project area, and
regular follow-up training/discussion sessions would be held in the
project area to review performance, resolve problems and ensure new
recruits are fully aware of the operational program. The monitoring
and evaluation program also requires training, in order to direct
involved staff to what type of data are useful in judging the
implementation of the plan, and ensuring measures are taken for
rectificationf of problems fairly early in the process. The length of
training would differ with type of staff. Engineers would be trained
for 2 weeks initially with an annual pre-seasonal refresher course
of 3 days over the project period. Operational control staff would
be trained for 8 weeks of which 6 weeks would be reserved for data



ANNEX 14
Page 5
processing. In sub-projects with main canal operation units, 3 days
of specialized training would be provided in addition to the 2 weeks
base training. Yearly refresher courses of 1 day would be provided
thereafter. Staff involved in monitoring and evaluation would each
be trained for one week plus yearly refresher courses of 2 days.
CADA and agricultural staff would be given orientation training as
well as more training of one week depending upon their degree of
direct involvement in the NWMP. Training for organizing farmers
would need special skills and thus attentions. A yearly refresher
training of 2 days would be provided.
(b) Scheme-level Field Workers (work inspectors/laskar, etc.) would
receive a short orientation training of 3 days to ensure understand-
*                ing and create a collegiate approach to system operations.  The
Training Institute and PPC/O&M Units would help develop and initiate
training courses, but in the longer term, primary responsibility
*                would accrue to the scheme level staff.  A regular foLlow-up meeting
of 1 day duration would be held.prior to each season to refresh
memories, resolve problems and maintain effective participation.
Number of staff involved under this category is about 4 per 1,000 ha
or about 2,400 persons for the project.
14.     Proposed course syllabi for the training of scheme level officers
are given in Attachment 1 and for field level staff in Attachment 2. These
will be finalized in coordination with the training institutions and the
State Government.
Farmer Training
15.    Training (or informing) farmers is one of the essential parts of the
program. Unless they understand and agree to the system, the entire program
may be put in jeopardy. Training would consist, therefore, of explaining the
new operational plan and the newly resulting cropping opportunities from it,
the need for adherence to schedules, safeguarding the structures and field
channels, etc. Two levels of approach to farmers training have proved to be
satisfactory. One is the training of farmer leaders by project staff on
one-day training sessions at a central location. The other is to visit all
farmers in their respective villages through temporary and multidisciplinary
field teams. For the latter activity, the teams should visit each village
twice before the first irrigation season starts to make sure farmers under-
stand the new system and its benefits (and the losses certain individual
farmers are likely to suffer). The above approach should be repeated when
Warabundi is introduced at a later date. The farmers' leaders, who have been
trained, require retraining to cover any modifications introduced in the
operational plan at a later date.
C.  Training Facilities
Training Institutions
16.    The focal point of training officers would rest with WALAMTARI in
Andhra Pradesh, IMTI in Tamil Nadu and WALMI in Karnataka. The latter is
not fully established but this is expected during the course of the project.
These training institutions are in general funded for their routine work from



ANNEX 14
Page 6
other sources although finds are included under the project to help complete
the infrastructural development of IMTI in Tamil Nadu (see below). With the
exception, the training component is confined to the NWMP training courses
with costs estimated on the basis of the cost per trainee, together with a
lump sum of Rs 1.5 M to meet any costs that may be incurred for engaging
expertise from elsewhere in India or abroud (SAR, Table 12).
17.     The IMTI in Tamil Nadu was launched in 1983 with assistance from
USAID under its Irrigation Management and Training Project (386-0484). A
site has been obtained at the Regional Engineering College, Tiruchchirap-
palli, close to the Cauvery Delt and central to the main irrigated areas in
Tamil Nadu. Work on developing the campus was begun in 1985 following an
architectural competition, and the construction works have been entrusted to
the State Public Works Department.  The total cost of the project for a
period of seven years amounts to Rs 30.0 M of which Rs 15.0 M are to be
provided by the USAID loan. It is proposed that the balance Rs 15.0 M should
be met from the credit.  Cost estimates are given in the SAR, Table 5.
Scheme Level Training Facilities
18.     Training of scheme level field works and farmers training would be
done at scheme level for which a training-cum-meeting bhAd would be erected
together with hostels in larger schemes. The size of the halls and hostels
would vary with size of the schemes. Cost of a typical training cum meeting
hall plus a small hostel is estimated to be about Rs 300,000. Assuming a
total of 20 schemes would participate in the NWMP, Rs 6 M was allocated for
this purpose.
Transport
19.     Transport cost to and from training facilities are included in cost
per trainee day listed in the SAR, Table 12. These transport costs at scheme
level may consist mainly of mini-buses. Transport to WALMI's may be by
public transport or mini-buses, transport to farmers meeting may be by jeep.
D. Organization and Management
20.     The officer level training courses would be organized by the respec-
tive Training Institute in each State. The GOI Water Management Unit would
organize its seminars and study tours in collaboration of one or other of
these institutes. Each institute would designate an officer responsible for
each scheme. This officer would communicate with the respective PPC/O&M
units at State level as to training programs. The PPC/O&M units may desig-
nate an officer responsible for training aspects of the project in view of
the considerable administrative and organizational work expected. Such
officers would then be responsible to also monitor scheme level field worker
and farmers training programs at each scheme.
21.     Evaluation of the training program would be part of the overall
project evaluation done by an outside agency and funded separately. About
50% of the training would be done during the first two years of the project,
followed by 37% during the second two years and 14% thereafter. The SAR,
Table 12 indicates further details as to the proposed timing of the
individual training items.



ANNEX 14
Attachment 1
Page 1
Training of Scheme Level Officers
Proposed Course Syllabus
A.  Engineers (2 Weeks Course)
1. Vater Resources
-    River runoff, storage, water available to the project, water
rights.
-    Rainfall in the command area, rainfall distribution.
-    Groundwater and its use, water table fluctuation.
2. Existing Irrigation System
Original project concept.  Area to be irrigated, water allocation
policies classification of command-area - wet and dry, water
delivery methods, duties.
Hydraulic design of main canals, distributaries etc.  Design
sections, slopes, friction coefficients, losses.
Projected cropping pattern, cropping calendars, seasonal and
yearly intensities of irrigation, main crops, their varieties,
yields.
-    Soil types in the project area, their physical and chemical
properties, field capacities, wilting points, available moisture.
Infiltration rates, alkalinity and salinity problems waterlog-
ging.
-    Actual performance of the system - reservoir operation, canal
releases, areas irrigated in different zones and seasons, O&M
staff, works done over the years, O&1 expenditures, critical
parts of the system, past cases of failures, breaches, perfor-
mance of conveyance and distribution network, etc.
-    Field observations on carrying capacities of canals, flow
measurements, growth of weeks, stability of sections, performance
of structures, seepage losses, friction coefficients, etc.



ANNEX 14
Attachment 1
Page 2
Actual areas in the command area under irrigated and rainfed
crops, major crops, their varieties, root depths, critical
stages, irrigation requirements, yields, yield response to water,
etc., cropping calendars, agronomic practices, farmers
preference.
3. Water Requirements
-    Evaporation, transpiration, evapotranspiration, potential and
actual evapotranspiration.
-    Factors effecting evapotranspiration.  Micro-climate, soil fac-
tors, plant factors. Reduction of evapotranspiration.
-    Modified Penman method of estimating crop water requirements.
Irrigation requirements.  Effective rainfall, contribution of
groundwater, stored soil water, net irrigation requirements
conveyance and distribution losses, gross irrigation require-
ments.
4. The New Operational Plan
Revised cropping plan.  Cropping calendar, crops, area expansion,
irrigation intensity, supportive new rules.
Water requirements for revised cropping plan.  Reservoir opera-
tion, over-year storage, losses, observation of water rights.
Water distribution plan.  Intermittent versus continuous flow,
interval of irrigation, full supply level operations, distribu-
tion with limited supply, zoning.
Operations to meet crop water requirements.  Dry season schedul-
ing, scheduling supplemental irrigation to rainfall, considera-
tion of groundwater, use of soil moisture reservoir for support-
ing peak water requirements, overall water use efficiency.
Water distribution below the outlet.  The principles of
Warabundi, significance of field channels, size of service areas.
Re-use of drainage water.



ANNEX 14
Attachment I
Page 3
S. Implementation
-    Physical Investments and Improvement.  Canal capacities,
hydraulic structures to support the operational plan, field
channel systems, drainage systems, communications, housing office
buildings (operation room), current meter, measuring devices,
transport etc.
-    Organization and Management.  Responsibilities, main canal opera-
tion unit, operation and maintenance, agricultural supporting
services, farmer information and involvement.
6.  Financial Aspects
t - Yields and value of crops, cost of input, net return to farmers,
return to society, value of project water.
B.  Operation Control Staff (Six Weeks Course)
Basic course of two weeks together with Engineers.  Thereafter six
weeks specialized course in data processing.
1.  Computer concepts.  General description of computers,
hardware-software, history.
2. The structure of a programme, algorithms; flowcharts; programming
languages; operating systems.
3.  Basic - a programming language.  Elements of the language:  state-
ments, constants, variables, arrays, subscipts, expressions, control
statement, input/output statement, subprograms, basic supplied sub-
routines.
4. Lotus - elementary use of speadsheet programs.
5. Data management. Data set specification, records-blocks, volumes,
creating data sets, system utilities.
6. Program libraries. program packages, subprogrammes.
C. Main Canal Operation Unit (Three Days Course)
Basic course of two weeks together with other Engineers. Thereafter
for three days intensified training on:



ANNEX 14
Attachment 1
Page 4
1. Hydraulics of main canal. Functions of control structures. Opera-
tional requirements as to on/of, full supply levels, water advance and
recession times, zoning, water losses, supplemental irrigation opera-
tions, communications and transport, responsibilities, emergencies.
2. Protection of control structures. Patrolling, fencing, illumination.
3.  Maintenance of main canal.
4.  Public relations.  Advertisement of schedules, announcement of
unscheduled operations and emergencies.
D. Monitoring Staff (Five Days Course)
Basic course of two weeks together with Engineers.  Thereafter three            1
days course on:
1. Objectives of monitoring.
2.  Type of activities to be monitored.  Inflow, water use, losses, water
distribution schedules, area irrigated, cropping calendars, cropping
pattern, type of crops, etc.
3.  Statistical analysis of monitored data.
4. Report writing and frequency.
E. Evaluation Staff (Five Days Course)
This course is designed for Senior Officers having substantial
knowledge of project operations. For younger staff the basic course of two
weeks together with Engineers is a prerequisite.
1. Objective of evaluation.
2. Assessment of project performance based on information collected by
the monitoring unit on performance of the new operational plan includ-
ing area irrigated water allocations, water use, water requirements,
cropping pattern and calendar, socio-economic and administrative
aspects, policies.
3. Possible alternative cropping plans water allocation and distribution
policies - zoning versus allocation per unit area etc. Alternative
systems of operation - continuous, on and off or Warabundi. Any other
measures to improve equity, realiability and timeliness in water
supply, ensure, farmers participation, etc.



ANNEX 14
Attachment 1
Page 5
P. CADA and Agricultural Staff (Five Days Course)
1. Role of CADA and Agricultural Department in irrigation projects.
2. Background on project engineering and agriculture. Project objec-
tives, water resources water requirements, existing irrigation system
an4 performance, yield response to water, existing crops and cropping
calendar, waterlogging, salinity, shortcomings an problems.
3.  The new operational plan.  Revised cropping plan, cropping calendar,
crops, irrigation intensity, area expansion, new rules.
4.  Water requirements for revised cropping plan, reservoir operation,
over-year storage, losses, water rights.
5. Water distribution plan. Intermittent versus continuous flow, inter-
vals, full supply level operations, zoning.
6. Operations to meet crop-water requirements. Dry season scheduling,
scheduling supplemental irrigation, groundwater use, use of soil
moisture reservoir for supporting peak water requirements. Overall
water use efficiency.
7. Water distribution below the outlet. The principles of Warabuntdi,
significance of field channels, size of service areas, on-farm
development work, drainage.
8. Farmers Involvement. Methodology of Organizing farmers for full
participation and cooperation at service area and distributary level,
election of leaders, establishment of line of contact or complaint to
the Irrigation Authority.



ANNEX 14
Attachment 2
Page 1
Training of Scheme Level Field Workers
Proposed Course Syllabus
(Three Days)
1.      Objective of irrigation scheme present cropping pattern, practice
of water distribution, tailend and other problems, work duties, powers of
canal officers.
2.      Water availability at source, concept of crop water requirements,
water delivered versus area irrigated, loses in the distribution system.
3.      The new cropping plan, cropping calendars and crops, crop-water
requirements, supportive new rules on reservoir operation, over-year storage,
supplemental irrigation, intermittent irrigation, etc.
4.      Water distribution plan.  On/off, continuous or supplemental supply
to meet crop-water requirements, distribution with limited supply, zoning.
S.      Function and operation of various hydraulic structures to support
the water distribution plan. Measurement of water flow, operations to full
supply levels and its importance.
6.      Effect of over and under irrigation on yields and area irrigated.
7.      Authorities involved.  Irrigation Authority, CADA, Agricultural
Department.
8.      Farmers participation, organization, line of contract or complaint
to Irrigation Authority.



