Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16231
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
NATIONAL WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1770-IN)
JANUARY 10, 1997
Agriculture and Water Operations Division
Country Department II
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and mav be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Indian Rupees (Rs.)
Rs. 13.0(  = US$1.00 (Appraisal: 1987)
Rs. 19.64 = US$1.00 (Intervening years: 1987-94)
Rs. 31.65  - US$I .00 (Completion vear: 1995)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I meter (m) = 3 28 feet (ft)
I kilometcr (kin)    0.62 miles (rni)
I hectare (ha) = 2 47 acres (ac)
I million cubic meters (Mm3) = 804 acre-feet (ac-ft)
I cubic foot per second (cfs or cuscc)    0.0283 cubic meters per second (m3/s)
I kilogram (kg)    2.2 pounds (lb)
I mctric ton (t)   2.205 pounds (lb)
I thousand million cubic feet (TMC) = 28.317 million cubic meters (Mm3)
FISCAL YEAR OF THE BORROWER
Apnl I to March 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CCA                  Cultivable Command Area
DCA                  Development Credit Agreement
ERR                  Economic Rate of Return
GOI                  Government of India
ICR                  Implementation Completion Report
ID                   Irrigation Department
IIMI                 International Irrigation Management Institute
IMTI                 Irrigation Management Training Institute
ISTF                 Institutional Strengthening and Training Fund
M&E                  Monitoring and Evaluation
MOWR                 Ministry of Water Resources
NWMP                 National Water Management Project
O&M                  Operation and Maintenance
PIM                  Participatory Irrigation Management
RDS                  Rajolibunda Diversion Scheme
SAR                  Staff Appraisal Report
VVS                  Vani Vilas Sagar
WMC                  Water Management Cell
WRCP                 Water Resources Consolidation Projects
Vicc President              D. Joseph Wood
Director             :      R. Drysdalc
Division Chief/Manager      S. Barghouti
Staff Mcmber         :      K. Oblitas. Senior Economist



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
NATIONAL WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1770-IN)
Table of Contents
P R E F A   C E   ..............................................................i
EVALUATION   SUMMARY .............................................................                                                   ii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .......................................1
A.   Project Objectives                                                                                               I
B.   Achievement of Project Objectives                                                                                3
C.  Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project  .6
D.   Project Sustainability                                                                                           8
E. Bank Performance                                                          .8
F. Borrower Performance .10
G. Assessment of Outcome .14
H. Future Operation .14
I. Key Lessons Learned .14
PART  II: STATISTICAL  TABLES .............................................................                                        17
Table  1.   Summary  of Assessments ........................................................... 17
Table 2.   Related  Bank  Loans/Credits ....................................................... 19
Table 3.   Project Timetable .............................................................                           19
Table 4. Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ... 20
Table  5.   Key  Indicators for Project Implementation .................................. 20
Table 6.   Key  Indicators for Project Operation .......................................... 21
Table 7a. Training and Studies - Andhra Pradesh .........                                            ...... ....... 21
Table 7b.  Training  and  Studies - Karnataka ............................................... 22
Table 7c.  Training  and  Studies - Kerala ..................................................... 25
Table 7d.  Training  and  Studies - Madhya Pradesh ..................................... 25
Table 7e.  Training  and  Studies - Tamil Nadu ............................................. 26
Table  8A.  Project Costs .....                     .................             ..........      .............    28
Table 8B.  Project Financing .............................................................                           28
Table 9.   Economic Costs and Benefits .................................................... 29
Table  10.  Status of Legal Covenants ......................................................... 30
Table  11.  Compliance with  Operational Manual Statements ...................... 33
Table  12.  Bank  Resources: Staff Inputs ..................................................... 33
Table  13.  Bank  Resources: Missions ......................................................... 34
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.



APPENDICES
IA           Aide Memoire ...................................................                                                36
1B            Supplementary Mission  - Aide-Memoire ................................................... 55
2             Economic and Financial Analysis                               ................................................... 60
3             Observations of Ministry of Water Resources on the Draft ICR ................ 193
4             Excerpts-MOWR's Completion Report Lessons Drawn from NWMP I .... 202



i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
NATIONAL WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1770-IN)
Preface
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the National Water
Management Project (NWMP) in India for which Credit 1770-IN in the amount of
SDR93.2 million (US$114 million equivalent) was approved on March 24, 1987 and
declared effective on August 10, 1987.
2.    The Credit was closed on March 31, 1995, one year behind schedule. Final
disbursement took place on June 20, 1995 and the Credit was fully disbursed.
3.    This report was prepared by an FAO/CP mission which visited India in February-
March 1995 and October-November 1995. It was finalized by Mr. Keith Oblitas and Ms.
Teresita Estoque, Agriculture and Water Operations, Country Department II, South Asia
Regional Office, and reviewed by Shawki Barghouti, Division Chief, and Ms. Kazuko
Uchimura, Project Adviser, SA2DR. Preparation of the ICR was initiated during the
Bank's final supervision mission in February-March 1995. It is based on a review of the
Staff Appraisal Report and legal documents, supervision reports and project files, as well
as field investigations and discussions with the Bank staff and officials of the Irrigation
Departments of the ten States participating in the project. The mission also visited selected
sub-projects in six States (Andhra Pradesh, Haryana, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh
and Tamil Nadu) and held discussions with project officers and participating farmers
4.    The Borrower's comments on the ICR's February/March 1995 Mission's Aide
Memoire and on the draft ICR are in Appendix 3 to this report. A Project Completion
Report, prepared by the Ministry of Water Resources, is available in the Asia Information
Center.






ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
NATIONAL WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1770-IN)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
Agriculture continues to be the dominant sector of the Indian economy, contributing
about 36 percent of the GNP and directly employing over 70 percent of the total labour force.
Foodgrain production accelerated substantially during the 1960s with the advent of the green
revolution and the introduction of high-yielding varieties of wheat and rice. The development of
irrigation has been a major factor in improving agricultural performance. Irrigation has contributed
directly by increasing the area cropped, reducing crop losses due to deficient rainfall, and by
encouraging diversified cropping and the use of high-yielding varieties of seeds and other improved
inputs. Despite the undoubted achievement of irrigation development, yields in many irrigated areas
have been and continue to be well below potential because irrigation supplies are unreliable; in addition,
the distribution of water is often inequitable, leading to overuse in some areas and shortages elsewhere.
These problems have resulted from inadequacies in both the management of irrigation schemes and the
physical infrastructure. The National Water Management Project (NWMP) was, therefore, formulated
mainly to improve the perforrnance of existing irrigation systems.
Project Objectives
The purpose of the project was to increase agricultural productivity and farm incomes
through the provision of a more reliable, predictable and equitable irrigation service. To achieve these
objectives and facilitate extension of similar activities throughout the country, the project was
formulated to help participating States and GOI to develop an institutional capacity to plan, implement
and monitor improved O&M practices and to provide for low-cost infrastructural improvements
designed to support an improved operational plan for selected schemes. In each scheme, the most
appropriate technique of water supply was to be adopted. The most important element in scheme
improvement was to be the preparation of an operational plan. On the basis of water availability,
system characteristics, and agricultural options, the plan was expected to define how the system would
be operated with respect to the timings and quantities of water deliveries and the responsibilities of
those involved.



iii
The principal components of the main part of the project (improved water management)
were: (a) Scheme Investments required to implement the operational plan - these included repairs and
renovations to existing structures; provision of new control structures; field channels and drains;
measuring devices; and investments in upgraded O&M facilities and equipment (including housing for
staff and transport); and communications equipment, as required to execute the operational plan; (b)
Engineering and Administration required to supervise the effective implementation of the scheme
investments; (c) Incremental Recurrent O&M Expenditures to support the improved operational plan
and maintain it after the completion of the scheme investments; (d) Institutional Strengthening of the
State Irrigation Departments, with particular emphasis on helping them to develop O&M planning and
support units in the States and strengthening of the Water Management Cell (WMC) of the Ministry
of Water Resources (MOWR) of the Government of India (GOI) so that it could provide policy
direction, act as a catalyst for extending the approach across State boundaries and administer and
coordinate the NWMP as a whole; (e) Training Programs for technical and orientation training for
scheme staff and farmers, State O&M staff and officers of the WMC and study tours within India and
limited overseas visits along with support for the infrastructure development of the Irrigation
Management Training Institute (IMTI) in Tamil Nadu; and (f) Special Studies and Programs to
strengthen specific aspects of water management (e.g. monitoring and evaluation, computer
applications, communications, dam safety etc.). The project also supported two other components
related to the general objectives of improved water management in India - (a) The Maharashtra
Induction Training Program designed to support initial vocational training for engineers recruited to
the Maharashtra Irrigation Department; and (b) An Institutional Strengthening and Training Fund
(ISTF) to be managed and implemented by GOI and state agencies.
Loan Covenants. Special loan covenants that were expected to promote achievement of
project objectives and sustained operation were: (a) select, plan, design and seek approval of each
scheme to be implemented to the satisfaction of IDA; (b) under TOR satisfactory to IDA carry out
detailed review of O&M of NWMP schemes and prepare an action plan for improving O&M in the
scheme and the State and implement the plan; (c) prepare a monitoring and evaluation program and
implement it. Each scheme under implementation has been approved by IDA. O&M review has been
carried out in some States but no action plan has been prepared. M&E units have been set up as
planned, but operationally have not generated the required data for assessment of project benefits and
to correct shortcomings in operation.
Evaluation of Project Objectives. The project concept of instituting water management
as a significant input into India's Irrigated Agriculture Sector was sound, relevant, appropriate and in
line with the GOI's National Water Policy. Water management has been the focus in several other
projects financed by IDA in the water sector in recent years. The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) was
clear in defining the project objectives and in setting out the implementation measures to be adopted for
achieving these objectives. The implementation period of seven years was appropriate and the project
components included for financing were in conformity with the project objectives. However, there was
inadequate appreciation of the need to strengthen the state irrigation departments and to involve
farmers in scheme designs, operations, maintenance, and cost recovery.



iv
Agro-climatic and socio-economic conditions in India vary widely depending upon
geographic location and irrigation systems have evolved reflecting this diversity. Major types of
irrigation systems found in India (Localization, Warabundi, Shejpali) have been discussed in the SAR.
The three original participating States in this project were from the south - Andhra Pradesh, Kamataka,
and Tamil Nadu where localization, a demand-based system is practised. In retrospect, sufficient
attention was not given at appraisal to the socio-economic aspects of converting from a demand-based
system to a supply-based system. The structured system which was developed under the project to
ensure equity in distribution of water supply to the beneficiary farmers located in various parts of the
command can be considered to be an innovative idea that could be and should be improved upon in
follow-up projects.
SAR was unrealistic to expect that in the preparation of operational plans, paddy growing
areas could be reduced and substituted by irrigated dry crops covering a larger area of the command.
For instance, in the operational plan presented for the Rajolibunda Diversion Scheme in Andhra
Pradesh, it was proposed to preclude paddy in middle and lower reaches in kharif and throughout the
command in rabi by introducing systematic intermittent irrigation. Farmers obtained a court injunction
against this proposal. A major deficiency in project concept was its failure to specify how farmers
would be involved in the design and implementation. Even though mention is made in the SAR about
farmer participation, no workable solution was given as to how this was to be achieved.
Implementation Experience and Results
The project was approved in March 1987 and started off very slowly in the three original
participating States. The Induction Training Program in Maharashtra started at the same time as well.
At appraisal, the project was expected to cover about 580,000 ha. During implementation, a number of
additional schemes were included and the number of participating States increased from three to nine.
The additional States were: Bihar, Gujarat, Haryana, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Orissa, and Uttar
Pradesh. The total number of schemes, including those covered at appraisal, was 96 covering a
command area of about 2.18 million ha. Bridge financing was provided for lining main canal and water
courses in Haryana for a period of two years to allow that State to continue work on these aspects until
the approval of the Haryana Water Resources Consolidation Project in 1994. At Credit Closure
(March 31, 1995) it is estimated that about 32 schemes covering a command area of 337,331 ha would
be completed. The remaining 64 schemes are in varying degrees of completion. The actual benefiting
area is far less than the command area covered. For instance, in the schemes visited and included in the
economic re-evaluation, the actual benefiting area is estimated to be 56,913 ha as compared to their
total command area of 241,576 ha included under the project. The ERRs computed for nine schemes
are: Thandava -3 percent; Malampuzha 9 percent; Ratapani -16 percent; Thambaraparani 4 percent;
RDS -6 percent; Vani Vilas Sagar 9 percent; Sathanur 6 percent; Peechi -6 percent; and Haryana 17
percent. These values are fairly sensitive to the benefits and less sensitive to the costs.



v
Project Sustainability. The ERRs are rather low to be consistent with sustained
economic performance. The operational plans prepared for each scheme should be monitored and
modified as required to ensure beneficiary acceptance of such plans. This would contribute to a large
measure in increasing the benefits of the scheme. Adequate funds must be provided by the State
governments to the implementing agencies to maintain the schemes in good condition and operate
them. Parts of the irrigation schemes may have to be handed over to the farmers for operation and
maintenance. Water users' associations would have to be created as a first step. In addition, an O&M
culture has to be inculcated in the operating level staff of the irrigation departments, as well as
appropriate modifications in institutional structure to enable sustainable O&M capabilities.
Actual Cost, Financing and Implementation Timetable. The project costs including
physical and price contingencies were estimated to be US$157.0 million (Rs.2,041.1 million). An IDA
credit of SDR93.2 million (US$114.0 million equivalent) was to finance about 73 percent of the total
costs and the remaining expenditures were to be mnet from the development budgets of the participating
States. At Credit closure, the actual project expenditure in Rupee terms was Rs.5041.1 million
representing a cost overrun of 148 percent in nominal rupee terns. Expenditure in US$ terms was
US$176.1 million representing a cost overrun of 11 percent. Out of this arnount, US$ 125.7 million
was disbursed by IDA. The Credit was fully disbursed and the final disbursement was made on June
20, 1995. The appraisal schedule of a seven-year implementation period was extended by one year.
The exact number of schemes, as well as detailed costs, were not exactly known at the time of
appraisal except for the three schemes - Vani Vilas Sagar, Sathanur and RDS. Comparison of
"actuals" with appraisal estimates are therefore not very meaningful. Individual scheme costs and
timetables have therefore to be analyzed.
Key Factors Relating to Achievement of Project Objectives. The most important
deficiencies which hampered project implementation can be classified into:
a)     Factors not generaly subject to Government control. This included lack of
acceptance by beneficiaries of changes in cropping patterns. Achievement of
project objective of increasing irrigated areas by using lower water consuming
crops has been hampered by this.
b)     Factors generally subject to Government control. These included delays in
timely release of annual funds for the execution of project works, frequent
turnover of key professional staff of the implementing agencies and the limited
use of training modules prepared by the Indo-Dutch team. These had
substantially affected implementation performance in some participating States
and contributed to the lack of understanding of the basic concepts of the NWMP
by the operating level professional staff of the implementing agencies.
c)     Factors generaly subject to implementing agency control. These included
insufficient diagnostic work to identify system constraints and to prioritize



vi
expenditures and ineffective monitoring and evaluation of scheme performance.
This has resulted in inappropriate and impractical solutions being implemented to
achieve better water use efficiency in the schemes. In addition, monitoring and
evaluation units set up in the different Irrigation Departments have, in general,
been ineffective in collecting data required for the evaluation of agricultural
benefits and scheme performance in a systematic manner. A pervasive major
factor affecting the project was its top-down approach and lack of consultation
with farmers.
Performance of Bank and Borrower. The performance of the Bank and the Borrower
has been mixed. The project involved implementing sound new concepts which required adequate and
effective supervision and guidance to be provided by the Bank. During project preparation prior to and
in the early stages immediately following appraisal, such supervision and guidance were indeed
provided by the Bank. However, beyond FY89, the supervision by the Bank was inadequate and
ineffective. The Borrower did not follow the detailed guidelines provided in the SAR and in manuals
prepared later by the Bank in the preparation of additional schemes. Schemes were prepared without
adequate diagnosis of the physical infrastructure, seasonal operational plans and prioritization of
investments. In many instances appropriate construction schedules were not prepared with the result
about two-thirds of the schemes have not been completed. The performance of the completed schemes
is less than satisfactory. In FY89 this was the only project in the agricultural sector in India without any
disbursement at all. At this stage, both the Bank and the Borrower were anxious to increase
disbursements which appears to have become the over-riding factor. As a result, quality of works
suffered. A number of new schemes were initiated covering an area of about 2.18 million ha and this
number was quoted in all the reports giving a misleading impression of excellent project performance.
At the end of the project, work had been completed covering only about 15% of this area.
Project Outcome Assessment. The project outcome is rated as unsatisfactory since it
has achieved only partial progress in physical targets (32 schemes covering 337,331 ha completed out
of 96 schemes cleared for implementation covering 2.18 million ha and compared to appraisal target of
about 500,000 ha) and in the completed schemes, the provision of reliable, predictable and equitable
supply has not been achieved as expected at appraisal.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
Findings. Incremental irrigated area fell short of appraisal estimates, reducing incremental
agricultural production to much lower than that estimated at appraisal. The ERRs are therefore lower
and below opportunity cost of capital except in Haryana. The reasons for the low rates of return are:
(a) lower than assumed incremental benefiting areas in each scheme; (b) lower increases in cropping
intensity; (c) excessive cost overrun per ha in real terms; and (d) in some cases non-adoption of crops
other than paddy which was assumed at appraisal. It is possible to improve the economic performance
of other non-completed schemes through changes in operational plans and related
rehabilitation/modernization works. A limited awareness has been created in the decision-making levels



vii
of the State governments for the need for better water management in existing projects thus exploiting
the already created potential to the fullest. The borrower had conducted several short-term training
courses and had undertaken a number of studies but there was little impact of these on project design
or implementation.
Plans for Future Operation. The following actions would be required to ensure
completion of remaining schemes and their smooth operation: (a) revision of operational plans taking
into account realistic agricultural data on cropping pattern and operational hydrology; (b) completion
of ongoing schemes based on proper diagnostic analysis of infrastructure improvements required to
execute the operational plan mentioned above on the basis of an appropriate prioritised investment
program for the implementation of which continued financial assistance possibly under a follow-up
phase would be necessary under stringent and well-defined institutional improvements, (c) training of
1ID staff, relevant agricultural department staff and farmers in the operation of the schemes; (d) training
of scheme managers including inculcation in O&M culture; and (e) provision of adequate funds for
sustained O&M taking into account farmer turnover concept; (f) revision of approach to include
farmers in assessment of needs, planning, design, construction, O&M, and cost recovery; and (g)
institutional modifications and strengthening at the level of irrigation departments to create
organizational capabilities in water management and farmer organization. GOI has advised the
Planning Commission to release adequate funds to the concerned State Governments to complete the
ongoing schemes. There would still be a need for external assistance to complete the schemes and
consolidate the gains from this valuable program.
Lessons for Future Projects in the Sub-sector. The main lessons learned from this
project implementation can be grouped under Concept, Design, Implementation, and Follow-up, as
follows:
Concept
a)    Extensive equitable irrigation and self-financing irrigation schemes are two
objectives which may not be necessarily compatible. Equity should therefore be
achieved through the introduction of volumetric water supply, within the
limitations of water availability and the effective recovery of appropriate water
charges, rather than through the delivery of the same amount of water per unit of
area to each farmer;
b)    Projects of this type which involve not only technical changes to the status quo,
but also have significant social aspects, require a high level of farmer participation
in irrigation management (P1M) to be successful. Introduction of such concepts
will require, in turn, the use of more advanced technologies in irrigation
management which are currently available in India and abroad. These would
include provision of improved structured system to allow flexible water



viii
distribution to water user associations, and, as needed, canal automation for
controlling main canal flows.
c)    Improving the productivity of irrigation systems linked with farmer participation
requires strengthening of the capabilities of the irrigation departments and some
institutional restructuring to provide emphasis and staff resources to these
activities.
In the Water Resources Consolidation Projects (WRCPs) (which are the new generation irrigation
projects supported by the Bank), a major thrust is on improving the productivity of irrigation systems
through modernization linked with farmer involvement. The "systems improvement and farmer
turnover" components of the WRCPs integrally link farmer organization, operations and
maintenance, and cost recovery with the engineering improvements. Additionally, each project has
involved an institutional reorganization and subsequent strengthening program to build up the
capabilities of the irrigation departments in scheme modernization, water management, andfarmer
organization. Volumetric supplies are also being attempted by water users associations and this
experiment should be carefully monitored and nurtured Canal automation is being experimented in
Tungabadra and Majalgaon commands.
Design
a)    A baseline survey of the condition of the system infrastructure and cropping
practices is a prerequisite to prepare a detailed scheme report for
rehabilitation/modernization.
b)    Detailed diagnostic work would be undertaken and realistic alternate scenarios
should be explored in computer simulation models taking into account farmer
crop preferences in preparing operational plans. These plans should be prepared
with the assistance of specialists in operational hydrology (water availability and
water balance studies under the revised scenarios), irrigation agronomy who are
familiar with the local conditions, sociologists, representatives of the farming
community, and irrigation engineers. The operational plans should be flexible to
handle vagaries of nature and forces of the market place (for instance, if a sugar
mill is located near a scheme, water-savings cannot be achieved by switching to a
less water consuming crop -- innovative irrigation technology has to be adopted
with required capital investments).
c)    An irrigation system should be considered as a whole water management unit.
Works should not be carried out in individual distributaries without any possibility
of water management in the system in its totality.



Ix
Implementation
a)    Prioritization of expenditures necessary for implementing the selected operational
plan should be prepared, together with detailed construction sequences, which
take into account the financial capability of the implementing agency, canal closure
periods, and number of days available to carry out the civil works in each year.
b)    Quality of construction in small and scattered works requires particular attention.
High quality technical assistance and third party supervision should be considered
in future project.
c)    Priority should be given to training a maximum number of professional staff of the
implementing agencies in water management principles, and some of the
promising staff should be trained intensively in computer and remote sensing
technology to be water managers. Turnover rate of key senior-level staff must be
mninimized in projects involving new concepts. Otherwise, the benefits of training
and efficiency in implementation are lost.
Follow-up
a)    Simple key parameters should be established for monitoring and evaluating the
performance and impact of water management from  scheme start-up.  An
effective monitoring and evaluation unit should be created in each participating
State with a multi-disciplinary core team. Monitoring the impact of scheme
interventions on agricultural production should be carried out continuously
starting from the baseline survey and using the same parameters so that
operational plans can be modified if required and also a final evaluation of the
scheme performance would be feasible.
b)    O&M of the scheme should be jointly carried out by department officers and
farmer beneficiaries. Adequate funds should be made available for such O&M.



1
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
NATIONAL WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT (NWMP)
(Credit 1770-IN)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1.        The purpose of the project was to increase agricultural productivity and farm incomes
through a more reliable, predictable and equitable irrigation service. To achieve these objectives and
facilitate extension of similar activities throughout the country, the project was formulated to help
participating States and the Government of India (GOI) to develop an institutional capacity to plan,
implement and monitor improved operation and maintenance (O&M) practices and to provide for low-
cost infrastructural improvements designed to support an improved operational plan for selected
schemes. In each scheme, the most appropriate technique of water supply was to be adopted. The most
important element in scheme improvement was to be the preparation of an operational plan. On the
basis of water availability, system characteristics, and agricultural options, the plan was expected to
define how the system would be operated with respect to the timings and quantities of water deliveries
and the responsibilities of those involved.
2.        The principal components of the main part of the project (improved water management)
were: (a) Scheme Investments required to implement the operational plan - these included repairs and
renovations to existing structures; provision of new control structures; field channels and drains;
measuring devices; and investments in upgraded O&M facilities and equipment (including housing for
staff and transport); and communications equipment, as required, to execute the operational plan; (b)
Engineering and Administration required to supervise the effective implementation of the scheme
investments; (c) Incremental Recurrent O&M Expenditures to support the improved operational plan
and maintain it after the completion of the scheme investments; (d) Institutional Strengthening of the
State Irrigation Departments, with particular emphasis on helping them to develop O&M planning and
support units in the States. In addition, the Water Management Cell (WMC) of the Ministry of Water
Resources (MOWR) was to be strengthened so that it could provide policy direction, act as a catalyst
for extending the approach across State boundaries and administer and coordinate the NWMP as a
whole; (e) Training Programs for technical and orientation training for scheme staff and farmers, State
O&M staff, and officers of the WMC, and study tours within India, and limited overseas visits, along
with support for the infrastructure development of the Irrigation Management Training Institute
(IMTI) in Tamil Nadu; and (f) Special Studies and Programs to strengthen specific aspects of water
management (e.g. monitoring and evaluation, computer applications, communications, dam safety
etc.). The project also supported two other components related to the general objectives of improved
water management in India - (a) The Maharashtra Induction Training Program designed to support
initial vocational training for engineers recruited to the Maharashtra Irrigation Department; and (b) An
Institutional Strengthening and Training Fund (ISTF) to be managed and implemented by GOI and
state agencies.



2
3.         The project was to be implemented over a seven-year period and the project costs
including physical and price contingencies were estimated to be US$157.0 million (Rs.2,041.1 million)
at 1986 prices. An TDA Credit of SDR93.2 million (US$114.0 million equivalent) was to finance about
73 percent of total project cost and the remaining expenditures were to be met from the development
budgets of participating States.
4.        Special legal covenants that were expected to promote achievement of project objectives
and sustained operation were: (i) select, plan, design and seek approval of each scheme to be
implemented to the satisfaction of IDA; (ii) under TOR satisfactory to IDA carry out detailed review of
O&M of NWMP schemes and prepare an action plan for improving O&M in the scheme and the State
and implement the plan; and (iii) prepare a monitoring and evaluation program and implement it. The
schemes were selected, planned, designed and submitted to IDA after clearance by GOI. However, the
quality of scheme preparations varies and their selection was not subjected to detailed technical scrutiny
by IDA. O&M review has been carried out in some States but no action plan for improvement has been
prepared. M&E units have been set up as required but operationally have not generated the required
data for assessment of project benefits and to correct shortcomings in project operation. In effect,
while there was compliance with special legal covenants, the requisite follow-up was inadequate and
therefore the intended objectives for their compliance were not achieved.
5.        The project concept of instituting water management as a significant input into India's
Irrigated Agriculture Sector was sound, relevant and appropriate and in line with the GOI's National
Water Policy. Water management has been the focus in several other projects financed by IDA in the
water sector in recent years. The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) was clear in defining the project
objectives and in setting out the implementation measures to be adopted for achieving these objectives.
The implementation period of seven years was appropriate and the project components included for
financing were in general realistic.
6.        Agro-climatic and socio-economic conditions in India vary widely depending upon
geographic location, and irrigation systems have evolved reflecting this diversity. Major types of
irrigation systems found in India (Localization, Warabundi, Shejpali) have been discussed in the SAR.
The three original participating States in this project were in the south - Andhra Pradesh, Kamataka,
and Tamil Nadu - where localization, a demand-based system, is practiced. In retrospect, sufficient
attention was not given at appraisal to the socio-economic aspects of converting from a demand-based
system to a supply-based system. The structured irrigation system which was developed under this
project to ensure equity in distribution of water supply to the beneficiary farmers located in various
parts of the command can be considered to be an innovative idea which can be further improved in
follow-up projects. However, where field to field irrigation is practiced (as in most paddy irrigation in
the southern states) this system may not be best suited (para 42 below refers).
7.        The SAR was unrealistic to expect that in the preparation of operational plans, paddy
growing areas could be reduced and substituted by irrigated dry crops covering a larger area of the
command. For instance, in the operational plan presented for the Rajolibunda Diversion Scheme (RDS)
in Andhra Pradesh, it was proposed to preclude paddy in middle and lower reaches in kharif and



3
throughout the command in rabi by introducing systematic intermittent irrigation. Farmers obtained a
court injunction against this proposal.
8.        The project could be considered as a pilot in setting up water management strategies and
in improving the performance of inigation systems throughout India. The project was initially
concentrated in three southern states with a provision for expansion to other States if found to be
attractive. The concept of reliable, equitable and predictable water supply has attracted the attention of
the Irrigation Departments (IDs) of other States which applied later to participate in the project. Hence,
the project can be considered to have had a positive impact on the evolution of sectoral policy of
improved water management.
9.        The concepts and the implementation procedures were not complex from an engineering
viewpoint although they called for strengthening the institutions involved in irrigation management.
The setting up of a Water Management Cell and the provision of the ISTF has helped in the
implementation of the project. However, at state irrigation department levels, water management cells,
if created, were "add-ons" to existing institutional structures, and did not fundamentally improve the
capabilities of the departments in water management. Also, the complexities of water management in a
large community of farmers was not dealt with adequately during the appraisal of the project. A major
deficiency in project concept was its failure to include farmers in the discussion of how they would be
involved in the design and implementation. It is stated in the SAR that once an operational plan has
been established, a program must be prepared to implement the plan which should cover farmer
consultation and involvement in approval and implementation. However no workable solution was
given as to how such involvement of farmers is to be obtained. The major risks associated with the
project were related to the sustainability of the operational programs to be supported. The risk that the
project might be unable to sustain programs involving changes in water allocation to farmers, in the
face of vested interests and other pressures that affect some scheme operations was recognized at
appraisal. Such risks still exist but with more substantive participation of farmers in the preparation,
implementation and operation of schemes, coupled with turnover of parts of the system, these could be
mtinimized in follow-up projects.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
10.   Overall Achievement. The project was approved in March 19871 and the Credit became
effective in August 1987. Originally three States were to participate in the project: Andhra Pradesh,
Kamataka and Tamil Nadu. A total of sixteen schemes had been identified covering a cultivable
conmmand area (CCA) of about 460,076 ha. Breakdown by States is provided in Appendix 3. In
addition, anticipating that more schemes would be added in the three participating States and that other
States might be interested in participating in such a project, an allowance was made to cover an
additional CCA of about 123,029 ha. The Induction Training Program in Maharashtra started at the
same time as well. During the implementation of the project, several additional schemes were included
and the number of participating States increased from three to nine. The additional States were Bihar,
Gujarat, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Orissa, and Uttar Pradesh. The total number of schemes cleared for
implementation increased from sixteen, identified at appraisal, to 96 covering a command area of 2.18
1     Board approval date was March 24, 1987 and the Agreement was signed on May 12, 1987



4
million ha. In addition, bridge financing was provided for lining of main canal and water courses in
Haryana for a period of two years to allow that State to continue work on these aspects until the
approval of the Haryana Water Resources Consolidation Project in 1994. In Haryana, project
investments were mainly utilized for lining of main canals and watercourses. No operational plans were
prepared and no new devices were installed. Thus, in the strictest terms, it can be said that NWMP
principles were not followed. It would have been appropriate to have amnended the Development Credit
Agreement (DCA) prior to proceeding with bridge financing. The original Credit closing date of March
31, 1994 was extended by one year to March 31, 1995 at which time the Credit was expected to be
completely disbursed. At the time of Credit closure, it is estimated that about 32 schemes covering a
CCA of about 337,131 ha have been completed, about 15 percent of projected command. Some of
these schemes are classified as completed by the various State implementing agencies although
anticipated physical works have not yet been completed. Details of schemes initiated under the project,
their command areas and their completion status are given in Appendix 3. The primary project
objective of providing a reliable, predictable and equitable water supply is reported to have been
achieved in some of the completed schemes. An independent review of two projects (Sathanur in Tamil
Nadu and Bhadra in Karnataka) carried out by the International Irrigation Management Institute (IMI)
indicates that this objective has been achieved primarily along the main canal and in some of the
distributaries. In some of the other schemes investigated some of the tail-end farmers have received
water as a result of project interventions.
11.       Objectives of Sector Policies. The project has created a limited awareness in the
decision-making levels of the various participating States for the need for better water management in
existing projects thus exploiting the already created potential to the fullest. This awareness has to be
translated into concrete action in the future. In this project only limited success has been achieved so
far.
12.       Institutional Development Objectives. Clear understanding of the concept of water
management and inculcation of O&M culture in the lower ranking engineers of the Irrigation
Departments of the various States have, in general, not been achieved. Staff were not clear about the
objectives of the project suggesting that a longer period is required to reap the benefits of institutional
development. This is in part due to the high turnover rate of staff and those that were trained in the
early periods of the project were no longer associated with the project. Moreover, the objectives and
concepts which are very valid, have yet to be reflected in the regular work program of the Irrigation
Departments as a whole. In this connection, it should be noted that the project's institutional
arrangements were not conducive to capacity building in the Irrigation Department as a whole. Unlike
the new generation of water resources consolidation projects each involving significant institutional
reorganization and strengthening, under NWMP various implementation cells were created within the
department which were appendages rather than integral to the operational functions of the parent
department. The Irrigation Departments could have absorbed the NWMP concepts in their regular
program as well, at least in the areas of preparation of operational plans, ensuring efficient delivery of
water. On a more positive note, in Maharashtra, despite initial difficulties in getting started with the
necessary experts, the induction training programn is reported to have performed well based on
information provided by the Water and Land Management Institute which conducted the program in
association with the Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay, and it may be advisable to explore the
possibility of extending such programs to other States.



5
13.       Economic Rates of Return (ERR). The re-estimated ERRs for the 9 schemes evaluated
at completion consist of two sets - the first set reflecting those calculated at appraisal, and the second
set reflecting the others. The current economic rates of return re-estimated at completion for the first
set are 9 percent for Vani Vilas Sagar (VVS), 6 percent for Sathanur, and -6 percent for RDS,
compared to 45 percent, 43 percent and 29 percent, respectively estimated at appraisal. No economic
rates of return were calculated for the others at scheme preparation. The recalculated ERRs for these
schemes at completion are: -6 percent (Peechi), 17 percent (Haryana), 4 percent (Thambaraparani), 9
percent (Malampuzha), -3 percent (Thandava) and -16 percent (Ratapani). The recalculated ERRs are
based on actual costs incurred up to the Credit closing date plus costs to complete remaining works
until the end of FY96, and the actual and projected stream of agricultural benefits. Underlying
assumptions about costs and benefits and other information supporting the analysis are shown in Table
9 of Part II and Appendix 2. The implementation difficulties as evidenced by excessive cost overruns
per ha of benefiting area, sharply reduced benefiting area, and funding constraints for maintenance are
consistent with diminished project performance. Consequently, the reduction in ERR estimates is not
unexpected despite positive impact on high-value cash crops such as coconut and improved crop yields
on benefiting area.
14.       There are various factors which have contributed to the significantly lower as well as
negative ERRs. These include a markedly reduced benefiting area at scheme completion compared to
appraisal projections, excessive cost per ha in real terms ranging from Rs.23,655/ha (Haryana) to
Rs. 104,020/ha (Peechi) and less than anticipated changes in cropping patterns than was foreseen at
appraisal or scheme preparation.
15.       Sensitivity Analysis. The potential economic benefits are not being fully achieved in most
of the schemes. The three factors which have influenced ERRs are: (a) sharp variations in incremental
benefiting area; (b) changes in O&M funding; and (c) the inability of state Irrigation Departments to
operate, monitor and manage the different schemes satisfactorily. The sensitivity analysis indicates that
an increase in benefiting area by 50 percent will raise ERR for VVS to 12 percent; a reduction in 50
percent in O&M funding (by assuming that future benefits would be reduced by 50 percent) would
lower the ERR for Sathanur to about -4 percent, and the improved operation and management would
raise ERR of Peechi to nearly -4 percent, assuming that the ineffective operation of the Irrigation
Department would depress project benefits by 20 percent.
16.       Farm Incomes. As at appraisal, farm incomes at completion were ascertained, based on
representative farm models. According to appraisal estimates, farm income should have increased on
average throughout the command area of the schemes by 31 percent to 66 percent. Farm incomes in
the three schemes evaluated at appraisal (VVS, Sathanur and RDS) have achieved lower rates of
growth - 8 percent, 31 percent and 20 percent, compared to appraisal estimates of 30 percent, 31
percent and 66 percent, respectively. Increases in farm incomes in the nine schemes at completion as a
direct result of the project have ranged from 8 percent to 89 percent. The highest of 50 percent and 89



6
percent are in the tail end reaches of the Malampuzha and Thandava Schemes which were essentially
rainfed prior to NWMP.' Details are given in Appendix 2.
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE
PROJECT
17.       Implementation Record. The implementation record is mixed. While only 32 out of the
96 schemes initiated under the project have been completed, a limited awareness for water
management and improving irrigation efficiencies has been created in the implementing agencies of
some States. However, the management systems required to ensure sustainable operation of completed
schemes admittedly requiring a longer time horizon is not in place yet. It is not clear whether the State
governments with unfinished schemes would have the financial resources and institutional capacity to
complete the schemes and generate benefits as anticipated at appraisal.
18.        Factors Not Generally Subject to Government Control. This included lack of
acceptance by beneficiaries of changes in cropping patterns. The assumption that farmers could be
induced to change from paddy (for which their land had been localized earlier) to irrigated dry crops
was unrealistic and, in the case of Andhra Pradesh, the farmers of the RDS scheme went to court and
obtained an injunction against the Government. In Thandava, the revised cropping pattem has never
been put into practice. In Karnataka, coconut in VVS and paddy areas in the Bhadra scheme have
increased.  In Tamil Nadu, groundnut area has increased at the expense of paddy, millets and
sugarcane. Achievement of project objective of increasing irrigated areas by using lower water
consumption crops has occurred only to a limited extent.
19.        Factors Generally Subject to Government Control. These included delays in timely
release of annual funds for the execution of project works, frequent turnover of key professional staff
of the implementing agencies and the limited use of training modules prepared by the Indo-Dutch team.
These had substantially affected implementation performance in some participating States and
contributed to the lack of understanding of the basic concepts of the NWM\P by the operating level
professional staff of the implementing agencies.  Funding constraints are reflected in the non-
completion of any scheme in Andhra Pradesh and partial completion (10 percent) in Bihar and Uttar
Pradesh. In Tamil Nadu, thirteen Chief Engineers headed the NWMP operation over the seven-year
period whilst in Andhra Pradesh thirteen executive engineers and five superintending engineers handled
the RDS project alone over the seven-year period. Such frequent changes in staff are not desirable,
particularly in a project introducing new concepts in engineering (structured network) and water
management. Dutch technical assistance was provided to prepare training modules on the concept,
design and implementation of the NWMP schemes. The use of the modules prepared by this Indo-
I     Borrower concurs that the project schemes have been able to raise the productivity of land thereby
increasing the income of farmers in the command area (refer Appendix 3, para 3.9). The Borrower also states that
the lower rates of return are due to (a) reduction in benefited areas; (b) increase in cost of rehabilitation; and (c)
less than anticipated changes in cropping patterns. This situation arose because of the fact that the rehabilitation
and modernization works were scattered and started at a later date, and therefore some of the important works were
still incomplete by the closing date. The farmers were also unwilling to change the cropping pattern as planned in
the SAR. Moreover, there is considerable time-lag between the scheme completion and accrual of the full benefits
(Appendix 3, para 3.5).



7
Dutch team varied amongst the participating States. Engineers from Madhya Pradesh Water and Land
Management Institute were aware of the significance of these modules. Wider use of these modules
could have been made by other State govemments.
20.       Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control. These included
insufficient diagnostic work to identify system constraints and to prioritize expenditures and ineffective
monitoring and evaluation of scheme performance. In FY88, Bank/FAOCP missions assisted the three
original States in the preparation of detailed scheme reports. Beyond that time the implementing
agencies were to prepare scheme summaries using their funds and then get them cleared by WMC.
Once the summaries were cleared, the implementing agencies were allowed to use project funds to
prepare detailed scheme reports with the assistance of consultants, if required. But the quality of
scheme reports prepared after the involvement of Bank/FAOCP has not been good. In the preparation
of revised operating plans, actual cropping pattem data could have been collected from the agriculture
department. This has resulted in inappropriate and impractical solutions being implemented to achieve
better water use efficiency in the schemes. Monitoring and evaluation units were to be created in the
implementing agencies and evaluate the impact of the projects on the agricultural production in the
commands of the rehabilitated schemes. This aspect has not been taken up seriously in any of the
schemes. Even though such M&E units have been created in various implementing agencies, they have
not been effective in collecting baseline and follow-up data relevant for the evaluation of agricultural
benefits and scheme performance. Another major factor affecting the project was its top-down
approach and the lack of consultation with farmers.
21.       Implementation Delays. A number of schemes which were expected to be completed
over a period of four years have not been completed even after seven years. In many of the schemes,
construction schedules did not take into account canal closure and heavy rainfall seasons properly
which led to implementation delays. In Andhra Pradesh, engineers' estimates for construction were
quite low leading to poor response from contractors to tender or delay in processing of tenders.
22.       Actual Project Cost. The actual project expenditure is given in Table 8A of Part II. In
rupee terms, the total cost would be Rs.5061.3 million in current prices representing a 148 percent cost
overrun in nominal rupee terms. Similarly, the total expenditure in US dollars up to Credit closing date
is estimated to be US$176.1 million representing a cost overrun of 11 percent. The smaller cost
overrun in US$ terms is due to the exchange rate movement of the rupee against US$. However, the
exact number of schemes as well as detailed costs were not known exactly at the time of appraisal
(except the three schemes evaluated at appraisal). Comparison of actuals with appraisal estimates for
the whole project are therefore not very meaningful.
23.       Project Financing. The IDA Credit is fully disbursed (SDR93.2 million). The
remaining expenditure has been met by the various State Governments involved and the GOI.
Details are given in Table 8B of Part II.



8
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
24.       Project sustainability hinges primarily on adequate provision of maintenance funds,
increased involvement of farmers in O&M and cost recovery, inculcation of O&M culture to the
Irrigation Department staff to carry out the O&M activities, and enhancement of institutional
capabilities for O&M.. Availability of funds alone is not a guarantee for sustained project operation.
Planning for O&M has to be given priority and until this is achieved, project sustainability cannot be
ensured. Based on past experience, it would seem unlikely that adequate finds would be spared for
maintenance. Even in places where adequate maintenance funds have been released by the State
Govemments, the maintenance of structures constructed under NWMP was unsatisfactory. If the
operational plans devised under the project are not kept up, it would lead to the deterioration of the
systems as well.
25.       As costs for O&M increase and the State governments find it difficult to meet these costs,
it is necessary to tum over parts of the system to the beneficiaries in addition to increasing the water
charges and improving collection rates. Since farmers have not been involved in the preparation and
execution of the schemes under this project, it is necessary to take urgent steps to include them in the
operational phase. Water Users Associations at different levels in the system would have to be created
as a first step.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
26.       Identification and Preparation. The project was identified around 1985 and prepared
over a two-year period by the Bank/FAO CP with the assistance of national consultants and staff of the
Irrigation Departments of the participating States. A number of missions were mounted to prepare
detailed studies for three schemes: one each in the three participating States. The defect in identification
and preparation which continued through appraisal was the skill mix of the teams which comprised
mainly of irrigation engineers, economists and system analysts. There was limited agricultural specialist
input in identification, preparation and appraisal. At the time of project preparation and appraisal,
beneficiary participation was just beginning to receive attention, however no sociological input was
provided either. This might have led to the suggestions for changes in cropping patterns (replacing
high water consuming paddy crop with less water consuming crop to increase area irrigated) which
were subsequently rejected by the farmers (para 36 and 39). Barring these two drawbacks, the
engineering aspects of the three schemes were well prepared. Operational hydrological analyses were
carried out through simple simulation models which were appropriate. At appraisal, even though
twelve schemes had been identified for inclusion in the project, only three had been prepared in detail.
In the internal memoranda discussing the Yellow Cover Report, it was observed that an unusually high
Bank/FAOCP input will be required in the post-appraisal/early-project implementation period. This
turned out to be true and the Bank/FAOCP did provide the requisite input. However, a similar amount
of input required for the other 77 schemes cleared through the implementation period was not
practical.



9
27.       Design. The Bank engineers, in association with resident mission staff, prepared the
structured network concept which can be considered innovative despite some of its constraints. This
system delivers water below the structured level proportional to the area served. To respond to this
operation, it is necessary to take account of other related factors such as soil moisture holding capacity
and variability in the irrigability of lands and associated crops best suited for these lands.
28.       Institutional Development Aspects. Even though the project aimed at establishing a
good O&M mechanism in the Irrigation Departments, such institutional developments are yet to take
place. The Bank apparently did not pay enough attention to the institutional development aspects.
Funds provided for this purpose were not fully utilized and in the last six months before Credit closure
were transferred to cover expenditures on works.
29.       Farmer Organization Aspects. The appraisal's focus on engineering also resulted in
little attention to the role of farmers in the project. At that time, the benefits of farmer involvement in
irrigation were not widely appreciated in Asia, but in retrospect, this was a major missed opportunity.
30.       Environment and Social Aspects. The project did not involve any direct environmental
concerns and it did not involve any persons or families being displaced.
31.       Supervision. Supervision by the Bank was inadequate and ineffective. In the early years
of project implementation when only the three original States were involved, a considerable number of
staff weeks were spent on supervision. Of course, during this time the Bank was also assisting the State
implementing agencies in the preparation of detailed feasibility studies for other schemes. At the time of
appraisal, only three schemes had been studied in detail: Sathanur in Tamil Nadu, Vani Vilas Sagar in
Karnataka and Rajolibunda Diversion Scheme in Andhra Pradesh. From FY87 to FY89, a total of
387.2 staff weeks were spent for preparation assistance and supervision whereas for the remaining five
years only 233.5 staff weeks were spent in reviewing new schemes to be included under the project and
supervising ongoing schemes. Given this constraint, alternate arrangements should have been made to
scrutinize the schemes properly. The Bank should share some of the responsibility for the poor
preparation of the schemes which has led to their poor performance. The supervision missions did not
provide adequate guidance to the State implementing agencies regarding the principles and objectives
of the NWMP. Instances like in Rajolibunda Diversion Scheme where rehabilitation/modernization
work has been carried out in seven out of 47 distributaries in a scattered manner, Ratapani where
nothing has been done to arrest the 20 percent leakage observed in the first 800 m but unnecessary
proportional modules have been built (Appendix 3 refers) could have been avoided through effective
supervision. As the number of schemes under implementation increased, the Bank did not equip itself
with appropriate supervision mechanisms. Up to and including FY89, only seventeen schemes were
either under preparation or implementation whereas beyond that period another 79 schemes were
reviewed and cleared out of which 68 schemes have been under implementation. Yearwise
breakdown of schemes under implementation is given in Appendix 3. Poor diagnostics and non-
prioritization of physical investments could have been avoided if the number of schemes had been kept
to a manageable level.



10
32.       Eleven supervision mission reports were prepared. In order to cover the large number of
States, supervision work was carried out over a four to six-month period and covered in a single
report. Supervision effort was also divided amongst Bank staff . It is therefore somewhat surprising
that such anomalies in implementation were not spotted and corrected.
33.       In the early years of the project, implementation rate was slow and correspondingly
disbursements were low. This was the only project in the agriculture and irrigation sector not to
register any disbursement at all in entire FY89. In the first three years of the project implementation,
progress was very slow which was understandable since new concepts were being introduced to the
Irrigation Departments' staff and several new engineering designs had to be prepared using scientific
hydraulic engineering principles involving the mechanics of flows. At the end of March 1990, less than
half of the predicted disbursements had materialized. Both the Bank and GOI were anxious to increase
disbursements and this appears to have become the overriding concern and additional schemes in the
three original and another six States were approved. Even though it is clearly specified in SAR para
3.33 that no new schemes would be started after June 1990, about seventy schemes were cleared for
implementation after this date although it was evident that they would not be completed before the
original Credit closing date of 31 March 1994. The total estimated cost of the schemes cleared by GOI
and approved by the Bank was also far in excess of the funding available under the project (Appendix 3
refers). It appears from Bank documents that as early as 1989, when the project performance was
behind schedule and the impact of the project could not have been evaluated, plans were under way for
a follow-up project and these additional schemes were cleared assuming that there would be continued
financing of the schemes under such a follow-up phase.' At the same time, other internal
communication indicates that there was considerable concern about non-collection of reliable data on
the project's impact on agricultural production. Monitoring and evaluation component was not
supervised and guided properly in spite of such observations.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
34.       Scheme Preparation. The strengthening of the Water Management Cell (WMC) in the
MOWYR has been accomplished well and it has been staffed as per SAR requirements except for the
post of agronomist. The WMC has been responsible for clearing scheme summaries first and then the
detailed scheme reports for further clearance by the Bank. The WMC achieved this through an
appraisal committee consisting of senior experts from other relevant agencies of the GOI and chaired
by the Additional Secretary of the MOWR. As the number of schemes under implementation increased,
the WMC did not have adequate technical lower-level staff to independently check the various scheme
designs presented. Accordingly, scheme reports which were not up to SAR standards were cleared for
implementation. Alternate checking mechanisms such as the regional offices of the Central Water
Commission may have to be investigated for future follow-up projects. The WMC had, unlike the State
implementing agencies, continuity of senior staff In fact, the commissioner's post was occupied by the
same person until September 1994.
I     Borrower states in para 3.2 (iii) of their comments (Appendix 3) that ....an impression crept in that the
second phase of the NWMP would follow concurrently without any transition period between the two phases."
And that .... "GOI/WB cleared several projects for implementation even at a later date fully realising that they
would not be completed before the closing date of the project."



I1
35.        Scheme preparations are not of a high standard. Design and conceptual weaknesses were
evident in some of the schemes visited by the mission. In Tainil Nadu, the designer has taken advantage
of existing drainage courses in sub-catchments to convey irrigation flows to tanks but in designing
control structures for flow division the natural run-off and floods usually handled by such courses have
been ignored. As a result, water has backed up on farmers' fields (inadequacy of the structures) and the
annoyed farmers have destroyed the flow division structures. No attempt has been made to review the
situation and rebuild the structures. In Andhra Pradesh, small structures built on black cotton soils have
failed due to the swelling and shrinking forces. While larger structures have been constructed with
appropriate intermediate layers of cohesive non-swelling soils, the same attention has not been given to
smaller structures such as proportionate dividers at field outlet levels. Cement plasters have been
directly applied to random rubble masonry without any bonding layer resulting in failure of the plasters.
Pointing would have been more appropriate in these cases. The quality of construction in small and
scattered structures requires particular attention in future projects. In the Ratapani scheme in Madhya
Pradesh, no work has been carried out in the first 800 m of the main canal where (on the day of the
rnission's visit) 30 percent water losses by leakage was measured, but money has been spent further
downstream with no significant benefits. Reduction of leakage losses in this section would have
provided better water control and significant additional benefits. The performance of the Vani Vilas
Sagar scheme in Karnataka is directly related to the inflows into the reservoir which are inadequate (the
reservoir has not filled in recent years). A comprehensive water balance analysis of the total system
should have been carried out and operational plans devised accordingly. The performance of the
Sathanur scheme in Tamil Nadu is also dependent on reservoir inflows. The scheme experienced
successive drought years and in 1991, no releases were made to irrigation command or the system
tanks. Still about 30 percent of the land was irrigated which indicates the extent of groundwater usage
in the command. Recently several discharge measuring structures have been completed. However,
improvements have not been carried out in several distributaries which has led to the malfunctioning of
outlets. At Peechi in Kerala, the problem is abundant growth of weeds and bushes in the canals, and
canal banks restricting access to the system. A priority investment should have been the purchase of
bush, weed and sediment clearing machinery which would have enabled water to reach the farthest
points of the command. If the basic concept provided in the SAR of analyzing the performance of the
scheme, identifying the constraints, and then adopting appropriate solutions to implement an
operational plan had been followed, the maintenance constraint would have been identified as the major
problem in water management in this scheme.
36.       In resectioning canals, a standard theoretical approach has been taken which is leading to
O&M problems. Manning "n" value of 0.025 applicable to straight earth channel in good condition has
been used in designs together with trapezoidal sections which the O&M staff are unable to maintain.
Instead, it would have been preferable to adopt natural regime sections (in unlined canals) with more
realistic values for the roughness coefficients with appropriate backwater computations in the design. It
was observed that the field staff were unable to push required discharges after a year of completing
some of the resectioning because even a shift in "n" value to 0.030 (due to inadequate maintenance)
results in a 20 percent reduction in the carrying capacity of the channel. Bed slopes are, by necessity,
quite small due to topographic constraints. It was found that proper maintenance of the canals to
maintain design bed slopes is critical for the success of the proportional outlets which are based on
hydraulics of flow and maintaining predetermined energy gradients in the channels. In most of the



12
schemes visited (except Thandava in Andhra Pradesh) field-level staff were not quite conversant with
the hydraulic principles of NWMP and the importance of proper maintenance in achieving these.
37.       Involvement of agricultural department staff and farmers in the preparation of seasonal
operational plans was, at best, minimal. Actual prevailing cropping patterns vary considerably from
those in the design records. These have evolved over the years and to some extent are contributing to
the inequitable and often inefficient irrigation service. It would probably not be feasible to provide
adequate and equitable supplies to the entire command in some of the schemes which are water-short
due to these cropping patterns. However, simulations could have been carried out using these actual
cropping patterns, coupled with direct farmer consultation (para 26 and 39), in order to determine
logical alternatives to improve water management. Instead, it appears that theoretical patterns were
used in the analysis and the alternatives recommended have turned out to be impractical.
38.       Implementation. The implementation performance varies from State to State. The size
of the schemes rehabilitated range from medium to large. Kerala, which joined the project later (in
1990) appears to have performed well. In Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, reports prepared by IIMI
indicated that some progress has been achieved in pushing water further down the main canal and
distributaries. Since all proportional outlets have not yet been constructed, equitable distribution has
not yet been achieved in its entirety. In most of the 32 schemes, according to the reports prepared by
the State Irrigation Departments, cropped areas have increased, cropping patterns have changed and
total production has increased. Of particular relevance is how much of the reported improvements is
directly attributable to the project interventions and how much is due to other factors such as increased
groundwater use, improved agricultural practices, etc. It was found that in limited areas where
reliability of water supply has been assured, use of inputs has gone up and hybrid varieties are replacing
local varieties. On the whole, NWMP has somewhat improved the situation, but the original project
development objectives have not been achieved. In Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh,
there is an overall appreciation for water management at higher levels of Government.
39.       Water Management. During field visits it was observed that the concept of water
management has not been clearly understood by most of the operating level engineers of the Irrigation
Departments. The idea was to prepare seasonal operational plans based on actual and realistic cropping
patterns for good management of available scarce water resource and then to determine the
interventions required to improve the physical infrastructure to carry out such plans. Obviously,
deferred maintenance would be part of such interventions but only to the extent required to manage the
water resource of each scheme. However, it was found that deferred maintenance had become the
prime objective during project implementation. This is evident from the fact that in some schemes,
structures have been renovated, resectioning of canals have been carried out, and new structures have
been built in a scattered manner, which will not assist in any rational water management. For instance,
in Rajolibunda Diversion Scheme, seven out of 47 distributaries have been repaired but not in any
contiguous unit. As a result, in most schemes actual benefiting areas would be much smaller than the
Cultivable Command Area (CCA). Similarly, the quality improvement in irrigation service delivered to
the farmers would be minimal.



13
40.        Beneficiary Involvement. Farmers were not consulted in any systematic manner (as
required in the SAR through scheme-level committees, etc.) in preparing alternative operational plans,
including changes in cropping patterns, although such plans were to define the rules for their
implementation and iiiclude structural modifications at the outlet and distributary levels necessary to
achieve a more reliable, predictable and equitable irrigation service directly affecting the farmers.
41.        Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) of key paramneters (physical progress as compared
to targets, in cropping patterns, cropped areas, productivity and production data at various locations in
a scheme command) has not been carried out in a systematic -manner and such information was not
readily available even in those schemes where M&E units were functional. Measuring devices
(provided for in the SAR) have not been constructed in most of the schemes visited and where they
have been constructed, they are either inoperational or readings are not being taken and analyzed to
evaluate the efficiency and adequacy of the operational plan in achieving improved water management.1
Remote sensing methods were employed in selected schemes to determine the effectiveness of the
project interventions. However, sufficient attention was not paid to ground truthing and in determining
whether improvements identified by remotely sensed data were in fact due to project interventions or
due to other factors. For instance, in RDS where project work was undertaken in only seven out of the
47, the remote sensing unit reported increases in area irrigated throughout the command and attributed
it to NWMP interventions. In fact there were such increase in irrigated area during the monitored year,
but it was due to other factors. In spite of these oversights, the use of remote sensing from satellite
imagery should be encouraged in other projects both during preparation and appraisal and later during
and after implementation. Excellent facility exists for this purpose in India.
42.        Training and Institutional Strengthening, both at the national and at the State level
was a key element to project success and this has been stressed very clearly in the SAR. Even though a
number of studies were undertaken and short-term training courses both in India and abroad have been
carried out there was little impact on scheme designs, preparation of operational plans and
implementation. This aspect has not been given the importance it deserves during implementation and
the Bank supervision missions failed to follow up the implementation of this most essential component.
In fact, the funds provided for this purpose were not fully utilized and in the last six months were
transferred to cover expenditures of works. The net result is that after eight years of project
implementation, only a limited awareness has been created within the IDs on the importance of water
management. In retrospect, better results could have been achieved in converting ID engineers from
construction people to water managers despite longer term requirement for management changes, if
sufficient attention had been paid to this component
43.        The structured network system which was developed in the early years of project
implementation was not tested in a pilot project in humid rice-growing areas of eastern and southern
India. The application of this system in paddy growing areas where field to field irrigation is practiced
should be evaluated further. It is difficult to reach a firm conclusion based on practical experience at
Borrower concurs with the ICR observation "....regarding the absence of proper measuring devices and
other necessary infrastructure.... However, data on physical progress of works, financial expenditure, cropped area,
reservoir levels, gauge, and discharge of important canals etc. were maintained by the project authorities right from
the beginning and were reviewed from time to time." Refer para 3.8 Appendix 3.



14
this stage since even in the completed schemes of this type, operations have not yet been carried out.
The limitation of the structured system in such an environment is that water is delivered at the outlet
proportional to the area served, but farmers in the first fields continue to take a larger share before
sending it to the next field and so on. In addition, the system does not have the flexibility to
conjunctively use rainfall in a localized area. An improved structured system l is currently under
preparation and will be applied in other Bank-supported projects.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
44.         The project outcome is rated unsatisfactory. At the time of appraisal, only a limited
number of schemes had been prepared in detail and subsequent scheme preparations were to be vetted
by WMC and cleared by an appraisal committee. Provisions were made under the project to
strengthen the WMC and, in fact, additional staff in different disciplines were recruited with the
exception of an irrigation agronomist. However, the WMC did not have adequate technical support
staff to analyze in detail the various scheme reports prepared by the States. Only 32 out of the 96
schemes initiated under the project have been completed at Credit closure. The detailed scheme
reports cleared for implementation were deficient in two major aspects contributing to poor
performance: (i) proper diagnostic of irrigation infrastructure was not carried out and prioritization of
investments was not made; and (ii) outdated agricultural data on crops and cropping patterns were
used in the preparation of the operational plans resulting in impractical water management solutions.
The result is that NWMP objectives of equitable, predictable and reliable irrigation supplies to all farms
in a scheme command have not been achieved in most of the completed schemes and incremental
benefiting areas have remained well below 50 percent of expectations in most schemes.
H. FUTURE, OPERATION
45.        The following actions would be required to ensure completion of remaining schemes and
their smooth operation: (a) revision of operational plans, in consultation with fanners, taking into
account realistic agricultural data on cropping pattern and operational hydrology; (b) completion of
ongoing schemes based on proper diagnostic analysis of infrastructure improvements required to
execute the operational plan mentioned above on the basis of an appropriate prioritized investment
program for the implementation of which continued financial assistance from the Bank possibly under a
follow-up phase would be necessary under stringent institutional obligations; (c) training of ID staff,
relevant agricultural department staff and farmers in the operation of the schemes; (d) training of
scheme managers including inculcation in O&M  culture; and (e) provision of adequate funds for
sustained O&M taking into account farmer takeover concept. During the wrap-up meeting with the
ICR mission and in a subsequent letter, GOI has indicated that they have advised the Planning
Commission to release adequate funds to the concemed State Governments to complete the ongoing
schemes. There would still be a need for external assistance to complete the schemes and consolidate
the gains from this valuable program.
Improved Structured System in India by J.-P. Baudelaire, Principal Irrigation Engineer, SA2NA refers



15
1. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
46.       The main lessons learned from this project implementation can be grouped under Concept,
Design, Implementation, and Follow-up, as follows:
Concept
a) Extensive equitable irrigation and self-financing irrigation schemes are two objectives which may
not be necessarily compatible. Equity should therefore be achieved through the introduction of
volumetric water supply, within the limitations of water availability and the effective recovery of
appropriate water charges, rather than through the delivery of the same amount of water per unit of
area to each farmer;
b) Projects of this type which involve not only technical changes to the status quo, but also have
significant social aspects, require a high level of farmer participation in irrigation management
(PIM) to be successful. Introduction of such concepts will require, in turn, the use of more
advanced technologies in irrigation management which are currently available in India and abroad.
These would include provision of improved structured system to allow flexible water distribution
to water user associations, and, as needed, canal automation for controlling main canal flows.
c) Improving the productivity of irrigation systems linked with farmer participation requires
strengthening of the capabilities of the irrigation departments and some institutional restructuring to
provide emphasis and staff resources to these activities.
In the Water Resources Consolidation Projects (WRCPs) (which are the new generation irrigation
projects supported hy the Bank), a major thrust is on improving the productivity of irrigation systems
through modernization linked with farmer involvement. The "systems improvement and farmer
turnover" components of the WRCPs integrally link farmer organization, operations and
maintenance, and cost recovery with the engineering improvements. Additionally, each project has
involved an institutional reorganization and subsequent strengthening program to build up the
capabilities of the irrigation departments in scheme modernization, water management, andfarmer
organization. Volumetric supplies are also being attempted by water users associations and this
experiment should be carefully monitored and nurtured. Canal automation is being experimented in
Tungabadra and Majalgaon commands.
Design
a)  A baseline survey of the condition of the system infrastructure and cropping practices is a
prerequisite to prepare a detailed scheme report for rehabilitation/modernization.
b) Detailed diagnostic work would be undertaken and realistic alternate scenarios should be explored
in computer simulation models taking into account farmer crop preferences in preparing
operational plans. These plans should be prepared with the assistance of specialists in operational
hydrology (water availability and water balance studies under the revised scenarios), irrigation
agronomy who are familiar with the local conditions, sociologists, representatives of the farrning



16
community, and irrigation engineers. The operational plans should be flexible to handle vagaries of
nature and forces of the market place (for instance, if a sugar mill is located near a scheme, water-
savings cannot be achieved by switching to a less water consuming crop -- innovative irrigation
technology has to be adopted with required capital investments).
c) An irrigation system should be considered as a whole water management unit. Works should not
be carried out in individual distributaries without any possibility of water management in the system
in its totality.
Implementation
a) Prioritization of expenditures necessary for implementing the selected operational plan should be
prepared, together with detailed construction sequences, which take into account the financial
capability of the implementing agency, canal closure periods, and number of days available to carry
out the civil works in each year.
b) Quality of construction in small and scattered works requires particular attention. High quality
technical assistance and third party supervision should be considered in future project.
c) Priority should be given to training a maximum number of professional staff of the implementing
agencies in water management principles, and some of the promising staff should be trained
intensively in computer and remote sensing technology to be water managers. Turnover rate of
key senior-level staff must be minimized in projects involving new concepts. Otherwise, the
benefits of training and efficiency in implementation are lost.
Follow-up
a) Simple key parameters should be established for monitoring and evaluating the performance and
impact of water management from scheme start-up. An effective monitoring and evaluation unit
should be created in each participating State with a multi-disciplinary core team. Monitoring the
impact of scheme interventions on agricultural production should be carried out continuously
starting from the baseline survey and using the same parameters so that operational plans can be
modified if required and also a final evaluation of the scheme performance would be feasible.
b)  O&M of the scheme should be jointly carried out by department officers and farmer beneficiaries.
Adequate funds should be made available for such O&M.



17
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of obiectives         Substantial     Partial    Nealigible  Not Applicable
(/)          (,/)                       (/)
Macro policies                                      l O         O           EII
Sector policies                     E l1                      El             O
Financial objectives                ED           El                          L 
Institutional development           El                         El           El
Physical objectives                 El                         El           El
Poverty reduction                   El           E0           E3            Fo
Gender issues                       El            El           E            E]
Other social objectives             El           El            El           FE
Environmental objectives            El            El          [I            E
Public sector management            El            El           El            Wi
Private sector development          El            El           El             Oi
Other (specify)  1/                              [E                          El
B. Proiect sustainabiliry             Likely       Unlikely    Uncertain
(/)          (.f          (/)
Highlv
C. Bank performance                 satisfactory   Satisfactory   Deficient
GO            (V)         V)
Identification                         l          E l
Preparation assistance              En                        El
Appraisal                           El1                        E
Supervision                         EE                         W i
1/ Structured systems and satellite remote sensing applications,



18
Highlv
D. Borrower performance               satisfactory   Satisfactory   Deficient
(.T          (1)          (e)
Preparation                                     L J            E
Implementation                                  F            F g  
Covenant compliance                  D          Ei 
Operation (if applicable)             l          E             E
Highlv                                      High&v
E. Assessment of outcome          satisfactory   Satisfactory    Unsatisfactorv  unsatisfactory
C:   El    E 



19
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title            Purpose              Year of approval              Status
Preceding operations
1. UP Second Public      Construct improved                1983            Closed. PCR issued 1992
Tubewell Project         public tubewell systems,
(Cr. 1332-IN)            modernize existing
US$101 million           standard tubewells and
connect to exclusive 11
KV feeder lines of
existing standard tubewell
systems.
Following operations
1. Bihar Plateau         Help GOB efforts to               1992            On-going.
Development Project      increase rural incomes
(Cr.2439-IN)             and reduce the incidence
of poverty in the plateau
area of Bihar.
2. A.P. Cyclone          Reconstruction and                 1990            Closed. ICR issued 1995.
Emergency Recon-         rehabilitation of
struction Project        infrastructure damaged by
(APCERP)                 the cyclone of May 1990.
(Cr.2179-IN) and
Ln.3260-IN)
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle            |    Date planned     [        Date actual/
l                     l       latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                               over a 2 year period 1984-1986
Preparation                                                                    November 1985
First IDA mission
Appraisal                                                                         May 1986
Negotiations                                                                 January 19-23, 1987
Letter of development policy (if applicable)               n.a.                      n.a.
Board presentation                                                             March 24, 1987
Signing                               -                                         May 12, 1987
Effectiveness                                          June 15, 1987           August 10, 1987
First tranche release (if applicable)                      n.a.                      n.a.
Midterm review (if applicable)                             n.a.                      n.a.
Second (and third) tranche release (if applicable)         n.a.                     n.a.
Project completion                                    March 31, 1994           March 31, 1995
Credit closing                                        March 31, 1994           March 31, 1995



20
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91  FY92  FY93   FY94   FY95
Appraisal estimate   1.0   11.20   27.00   47.40  71.10  91.40  106.1  114.0  114.00
Actual             -      8.43    8.43   15.66  26.13  37.94   67.5  106.9  129.97
I
Actual as % of     0     75      47      33     37     42       64     94    110
estimate
Date of final    June 20, 1995
disbursement
' Represents depreciation of US dollar against SDR. A total of SDR93.2 million was disbursed, which
is equivalent to US$129.97 million. The higher US$ value than at appraisal reflects the exchange rate
movements of the US$ vis-a-vis the SDR.
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
A number of schemes covering a total of 2.18 million ha have been initiated in a number
of States compared to the twelve schemes identified at appraisal covering 459,976 ha and
unidentified schemes covering an area of about 123,029 ha. State-wise details are given in
Appendix 3.



21
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
(NOT IDENTIFIED AT APPRAISAL)
Table 7a: Training and Studies - Andhra Pradesh
Si.       Name of Sub-            Name of Study           Status of Study               Main Findings of the Study
No.          Scheme
I             2                       3(a)                    3(b)                                 4
1.    Rajolibanda             Monitoring & Evaluation    Completed.          Analysis of satellite data covering kharif season of
Diversion Scheme       of RDS Command Area                            1991 and 1992 and rabi seasons of 92-92, 92-93,
(RDS)                  by NRSA                                        93-94 indicate significant increase in irrigated area
even exceeding the service area. Water in both
kharif and rabi seasons is now reaching even the tail
end of most distributaries, with substantial irrigated
areas in this part of command area. Irrigation can be
further extended to larger than recommended
irrigated area under paddy crop. The condition of
paddy under NWMP is showing improvements in
both kharif and rabi seasons. Similar improvements
in the condition of semi-dry crops is noticed during
the rabi season. While more equitable condition in
paddy is noticed across distributaries during the
kharif season, the condition of semi-dry crops
decreases towards the tail end distributaries. The gap
in head reaches and tail reach is more in semi-dry
crops than paddy. Focus should be on equitable
water supply across the command area (Executive
Summary is appended).
2.     NWMP Phase I           Evaluation Study of On-    Draft report is     The report is under scrutiny.
Going Sub-Projects of     received.
NWMP Phase I



22
Table 7b: Training and Studies - Karnataka
STUDIES
.... Technical Assistance/Studies Under N    WMP .
SI.    Name of Sub-Schemes                                                            Main Findings for the Study
No.                                   Name of Study             Status of Study
(1) 1           (2)                      (3a)                       (3b)                          (4)
r,    Tungabhadra Sub-Project    Modification of canal     Study completed. Modified    As per the study, the canal
Distributary No. 76 of   section and distributary   design suggested.          section is modified to
TBLBC                    No. 76                                                accommodate required flow of
8.50 n3/sec.
2.     Bhadra and Tungabhadra    Studies of structures     Study completed. Modified   An operational plan dividing the
Sub-Project              irrigation networks        structures suggested.      distributary into two reaches is
recommended to be adopted.
Accordingly structures have
been modified.
3.     Bhadra Sub-Project       Monitoring of irrigation   Study completed for rabi of   Interim report was fumished for
water management in       93-94.                      1993-94. Rabi season final
Bhadra command area                                  report is awaited from NRSA.
taken through satellite RSA
TRAINING
|SI.  |Course Title
|No.|-l
Training During the Year 1990-19911"
1.    2nd Training course on "Monitoring of Irrigation System" for Engineers of Irrigation Projects.
2.    Training Course on "Water & Land Management Practices under New Operational Plan for
Dharma Scheme" for Sowdies and Work-Inspectors at Hangal.
3.    One day for farmers training course on 'Water & Land Management Practices under
Operational Plan for Dharma Scheme" for farmers at Hangal.
4.    One day for farmers training course on "Water & Land Management Practices under New
Operational Plan for Dharma Scheme" for farmers at Hangal.
5.    One day for farmers training course on "Water & Land Management Practices under New
Operational Plan for Dharma Scheme" for farmers at Hangal.
6.    2nd training course on Evaluation Performance of Irrigation Systems for Engineers of Irrigation
Schemes at Hangal.
7.    2nd training course on "Main Canal Operation" for Engineers at Dharwad.
8.    Training course on "Water & Land Management Technology under New Operational Plan" for
WI & Sowdies of Marconahalli command area at Marconahalli.
9.    One day farmers training course on "Water & Land Management Practices under New
Operational Plan for farmers at Marconahalli.
10.    One day farmers training course on "Water & Land Management Practices under New
Operational Plan for farmers at Marconahalli.



23
TRAINING
Si.                                         Course Title
No.I
11.   One day farmers training course on "Water & Land Management Practices under New
Operational Plan" for farmers at Marconahalli.
12.   7th short duration training course on "Planning & Design of New Operational Plans" for
engineers at Dharwad.
13.   Training course on "Water & Land Management Practices under New Operational Plan" for WI
& Sowdies for Chandramapalli command at Chandramapalli.
14.   One day farmers training course on "Water & Land Management Practices under New
Operational Plan" for Chandramapalli for command at Chandramapalli.
15.   One day farmners training course on "Water & Land Management Practices under New
Operational Plan" for Chandramapalli command area at Chandramapalli.
16.   One day farmers training course on "Water & Land Management Practices under New
Operational Plan" for Chandramapalli command area at Chandramapalli.
Training During the Year 1991-922/
1.   One day refresher course for field level functionaries of Bhadra and Vanivilas Sagar Projects.
2.                                            - do -
3.                                            - do -
4.                                            - do -
5.    Field Level Functionaries training course of Work-Inspectors and Sowdies of Areshankar and
Ramanahalli Projects under NWMP at Bijapur from 25 to 27 February 1992.
6.   One day farmers training course for Areshankar Project under NWMP at Jeeralbhavi on 28-2-
1992.
7.   Field Level Functionaries training course of Work-Inspectors and Sowdies of Tungabhadra
Project at Munirabad under NWMP from 3 to 5 March 1992.
Training During the Year 1992-933'
1.   Training course on "New Operation Plans and their implementation" for Engineers of NWMP
Schemes.
2.    Training course on "Water & Land Management Techniques under NWMP of Kanva &
Maidala Schemes for Field Level Functionaries.
3.   Training course on "Monitoring of Implementation of NOP of NWMP schemes" for Engineers
of NWMP Schemes.
4.    Training course on "Evaluation of performance of NWMP Schemes" for Engineers of NWMP
Schemes.
5.    Training course on "Water & Land Management Techniques under NWMP Schemes" for Field
Level Functionaries.
6.   Training course on "Main Canal Operation Unit (MCOU) of NWMP Schemes" for Engineers
of NWMP Schemes.
7.   Training course on "Engineering Design of Canal and Structures of NWMP Schemes" for
Engineers of NWMP Schemes.



24
TRAINING
Si. jCourse Title
No.|
8.   Training course on "Water and Land Management Techniques under NWMP Schemes" for
Field Level Functionaries of NWMP Schemes.
Training During the Year 1993-9441
1.   "Water & Land Management Techniques under NWMP Scheme" for Field Level Functionaries
of Dharma Naregal Channels and Madag Masur NWMP Schemes.
2.   "New Operation Plans and their Implementation" for Engineers of NWMP Schemes.
3.   "Water and Land Management Techniques under NWMP Schemes for Field Level
Functionaries of Chandramapalli Project.
4.    "Monitoring of Implementation of NOP of NWMP Schemes" for Engineers of NWMP
Schemes.
5.   "Evaluation of Performance of NWMP Scheme" for Engineers of NWMP Schemes.
6.   "Water and Land Management Techniques under NWMP Schemes" for Field Level
Functionaries.
7.   "Main Canal Operation Unit (MCOU) of NWMP Scheme" for Engineers of NWMP Schemes.
8.   "Engineering Design of NWMP Scheme Works" for Engineers of NWMP Schemes.
9.   "New Operation Plans and Improved Water Management Practices" for Agricultural Personnel
of NWMP Schemes.
"  Number of persons required to be trained under NWMP:        970
Number of persons actually trained:                         673
2  Number of persons required to be trained under NWMP:        913
Number of persons actually trained:                         377
31  Number of persons required to be trained under NWMP:       264
Number of persons actually trained:                         166
4/ Number of persons required to be trained under NWMP:        174
Number of persons actually trained:                         280



25
Table 7c: Training and Studies - Kerala
Si.       Name of Sub-           No. of Persons     No. of Persons ActuaBy        Remarks (Main items
No.       Schemes under         Required To Be       Trained Under NWMP        covered under training etc.
NWMP                  Trained                                         may be indicated)
(1)            (2)                    (3a)                   (3b)                         (4)
1.    Malampuzha                     466                     257             Management Improvements
________________                                                        Training was impaned.
2.    Mangalam                        72                      43
3.    Pothundy                        78                      49
4.    Peechi                         232                     127
5.    Vazhani                         82                      53
Table 7d: Training and Studies - Madhya Pradesh
TRAINING
.          Training Details in India/Abroad 
Name of             Name of Persons to be      No. of Persons ActuaUy       Remarks (Main items
SI. No.     Sub-Schemes under               Trained              Trained under NVWM         covered on Training etc.
Farmers       Officers     Farmers       Officers         may be indicated)
FARMERS TRAINING
1.    Billa project, Shahagarh.      60            20            75            19      Farmers participation and
Distt. Sagar                                                                     Institutional organisation for
development of WUOs
2.    Tawa project                   60            20            98            41                  -do -
Powerkhed, H'bad
3.    Wainganga project              60            20            77            55                 - do -
Kewalari, Distt. Seoni
4.    Chandrakesar project           60            20            97            23                  - do -
Dewas
5.    Harsi project Chinnor,         60            20            84            32                 - do -
Gwalior
6.    SAS, Sachi, Distt. Raisen,
Vidisha
7.    Avadha Tank Sheopurkala,       60            20            69            16                 - do -
Morena
STUDIES
Si.         Name of Sub-Schemes                 Name of Study              Status Study        Main Findings for
No.                                                                                                the Study
1.   Bama Project                        Development of WOUs with    To be started in         Can be given alter
a ultimate aim to turnover the   January 1995.      completion study.
system to WUOs
2.    SAS Project (Haliali) - Proposal is           - do -                     - do -               - do -
under consideration



26
Table 7e: Training and Studies - Tamil Nadu
TRAINING
.... Training Details in India/Abroad ....
Si.       Name of Sub-
No.       Schemes under          No. of Persons          No. of Persons        Remarks (Main items covered under
NWMP               Required to be         Actually Trained          training etc. may be indicated)
Trained             under NWMP
&&    S.              &&
1.    Sathanur                 120 + 750 = 870         82 + 448 = 530       Officials include officers from Public
Works Department, Agriculture
Engineering Department and are trained
2.    Kodayar                 124 + 1250 = 1374       102 + 2223 = 2325    for:
1) new operational plans
3.    Thambaraparaniand       125 + 1100 = 1225    101 + 11150 = 11251
4.    Chirtar                                                               2) their implementadon adopting modem
techniques for optimisation of water
5.   Amaravathy                120 + 500 = 620         104 + 333 = 437         use;
3) to create an awareness among farmers
6.    Cumbam Valley                                                            of their responsibilities in
7.    Marudhanadhi and         120 + 150 = 270        71 + 2010 = 2081         implementing various activities under
8.    Manjalar                                                                 the new operation plans successfulty;
9.    Sethiathope and         143 + 1250 = 1393        135 + 489 = 624      4) micro computer applications.
10.   Tholudur
&&  = No. of departmental staff.
** = No. of users/farmers.
IMTI: Irrigation Management Training Institute at Tiruchirapalli.
STUDIES
Si.                                . . . Technical Association/Studies under NWM,MP
No.      Name of Sub-Schemes                                                               Main Findings of the
Name of Study             Status of Study               Study
I      1. Sathanur                  Feasibility survey for       Studies completed.      Finalising a design for
2. Kodayar                   establishing VHF                                    dependable, reliable and
3. Thambraparani             communications system for                           economical statewide
4. Amaravathy                National Water Management                            message. Data transmission
5. Sethiathope               Project Schemes                                      facility by establishing VHF
communication for NWMP
l ________________________                                                         sub-projects.
l 11   1. Thambraparani             Computer Aided Simulation    Studies completed.      Developing a computer
studies for Thambraparani                           based simulation model for
system                                              Thambraparani basin with
sufficient detauils to study
the major operations for
water management and to
prepare revised rules of
regulation and also for
providing implementtion
programme for real time
l________________________                            operation.



27
STUDIES
Si.                               ... Technical Association/Studies under NWMP
No.      Name of Sub-Schemes                                                             Main Findings of the
Name of Study            Status of Study               Study
III    I. Sathanur                 Probable maximum flood      Studies completed.     To design a dependable and
2. Thambraparani            (PMF) studies for 11 dams                          reliable maximum flood for
3. Kodayar                 in Tambraparani, Kodayar,                           eleven dams in Ponniar,
4. Amaravathy               Sathanur & Amaravathy                              Thambraparani, Kodayar
systems. Conducted under                           and Amaravathy systems.
Dam safety cell
IV     1. Sathanur                 Pilot study on inventorying  Studies completed.    Identifying the major crops
2. Thambraparani            and monitoring Irrigated                           in the command areas and
Agriculture in                                     estimating the cropped area.
Thambraparani and Sathanur
Command Area
V      1. Tholudur                 Computer Aided Rainfall     Studies completed.     The arrived rainfall
analysis in the Command                            probabilities will be helpful
area of Wellington Reservoir                       to plan irrigation releases
of Vellar Basin                                    for the command area of
reservoir.
VI    I. Sathanur                  Computer Aided              Studies completed.     To study in detail the
Hydrological study on                              Ponnaiyar Basin and to
characteristics of inflows                         evolve the scientific reason
into Sathanur Reservoir                            for the decline of inflows in
to Sathanur Reservoir in the
past years. The impact of
rainfall pattem in the past
five years is also found out
and to prepare the software
package on the above
aspects.



28
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate      Actual" Estimate
Item
Rs        US$          Rs         US$
................................ m illion
INVESTMENT COSTS
- Scheme Investments                         958.6       73.7      4,648.2      158.2
- Engineering & Administration                86.3        6.6      2/          2/
- Institutional Strengthening                111.3        8.5        357.2       15.7
- Training                                    32.7        2.5      31          3/
- Special Studies and Programmes              34.5        2.7      31          31
- Maharashtra Induction Training              33.6        2.6         39.8        1.6
- Institutional Support & Training Fund      130.0       10.0         16.1        0.6
Total Investment Costs                   1,387.0     106.6      5,061.3      176.1
RECURRENT COSTS
- Incremental O&M                            109.5        8.5      31          31
Total Baseline Costs                      1,496.5     115.1      5,061.3      176.1
Physical Contingencies                       125.1        9.6                         |
Price Contingencies                          419.5       32.3                         |
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                       2,041.1     157.0      5,061.3      176.1
The exact number of schemes as well as detailed costs were not known at the time of appraisal, except
for the three schemes - Sathanar, Vani Vilas Sagar and RDS. Comparison of actuals with appraisal
estimates for the project as a whole are therefore not meaningful.
2/   Disaggregated data are not available; state-wise expenditures include engineering and administration
and O&M along with Scheme Investments.
3/  In the absence of disaggregated data, actuals for training, studies and support are shown within
institutional strengthening.
Table 8B: Project Financing
Source                                    Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate
(US$ M)                       (US$ M)
IDA                                             114.0                          130.0
GOI                                             43.0                           46.0
TOTAL                                           157.0                          176.0



29
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
._____ ____ _   Appraisal Estimate            ICR Estimate
Culturable Command Area Under Rehabilitation (ha)                      583,105                          2,180,000
Increased Production (tons/year)
- Three schemes combined (SAR)
- Paddy                                                              - 7,700                             - 1,650
- Groundnuts                                                        + 19,980                            + 4,510
- Sorghum                                                            + 2,870
- Millet                                                             + 6,220                             - 2,900
- Sugarcane                                                         + 20,510                            - 38,240
- Cotton                                                             +  1,980                              + 30
- Coconut                                                            + 2,660                            + 1,220
Increased Farm Income (per ha)
RDS                                                                    3,260                              3,534
Vani Vilas Sagar                                                       5,220                              2,790
Sathanur                                                               1,720                              4,848
Thandava                                                                                                  3,412
Malampuzha                                                                                                8,885
Ratapani                                                                                                  2,665
Thambaraparani                                                                                            5,034
Peechi                                                                                                      732
Haryana                                                                                                   3,705
Net present value (Rs M)
RDS                                                                    + 108                               - 28.8
Vani Vilas Sagar                                                        + 74                               - 13.7
Sathanur                                                                + 78                               -13.8
Thandava                                                                                                   - 28.0
Malampuzha                                                                                                  - 7.0
Ratapani                                                                                                    - 7.0
Thambaraparani                                                                                             - 49.0
Peechi                                                                                                     - 25.5
Haryana                                                                                                     322.0
Economic Rates of Return (%)
- RDS                                                                       29                                - 6
- Vani Vilas Sagar                                                          45                                  9
- Sathanur                                                                  43                                  6
- Thanadava                                                                                                   - 3
- Malampuzha                                                                                                 + 9
- Ratapani                                                                                                   - 16
- Thambaraparani                                                                                             + 4
- Peechi                                                                                                      - 6
- Haryana                                                                                                   + 17
Underlying Assumptions
Project life                                                            25 years                           25 years
Standard Conversion Factor                                                 0.80                               0.90
Construction Conversion Factor                                             0.75                               0.90
Unskilled labour valued at:                                           two-thirds                              0.90
Financial wage rate (Rs/man-day)                                           10.0                              27-85



30
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
India
National Water Management Project
Original    Revised
Covenant  Present  fulfilment   fulfilment      Description of
Agreement       Section         type     status      date        date           covenant         Comments
3.01a,PA              I         C         ll           11      Maintain separate
records and
accounts.
3.01b,PA              1        CP         ll           ll      Furnish to IDA
certified accounts as
audited no later than
6 months after the
end of each fiscal
year.
3.02,PA               I        CP         11           ll      Maintain accounts of
expenditures for
which withdrawals
are to be on basis of
SOEs; retain at least
1 year after audit all
records for such
expenditures; and
include in audited
accounts certification
that SOEs can be
relied upon to
support withdrawals.
3.03,PA              11        NC         11           ll      Provide adequate    O&M funds
budget for O&M of  being provided
each sub-project.    by the States are
inadequate.
SCH2,03,PA           10         C         ll           11      Select, plan, design
and seek approval of
each scheme to
satisfaction of IDA.
SCH2,04,PA           5         CP         11           11      Establish and
maintain PPM and
O&M Cells pursuant
to satisfactory
program.
SCH2,05,PA           5         NC         11           11      For each scheme,
establish a
Committee one year
prior to completing
investment and
thereafter maintain
it.
SC1H2,06a,PA         9         CP         ll          lI       Under TOR satis-    Study carried
factory to IDA, carry out in a few
out detailed O&M    participating
Review of NWMP    States.
schemes.



31
Original    Revised
Covenant  Present  fulfilment   fulfilment      Description of
Agreement       Section         type      status     date        date           covenant          Comments
SCH2,06b,PA           9        NC      12/31/91        11      Review results of    Review reports
studies with IDA.    yet to be
received from
the States.
SCH2,06c,PA          10        NC      12/31/92        11      Prepare an Action    Depended on
Plan for improving   compliance of
O&M in the State,   SCH2,06b.
then implement the
Plan.
SCH2,07,PA            9        CP      12/31/87        11      Prepare M&E
Program and there-
after implement said
program.
SCH2,08,PA            9        CD      06/30/88        11      Furnish progress
reports within 3
months of end of
reporting period
(Apr.-Sept. & Oct.-
March: the first
report due 6/30/88).
SCH2,09,PA           10        CP      12/31/87       11       Prepare Training    Training has
Program and there-   been carried out
after implement said  in most of the
program.            States.
SCH2,10,PA           11        CD         11           11      Furnish to IDA by
end-November
(beginning 11/30/87)
proposed ftnancial
requirements for
following fiscal year.
SCH2,11,PA            5        CP      12/31/87        11      Establish a Dam     DSP esta-
Safety Panel with    blished in most
TOR satisfactory to  of the States.
IDA and promptly
carry out any needed
repair work.
G014.01a,DCA          I         C         11          /1       GOI to maintain
records and accounts
adequate to reflect
resources and
expenditures for Part
A(iii) of the project.
GO14.01b,DCA          I        CD         11           11      Have the records and
accounts audited for
each FY by
independent auditors
acceptable to the
Association and
furnish to the
Association.



32
Original    Revised
Covenant  Present  fulfilment   fulfilment     Description of
Agreement       Section        type      status     date        date           covenant         Comments
G014.03,DCA          1         CP         ll          ll      GOI shall have the
special account for
each FY audited and
furnish to the
Association not later
than 6 months after
the end of each year
report of such audit.
2,06,PA,MAH          5         C       12/31/87       11      Establish state level
committee to coor-
dinate Maharashtra
component.
3.01a,PA,MAH         I         C          ll          ll      Maintain records and
accounts adequate to
reflect resources &
expenditures in
respect of Part B of
the project of
departments or
agencies responsible
for Part B.
3.Olb,PA,MAH         I         C          ll          ll      Have records for
Part B of the project
audited and furnish
Audit Report to the
Association not later
than 9 months after
end of such year.
3.02,PA,MAH          1         C          ll          ll      For withdrawals on
SOEs, maintain
separate records and
accounts and ensure
that these are
included in the
annual audit under
Section 3.01.
Status:                                                        Covenant Type:
C        -   Complied with                                     1 - Accounts/audit
CD       -   Compliance after delay                            2 - Financial performance
CP       -   Complied with partially                           3 - Flow and utilization of project funds
NC       -   Not complied with                                 4 - Counterpart funding
NYD      -   Not yet due                                       5 - Management aspects of the project
SOON    -   Compliance expected in reasonably short time       6 - Environmental covenants
7 - Involuntary resettlement
8 - Indigenous people
9 - Monitoring, review and reporting
10 - Implementation
11 - Resource allocation
12 - Regulatory/Institutional action
13 - Other



33
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title               Describe and comment on lack of compliance
1. OMS 2.25 Cost Recovery Policy                The OMS emphasizes the importance of recovering the
full cost of operation and maintenance of irrigation
schemes with a reasonable proportion of investment
costs, subject to repayment capacity of the beneficiaries.
None of the participating States are in compliance.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                  Revised                  Actual
Stage of
project cycle                                          _
Weeks        US$          Weeks        US$        Weeks      US$000
Through Appraisal          n.a.         n.a.         n.a.         n.a.       154.4       305.2
Appraisal-Board            n.a.         n.a.         n.a.         n.a.       164.9       297.4
Board-Effectiveness        n.a.         n.a.         n.a.         n.a.        5.5         11.5
Supervision                n.a.         n.a.         n.a.         n.a.      495.9        623.9
Completion                 n.a.         n.a.         n.a.         n.a.        40.0        14.4
TOTAL                                                                      860.7       1,252.4



Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Types of
Performance rating                          Problems
Number                                 Specialized                 Implementation            Development         CLC      PMP        FA
Stage of               Month/               of             Days in                staff skills                    status                 objectives
project cycle             year              persons            field               represented
Through appraisal
Appraisal through         Numerous missions were mounted by Bank/FAO CP together with National Consultants, amounting to a large number of man-months
Board approval           to assist the States to prepare the project. This assistance continued in the early years of the project implementation period.
Board Approval through
effectiveness
Supervision  I            June-July 1987              2                7                     E,IE                            2                        2                        2         2
Supervision 2             May 1988                    3                -                     IE(3)                           2                        2                        2         2
Supervision 3             March 1989            12 at different                       IE(7),E,Ag(2),SA,PE                    2                        2                        2         2
times over a period
of six months
Supervision 4             August 1989                 4             Series of              IE(2),E,SA                        2                        2               2        2         2
missions
between May 8
and June 28
Supervision 5             December 89 to July         6                                   IE(4),E,SA                         2                        2               2        2         2
1990
Supervision 6             June 1990                   6                                   IE(4),E,SA                         2                        2               2        2         2
December 1990               8                              IE(3),E,FA.Ag(2),PE                     2                        2               2 f'    2          2
Supervision 7             September 1991              3                                      IE,E                            2                        2               2        2         2
Supervision 8             Jan. to Jun/July 92         3                                      IE,E                            2                        2               2        2         3
Supervision 9             Jan. to June 1993    3 (issued Oct. 93)                            IE,E                            2                        1                                   2
3 (issued Jul. 93)                            IE,E                            2                        2              2         2         3
Supervision  10           Dec. 93 - June 94           2                                     IE(2),E                          S                        S               1       _          2
(issued July 94)
Supervision 11            July 94 to March 95         1                                      IE(2)
ICR Mission I             Feb-Mar 95                  3                21                  IE,E,Ag                                                                                              l
ICR Supplementary         Nov 95                      3                21                  IE.E,Ag
Mission



35
CLC      -    Compliance with Legal Covenants.
PMP      -    Project Management Performance.
FA       -    Fund Availability. FA(2) Moderate problems of availability of funds.
FA(3) Major problems of availability of funds, which are being addressed
adequately.
IE       -    Irrigation Engineer; E - Economist; SA - Systems Analyst.
FA - Financial Analyst; Ag - Agriculturalist; PE - Procurement Engineer.
Status 3 in Tamil Nadu for Audits and Andhra Pradesh for Overall Status.
Missions were undertaken at different periods to different States and a summary supervision report
has been prepared.



36
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETE REPORT
INDIA
NATIONAL WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1770-IN)
Appendix lA
Aide Memoire
A. Introduction
1.      An FAO/CP mission" visited India between 18 February and 20 March 1995
to review the implementation performance of the National Water Management Project
(NWMP) and to collect relevant information and data to prepare the Implementation
Completion Report (ICR). As required by Bank regulations, the FAO/CP mission
coincided with the last supervision mission for the project carried out by Mr.
N.K.Bandyopadhyay"' from the World Bank Resident Mission in New Delhi (SA2NA).
Mr. B.Foley"' (Operations and Maintenance (O&M) Specialist) participated in the
FAO/CP mission under separate Terms of Reference to evaluate the O&M capabilities
of the various State Irrigation Departments (IDs) and to identify the requirements for
setting up O&M units (as appropriate) and strengthening existing units in a possible
follow-up project.
2.      After initial meetings in New Delhi with the officers of the Water Management
Cell (WMC) of the Ministry of Water Resources (MOWR) of the Government of India
(GOI), the mission undertook field visits to selected subprojects in four States (Tamil
Nadu, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh)'. ,fn Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh
and Madhya Pradesh the mission held wrap-up meetings chaired by the Secretary of the
ID of each State. In Andhra Pradesh, the mission also visited the National Remote
Sensing Agency (NRSA) at Hyderabad and held detailed discussions about the
applications of satellite remote sensing technology in irrigation water management with
the scientists of the Water Resources Group led by Dr.Thiruvengadachari. On returning
to New Delhi, the mission met with the officers of the Irrigation departments of Bihar,
Gujarat, Haryana, Karnataka, Orissa and Uttar Pradesh at the World Bank Resident
Mission Office. The Director of the Water and Land Management Institute (WALMI)
of Maharashtra briefed the mission on the implementation progress of the Maharashtra
Induction Training Program financed under NWMP in that State. In New Delhi, .the
mission also actively participated in the workshop organized to discuss the findings-of
the independent evaluation studies of two of the subprojects covered under NWMP
(Sathanur subproject in Tamil Nadu and Bhadra subproject in Kamataka). The evaluation
studies were carried out by the International Irrigation Management Institute (IIMI)
headquartered in Colombo. The workshop was attended by representatives from the
"Messrs.S.Rajagopal (Water Resources Specialist, Mission Leader), Mr. W.l.Sorrenson (Economist, TCII) and
Mr. S.B.Hukkeri (Agronomist, National Consultant).
21Task Manager.
" Mr.Foley was financed by the Govemment of Australia and was recruited by SA2AG.
Mr. Mathur, Senior Joint Commissioner, WMC (MOWR) accompanied the mission during its field visits to Tamil
Nadu and Kerala. Mr. Parashar, Commissioner, WMC (MOWR) participated in the wrap-up meeting held in
Hyderabad covering the Andhra Pradesh component.



37
Irrigation Departments of the States participating in NWMP, MOWR,GOI and the World
Bank Resident Mission.
3.      The mission wishes to thank all concerned staff of the Irrigation Departments
of the States visited and the WMC of MOWR for the assistance and hospitality extended
to the mission members.
B. Project Objectives
4.      The purpose of the project was to increase agricultural productivity and farm
incomes through a more reliable, predictable and equitable irrigation service. To achieve
these objectives and facilitate extension of similar activities throughout the country, the
project was formulated to help participating States and GOI to develop an institutional
capacity to plan, irnplement and monitor improved O&M practices and to provide for
low-cost infrastructural improvements designed to support an improved operational plan
for selected schemes. In each scheme, the most appropriate technique of water supply
was to be adopted. The most important element in scheme improvement was to be the
preparation of an operational plan. On the basis of water availability, system
characteristics, and agricultural options, the plan was expected to define how the system
would be operated with respect to the timings and quantities of water deliveries and the
responsibilities of those involved.
C. Project Components
51.    The principal components of the main part of the project (improved water
management) were: (a) Scheme Investments required to implement the operational plan -
these included repairs and renovations to existing structures; provision of new control
structures; field chanmels and drains; measuring devices; and investments in upgraded
O&M  facilities and equipment (including housing for staff and transport); and
commrunications equipment, as required to execute the operational plan; (b) Engineering
and Administration required to supervise the effective implementation of the scheme
investments; (c) Incremental Recurrent O&M Expenditures to support the improved
operational plan and maintain it after the completion of the scheme investments; -(d)
Institutional Strengthening of the State IDs, with particular emphasis on helping them to
develop O&M planning and support units in the States. In addition, the WMC of MOWR
was to be strengthened so that it could provide policy direction, act as a catalyst for
extending the approach across State boundaries and administer and coordinate the
NWMP as a whole. In each instance, the project provided for staffing costs, buildings,
equipment, vehicles and associated recurrent costs; (e) Training Programs for technical
and orientation training for scheme staff and farmners, State O&M staff and officers of
the WMC and study tours within India and limited overseas visits along with support
for the infrastructure development of the Irrigation Management Training Institute (IMTI)
in Tamil Nadu; (f) Special Studies and Programs to strengthen specific aspects of water
management (e.g., monitoring and evaluation, computer applications, communications,
dam safety etc.). The project also supported two other components related to the general
objectives of improved water management in India - (a) The Maharashtra Induction
Training Program designed to support initial vocational training for engineers recruited



38
to the Maharashtra ID; and (b) An Instirutional Strengthening and Training Fund (ISTF)
to be managed and implemented by GOI and state agencies.
D. Project Costs and Financing
6.      The project costs including physical and price contingencies were estimated to
be US$157.0 million (Rs2,041.1 million)". An IDA Credit of SDR93.2 million
(US$114.0 million equivalent) was to finance about 73% of total project costl and the
remaining expenditures were to be met from the development budgets of participating
states. The project was to be implemented over a seven year period.
E. Evaluation of Project Objectives
7.      The project concept of instituting water management as a significant input into
India's Irrigated Agriculture Sector was most appropriate and in full agreement with the
GOI's National Water Policy. Water management has been the focus in several other
projects financed by IDA in the water sector in recent years. The Staff Appraisal Report
(SAR) was clear in defining the project objectives and in settina out the implementation
measures to be adopted for achieving these objectives. The implementation period of
seven years was appropriate and the project components included for financing were in
general realistic.
8.      Agroclimatic and socio-economic conditions in India vary widely depending
upon geographic location and irrigation systems have evolved reflecting this diversity.
Major types of irrigation systems found in India (localization, warabundi, shejpali) have
been discussed in the SAR. However, the bias shown in the SAR towards the warabundi
system was, in the mission's opinion, unrealistic. Distinction should have been made
between the productive irrigation systems (found in the southern States) and the protective
irrigation systems (found in the north and northwest). The three original participating
States in this project were from the south - Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, and Tamnil Nadu.
The structured irrigation system which evolved in the early years of project
implementation has apparently experienced difficulties in these states (para 22 refers).
9.      SAR was also unrealistic to expect that in the preparation of operational plans,
paddy growing areas could be reduced and substituted by irrigated dry crops covering
a larger area of the command. For instance, in the operational plan presented for the
Rajolibunda Diversion Scheme in Andhra Pradesh, it was proposed to preclude paddy
in middle and lower reaches in khaMif and throughout the conmmand in rabi by
introducing systematic intermnittent irrigation.
E. Irnplementation Performance
"Cost estimates were based on price levels at the end of 1986 and included about USS9.1 million as foreign exchange
cost (6% of the total project cost).
vEquivalent to about 70% of the water management components and 100% of the special training and technical
assistance activities.



39
10.    The project was approved in May 1987 and started off very slowly in the three
original participating States. The Induction Training Program in Maharashtra started at
the same time as well. At the time of appraisal, the project was expected to cover about
580,000 ha. During the implementation of the project several additional schemes were
included and the number of participating States increased from three to nine". In
addition bridge financing was provided for lining of main canal and water courses in
Haryana for a period of two years to allow that State to continue work on these aspects
until the approval of the Haryana Water Resources Consolidation Project in 1994. The
original Credit closing date of March 31, 1994 was extended by one year to March 31,
1995 at which time the Credit was expected to be completely disbursed. At the time of
Credit closure, it is estimated that about 35 schemes covering a command area of about
345,676 ha would be completed. Since most of these 35 schemes are just getting
completed, it is difficult to evaluate their impact on agricultural production and income
precisely.
11.   ;I appears that the Maharashtra Induction Training Program was well designed
and a number of engineers have been given intensive training in hydraulics, hydrology
and irrigation related subjects.
12.    The implementation perfoimance varies from State to State. The sizes of the
schemes rehabilitated range from medium to large. Kerala, which joined the NWMP
later (in 1990) appears to have perforrned well. In Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, reports
prepared by IIMI indicated that some progress has been achieved in pushing water
further down the main canal and distributaries. Since all proportional outlets have not
yet been constructed, equitable distribution has not been achieved in its entirety. In most
of the 35 schemes, according to the reports prepared by the State irrigation departments,
cropped areas have increased, cropping patterns have changed and total production has
increased. The mission has collected data from the aaricultural departments and from
its own farmer interviews in the schemes visited. These would be compared with the data
provided in the reports mentioned above and the impact on agricultural production and
on farmers' incomes in these schemes would be evaluated further in the ICR. Of
particular relevance is how much of the reported imnprovements is directly attributable
to the project interventions and how much is due to other factors such as increased
groundwater use, improved agricultural practices, etc. The mission has found that in
limited areas where reliability of water supply has been assured, use of inputs has gone
up and hybrid varieties are replacing local varieties. On the whole, NWMP has
somewhat improved the situation, but the project development objectives have not been
achieved.  In Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh, there is an overall
appreciation for water management at higher levels of Government.
13.    It appears, however, that the concept of water management has not been clearly
understood by the operating level engineers of the IDs. The idea was to prepare seasonal
operational plans for good management of available scarce water resource and then to
determine the interventions required to improve the physical infrastructure to carry out
such plans. Obviously, deferred maintenance would be part of such interventions but
"The additional States were Bihar, Gujarat, Kerala, Mvladhya Pradesh, Orissa, and Uttar Pradesh. The total number
of schemes including those included at appraisal was 96 covering a command area of 2.13 million ha.



40
only to the extent required to manage the water resource of each scheme. But, the
mission found that deferred maintenance has become the prime objective under the
project during implementation. This is evident from the fact that in the schemes visited
by the mission structures have been renovated, resectionina of canals have been carried
out and new structures have been built in a scattered manner, which will not assist in any
rational water management. For instance, in Rajolibunda Diversion Scheme (para. 9),
seven out of 47 distributaries have been repaired but not in any contiguous unit. As a
result in most schemes actual benefitting areas would be much smaller than the
Culturable Command Area (CCA). Similarly, the quality improvement in irrigation
service delivered to the farmers would be minimal.
14.     Design and conceptual weaknesses were observed in some of the schemes
visited by the mission. In Tamil Nadu, the designer has taken advantage of existing
drainage courses in sub-catchments to convey irrigation flows to tanks but in designing
control structures for flow division the natural run-off and floods usually handled by such
courses appear to have been ignored. As a result water has backed up on farmers' fields
(inadequacy of the structures) and the annoyed farmers have destroyed the flow division
structures. No attempt has been made to review the situation and rebuild the structures.
In Andhra Pradesh, small structures built on black cotton soils have failed due to the
swelling and shrinking forces. While larger structures have been constructed with
appropriate intermediate layers of Cohesive Non-Swelling soils, the same attention has
not been given to smaller structures such as proportionate dividers at field outlet levels.
Cement plasters have been directly applied to random rubble masonry without any
bonding layer resulting in failure of the plasters. Pointing would have been more
appropriate in these cases. In the Ratapani scheme in Madhya Pradesh, no work has been
carried out in the first 800 m of the main canal where (on the day of the mission's visit)
30%  water losses by leakage was measured, but money has been spent further
downstream with no significant benefits. Reduction of leakage losses in this section
would have provided better water control and perhaps, significant additional benefits.
15.    In resectioning canals a standard theoretical approach has been taken which is
leading to, in the mission's opinion, O&M problems. Manning "n" value of 0.025
applicable to straight earth channel in good condition has been used in designs together
with trapezoidal sections which the O&M staff are unable to maintain. Instead, it would
have been preferable to adopt natural regime sections (in unlined canals) with more
realistic values for the roughness coefficients with appropriate backwater computations
in the design. The mission observed that the field staff were unable to push required
discharges after a year of completing some of the resectioning because even a shift in
"n" value to 0.030 (due to inadequate maintenance) results in a 20% reduction in the
carrying capacity of the channel. Bed slopes are by necessity quite small due to
topographic constraints. The mission found that proper maintenance of the canals to
maintain design bed slopes is critical for the success of the proportional outlets which are
based on hydraulics of flow and maintaining predetermined energy gradients in the
channels. In most of the schemes visited (except Thandava in Andhra Pradesh) it
appeared that field-level staff were not fully conversant with the hydraulic principles of
NWMP and the importance of proper maintenance in achieving these.
16.    Involvement of agricultural department staff and farmers in the preparation of
seasonal operational plans was, at best, minimal. Actual prevailing cropping patterns



41
vary considerably from those in the design records. These have evolved over the years
and to some extent are contributing to the inequitable and often inefficient irrigation
service. It would probably not be feasible to provide adequate and equitable supplies to
the entire command in some of the schemes which are water-short due to these cropping
patterns. However, simulations could have been carried out using these actual cropping
patterns in order to determine logical alternatives to improve water management. Instead,
it appears that theoretical patterns were used in the analysis and the alternatives
reconmmended appear to have tumed out to be less than satisfactory.
17.     Farmers do not appear to have been consulted in any systematic manner (as
required in the SAR through scheme-level committees, etc.) in preparing alternative
operational plans although such plans were to define the rules for their implementation
and include structural modifications at the outlet and distributary levels necessary to
achieve a more reliable, predictable and equitable irrigation service.
18.     Monitoring and evaluation of key parameters" has not been carried out in a
systematic manner and such information was not readily available even in those schemes
where M&E units were functional. Measurina devices (provided for in the SAR) have
not been constructed in most of the schemes visited and where they have been
constructed, they are either inoperational or readings are not being taken and analysed
to evaluate the efficiency and adequacy of the operational plan in achieving improved
water management.
F. Factors Affecting Implementation Performance
19.     At the time of appraisal, only a limited number of schemes had been prepared
in detail and subsequent scheme preparations were to be vetted by WMC of MOWR and
cleared by an appraisal committee chaired by the Additional Secretary, MOWR.
Provisions were made under the project to strengthen the WMC and in fact additional
staff in different disciplines were recruited with the exception of an irrigation
agronomist2". However, the WMC did not have adequate technical support staff to
analyse in detail the various scheme reports prepared by the States. In the mission's
opinion the scheme reports were deficient in two major aspects contributing to poor
performance: (i) proper diagnostic of irrigation infrastructure was not carried out arid
prioritization of investments was not made; and (ii) outdated agricultural data on crops
and cropping patterns were used in the preparation of the operational plans resulting in
less than optimal water mangement solutions.
20.     The original project scope was to cover a limited number of schemes in the
three participating States and to carry out pilot schemes in other interested States. It was
stipulated in the SAR that no new schemes would be started after June 1, 1990
(paragraph 3.33 refers). In the first three years of the project implementation, progress
was very slow which was understandable since new concepts were beina introduced to
the ID staff and several new engineering designs had to be prepared using scientific
"Physical progress as compared to targets, crops, cropped areas, productivity and production data at various
locations in a scheme command.
'This post was never filled and was subsequently cancelled.



42
hydraulic engineering principles involving the mechanics of flows. At the end of March
1990 less than half of the predicted disbursements had materialised. It appears that at this
point, the focus on the development objectives was lost. Both the Bank and GOI were
anxious to increase disbursements and this appears to have become the overridifig
concern and additional schemes in the three original and another six States were
approved beyond the date specified in the SAR". In fact all new schemes were
approved only beyond this cut-off date although it was evident that they would not be
completed before the original Credit closing date of 31 March 1994. The total estimated
cost of the schemes cleared by GOI and approved by the Bank was also far in excess of
the funding available under the project2". As the number of schemes to be cleared was
quite substantial, the WMC was not. in a position to evaluate these aspects in detail, nor
was the Bank's supervision mechanism adequate to effectively cover the large number
of schemes. Poor diagnostics and non-prioritization of investments in physical
infrastructure could have been avoided if the number of schemes had been kept to a
manageable level.
21.     Training and Institutional Strengthening both at the GOI level and at the level
of the participating States was a key element to project success and this was stressed very
clearly in the SAR. This aspect appears to have been ignored and the Bank supervision
missions did not also follow up the imnplementation of this most important component.
In fact, the funds provided for this purpose were not utilised and in the last six months
were transferred to the Works category to cover expenditures. The net result is that after
eight years of project implementation, only a limited awareness has been created within
the IDs on the importance of water management. In retrospect, the mission is of the
opinion that better results could have been achieved in converting ID engineers from
construction people to water managers if sufficient attention had been paid to this
component.
22.     The structured network system which evolved in the early years of project
implementation as a result of the bias shown in the SAR towards the warabundi system,
was not tested in a pilot project. The mission agronomist is sceptical about the success
of such systems particularly where field-to-field irrigation is practiced in paddy growing
areas. However, it is difficult to reach a firn conclusion based on practical experience
at this stage since even in the so-called completed schemes of this type, operations have
not yet been carried out.
G. Project Sustainability
23.     Project sustainability depends on inculcating O&M  culture to the irrigation
department staff besides providing adequate funds to carry out the O&M  activities.
Availability of funds alone is not a guarantee for sustained project operation. Planning
for O&M has to be given priority and until this is achieved, project sustainability cannot
be ensured. The mission noted that even in places where adequate maintenance funds
"Table I page 10 refers
J It appears that these additional schemes were cleared assuming that there would be continued financing of the
schemes under a follow-up phase.



43
have been released by the State Governments, the maintenance of structures constructed
under NWMP was unsatisfactory. If the operational plans devised under the project are
not kept up, it would lead to the deterioration of the systems as well.
24.     As costs for O&M increase, it is necessary to turn over parts of the system to
the beneficiaries. Since farmers have not been involved in the preparation and execution
of the schemes under this project, it is necessary to take urgent steps to include them in
the operational phase. Water Users Associations at different levels in the system would
have to be created as a first step.
H. Future Operation / Action Plan
25.     The following actions would be required to ensure completion of remaining
schemes and their smooth operation: (i) revision of operational plans taking into account
realistic agricultural data on cropping pattern and operational hydrology; (ii) completion
of ongoing schemes based on proper diagnostic analysis of infrastructure improvements
required to execute the operational plan mentioned above on the basis of an appropriate
prioritised investment program for the irnplementation of which continued financial
assistance from the Bank possibly under a follow-up phase would be necessary ; (iii)
training of ID staff, relevant agricultural department staff and farmers in the operation
of the schemes; (iv) training of scheme managers including inculcation in O&M culture;
and (v) provision of adequate funds for sustained O&M taking into account farmer
takeover concept. In addition, it would seem appropriate to provide required technical
and financial assistance to the States for preparing a limited number of schemes for
inclusion under a possible follow-up project.
I. Lessons Learned
26.     The main lessons learnt from this project implementation are
-     A baseline survey of tih& condition of the system  infrastructure and
cropping practices is a must to prepare a scheme sunmmary (rapid rural
appraisal would be required).
-     Detailed diagnostic work should be undertaken and realistic alternate
scenarios should be explored in computer simulation models taking into
account farmer crop preferences in preparing operational plans.
These plans should be prepared with the assistance of specialists in
operational hydrology (water availability and water balance studies under
the revised scenarios) and input from a specialist in irrigation agronomy
who is familiar with the local conditions. The operational plans should
be flexible to handle vagaries of nature and forces of the market place.
-    Prioritization of expenditures necessary for implementing the selected
operational plan should be prepared, together with detailed construction
sequences, which take into account the financial capability of the
implementing agency, canal closure periods and number of days available
to carry out the civil works in each year.



44
While a ceiling on the expenditure to be incurred is desirable to avoid
too much money being spent on one scheme, it is necessary to review
this concept. The clearing agencies should ensure that the ceiling amount
does not become an impediment to execute even priority works and is not
used by those preparing scheme reports as a target amount to be spent.
Simple key parameters should be established for monitoring and
evaluating a scheme from scheme start-up. A monitoring and evaluation
unit should be created in each State with a multidisciplinary core team
prior to credit effectiveness of any follow-up project.
An O&M agency should be established at the State and scheme level (see
separate report of B. Foley).
An irrigation system should be considered as a whole water management
unit. Schemes should not be carried out in individual distributaries
without any possibility of water management in the system in its totality.
Priority should be given to training a maximum number of ID staff in
water management principles and some of the promising people should
be trained intensively in computer and remote sensing technology to be
water managers.
Bank-supported projects in India should introduce advanced technologies
in irrigation management currently available and adopt them in
demonstration schemes.
J. Follow-up
27.    Relevant parts of a draft ICR would be prepared and transmitted to the Bank
after internal reviews by mid-MIay 1995.



45
Table 1. Scheme Initiation Schedule
1987     1988     1989      1990  [ 1991      1992  [ 1993       1994
Tamil Nadu                      3        1         2        2      I 1         1
(10 subprojects)
Kerala                                             1                 4
(5 subprojects)              _
Karnataka              9        1                 7                  2        11
(30 subprojects)
Andhra Pradesh         I        1                 5                  3
(10 subprojects)
Madhya Pradesh                                              2        12        4
(19 subprojects)
Orissa                                                               8
(8 subprojects)
Gujarat                                                                        2 2
(2 subprojects)
Uttar Pradesh                                                                 10
(10 subprojects)
Bihar                                              2
(2 subprojects)
Maharashtra
Induction Training
Program
Haryana
Bridge Financingc
Total                 10        5        1        17        4        30       28
(96 subprojects)    _        _        ] _       _



46
Attachment I
Observations of MOWR on the Draft       Comments of ICR MIission
Aide-Memoire of ICR Mission on
NWMP-I
l.        The draft aide-memoire        The appraisal of this project wvas carried
submitted by the ICR Mission, after their   out with detailed investigation of three
month long stay in India, during Feb-   schemes. Given the large number of
March, 1995 deals primarily with their  schemes under execution, it was decided to
findings on the performance of four     visit and collect relevant information from
NWVMP sub-projects visited by them      selected schemes. The mission excluded
during the above period. Even though the  schemes already under evaluation by IIMI
Mission had detailed discussions with the   since their results could be usedfor ICR
project authorities from States other than    work as well. The discussions wvith ID
where the Mission made personal visit, the  officers held at NAew Delhi revealed that
aide-memoire does not touch upon the    the schemes in their State were just getting
outcome of such discussions. This may   started Hence they were not discussed in
have to be added in the aide-memorre.   the Aide-M1emoire. However, information
collectedfrom these officers will be
reported in detail in the ICR.
2.        It would have been more
appropriate to have the comrments of the
concerned State Governments of the
findings of the ICR iMission as brought out
in their aide-memoire. However, since
referring the matter to the State
Governments would have taken more time
and as the World Bank have requested for
a quick look at the draft before it is
finalised by the ICR Mission, only broad
observations of the MOWR are being
communicated in the following paragraphs.



47
3.        Ninety-eight sub-projects were  The information given in paragraph 10 of
undertaken under the NWMIP programme    the RAAMI regarding scheme completions. is
in 11 participating States. Of these, 44  based on data collected from all the IDs.
sub-projects are either completed or are in  The mission has kept the Hat-yana scheme
a very advance stage of completion. In   as Bridge Financing scheme. This is
view of the fact that in the initial 3-4 years shown in Table 1 of the RAAMf. The ICR
of NWMP not much progress could be       mission is encouraged to learn that GOI
made under the project, completion of    has requested the Planning Commission to
almost half of the schemes undertaken for  provide adequate funds for the timely
implementation can be considered as a    completion of unfinished schemes.
good achievement. The remaining
schemes are also in various stages of
implementation and the Government of
India has advised the Planning
Commission to provide adequate funds to
the State Governments so that the
remaining works are completed early.



48
4.        The Ministry of Water         This comment has been taken into account
Resources have separately forwarded to the  in paragraph 12 of RA1. The concept part
World Bank a copy of the Completion     has been discussed at length during the
Report prepared by the Government of    wrap-up meetings held in Tamil Nadu,
India on the NWMP, which deals at length  Andhra Pradesh, MlGadhya Pradesh and
with various aspects of the programmes  New Delhi. This aspect wvould be discussed
implementation, including the performance  further in the ICR. The mission disagrees
of individual states on the various     with GOI comment on this subject.
components of the projects. It would be
seen that water management and
maintenance have appreciably improved in
the schemes completed under NWMP.
The schemes which have already been
completed or are nearing completion have
shown increase in productivity ranging
between 15% and 67% per hectare of land,
through the additional irrigated area and
by better water use efficiency. The, project
interventions have also created conditions
for equitable distribution of irrigation
water. The tail commands of completed
NWMP schemes have started getting
irrigation water, some for the first time
after the inception. It is not clear what
made the ICR team to infer that "the
concept of water management has not been
in general clearly understood by ID staff'.
In fact the above improved situation has
been possible only because the concerned
irrigation staff followed the principles of
NWMP (para F, sub-para 2).



49
5.        The schemes included in the    The concept of the project and its
NWMP programme definitely lacked         understanding by various officers of the -
maintenance in the past. To bring the    implementing agencies including the WMC
canal network to proper shape was,      have been discussed at length. This
therefore, one of the important features of  comment itself reflects the situation. This
the infrastructural intervention proposed in  aspect has been discussed clearly in
the project implementation. Unless the  paragraph 13 of the RAM.
canals were made capable of running
adequate waters, as provided in the initial
designs, it was not possible to ensure
feeding to the tail reaches, as also
distributing the irrigation water reliably
and equitably to the beneficiaries.
Comments of the Mission that "deferred
maintenance had become the prime
objective under the project during
implementation" is, therefore, not an
accurate reflection of the performance
(para F, sub-para 2).
6.        It is not clear how without   The sentence referred to in the comment
proper investigations by a competent    has been deleted from the RAM  There
construction engineer, the Mission have  were two engineers with construction
drawn conclusions adversely on the quality  experience who accompanied the mission.
of construction. Moreover, merely by    However, paragraph 14 of the RAM has
paying a short visit to one project in   been revised suitably.
Andhra Pradesh and one in Madhya
Pradesh, the mission has expressed the
view that the "cement content of plasters
in Andhra Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh
appears to be quite low". Similarly,
quality of construction in some of the
schemes in Tamil Nadu has been stated to
be poor. It would have been more
appropriate if such comments on the
quality of construction were made after
proper investigations by a construction
specialist (para F, sub-para 3).



50
7.         Likewise, without going        The mission disagrees with this
through the detailed designs of the       observation. There was plenty of
structures, the Mission has drawn         opportunity for Tamil iVadui officers to
conclusions with regards to flaws in their   bring oiut the designs and discuss them.
designs (para F, sub-para 3).             Such deficiencies wvere noted by the ICR
mission leader during his involvement in
the preparation and appraisal of the Tamil
iVadu WRCP.
8.         Instead of banking on the      The mission has collected detailed scheme
statements of the field level staff, who are  reports from the schemes visited and the
in most of the cases not fully conversant    values for the parameters were taken from
with the parameters adopted in the designs  these reports.
of the structures, it would have been more
appropriate if the Mission had discussed
such aspects with the responsible technical
experts associated with the design of
structures (para F, sub-para 4).



51
9.        The project authorities       Refernce should be made to SAR
formulated revised operational plans in  paragraph 3.03 page 14 line 6: and
most of the completed or nearly completed  would provide for selected schemes for
schemes and water delivery practice had    low-cost infrastructural improvements
accordingly commenced under NWNIP.      designed to support an improved
However, the progress in adoption of the    operational plan: Also paragraph 3.08 of
operational plans and the riules had not  the SAR refers.
been studies. In most of the cases the
operational plans were either notional or
still in draft stage to be provided by the
State Governments. It is to be appreciated
that the full tempo of the NWMP was
attained only in the fourth year of the
project. In most of the schemes which
have been completed or are nearing
completion the operational plan as per the
concept of NWMP could be applied only
after the various structural interventi.ns
were completed. During their field visit to
the Thambraparni Project in Tamil Nadu
the Mission was shown by the project
authorities the operational plans followed
by them, both before the commencement
of the NWIvIP programme and that
adopted during the implementation stage.
It, therefore, does not seem to be correct
to cormment that no operational plans were
being prepared. It was explained by the
project authorities to the ICR team during
their field visits to Kerala and Tamil Nadu
that farmers were associated by them
while finalising the irrigation schemes
before commencement of every irrigation
season. Agriculture and revenue
authorities were also invited in the
meetings held for the purpose. The
operation of the irrigation systems were
made strictly as per the schedules finalised
under such meetings. (para F, sub-para 6).



52
10.       The land holdings in India are  This is not what is stated in the aide-
in general very small with the result that    memoire. Reference should be made to
number of beneficiaries under each       paragraph 17 of the R4A.
irrigation system is very large. It is
therefore, not physically possible to deal
with individual farmers with regards to
running of the irrigation systems.
Likewise, it is not possible for the project
authorities to inform individual farmers of
the structural modifications carried out by
them in the conveyance system. It is
generally considered adequate to bring the
changes carried out by them to the notice
of the farmers representatives in the
meetings held with them from time to time
(para F, sub-para 7).
11.       More than eighty-five percent   This aspect will be discussed further in the
of the funds provided under the NWMP     ICR.
had been for structural interventions. It
was considered necessary to bring the
systems to their design conditions first, so
that the concepts provided under the
NWMP could be made workable. It is,
therefore, not justified to say that major
stress of the project was on construction of
structures and not on management of the
system (para F, sub-para 10).
12.       The Water Management Cell,   This aspect will be furher explored in the
in the Union Ministry of Water Resources,  ICR with relevant supporting
though in itself has been a small unit, but   documentation.
it has all round technical support from
other specialised organisations like CWC,
ICAR, Ministry of Agriculture, Planning
Commission etc. Even in the Project
Appraisal Committee high level
representatives from the concerned
specialist organisations participate. It is,
therefore, not correct to say that WMC did
not have technical support staff.
Moreover, all the schemes cleared by the
GOI were also examined by the World
Bank before they could be taken up for
implementation (para G, sub-para 3).



53
13.       For implementation of the    Reference to thinly spreading resources is
various sub-projects undertaken under the   not with reference to the fund constraint.
NWMP programme, initially the funds    Paragraph 20 of the RAM refers.
were provided by the concerned State
Governments out of their own State plans.
Only after the works were executed,
requests were made by them for
reimbursement. At no point of time
throughout the duration of the NWMIP
programme, fund constraints were
experienced by any of the project
authorities. The observations of the ICR
Mission that the programme suffered
because a very large number of projects
were undertaken under the programnme
which resulted in thinly spreading of the
resources is, therefore, not correct (para G,
sub-para 2).
14.       The remarks of the ICR       Mission findings will be presented with
Mission with regard to the execution of    supporting documentation in the ICR.
the NWM`P programmes are contrary to   Reports of supervision missions will be
the findings of the supervisory Missions of  critically reviewed under the category
the World Bank which visited the various   "Bank Performance".
projects from time to time during the life
of the NWMP programme. Each of the
scheme had adequate engineering and
supporting staff provided by the State
Irrigation Department. At no point of time
the implementation of the NWMP
programme suffered on account of
shortage of manpower. The
implementation of the schemes were also
carried out in accordance with a well
planned schedule (para G, sub-para 3).



54
15.       The available technology with  Discussions were held wvith NRSA as
the National Remote Sensing Agency      reported in paragraph 2 of the RAM. In
(NRSA) is still not capable of undertaking  fact the ICR mission would recommend -
the detailed monitoring as is required in    increased use of satellite imagery but with
the NWMIP. The development of cloud    good ground truthing in any possible
penetration technology by NRSA is still in  follow-up project right from the start.
the infancy stage and they are not able to   There are other international agencies
monitor at present the coverage under   with expertise in this area who could
kharif crops, which is predominantly a  collaborate wvith NVRSA water resources
monsoon period crop. A good amount of  group.
benefits under the NWMP project are,
therefore, left unmonitored in using the
remote sensing technique. Moreover, with
the available capability they are able to
identify the Rabi crops only in three
categories, namely (i) paddy, (ii)
sugarcane, and (iii) other crops. Break up
of crop area under crops other than paddy
and sugarcane is still not possible. lDue to
this deficiency, gross value of produce of
different crops cannot be correctly worked
out. The available technology with NRSA
is also not capable of interpreting
accurately the degraded lands like area
under waterlogging, salinity etc. Due to
the above reasons, only limited use of
remote sensing technology was made for
monitoring purposes (para G, sub-para 3).



55
Implementation Completion Report
India
National Water Management Project
(Credit 1770-IN)
Appendix LB
Supplementary Mission Aide Memoire
A. Introduction
1.        During February and March 1995, an FAO/CP mission was mounted to prepare
the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the above-captioned project. The draft ICR
was presented to the World Bank in June. The project had been consistently rated as having
performed well by the Bank supervision missions. The ICR mission's findings were
contradictory to these ratings. Lively discussions followed the submission of the draft ICR.
Though the Bank reviewers agreed, in general. with the findings of the ICR mission, some
concerns were raised, regarding the lack of information and economic analysis to compare
the performance of the three schemes upon which project appraisal was based (RDS,
Sathanur and VVS). The Bank, GOI and CP agreed that a Supplementary mission should be
mounted to: (i) visit and collect information for economic and other analysis for the SAR
schemes not visited earlier and to evaluate their performance; (ii) visit one more scheme in
agreement with the Water Management Cell (WMC) of the Ministry of Water Resources
(MOWR) to enlarge the sample size; (iii) visit Haryana to assess the implementation of
NWMP principles for this component which represented about 25% of NWMP expenditures;
and (iv) confirm or amend the earlier ICR mission findings as required.
2.        In accordance with the above, an FAO/CP mission visited India between
30 October and 22 November 1995 to undertake the necessary follow-up activities to update
and finalize the draft ICR prepared in June 1995. After initial discussions with Messrs.
Ridley Nelson (Chief, SA2NA), J.P. Baudelaire (Principal Engineer, SA2NA) and P.C.
Mathur (Commissioner, WMC, MOWR, GOI), the mission undertook field visits to Vani
Vilas Sagar scheme in Tamil Nadu and Peechi scheme in Kerala selected by the WMC. In
addition, the mission visited Haryana to determine to what extent the activities undertaken
in this State, involving significant expenditures, followed NWMP principles. In each of these
four States, the mission held wrap-up meetings chaired by the Secretary of the Irrigation
Department of each State.
3.        The mission wishes to thank all concerned staff of the Irrigation Departments of
the States visited and the WMC of MOWR for the assistance and hospitality extended to the
mission.
4.        This aide-memoire supplements the earlier one presented in final form in April
1995, a copy of which is enclosed for ready reference.
B. Mission Findings
5.        The findings and conclusions of the earlier ICR mission were confirmed during
the present mission. Data collected in respect of the four schemes will be used in updating
and finalizing the ICR including the required additional economic and financial analysis. The
specific findings related to the individual schemes are given below.



56
INDIA: National Water Management Project (Cr. 1770-IN)
Implementation Completion Report Supplementary Mission
Appendix IB
Supplementary Mission - Aide-Memoire
6.         Vani Vilas Sagar Scheme (CCA 12,250 ha). At appraisal, it was expected that
the project works comprising rehabilitation of canals and structures, provision of new control
structures and field channels/drains in the extended command and lining of vulnerable
reaches of the main and distributary canals would lead to improvements in water use
efficiency, increase in high-value garden crops, mainly coconuts and assurance of rabi
cropping. In this scheme, construction consisted of installing proportional outlets, duckbill
weirs and tail clusters with limited lining of main canals (LBC, RBC and HLBC). The
construction work is, in general, good. Mission observed breakage of some of the outlets by
beneficiaries. Unfortunately, re-sectioning of distributaries which is necessary to maintain the
full supply depths (which, in turn, are necessary for the proper functioning of the APMs) has
not been carried out. The performance of the VVS scheme is directly related to the inflows
into the reservoir which are inadequate (the reservoir has not filled in recent years). The
mission was advised that minor irrigation works are being constructed in the catchment of
the reservoir resulting in further reduction of inflows. A comprehensive water balance
analysis of the total system should be carried out and operational plans should be revised
accordingly. At the same time, the adjoining non-project area has also experienced expansion
of coconut plantings at a higher rate than anticipated at appraisal. In addition, due to
inadequate storage in the reservoir, khariff irrigation has not been provided in recent years.
As a result, the net benefits are likely to be much lower than levels projected at appraisal.
The water balance study is, therefore, essential in determining a sustainable operation for the
scheme. Sustainability also depends on adequate maintenance funds being provided to the
scheme operators. At the present time the funds provided are inadequate. They only just
about cover establishment charges with minimal amounts left over for scheduled maintenance.
The operation of the scheme with NWMP principles requires more intensive training for the
engineers and the operating level staff of the Irrigation Department.
7.         Sathanur Scheme (CCA  18,210 ha). Several measures (improved system
control, rehabilitation of canals, tanks and structures, modification of canal capacities,
extension of the distribution system as required and provision of direct supply to the tanks)
were planned at appraisal to improve water use efficiency and planting of ID crops in both
the LBC and RBC. At the time of appraisal, LBC was localized for paddy. A number of
proportional outlets, duckbill weirs and by-pass channels to existing system tanks have been
constructed. Works have been carried out mainly in the LBC system. The duckbill weirs are
as expected, serving their purpose by maintaining water levels in the main canals. The
construction quality appears to be good. In Sathanur, as in VWS, improvements have not
been carried out in the distributaries and this has led to the malfunctioning of the outlets.
Farmers interviewed by the mission complained that water levels are fluctuating and not
being maintained properly during the rotation cycle resulting in variable discharges at the
outlets. They acknowledged damaging these outlets due to this. Operational level staff of the
Water Resources Organization of GOTN should be given proper training in the operation of
these structured networks. Additional work on the distributaries is necessary if these outlets
are to perform as designed. It may be advisable to construct a full hydraulic model using the



57
INDIA: National Water Management Project (Cr. 1770-IN)
Implementation Completion Report Supplementary Mission
Appendix lB
Supplementarv Mission - Aide-Memoire
Froude Number criterion at Sathanur as a training tool to show the operational staff and the
farmers how the system is supposed to work. The performance of Sathanur scheme is also
dependant on reservoir inflows. The scheme experienced successive drought years and in
1991, no releases were made to irrigation command or the system tanks. Still about 30% of
the land was irrigated which indicates the extent of groundwater usage in the command. This
would be taken into account in analyzing the impact of the scheme investments. Several flow
measurement structures have been established but no measurements have been taken so far.
It is recommended that attention be paid to this important aspect which would enable the
operators of the scheme to maximize the water use. The scheme did not experience a decline
in paddy area as expected at appraisal while the output of groundnuts has also fallen short
of appraisal expectations. Sugarcane production has also not reached appraisal projections.
8.         Peechi Scheme (CCA 16,000 ha). The physical investments included selective
lining, repairs to head regulators, replacement of damaged pipes, sluicegates and provision
of measuring flumes. In this scheme, all the outlets have been modified to act as proportional
outlets and gates have been installed as well to operate on a fully-open or fully-closed
position as required. The construction quality is good. Some measuring flumes have been
constructed but in most of them no measurements are being taken. Where measurements are
being made, rating curves have not been established. The project engineers informed the
mission that after completing the structured outlets, they were able to push the irrigation
flows further downstream in each distributary. They have not been able to do this in the
current year. The problem in Peechi is the abundant growth of weeds and bushes in the
canals, and canal banks restricting access to the system. In addition irrigation is not well
developed because of the high rainfall (annual rain around 3,000 mm). Labour is expensive
and maintenance funds are inadequate to clear the weeds and bushes as often as required. In
fact, at Peechi, priority investment should have been the purchase of bush, weed and
sediment clearing machinery which would enable water to reach the farthest portions of the
command. If the basic concept provided in the SAR, of analyzing the performance of the
scheme, identifying the constraints and then adopting appropriate solutions to implement an
operational plan had been followed, the maintenance constraint would have been identified
as the major problem in water management in this scheme. At the time of scheme preparation
and clearance, it was anticipated that with the physical improvements in the infrastructure,
full irrigation would be provided to the second and third paddy crop. This has not been
achieved. Throughout the State, the paddy area has been declining due to high cost of inputs,
particularly labour and better profitability of cash crops, such as coconut, banana and rubber.
Because of these changes, the incremental benefits would tend to be smaller than
expectations, i.e. even without the project, increased cash cropping would have continued.
9.         Haryana (CCA 1,184,500 ha). Bridge financing was provided to Haryana to
continue work on the Bhakra and Yamuna Canal Systems as a follow-up to the Haryana II
project financed by the Bank until the WRCP project came on line. Project investments were
mainly utilized for lining of main canals and watercourses. No operational plans were



58
INDIA: National Water Management Project (Cr. 1770-IN)
Implementation Completion Report Supplementary Mission
Appendix IB
Supplementary Mission - Aide-Memoire
prepared since the rotational system was already in place. No new devices were installed.
Thus in the strictest terms, it can be said that NWMP principles were not followed. It would
have been appropriate to have amended the DCA prior to proceeding with bridge financing.
However, due to lining, some water savings can be expected. Due to the scarcity of
measurements, it is possible to derive benefits based on theoretical savings. On this basis,
there should be an increase of 38,200 ha in area supplied. There is no change in cropping
pattern but increased cropping intensity is a major benefit from lining of canals and
watercourses. The quality of lining work is good.
C. Impact Evaluation
10.         A comparative statement of appraisal estimates and final costs are given in the
table below:
Appraisal       Actual Up 95
Scheme         Estimate        Expenditure    Cost to Complete    Final Cost  Cost Overrun
(Rs million)    (Rs million)      (Rs million)    (Rs million)   (Underrun)
Vani Vilas Sagar     30.0             52.9              1.4            54.3           81%
(Kamataka)
Sathanur             46.8             61.9              4.5            66.1           42%
(Taniil Nadu)
Peechi              25.5              42.0               0             42.0           65%
(Kerala)                      I
Haryana             1,220 1'         949.4               0             949.4         (12%)
' Original estimate of Rsl.743 million over dte entire command of 184,600 ha revised to Rsl,220 million
to keep expenditre within budget ceiling.
11.         Schemes had varying cost overturns with Vani Vilas Sagar at 81%, followed by
Peechi (6.5%), and Sathanur (42%). However, Haryana had a cost underrun of 12%. In
terms of physical achievement, average lining cost has gone up by 25 % (from Rs 16 per sq. ft.
to RsI9.8 per sq.ft.). Cost overrun was caused mainly by price escalation and partly by
quantity changes. The relative share of these two elements will be elaborated in the ICR.
12.         At this stage, it is evident from available data, supplemented by interviews with
farmers, that the actual incremental benefits are much lower than projected at appraisal and
scheme preparation. Overall changes in area benefitted, cropping intensity, crop yields and
diversification into high-value crops with supporting data collected by the mission will be
reviewed and the effect of these changes will be assessed and the results will be presented
in the ICR. Preliminary indications are that with the cost overrun, implementation delays and
reduced benefits, the ERRs will be substantially lower than those projected at appraisal.



59
INDIA: National Water Management Project (Cr. 1770-IN)
Implementation Completion Report Supplementary Mission
Appendix IB
Supplementary Mission - Aide-Memoire
D. Follow-Up
13.          The draft ICR prepared in June 1995, will be updated and finalized taking into
account the comments received from various reviewers and the findings of the supplementary
mission and transmitted to the Bank by end-December 1995.



60
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
NATIONAL WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1770-IN)
APPENDIX 2
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. INTRODUCTION
General
1.         The NWMP was a multi-state project with different interventions of widely varying
impact. Project benefits were expected to arise from management changes, which were assumed to
involve "little economic cost." Accordingly, the upper limit for scheme investments was set at
Rs2,500/ha, in order that the approach could be replicated and that attention would be concentrated on
the highest priority investments. The primary achievement was expected to be the establishment of a
systematic and replicable approach to improving the utilization of previously created assets. It was also
foreseen that relatively minor increases in agricultural value added would more than justify the direct
costs involved and result in a high rate of return. Some conceptual issues relevant to the project merit
attention in carrying out re-evaluation at project completion.
2.         Future Without-Project. There could be some doubt about the level of incremental
agricultural benefits which would have occurred on the assumption that, without project, canals and
watercourses would have been neglected - resulting in a falling level of production. The pertinent
question to ask to clarify the without-project situation is whether 0 & M works would not eventually
be implemented in the place of NWMP if the project were not implemented. The related question is
whether 0 & M works with state funds are a genuine alternative to the NWMP. Past records,
however, show that funds were allocated for emergency repairs and works, although state budgets for
regular 0 & M absorbed staff salaries to a large extent. This is evidenced by the structures which have
not gone out of use and the vocally active farmers demanding corrective action which would prevent
total breakdown of the system. It is therefore assumed, conservatively, that without-project production
will not fall materially.
3.         Cost Data. The nominal cost figures of the selected schemes have little relation to the real
costs because of adding rupees of quite different purchasing power. To make cost figures more
representative of the real resources being used in the schemes, each year's rupee cost was converted
into rupees of a constant value before summing them. A Wholesale Price Index (WPI) has been
chosen to adjust all rupee costs to the input purchasing power of rupees in FY95.



61
INDIA: National Water Management Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
4.         Accrual of Benefits. Foregone benefits on land converted to other crops have been
adjusted to derive the incremental net benefits. A one-year time lag is assumed for the accrual of
benefits as the farmers receiving water anew or a larger supply than before need time to take many
steps towards a more effective use of water for irrigated farming.
5.         Comparison of 'Actuals' with Appraisal Estimates. The exact number of schemes as
well as detailed costs were not known exactly at the time of appraisal, except for the three schemes -
Vani Vilas Sagar, Sathanur and Rajolibanda. Comparison of actuals with appraisal estimates for the
project as a whole are therefore not very meaningful.
6.         The evaluation of investments shows that none of the scheme interventions, except in
Haryana, were able to generate an acceptable rate of return. The calculation does not however include
benefits from the utility to households of drinking water, reduction in travel time from head to tail and
saving of land width after lining of canals. These have not been quantified for analysis in the absence of
reliable monitoring data. The principal factors contributing to the diminished economic performance
were much reduced agricultural benefits from a far less benefiting area than was projected at appraisal,
excessive cost overruns and the less than anticipated changes in cropping patterns (which at appraisal
were expected towards irrigated dry crops requiring less water), than was foreseen at appraisal.
7.         This appendix details the economic and financial re-evaluation of NWMP carried out by
the ICR mission. It compares the analysis and results of the re-evaluation to the ex-ante economic and
financial assessments of NWMP detailed in the SAR.
8.         The economic analysis in the SAR was based on detailed analysis of 3 schemes viz.
Rajolibanda Diversion Scheme (RDS) in Andhra Pradesh, Vani Vilas Sagar Scheme in Karnataka and
the Sathanur Scheme in Tamil Nadu. Project costs were extrapolated to involve some 625,000
hectares. In the SAR an upper limit on scheme investments was set of Rs2,500/ha (1986 prices
inclusive of physical contingencies).
9.         The ICR mission visited 9 schemes, viz. the Thambaraparani and Sathanur Schemes in
Tamil Nadu, the Malampuzha and Peechi Schemes in Kerala, the RDS and Thandava Schemes in
Andhra Pradesh, the Ratapani Scheme in Madhya Pradesh, the Vani Vilas Sagar Scheme in Karnataka
and the Haryana Scheme. Of the 9 schemes visited by the ICR mission, only Vani Vilas Sagar,
Sathanur and the RDS Schemes were analyzed in detail in the SAR. Only a small portion of the
proposed physical works of the RDS scheme had been completed by March 19951/, and farmers have
taken court action in protest of the Irrigation Department's proposed changes in cropping patterns. The
economic re-evaluation reported in this appendix is based on the 9 schemes visited by the ICR mission.
Assumptions and Results of the SAR Economic Analysis
10.        The major assumptions of the SAR economic analysis were:
I/ Out of 47 distributaries only 7 have been completed up to March 1995.



62
INDIA: National Water Management Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
(a)    economic prices of the tradable crops (rice, cotton, sugarcane, copra and
groundnuts) and fertilizers were derived from World Bank commodity price
projections;
(b)    prices of non-traded crops and inputs were derived from prevailing and projected
domestic market prices and converted to economic prices by applying a Standard
Conversion Factor of 0.8;
(c)    hired farm labour was shadow priced at 0.67 of the market rate;
(d)    a specific conversion factor of 0.75 was applied to the civil works;
(e)    investment costs were assumed to occur in the first 3 years phased at the ratio of
20:50:30;
(f)    except for the Vani Vilas Sagar scheme, increases in agricultural output due to
changing cropping patterns, irrigation intensities and yields would increase in
four equal steps from years 2 to 5;
(g)    the cost and benefit streams were discounted over 25 years and the opportunity
cost of capital was taken to be 12%;
(h)    the total command area of each scheme was assumed to benefit from the project.
11.        ERRs were calculated for the three schemes analyzed in detail. In addition an ERR was
calculated for the three schemes taken together. Results are tabulated below:
ERR
RDS Scheme                             29%
Vani Vilas Sagar Scheme                45%
Sathanur Scheme                                   43%
Three Schemes (combined)               37%
12.        It was concluded in the SAR that high economic returns could be expected even with the
"limited agricultural impact assumed in the analysis." The SAR recognized that the major risks of
NWMP would relate to the sustainability of the operational plans to be supported, in the "face of
vested interests and the many other factors that affect scheme operations. "
13.        It was concluded from sensitivity analysis of variations in crop yields and increases in
irrigated areas, that although high economic returns could be expected even with the "limited"
agricultural impact assumed under the project, small changes in the assumptions would significantly



63
INDIA: National Water Management Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
affect the outcome. By contrast changes in project costs and agricultural prices, were anticipated to
have a much smaller impact on the predicted economic outcome.
Assumptions and Results of the ICR Economic Re-evaluation
14.        The basic assumptions of the re-evaluation are:
(a)    Following appraisal methodology the project has been re-evaluated over 25
years.
(b)    The re-evaluation of each scheme has been carried out in early 1995 constant
prices. Historical investment and O&M costs for each scheme evaluated have
been inflated to 1995 prices by applying the National Wholesale Price Index
(WPI) - see Table 1.
(c)    Project investment and O&M costs have been restated in economic terms by
applying the Standard Conversion Factor (SCF) of 0.9 in the absence of
disaggregated cost data.
(d)    Water charges have been excluded from the economic re-evaluation (as they are
transfer charges).
(e)    Border prices have been used for the tradable commodities - rice, groundnuts,
wheat, sorghum, soybean, cotton, sugarcane, copra, urea, DAP and MOP, based
on World Bank forecasts dated 11 January 1995 for the year 2000 - refer to
Table 2.
(f)    For the non-traded farm commodities and inputs, including hired labour, the
current (early 1995) financial prices at each scheme location have been converted
to economic prices by applying the SCF of 0.9.
(g)    As in the SAR the opportunity cost of capital is assumed to be 12%.
(h)    Like the SAR, benefits of the project have been quantified in terms of increased
agricultural production attributable to the scheme interventions. In contrast to
the SAR (see para 10, point (h)) only the areas which have actually benefited
from the NWMP works have been included in the economic re-evaluation.
15.        Full details of the ICR economic re-evaluation for each of the 9 schemes analyzed by the
rnission are presented in Section D. A summary of the results is set out below:



64
INDIA: National Water Management Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
ERR
RDS                                    -6%
Vani Vilas Sagar                       9%
Sathanur                               6%
Thambaraparani Scheme                  4%
Malampuzha Scheme                      9%
Thandava Scheme                        -3%
Ratapani Scheme                        -16%
Peechi                                -6%
Haryana                                17%
16.        The results of the economic re-evaluation should be considered indicative and not
definitive for the following reasons:
(a)    NWMP works on the 9 schemes re-evaluated have only just been completed.
With more time operational plans may be finer-tuned so that the areas benefiting
from the NWMP works may possibly increase, although in the opinion of the
mission this is an unlikely scenario;
(b)    only 9 schemes, out of a total of 35 schemes, which will be completed in
NWMP, were re-evaluated. It could be argued that the schemes re-evaluated are
not representative of the completed schemes. Whilst this is a valid criticism,
three of these schemes were, however, chosen by the IDs concerned. It is more
than likely therefore that the schemes re-evaluated are representative of the more
successful schemes included in NWMP. It should also be pointed out that the
remaining schemes which were started under NWMP will in all probability take
longer to complete than those which have been included in the re-evaluation, and
it is possible that they may never be completed, due to a shortage of funds.
Therefore, the economic rates of return from these schemes will most likely be
lower than those that have been calculated by the ICR mission in the economic
re-evaluation;
(c)    the agricultural impact of the project at the scheme level has not been closely
monitored (refer para 22) necessitating basing the re-evaluation on data and
information collected by the mission during the field visits.1'
In the mission's opinion, the data collected were of a reasonably high standard and acceptable for re-
estimating the ERR of the schemes evaluated.



65
INDIA: National Water Management Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
B. AGRICULTUJRAL PRODUCTION IMPACT
17.         According to the SAR the project would increase agricultural output primarily through
more effective use of canal supplies. Changes in the timing of irrigation, methods of water delivery,
efficiency of water use, and the effectiveness of agricultural support services would result in modified
cropping patterns, increased irrigation intensity, and higher crop yields and value added. It was
recognized in the SAR that the relative importance and effect of the different interventions would vary
widely in the schemes that would eventually be included in the project.
18.         The three schemes evaluated in detail in the SAR were used "to illustrate the likely
agricultural production impact". The SAR states that the project was expected to have the following
impacts:
(a)     a decline in paddy and sugarcane;
(b)     a marked increase in the output of oilseeds and pulses;
(c)     a limited impact, either positive or negative, on the output of coarse grains;
(d)     a positive and substantial impact on high-value cash crops such as cotton and
coconut.
19.        In the SAR changes in cropping patterns and crop yields were applied to the whole
command area of each scheme. The validity of this assumption must be questioned in view of the fact
that not all areas within a scheme conmnand could benefit from the NWMP works, since generally
adequate irrigation water is supplied throughout the head and middle reaches of irrigation canal
schemes; also, it is well known in India that farmers do not readily change their cropping patterns,
especially substituting paddy for less water demanding ID crops"' . Despite the fa,t that crop yield
increases that were anticipated as a result of NWMP were regarded in the SAR as "modest", the crop
yield increases assumed in the SAR (over the entire command areas), were optimistic ranging from an
average 15%, 19% and 32% for the Vani Vilas Sagar, Sathanur and RDS schemes respectively.
20.         Based on the assumption that the three schemes analyzed in detail would be
representative of the NWMP as a whole, the following agricultural impact was estimated in the SAR:
1/  In schemes (RDS, Thandava, Malampuzha, Ratapani and Thambaraparani) visited by the mission, farmers
repeatedly said that their first choice of crop to be grown was paddy. The two most important explanative
reasons for this behaviour are: their desire to satisfy basic family food requirements first and foremost over
and above their desire to earn money from the sale of surplus production; the ease of marketing surplus rice
compared to other crops.



66
INDIA: National Water Management Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
3 Schemes              NWMP in Total
(67,000 ha)              (625,000 ha)
(tons)                   (tons)
Paddy                              -7,700                 -725,000
Groundnuts                         +19,980                +186,400
Sorghum                            +2,870                 +26,800
Millet                             +6,220                 +58,000
Sugarcane                          +20,510                +191,300
Cotton                             +1,980                 +18,500
Coconut (copra equiv)              +2,660                 +24,700
21.        In the SAR it was predicted that, through the introduction of "improved irrigation plans"
the distribution of water to farmers was expected to change, leading to the volume of water delivered
to the head-reaches decreasing and that to the tail-end increasing. Furthermore, in the SAR it was
predicted that cropping pattems would change significantly with ID crops substituting for paddy.
22.        Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) of the schemes visited by the mission has not been
sufficiently comprehensive to permit an accurate assessment of the impact on cropping pattems and
crop yields of NWMP. Therefore the mission has had to rely on information supplied by Irrigation
Department (ID) field staff on the areas within the commands of the schemes which have benefited
from the NWMP works. Complementary to this, the mission interviewed farmers in the scheme areas
in the tail, middle and head reaches, to establish what changes have occurred, and are likely to occur,
pre-NWMP, during NWMP and post-NWMP, with respect to cropping pattems, farming practices,
and crop yields. Data on crop areas and yields (the latter from crop cutting trials within the scheme
commands) were collected and discussions were held with Agriculture Department field staff" .
23.        Assessments of the agricultural impact of NWMP were made by the mission based on
information collected from the field visits. Due consideration was also taken of data presented by IDs
in their ICRs, as well as the monitoring data provided by the National Remote Sensing Agency
(NRSA) I/.
24.        Despite difficulties encountered by the mission in obtaining accurate field data on crop
areas and yields, and the adequacy of irrigation supply throughout scheme commands, it is nevertheless
1/ Agriculture Department field staff accompanied the mission in the field.
2/ NRSA have monitored 4 NWMP schemes, viz. Malampuzha, RDS, Sathanur and Bhadra. Interpretation of
data from the satellite monitoring of these schemes is limited by the following: commonly occurring cloud
cover which inhibits the reliability of data interpretation; data analysis of an insufficient time period (at
least 5 years are needed) prior to the initiation of NWMP to establish a meaningful pre-NWMP crop area
and crop yield base; the lack of rigorous "ground truthing" which is required to reliably correlate satellite
data with field level crop yield data, assess the significance of sources of water other than surface
irrigation water (viz, groundwater and rainwater) on crop growth, and allow for the impacts of the
policing of water delivery on crop growth; inability to differentiate between crops other than paddy and
sugarcane.



67
INDIA: National Water Management Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
very clear that the agricultural impacts of NWMP predicted by the SAR have not eventuated in the
schemes visited by the mission. It is obvious that IDs have spent most, if not all of their time on
construction activities, and insufficient emphasis has been allocated to the main project objective of
improved water management. Very limited interaction between ID staff and farmers has occurred.
The main repercussion of this is that new operational plans devised by the IDs have not been accepted
unanimously by farmers. The main reason for non-acceptance of the new operational plans is that
farmers place an overwhelrming priority on the growing of paddy.
25.        NWMP appears to have had a limited impact on cropping patterns in most of the
schemes. The impact of the project in all of the schemes visited by the mission has been limited to
certain tailend reaches where water was previously not reaching, or it was reaching but not in sufficient
quantity to permit crops to be fully irrigated, so that partial irrigation only was being achieved.
26.        No impact of the project was observed in terms of farmer (and ID field staff)
consciousness of improved water management. Wasting of water particularly in head reaches
continues. Very little if any shift has occurred in the schemes visited from high water demanding crops
to lower water demanding more profitable crops, due to the project interventions.
27.        Tabulated below are the areas which are benefiting from NWMP in each of the schemes
visited by the mission. These areas are compared to the originally planned areas. With the exception of
Kerala, the other states visited by the mission have considered the total scheme command areas as
having benefited from the NWMP works, which is not consistent with field observations.



68
INDIA: National Water Managenent Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Scheme Areas Benefiting from NWMP (Hectares)
Scheme            Mission findings                       Originally Planned Area
RDS                   1,400                           35,410
Vani Vilas Sagar       580                            12,250
Sathanur             2,490a'                          17,490
Thambaraparani        9,540                           45,282
Malampuzha:
Tailend              1,108                           20,553
Middle               1,890
Thandava              1,040                           20,828
Ratapani               350                             1,655
Peechi                 380                            16,000
Haryana               38,165                          72,108
" Conversion to groundnut from paddy (853 ha), sugarcane (478 ha) and millet (1,159 ha).
28.        The impact of NWMP on agricultural production in the 9 schemes analyzed by the
mission is tabulated below. Paddy accounts for significant share of incremental production attributable
to NWMP. This is in marked contrast to the agricultural impact predicted on the SAR (para 18) that
paddy production would decrease and other crops, particularly groundnuts and sugarcane, would
markedly increase.



69
INDIA: National Water Management Project
Implementation Com,pletion Report
.\Appndix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Scheme/Crop                   Incremental Production (tons)
RDS
Paddy                                  +910
Groundnuts                            +120
Sunflower                             +80
Cotton                                 +30
Vani Vilas Sagar
Coconut (copra)                        +1,220
Groundnuts                            -1,160
Sathanur
Paddy                                 -2,560
Sugarcane                              -38,240
Mllet                                  -2,900
Groundnuts                            +5,550
Thambaraparani
Paddy                                  +4,540
Malampuzha
Paddy                                  +4,090
Thandava
Paddy                                  +1,090
Groundnuts                             +190
Sesame                                 -50
Ratapani
Wheat                                  +120
Gram                                  +40
Lentil                                -20
Peechi
Paddy                                  +1,050
Haryana
Wheat                                  +31,600
Paddy                                  +12,470
Cotton                                +9,770



70
INDIA: National Water Management Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
C. FARM INCOMES
SAR Assessment of Farm Income Impacts
29.        Representative farm models were compiled for the 3 schemes analyzed in detail in the
SAR. The results are summarized below:
Increases in Farm Income Estimated in the SAR
Scheme        Increase in Net Farm Income
RDS                                  66%
Vani Vilas Sagar                     30%
Sathanur                             31%
30.        Farm net incomes (inclusive of the return to family labour) were estimated in the SAR to
increase on average throughout the whole command areas of the schemes by 30% to 66%.
ICR Re-evaluation of Farm Incomes
31.        In the re-evaluation at completion, representative farm models were prepared for the
benefiting areas of each of the 9 schemes visited by the ICR mission. The analysis is elaborated in
detail in Section D and the results are summarized below. It must be stressed that these changes in
farm incomes refer to fanns in the limited benefiting areas only of the schemes, and not to the
all of the farms in the total command areas of the schemes, which the SAR farm income
estimates applied to. Comparison with SAR estimates is therefore not very meaningful.
NET FARM INCOME (Rs/ha - 1995 prices, per benefiting hectare)
Scheme            Without Project            With Project          % Increase
RDS                   18,020                 21,554                20%
Vani Vilas Sagar      32,940                 35,730                8%
Sathanur              15,597                 20,445                31%



71
INDIA: National Water Management Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Without Project       With Project         % Increase
Thambaraparani Scheme
Manimathur Command              11,683               13,248                13%
Drainage Zone                   14,545               16,752                15%
Thambaraparani Command          16,746               18,008                8%
Malampuzha Scheme
Tailend                         14,179               21,241                50%
Middle Reach                   21,682                23,505                8%
Thandava Scheme
Tailend                        3,822                 7,234                 89%
Ratapani Scheme
Tailend                        6,111                 7,791                 28%
Middle Reach                   8,142                 9,127                 12%
Peechi                          8,020                8,752                 9%
Haryana                         12,550               16,255                30%
32.       It is seen that none of the appraised schemes (Vani Vilas Sagar, Sathanur and
Rajolibanda) were able to generate as high rate of income growth as expected at appraisal. Increases in
farm income have ranged between 8% and 89%/o. The highest of 50% and 89% are in the tailend
benefiting areas of the Malamapuzha and Thandava schemes respectively which were essentially
rainfed prior to NWMP. In the Thambaraparani and Ratapani schemes NWMP has resulted in a more
reliable irrigation supply which has led to:
(a)    a changed cropping pattern (generally a more intensive use of high water
demanding crops - normally paddy) and higher crop yields; or
(b)    higher crop yields without any impact on cropping patterns.
However, a relatively higher farm income in absolute figures in Vani Vilas Sagar reflect the prevalence
of high-value coconuts.



72
INDIA: National Water Management Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
D. ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION
33.        The benefits and costs assessed for 9 of the schemes visited by the ICR mission, are
detailed next. The parity prices used in the re-evaluation of the tradeable commodities are given in
Table 2. In Tables 3-8 the financial investment and O&M expenditures (in current Rupees) are given.
These 12-monthly expenditure figures were inflated to 1995 prices using the National Wholesale Price
Index (WPI). The WPI series used is given in Table 1.
RDS Scheme
34.        Benefits. No reliable data are available on areas which have benefited from the project.
The mission has estimated that some 1,400 ha (about 4% of the command), may be benefiting from
additional water. From ID records there has been no marked change in cropping patterns following
NWMP.
35.        The economic benefit and cost flows of the RDS scheme economic re-evaluation are
given in Table 3, and the phasing-in of the benefiting areas are shown in Table 9. The cropping
patterns and crop budgets derived to assess the agricultural benefits are presented in Tables 11 and 12
and Tables 13-21 respectively. The annual net production benefits with- and without-project are
shown in Table 3. The without-project O&M costs are considered as a benefit (saved cost) in the
analysis, since the full O&M costs during and after project implementation have been treated as a cost.
36.        Costs. The project economic investment costs used in the re-evaluation are given in Table
3 and are based on the actual expenditure incurred during implementation of the works in financial
years 1988/89 to 1995/96. The financial costs have been converted to economic costs by applying the
SCF of 0.9 and inflating the costs to 1995 prices using the WPI. O&M costs (expressed in 1995
economic prices) incurred from 1988/89 to 1994/95 and in subsequent years are shown in Table 3.
These costs were based on the Government of Andhra Pradesh O&M data which indicates that in 1995
prices approximately Rsl 00/ha was spent on O&M prior to NWMP, compared to Rsl 75/ha at present.
37.        Economic Analysis Results. Discounting the net benefit stream (see Table 3) at 12% the
NPV is calculated at minus Rs28.843 million and the ERR is minus 6%.
38.        Farm Income Results. Farm models were prepared for two distributaries which have
been included in NWMP. Distributary 16a is considered as representative of the kharif distributaries,
and Distributary 24 representative of the rabi distributaries. Per hectare gross income, costs of
purchased inputs and net farm income for Distributaries 16a and 24 are presented in Tables 22 and 23
respectively. The results of the farm model analysis are summarized below:



73
INDIA: National Water Management Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
FARM MODEL            WITHOUT-PROJECT    WITH-PROJECT               %
NET INCOME            NET INCOME             CHANGE
(Rs/ha)               (Rs/ha)
Distributary 16a      9,679                  11,351                 17%
Distributary 24       8,341                  10,203                 22%
Net incomes are assessed to have increased by 17% in Distributary 16a and 22% in Distributary 24.
Vani Vilas Sagar Scheme
39.        Investment and 0 & M Costs. At appraisal, the physical works included rehabilitation
of canals and structures, provision of new control structures and field channels! drains in the extended
command, and lining of vulnerable reaches of the main and distributary canals. The completion of
these works was expected to result in improvements in water use efficiency, increase in high value
garden crops, mainly coconut, and assurance of rabi cropping. At project closure, construction
consisted of installation of proportional outlets, duckbill weirs and tail clusters with limited lining of
main canals - left bank, right bank and high level left bank. Investment costs in financial terms
amounted to Rs54.23 million (comprising Rs52.88 million up to March 31, 1995, and Rsl.35 million
costs to complete), compared to the appraisal estimate of Rs3O.00 million, giving a cost overrun of
about 81% in nominal terms or 25% in real terms. The cost per hectare (coconuts) has gone up by
547% from RslO,OOO/ha (appraisal) to Rs64,655/ha (Credit closure) in real terms.
40.        Incremental 0 & M  costs consist of actual expenditure claimed from the Bank from
FY93 to FY95 (100% reimbursement) and 2% of investment costs (at Rsl.085 million) thereafter.
41.        Economic Benefits. Following appraisal methodology, only incremental agricultural
production benefits have been quantified for economic analysis. At appraisal, the incremental area
assumed to benefit is taken at 3,000 ha for coconuts, compared to a much reduced area (580 ha) at
scheme completion. Production benefits from annual crops are projected to accrue with a one-year
time lag from the completion of works each year while benefits from new planting (coconut) are
expected to begin six years from the date of planting. The cropping pattems and crop budgets required
to estimate agricultural benefits are presented in Tables 24-27 The foregone benefits on land converted
to coconut with-project have been adjusted to derive the incremental net benefits. The annual net
incremental benefit is given in Table 28.
42.        Economic Costs.  Historical investment and 0 & M costs have been inflated to 1995
prices by applying the wholesale price indices (WPI). These costs, including labour, have been restated
in border terms by using the standard conversion factor (SCF) of 0.9. The economic costs thus derived
are shown in Table 4.



74
INDIA: National Water Management Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
43.        Economic Analysis. The economic analysis has been carried out in 1995 constant prices.
Financial prices and economic values of crops and inputs are presented in Tables 2 and 26. Future
prices are based on World Bank Primary Commodity Forecasts dated February 1995. Based on the
above assumptions, the cropping pattems and per ha crop yield assumptions shown in Tables 24-27
and a 25-year period of analysis, the current estimate of ERR for the scheme is 90/o, 36% lower than
the appraisal estimate. At completion, a smaller area of 580 ha has actually benefited from project
works, compared to 3,000 ha projected at appraisal, taking only coconut as the benefiting crop. It was
assumed that this area of 580 ha is 50% of the increase while the other 50% is irrigated by
groundwater, irrespective of project investment. The foregone benefits from this conversion to
coconut from annual crops have been adjusted to derive increased incremental benefits as shown in
Table 28. The major factors, which contributed to lower ERR include excessive cost overruns per ha
and lower production benefits from a much reduced incremental benefiting area (580 ha) compared to
appraisal estimate (3,000 ha), which are not fully offset by better prices for scheme production, mainly
copra. A sensitivity analysis shows that a 50% increase in area irrigated will bring the ERR to 12%,
while a reduction in costs by 50% will raise the ERR to nearly 15%.
44.        Farm Incomes. At appraisal, a representative farm model (farm size of 3 ha) had been
used to estimate the project impact on farm incomes at the then prevailing financial prices which were
used to value outputs and inputs. The results showed an incremental income of Rs5,220, compared to
Rs8,385 generated at scheme completion (see Table 29).
Farm Income
(Farm size - 3 ha)
Without Project        With Project
(Rs)                 (Rs)
Gross value of production                    113,407               121,665
Production cost including water charges       14,593                14.466
Net return                                    98,814               107,199
Incremental  =   Rs8,385
45.        The increase in net farm incomes over appraisal estimates is largely explained by the
higher prices of copra.



75
INDIA: National Water Management Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Sathanur Scheme
46.        Investment and 0 & M Costs. Several measures were planned at appraisal to improve
water use efficiency and planting of irrigated dry (ID) crops in both the left and right bank canals. At
project closure, a number of proportional outlets, duckbill weirs and by-pass channels to existing
system tanks had been constructed. Works have been carried out mainly in the LBC system, which
was localized for paddy at appraisal. The resulting expenditures in financial terms amounted to Rs68.5
million (comprising expenditures of Rs6l.9 million up to March 31, 1995, plus costs to complete of
Rs6.571 million), compared to the appraisal estimate of Rs46.8 million, giving a cost overrun of 46%
in nominal terms or a cost underrun of 90/0 in real terms.
47.        Incremental 0 & M costs consist of actual expenditure claimed from the Bank (100%
reimbursement) from FY92 to FY95 and 2% of investment costs (at Rsl .37 million) thereafter.
48.        Economic Analysis. At appraisal it was expected that a rainfed dry cropped area of
9,777 ha would be converted into irrigated dry crops. At scheme completion, a much smaller area
(2,490 ha) had been converted to groundnuts from paddy (853 ha), sugarcane (478 ha) and millet
(1,159 ha). The foregone benefits on land converted to groundnuts with-project have been adjusted to
derive incremental net benefits, as shown in Table 30. It is assumed that about 50% of total area of
1,368 ha irrigated by groundwater wells would be from well recharged by canal supplies with-project.
49.        Historical investment and incremental 0 & M costs have been inflated to 1995 prices
using WPI. These costs including labour have been restated in border terms by applying the SCF of
0.9. The economic costs derived in this manner are given in Table 5.
50.        Economic Analysis. The economic analysis has been carried out in 1995 constant prices.
Financial prices and economic values of crops and inputs are shown in Tables 2 and 31. Future prices
are based on World Bank Primary Commodity Forecasts dated February 1995. Based on the above
assumptions, the cropping patterns and per hectare crop yield assumptions shown in Tables 32 and 33
and a 25-year period of analysis, the current estimate of ERR for the scheme is 6% compared to the
appraisal projection of 43%. A sensitivity analysis shows that decreasing costs by 50% will improve
the ERR to about 21% while improving benefits by 50% will push up the ERR to 14%.



76
INDIA: National Water Management Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
51.        Farm Incomes. The result showed an incremental income of Rs4,848 (based on farm
size of 1.5 ha) compared to Rs1,720 at appraisal (see Table 34).
Farm Income
(Farm size - 1.5 ha)
Without Project        With Project
(Rs)                 (Rs)
Gross value of production                    26,808                33,231
Production cost including water charges       11.211                12.786
Net return                                   15,597                20,445
Incremental  =   Rs4,848
Thambaraparani Scheme
52.        Benefits. The mission, in consultation with ID field staff, established that there are three
discrete areas benefiting from the NWMP works carried out to date:
(i)    740 ha in the Manimuthar command where, because of a more assured and
timely supply of irrigation water, the area of the pishanam paddy has increased
by approximately 67 ha and the average crop yield has increased about 10%
from 4,500 to 5,000 kg/ha.
(ii)    4,000 ha has benefited from improved drainage works carried out as part of
NWMP. Over this area the pishanam paddy yields have increased on average
15% from 3,500 to 4,000 kg/ha.
(iii)   4,800 ha of the Thambaraparani command. Although no change has occurred in
cropping patterns throughout this area attributable to the NWMP works, paddy
yields for both the pishanam and kar crops have increased approximately 5%.
53.        The economic benefit and cost flows of the Thambaraparani economic re-evaluation are
given in Table 6 and the phasing-in of the areas benefiting from the project are shown in Table 10. The
cropping patterns and crop budgets derived to assess the agricultural benefits are presented in Tables
35-37 and Tables 38-51 respectively.
54.        The agricultural benefits have been phased directly in relation to the expenditure profile
achieved during implementation. The annual net production benefits with- and without-project are
shown in Table 52. The without-project O&M costs, which are based on the 1988/89 actual O&M
costs, are treated in the analysis as a benefit (see Table 52).



77
INDIA: National Water Management Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
55.        Costs. The project economic investment costs used in the re-evaluation are given in Table
52 and are based on the actual expenditure incurred during implementation of the works in financial
years 1988/89 to 1994/95. The financial costs have been converted to economic costs by applying the
India SCF of 0.9 and inflating the costs to 1995 prices using the WPI (Table 1). O&M costs
(expressed in 1995 economic prices) incurred from 1988/89 to 1994/95 are shown in Table 52.
56.        Economic Analysis Results. Discounting the net benefit stream (see Table 52) at 12%
the Net Present Value (NPV) is calculated at minus Rs48.658 million and the Economic Rate of
Retum (ERR) is 4%.
57.        Farm Income Results. Three farm models representative of the areas benefiting from the
NWMP works are shown in Tables 53, 54 and 55, where the per hectare gross income, costs of
purchased inputs and net farm income are presented. The crop budgets used to prepare the farm
models, calculated in constant 1995 financial prices are detailed in Tables 53, 54 and 55. The results of
the farm model analysis are summarized below:
FARM MODEL                       WITHOUT-PROJECT    WITH-PROJECT               %
NET INCOME            NET INCOME             CHANGE
(Rs/ha)               (Rs/ha)
Manimuthar Command                11,683                13,248                 13%
Drainage Affected Area            14,545                16,752                 15%
Thambaraparani Command            16,746                18,008                 8%
58.        Net incomes are assessed to have increased by 13% and 8% in two of the benefiting areas
(Manimuthar and Thambaraparani commands respectively) and 15% in the zone that is affected by
poor drainage.
59.        Retums to family labour were also calculated and results are tabulated below:
FARM MODEL                        WITHOUT-PROJECT    WITH-PROJECT              %
LABOUR RETURN         LABOUR RETURN          CHANGE
(Rs/day)              (Rs/day)
Manimuthar Command                328                   361                    10%
Drainage Affected Area            306                   353                    15%
Thambaraparani Command            294                   316                    7%



78
INDIA: National Water Management Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
60.        Retums to family labour are calculated to have increased 10% and 7% respectively in the
Manimuthar and Thambaraparani Commands, and 15% in the improved drainage zone.
Malampuzha Scheme
61.        Benefits. In the Malampuzha scheme, irrigation is provided for the second crop of paddy
while the first paddy crop is rainfed. In consultation with ID field staff, the mission established that
1,108 hectares have benefited in tailend portions of the project, and a further 1,890 hectares in the
middle reaches. The tailend areas were rainfed prior to NWMP and are now irrigated. Average yields
have increased from about 1,800 kg/ha to 4,300 kg/ha. The middle reach areas were partially irrigated
prior to NWMP and are now receiving adequate irrigation water. Average yields have increased from
3,800 kg/ha to 4,500 kg/ha.
62.        The economic benefit and cost flows of the Malampuzha economic re-evaluation are
given in Table 56 and the phasing-in of the areas benefiting from the project are shown in Table 57.
The cropping patterns and crop budgets derived to assess the agricultural benefits are presented in
Tables 58 and 59 and Tables 60-65 respectively.
63.        From interviews with local farmers and Agriculture Department field staff, it was assumed
that tailend farmers change from rainfed to irrigated farming practices over a three year period after
receiving irrigation water. In the analysis it was assumed that middle reach farmers would respond
immediately to fully irrigated practices following the arrival of additional water. The annual net
production benefits with- and without-project are shown in Table 56. The without-project O&M costs,
which are based on the 1990/91 actual O&M costs, are considered as a benefit (saved cost) in the
analysis and are shown in Table 56.
64.        Costs. The project economic investment costs used in the re-evaluation are given in Table
56 and are based on the actual expenditure incurred during implementation of the works in financial
years 1990/91 to 1994/95. The financial costs have been converted to economic costs by applying the
India SCF of 0.9 and inflating the costs to 1995 prices using the WPI (Table 1). O&M costs
(expressed in 1995 economic prices) incurred from 1990/91 to 1994/95 are shown in Table 56.
65.        Economic Analysis Results. Discounting the net benefit stream at 12% the NPV is
calculated at minus Rs6.779 million and the ERR is 9%.
66.        Farm Income Results. Two farm models were prepared representative of the tailend and
middle reach benefiting areas of the scheme (see Tables 58 and 59). Per hectare gross income, costs of
purchased inputs and net farm income are presented. The crop budgets used to prepare the farm
models, calculated in constant 1995 financial prices, are detailed in Tables 60-62. The results of the
farm model analysis are summarized below:



79
INDIA: National Water Management Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
FARM MODEL            WITHOUT-PROJECT    WITH-PROJECT             %
NET INCOME            NET INCOME            CHANGE
(Rs/ha)              (Rs/ha)
Tailend               14,179                21,241                50%
Middle Reaches        21,682                23,505                8%
67.        Net incomes are assessed to have increased by 50% in the tailend areas row filly irrigated
having previously grown rainfed paddy only, and 8% in the middle reach areas which have been fMlly
irrigated following NWMP.
68.        Returns to family labour were also calculated and results are tabulated below:
FARM MODEL                       WITHOUT-PROJECT    WITH-PROJECT             %
LABOUR RETURN         LABOUR RETURN         CHANGE
(Rs/day)             (Rs/day)
Tailend Benefiting Areas         284                   386                   36%
Middle Reach Benefiting          394                   427                   8%
69.        Returns to family labour are calculated to have increased by 36% and 8% on the tailend
and middle reach benefiting farms respectively.
Thandava Scheme
70.        Benefits. According to ID field staff an additional 1,040 ha in tailend reaches are now
receiving adequate irrigation water, when previously most of these areas were rainfed. There has not
been any marked change in cropping patterns following NWMP, except that sesame grown under
rainfed conditions has been replaced by more profitable ID crops where water has been assured. The
areas of paddy which were previously grown under rainfed conditions are now irrigated in the tailend
benefiting areas.
71.        The economic benefit and cost flows of the Thandava scheme economic re-evaluation are
given in Table 66 and the phasing-in of the areas benefiting from the project are shown in Table 67.



80
INDIA: National Water Management Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
The cropping pattems and crop budgets derived to assess the agricultural benefits are presented in
Tables 68 and 69 and Tables 70-73 respectively. In the analysis it is assumed, based on discussions
held with farmers, that benefits have been realized immediately additional water has been supplied. The
annual net production benefits with- and without-project are shown in Table 66. The without-project
O&M costs, which are based on the 1988/89 actual O&M costs, are considered as a benefit (saved
cost) in the analysis since the fulil O&M costs during project implementation have been treated as a
cost.
72.        Costs. The project economic investment costs used in the re-evaluation are given in
Table 66 and are based on the actual expenditure incurred during implementation of the works in
financial years 1988/89 to 1995/96. The financial costs have been converted to econornic costs by
applying the India SCF of 0.9 and inflating the costs to 1995 prices using the WPI (Table 1). O&M
costs (expressed in 1995 economic prices) incurred from 1988/89 to 1994/95 and in subsequent years
are shown in Table 66. These costs were based on the Government of Andhra Pradesh O&M data
which indicates that in 1995 prices approximately RslOO/ha was spent on O&M prior to NWMP,
compared to RsI75/ha at present.
73.        Economic Analysis Results. Discounting the net benefit stream at 12% the NPV is
calculated at minus Rs28.43 million and the ERR is minus 3%.
74.        Farm Income Results. A farm model was prepared to represent the tailend benefiting
areas of the scheme (see Tables 74 and 75). Per hectare gross income, costs of purchased inputs and
net farm income are presented. The crop budgets used to prepare the farm model, calculated in
constant 1995 financial prices are detailed in Tables 76-79. The results of the farm model analysis are
summarized below:
FARM MODEL            WITHOUT-PROJECT    WITH-PROJECT               %
NET INCOME            NET INCOME             CHANGE
(Rs/ha)               (Rs/ha)
Tailend            3,822                     7,234                  89%
Net incomes are assessed to have increased by 89%/o in the tailend NWMVIP works benefiting areas.
75.        Retums to family labour were also calculated and results are tabulated below:
FARM MODEL            WITHOUT-PROJECT    WITH-PROJECT               %
RETURN                LABOUR RETURN         CHANGE
(Rs/day)              (Rs/day)
Tailend           233                        249                    7%



81
INDIA: National Water Management Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
76.        Family labour input is assessed to have increased from 66 man-days to 84 man-days, an
increase of 27% on the tailend benefiting farms, while returns to family labour are calculated to have
increased 7%.
Ratapani Scheme
77.        Benefits. In consultation with ID field staff the mission established that 160 hectares have
benefited at the tailend of scheme main canal, and 190 hectares in the middle reaches. The tailend
benefiting areas were receiving only one watering in the rabi prior to NWMP and are now receiving
two waterings. Farmers have continued to plant drought tolerant local varieties of wheat in these
areas. The middle reach areas are now receiving adequate irrigation water and farmers are planting
HYV of wheat where they were previously planting local wheat varieties.
78.        The economnic benefit and cost flows of the Ratapani scheme economic re-evaluation are
given in Table 80 and the phasing-in of the areas benefiting from the project are shown in Table 81.
The cropping patterns and crop budgets derived to assess the agricultural benefits are presented in
Tables 82 and 83 and Tables 84-87 respectively. The analysis assumes, based on mission discussions
with farners, that benefits have been realized immediately additional water has been supplied. The
annual net production benefits with- and without-project are shown in Table 80. The without-project
O&M costs, which are based on the 1991/92 actual O&M costs, are considered as a benefit (saved
cost) in the analysis since the full O&M costs during project implementation have been treated as a
cost.
79.        Costs. The project economic investment costs used in the re-evaluation are given in Table
11 and are based on the actual expenditure incurred during implementation of the works in financial
years 1991/92 to 1994/95. The financial costs have been converted to economic costs by applying the
India SCF of 0.9 and inflating the costs to 1995 prices using the WPI (Table 1). O&M costs (based on
data provided by the Government of Madhya Pradesh and transformed into 1995 economic prices)
incurred from 1991/92 to 1994/95 and in subsequent years are shown in Table 80.
80.        Economic Analysis Results. Discounting the net benefit stream at 12% the NPV is
calculated at minus Rs6.79 million and the ERR is minus 16%. Should the remaining 180 hectares at
the tailend also receive an additional irrigation, assuming the same investment costs, the ERR increases
to 12%.
81.        Farm Income Results. Two farm models were prepared representative of the tailend and
middle reach benefiting areas of the scheme (see Tables 82 and 83). Per hectare gross income, costs of
purchased inputs and net farm income are presented. The crop budgets used to prepare the farm
models, calculated in constant 1995 financial prices, are detailed in Tables 88-91. The results of the
farm model analysis are summarized below:



82
INDIA: National Water Management Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
FARM MODEL            WITHOUT-PROJECT    WITH-PROJECT             %
NET INCOME            NET INCOME            CHANGE
(Rs/ha)              (Rs/ha)
Tailend               6,111                 7,791                 28%
Middle Reaches        8,142                 9,127                 12%
82.        Net incomes are assessed to have increased by 28% in the tailend areas and 12% in the
middle reach areas benefiting from NWMP works.
83.        Retums to family labour were also calculated and results are tabulated below:
FARM MODEL                       WITHOUT-PROJECT    WITH-PROJECT             %
LABOUR RETURN         LABOUR RETURN         CHANGE
(Rs/day)             (Rs/day)
Tailend Benefiting Areas         226                   279                   24%
Middle Reach Benefiting          275                   296                   8%
84.        Returns to family labour are calculated to have increased by 24% and 8% on the tailend
and middle reach benefiting farms respectively.
Peechi Scheme
85.       Investment and 0 & M Costs. The physical investments at appraisal, included selective
lining, repairs to head regulators, replacement of damaged pipes, sluice gates and provision of
measuring flumes. At project closure, outlets in the scheme have been modified to act as proportional
outlets and gates have been installed as well to operate on a fully-opened or fuilly-closed position, as
required. These works required a total expenditure of Rs42.03 million, compared to an estimate of
Rs54.34 million made at scheme preparation, giving a cost underrun of 23% in nominal terms or 33%
in real terms. The cost per hectare has, however, gone up by 140% from Rs43,370/ha (scheme
preparation) to Rsl 04,020/ha (Credit closure) in real terms.
86.        The incremental 0 & M costs consist of actual expenditure claimed from the Bank (100%
reimbursement) and 2% of investment costs thereafter.
87.        Economic Benefits. Only agricultural production benefits have been quantified for
economic analysis. At appraisal, the incremental benefiting area was assumed at 1,253 ha, compared
with a much reduced area of 350 ha at scheme completion. The foregone benefits on 350 ha converted



83
INDIA: National Water Management Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
to irrigated second crop of paddy are assumed negligible as no crop could be grown without irrigation.
Production benefits from annual crops are projected to accrue with a one-year time lag from
completion of works each year. The cropping pattems and crop budgets required to estirnate
agricultural benefits are presented in Tables 92 and 93. The annual net incremental benefit is given in
Table 94.
88.        Economic Costs. Historical investment and incremental 0 & M costs have been inflated
to 1995 prices by applying WPI. The resulting costs, including labour, have been restated in border
terms by using an SCF of 0.9. The economic costs derived in this way are shown in Table 7.
89.        Economic Analysis. The economic analysis has been carried out in 1995 constant prices.
Financial prices and economic values of crops and inputs are presented in Tables 2 and 94. Future
prices are based on World Bank Primary Commodity Forecasts dated February 1995. Based on the
above assumptions, the cropping patterns and per hectare crop yield assumptions shown in Tables 88
and 89 and a 25-year period of analysis, the current estimate of ERR for the scheme is -6% (see Table
95). The negative ERR is attributed to a substantially reduced benefiting area, 350 ha compared with
1,253 ha at scheme preparation and excessive real cost overrun per ha. No ERR was calculated at
scheme preparation. A sensitivity analysis shows that a 50% increase in area irrigated with jack up the
ERR to only -1%, while a 50% reduction in costs will raise the ERR to 2%.
90.        Farm Incomes. ICR estimates an incremental farm income of about Rs450/ha based on
an average farm size of 0.25 ha (Table 96) as follows:
Farm Income
(Farm size - 0.25 ha)
Without Project        With Project
(Rs)                 (Rs)
Gross value of production                     6,760                 7,209
Production cost including water charges       4 755                 5,021
Net return                                    2,005                 2,188
Incremental      Rsl 13/0.25 ha or Rs450/ha



84
INDIA: National Water Management Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Haryana Scheme
91.        Investment and 0 & M Costs. Project investments were mainly utilized for the lining
of main canals and watercourses. These works were a continuation of the lining financed under the
Haryana Irrigation II Project. The resulting expenditures in financial terms amounted to Rs949.41
million, 22% lower than the revised estimates at scheme preparation. The original estimate of Rs1,743
million was revised to Rs1,220 million to keep expenditure within a budget ceiling. The cost underrun
in nominal terms was 22% and in real terms 26%. The cost per hectare has, however, gone up by 14%
from Rsl6,920/ha (scheme preparation) to Rs23,655/ha (Credit closure) in real terms.
92.        Incremental 0 & M  costs were estimated at 2%  of total investment in lining of
watercourses at completion, which is about Rs5.29 million, assumed to occur from FY96 onwards, as
indicated in Table 8. It is assumed that no incremental maintenance cost on canals would be incurred as
maintenance costs on lined canals would not differ materially from those on unlined canals when
maintenance is adequate and regular.
93.        Economic Analysis. The economic analysis has been carried out in 1995 constant prices.
Financial prices and economic values of crops and inputs are shown in Tables 2 and 97. Future prices
are based on World Bank Commodity Forecasts dated February 1995. Historical investment costs
have been inflated to 1995 prices using WPI. The resulting costs, including labour, have been restated
in border terms by applying an SCF of 0.9. The economic costs derived in this manner are shown in
Table 8.
94.        The lining of watercourses generates savings in water which is available only to farmers
within the command of the outlet. In the case of canal lining, such savings become available for use
anywhere in the system. Both these savings will allow irrigation to cover an increased area. Crop yield
increases are likely due to larger depth of application to the crops. There is not enough data to
disaggregate these effects. Increased area has therefore been evaluated, albeit conservatively, as the
principal impact of the project. It is difficult to isolate the direct impact accurately because of a number
of parameters involved - rainfall, river flows, cropping pattern and farmers' choice in allocation of
water. Moreover, lack of measurements under the project allows only theoretical savings to be
considered.
95.        On this basis, there should be an increase of 38,165 ha (11,350 ha saved by watercourses
and 26,815 ha saved by canals) in the area supplied. There has been no change in cropping pattern but
increased cropping intensity is a major benefit from the lining of canals and watercourses. Overall
benefits have been adjusted for reduced output from the adjacent areas using wells which will not be
recharged by seepage from the canals, after lining.
96.        Based on the above assumptions, the cropping patterns and per hectare crop yield
assumptions shown in Tables 98 and 99, and a 25-year period of analysis, the current estimate of ERR
is 17% (see Table 100). A sensitivity analysis was done in view of the fact that the actual increase in
irrigated area ascribed to the project cannot be accurately known. The results show that a 20%



85
INDIA: National Water Management Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
decrease in area irrigated will bring the ERR down to 13%, still an attractive investment, while an
increase in costs by 20% will lower the ERR to 14%.
97.        Farm  Incomes. No estimate was made at scheme preparation.  ICR estimates an
incremental farm income of about Rs14,800 based on a representative farm model (farm size - 4 ha)
(see Table 101):
Farm Income
(Farm size - 4 ha)
Without Project         With Project
(Rs)                  (Rs)
Gross value of production                      92,350                121,350
Production cost including water charges        42.141                 56,330
Net return                                     50,209                65,020
Incremental  =   Rs14,81 1



86
INDIA: National Water Management Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Table 1. Exchange Rates and Wholesale Price Indices (WPI) Used
Financial Year      Project Exchange Rate     WPI (81/82=100)              Inflator
1986/87                  12.79                   132.7                   2.07
1987/88                  12.97                   143.6                   1.91
1988/89                  14.48                   154.3                   1.78
1989/90                  16.66                   165.7                    1.66
1990/91                  17.95                   182.7                   1.50
1991/92                  24.52                   207.8                   1.32
1992/93                  26.41                   228.7                    1.20
1993/94                  31.36                   247.8                   1.11
1994/95                  31.65                   274.5                   1.00
Source: World Bank - India Country Economic Memorandum, May 95.



INDIA - Natonal Water Management Project I - ICR
Appendx2 :Economic and Financial Analysis
TatUe 2: DertvatlonofParltyPrices
PAFI TY (1)                                                1         DI         DI']['                           [E]         [E]         VI]       DI        0]      [1
UNITS         RCE      G NUTS      WHEAT  SORGHUM   SOYBEAN COTTON(5)   SUGAF   COPRA                  UREA       DAP    MOP
CANE
PROJECTED WORLD MARKET PRICE (YEAR 2oo)
In i99o constant dollars (2)             US$1MT         271.00     568.00     162.00      96.00     233.00    1500.00    242.00    420.00       142.00    162.00    104.00
Adjfactor to 1995 dolars 3)                               1.08       1.08        1.08       1.08       1.08       1.08      1.08      1.08        1.08      1.06      1.08
In constant 1995 dollars                 US$/MT         292.68     635.04     174.96     103.68      251.64    1620.00    261.36    454.00      153.36    174.96    112.32
QUALITY ADJUSTMENT                        %               80.00     100.00      80.00      90.00       90.00      90.00     97.00     95.00      100.00    100.00    100.00
WOFLD MARKET EQUIVALENT                   US$/MT         234.14     635.04      139.97      93.31     226.48    1458.00    253.52    431.00      153.36    174.96    112.32
International shippng                    USt/MT          50.00     100.00      60.00      60.00       70,00   -250.00    -70.00    120.00        50.00     50.00     50.00
CIF INDIAN PORT                           US$/MT         284.14     735.04     199.97      153.31     296.48    1208.00    183.52    551.00      203.36    224.96    162.32
EXCHANGE RATE (4)                         PS/USI          31.85      31.85      31.85      31.85       31.85      31.85     31.85     31.85       31.85     31.85     31.85
CIF INDIAN PORT                           Rs/MT         9049.99   23411.02    6368.98    4882.99    9442.76   38474.80   5845.09  17550.00      6477.02   7164.98   5169.89
Port charges                             Rs/MT          226.25     585.28     159.22     122.07      236.07   -961.87   -146.13    400.00       161.93    179.12    129.25        0
Internal transport                       Ps/Mr          150.00     200.00     200.00     200.00      200.00    -40.00    -20.00    200.00       200.00    200.00    200.00
Internalhandling                         Rs/MF          120.00     120.00     120.00      120.00     120.00   -200.00   -150.00    100.00       120.00    120.00    120.00
PROCESSEDVALUE                            Rs/MT         9546.24   24316.30    6848.21    5325.06    9998.83   37272.93   5528.96  18250.00      6958.94   7664.10   5619.14
Processingrato                           %               6200       3500       9000       90.00       90.00      3500      10.00    100.00      100.00    100.00    100.00
Processing costs                         Rs/MT        -150.00    -200.00   -150.00    -150.00    -150.00    -500.00  -150.00   -100.00            0.00      0.00      0.0D
Value of cotton seed                     Rs/MT                                                                 2500.00
WHOLESALE VALUE                           Rs/MT         5768.67    8310.70    6013.38    4642.56    8848.95   15045.53    402.90  18150.00      6958.94   7664.10   5619.14
Local marketingflransport                Rs/MT         -200.00    -200.00    -200.00    -200.00    -200.00    -300.00    -60.00    250.00       200.00    200.00    200.00
FARMGATE PRICE                            Rs/MT         5568.67    8110.70    5813.38    4442.56    8648.95   14745.53    342.90  17900.00      7158.94   7864.10   5819.14
ECONOMIC FARMGATE PRICE                   Rs/KG            5.57       8.11       5.81       4.44        8.65      14.75      0.34     17.90        7.16      7.86      5.82
FINANCIAL FARMGATE PRCE (Andca Pradesh)  Rs/KG             3.80       8.50       4.50       3.0D        9.00      2(100      0.55     30.00  )     3.00      8.40      3.80
(1) Parity: V] Import (E] Export
(2) World Barnk pice forecasts dated February 1995 for the year 2000
a Inflated by MLA Index (average Ibr 1994 and 1995 bEkse 1990)
(4) Based on World Bark Office Memorandum dated 11 January 1995 re Exchange Pates and Price ContIngencIes for Pro ject Analysis In Indba verage value for 1994 and 1995)
(5) Wholesale value refers to seed cotton
6 Price at KarnaiatQ.
File: PARITY.WK3



INDIA: Natbnal WaterManagement Pmject I - ICR
Appendix 2: EaDnomic and FnancialAnalysis
ROS Sub-pojoect
Table 3: Economic Costs and Benefits (FRs million, 1995 Dontint pices)
YEAR                                        1            2            3            4             5            6             7            8            9            10       t1         12
PROJECT COSTS
Investment Costs (1)                                 0.020         2.130        3.632        3.950        11.739       12.053       39.142
WitM-pmjectO&M Costs (2)                             3.187        3.585         3.984        4.382         4.780        5.179        5.577        5.577         5.577     5.577     5.577
TOTAL COSTS                                          3.207         5.715        7.615        8.332        16.520       17.231       44.719         5.577        5.577     5.577     5.577
PROJECT BENEFITS
Without-project Net Pioducton Benefits                             0.036        0.541        1.403         2.340        5.126        7.986        17.274       17.274    17.274    17.274
With-pmject Net Productin Benefits                                0.045         0.686        1.780         2.969        6.503       10.131        21.914       21.914    21.914    21.914
Incremental Net Benefits                                           0.010        0.145        0.377         0.629        1.377        2.145         4.639        4.639     4.639     4.639
Without-piojectOiM (Saved) Costs (3)                 3.187        3.187         3.187        3.187         3.187        3.187        3.187        3.187         3.187     3.187     3.187   00
TOTAL BENEFITS                                       3.187        3.196         3.332        3.564         3.815        4.564        5.332         7.826        7.826     7.826     7.826
NET BENEFITS                                        -0.020       -2.519       -4.283        -4.769      -12.704      -12.668      -39.387         2.249         2.249     2.249     2.249
NPV (12%, 25 years)                  - 28.843
ERR (25 years)                         - 6.21 %
NOTES:
(1) Taken hom GOA P actual expenditure records. Financial costs have been converted ID economic costs multiplying by the SCF of 0.9.
(2) Assu med b be Rs175Aha CCA (35.410 ha) hom 1994/95 increased linerally from Rs100ha from commencment of tlhe sch eme works. Economic costs have been estimated by applyng the SCF of 0.9
(3) Taken at RslOOAiaof CCA (35,410 ha), and oDnverted in lo economic terms by rumltiplying by the SCF of 0.9.
File: RDSEA.WK3



INDIA: National Water Management Project (Cr.1770-IN)
Imptementation Completion Report
Appendix 2: Economic and Financiat Analysis
Table 4.   Financial and Economic Costs - Vani Vilas Sagar Scheme
(Rs mittion)
FY87        FY88        FY89        FY90        FY91         FY92        FY93        FY94         FY95          FY96      FY97 onwards
Financial
- Investment costs             0.194       2.061       6.638       9.023        6.284      12.766       4.660       7.277        3.973       1.350              -
- In FY95 prices"              0.402       3.937       11.816      14.978       9.426      16.851       5.592       8.077        3.973       1.350              -
CO
- Incrementat 0 & M              -           -            -           -           -                     0.405       0.123        0.391        1.0853         1.0853o
- In FY95 prices"                      -           -            -           -                 -         0.486       0.137        0.391        1.0853'        1.085 '
Economic
- Investment costs2'           0.362       3.543       10.634      13.480       8.483      15.166       5.033       7.269        3.576       1.215              -
Incremental 0 & M2/            -           -           -            -           -           -         0.437       0.123        0.352       0.976          0.976
Using inflators shown in Table 1.
2 Adjusted by using SCF of 0.9.
3 Assumed at 2X of totat investment costs after compLetion of works.



INDIA: National Water Management Project (Cr.1770-IN)
IrWpLementation Completion Report
Appendix 2: Economic and FinanciaL Analysis
Table 5. Financial and Economic Costs - Sathanur Scheme
(Rs million)
FY87        FY88        FY89        FY90        FY91        FY92         FY93        FY94         FY95         FY96       FY97 orwards
Financial
- Investment costs               -         0.750       2.163       7.169       12.324      13.436       8.160       1.871       16.053       6.5711            -
- In FY95 prices2'               -         1.433       3.850       11.901      18.486      17.736       9.792       2.077       16.053        6.571            -                 0
- Incremental 0 & M              --                      -                        -         0.301       0.285       0.497        1.368        1 .3703        1.37031
- In FY95 prices2'                           -           -            -           -         0.397       0.342       0.552        1.368       1.3703'        1.3703
Economic
- Investment costs4'                       1.290       3.465       10.711      16.637      15.962       8.813       1.869       14.448        5.914            -
- IncrementaL 0 & M4             -           -           -                        -         0.357       0.308       0.497        1.231        1.233          1.233
' IncLudes Rs2.071 million for terminated works to be carried out.
Using inftators shown in Table 1.
3, Assumed at 2% of total investment costs after compLetion of works.
V Adjusted by using SCF of 0.9.



91
INDIA: National Water Management Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Table 6. Annual Scheme Investment and O&M Expenditures
(Current Rupees Million)
SCHEME                      1986/87     1987/188    1988/89      1989/90     1990/91      1991/92      1992/93      1993/94      19949
THAMA8ARAPARANI
Investment                                          0.745       6 539       23.132       27.413       46.893        15.872       66.619
O&M                                                 6.925        8.612       9.717       13.082       12.751        19.500       21.000
MALAMPUZHA
Investment                                                                   1761         6.867       20.368       29.386        21.584
OSM                                                                         2.100(1)                                             6.500(1)
THANtAVA
Investment                                          0.030       1 200       4.130        11.250       15.600        19.600       14.S44
0&M                                                 (2)                                                                         (2X3)
RATAPANI
Investment                                                                                0.980        1.920        3.100        9.500
OSM                                                                                       0.520                                  0.800
NOTES:
(1) 1994 prices.
(2) In 1995 prces OCM expenditure was RslO0/ha in 188/89 and Rs175Sha in 1994/95.
(3) Anticipated NVvMP investment expenditure in 1995/96 = Rs3 856 million.



INDIA: National Water Management Project (Cr.1770-IN)
Implenentation Completion Report
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Anatysis
Table 7.   Financial and Economic Costs - Peechi Scheme
(Rs miLLion)
FY87        FY88        FY89        FY90        FY91         FY92        FY93        FY94         FY95          FY96      FY97 orwards
Financial
- Investment costs                           -            -                 -                 -         0.005       16.065       25.957
- In FY95 prices"                -           -            -           -           -           -         0.006       17.832       25.957          -              -
- IncrementaL 0 L M              -           -                                                             -           -            -         0.841"         0.8412/
- In FY95 prices                             -            -           -           -           -                  -                  -         0.8412         0.8412/
Economic
Investment costs3              .           -           -            -           -           -         0.005       16.049       23.361          -              -
- IncrementaL 0 & M 3/                                                                                     -           -            -          0.757          0.757
"' Using inflators shown in TabLe 1.
2/ Assumed at 2% of total investment costs after compLetion of works.
3 Adjusted by using SCF of 0.9.



INDIA: National Water Management Project (Cr.1770-IN)
Impiementation Comptetion Report
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Table 8.   Financial and Economic Costs - Haryana Scheme
(Rs million)
FY87       FY88        FY89     |  FY90        FY91        FY92        FY93        FY94         FY95         FY96      FY97 onwards
Financial
- Investment costs              -           -           -           -           -                   386.708    510.148       52.553          -             -
- In FY95 prices'               -                                                                   464.050    566.269       52.553                        -
- Incremental 0 & M             -           -           -           -           -          -           -           -            -          5.88           5.88
- In FY95 prices"               -           -           -           -           -          -           -           -            -          5.88          5.88
Economic
- Investment costs3             -           -           -           -           -                   417.645    509.642       47.298          -             -
- Incremental 0 & M3'                                                                                  -           -            -          5.29          5.29
Using inflators shown in TabLe 1.
Assumed at 2X of total investment costs on lining of watercourses after completion of works.
3i Adjusted by using SCF of 0.9.



INDIA: National Water Management Project I - ICR
Appendix z: Economic and F lnanuaA Anatysis
RDS Sub-project
Table 9: RDS Sub-project Benefitting heas (Hectares)
YEAR                                          1            2             3             4             5            6             7             8             9            10.         25
KharlfT Distributary Tailend (epresented by DIstributary 16&)
- Incremenbl area benefittng                            1            21            35            38          113           116           377                                              'I
-accumulatedtoblarea benefitting                        1            22            57            95          208           324           701           700       700                       4>
Babi Distribuiry Tailend (represented by Distributary 24)
- incremental arem benefitting                          1            21            35            38          113           116           377
-accumulatedtoblarea beneftting                         1            22            57            95          208           324           701           700       700
NOTES:
1. This sub-project has notbeeneffectively monitored Theareas tht wil beneft from  995/96wereassessed by the missionat 4% of the toal command area  (1,416 ha). Theareas beneftting inany particubr year during
the project ImplementaBon priod have been calculated In drect proportlon to the Investment costs ti the preceding year.
a itisassumedtriatlarmerswll benefitrromtneadditionalwatersupplyimmediately.
File: RDSEA.WK3



INDIA: Nabonal Water WMnagement Project I - ICR
AppenOx)2: Economicanc Flnancial AnalysIs
Thambaraparani Sub-project
Table lo: Thambaraparani Sub- p-olect Beneriting Areas
YEAR                                        1            2            3             4            5             6            7            8             9            10    .25
Manimuthar Command
- incremental area benefltfng                         4            36          116           121          185           58           221
- accumulated total area benefitting                  4            40          156          277           461          519           740          740       740
Thambaraparani Draiage AffectedArea                                                                                                                                                                 U
- tncrenentat area benetAtUn                         23           192          626          653           999          3t4          At92
- accumulated total area benefitting                 23          216           842          1495         2494         2808          4000         4000      4000
Thambaraparani Command
- mcremental area benentting                         28           231          751          784          1199          377          1431
- accumulated total area benemitbng                  28          259          1010          1794         2993         3369          4800         4800      4800
NOTES:
1. This sub-project rias not been effectively monKtaed. The areas thatwill benefitfrom 19956 were assessed bythe mission together vrth the ield staff. The areas benelltting In any particular year ouring the
project Implementation period have been calculated relaive to the Investment costs In the preceding year.
2. It Is assumed that farmers wIl benefit from the adoDtional anrcYa more timely water supply. or Improved Orainage condiibons Im medately.
File: THAMBAEA.WK3



INDIA: National Water Management Project I - ICR
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
RDS Sub- project
Table 11: 1 Hectare Farm Model - Distributary 16a
CROP                                       1 HECTAFE FARM MODEL
WITHOUT PROJECT        WITH PROJECT
AREA
Kharif
- paddy                                 1.00                       1.00
Rabi (well irrgation)
- groundnut                            0.20                       0.20                                                    xo
- sunflower                            0.15                        0.15                                                   o
GROSS INCOME                            24388                     30503
COST OF PURCHASED INPUTS (1)             9439                      11810
NET INCOME                              14949                      18693
NOTES:
(1) Includes cost of family labour
File: RDSEA.WK3



INDIA: National Water Management Project I - ICR
Appendx 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
RDS Sub- project
Table 12: 1 Hectare Farm Model - Distributary 24
CROP                                      1 FE CTAFE FARM MODEL
WITHOUT PROJECT        WITH PROJECT
AREA
Kharit
- paddy                                0.25                       0.25
- sesame                               0.20                       0.20
- sorghum                              0.20                       0.20
- sunflower                            0.20                       0.20
Rabi
- paddy                                0.25                       0.25
- groundnut                            0.50                       0.50
- cotton                               0.10                       0.10
- sunflower                            0.15                       0.15
GROSS INCOME                           19690                      24620
COST OF PURCHAD INPUTS (1)            10006                      12064
NET INCOME                              9684                      12556
NOIES:
(1) Includes cost of family labour
File: FIDA.WK3



INDIA: National Water Management Project I - ICR
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
RDS Sub-project
Table 13: Economic Crop Budget (per hectare) - Paddy - Kharif
Items                               Unit                 Adequate Irrigation                      Inadequate Irrigation
Quantity    Unit Price     Value        Quantity     Unit Price     Value
(Rs)         (Rs)                       (Rs)          (Rs)
A. Gross Value of Production
Yield                            kg                 4600          5.57         25622         3700          5.57        20609
Byproduct                        kg                 5520          0.27          1490         4625          0.27          1249
Gross Return                     Rs                                            27112                                   21858
B. Cost of Farm Inputs
Land Preparation                 ha                     1      1080.00          1080            1        900.00           900
Nursery                          ha                   0.1      3150.00          315            0.1      3150.00          315 <,
Seed                             kg                   75          5.40           405           75          5.40          405 m
Sowing/Transplanting             ha                     1       747.00           747            1        747.00           747
Manure                           t                     6        198.00         1188             4        198.00          792
Fertilizer - Urea                kg                  150          7.16          1074          150          7.16          1074
- DAP                     kg                  200          7.86         1572           100          7.86          786
- MOP                     kg                    0          5.82            0             0          5.82            0
- Lime                    kg                    0          4.50            0             0          4.50            0
Pesticides - Chemicals           ha                     1      1080.00          1080            1        810.00           810
- Sprayer               ha                    3          9.00           27             2          9.00           18
Weeding                          ha                     1       810.00           810            1        675.00           675
Family Labour                    m-d                  25         27.00          675            22         27.00          594
lHarvesting/Threshing            ha                    1           765          765             1           630          630
Total Direct Costs                                                             9738                                     7746
C. Net Return (A-B)                                                              17374                                    14112
File: RDSEA.WK3



INDIA: National Water Management Project I - ICR
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
RDS Sub-project
Table 14: Economic Crop Budget (per hectare) - Paddy - Rabi
Items                               Unit                 Adequate Irrigation                      Inadequate Irrigation
Quantity    Unit Price     Value        Quantity     Unit Price     Value
(Rs)         (Rs)                        (Rs)         (Rs)
A. Gross Value of Production
Yield                            kg                 3500          5.57         19495         2800           5.57        15596
Byproduct                        kg                 4200          0.27          1134         3500          0.27          945
Gross Return                     Rs                                           20629                                     16541
B. Cost of Farm Inputs
Land Preparation                 ha                     1      1080.00          1080             1       900.00           900
Nursery                          ha                   0.1      2700.00           270           0.1      2700.00           270
Seed                             kg                   75          5.40           405           75           5.40          405  1o
Sowing/Transplanting             ha                     1       720.00           720            1        675.00           675
Manure                           t                     6        198.00          1188            4        198.00           792
Fertilizer - Urea                kg                  150          7.16          1074          150          7.16          1074
- DAP                     kg                  200          7.86         1572           100          7.86          786
- MOP                     kg                    0          5.82            0             0          5.82            0
- Lime                    kg                    0          4.50            0             0          4.50            0
Pesticides - Chemicals           ha                    1        810.00           810            1        630.00           630
- Sprayer               ha                    2          9.00           18             2          9.00           18
Weeding                          ha                     1       810.00           810            1        675.00           675
Family Labour                    m-d                  25         27.00           675           22         27.00           594
Harvesting/Threshing             ha                    1           765           765            1           630           630
Total Direct Costs                                                             9387                                     7449
C. Net Return (A-B)                                                              11242                                     9092
File: RDSEA.WK3



INDIA: National Water Management Project I - ICR
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
RDS Sub-project
Table 15: Economic Crop Budget (per hectare) - Groundnut - Rabi
Items                               Unit                 Adequate Irrigation                      Inadequate Irrigaton
Quantity    Unit Price     Value        Quantity     Unit Price     Value
(Rs)         (Rs)                        (Rs)         (Rs)
A. Gross Value of Production
Yield                            kg                 1050          8.11          8516          800          8.11          6488
Byproduct                        ha                     1      2025.00          2025            1       1440.00          1440
Gross Return                     Rs                                            10541                                     7928
B. Cost of Farm Inputs
Land Preparation                 ha                     1       337.50           338             1       337.50           338
Nursery                          ha
Seed                             kg                   80         12.15           972           80          12.15          972
Sowing                           bullock pair         2.5        76.50           191           2.5        76.50           191
Manure                           t                     4        198.00           792            2        198.00           396
Fertilizer - Urea                kg                   50          7.16           358           50          7.16           358
- DAP                     kg                  100          7.86          786            75          7.86          590
- MOP                     kg                    0          5.82            0             0          5.82            0
- Lime                    kg                   80          4.50          360            50          4.50          225
Pesticides - Chemicals           litre                2.5       270.00           675            2        270.00           540
- Sprayer + labour      per spray             2         90.00          180             2         90.00          180
Weeding                          ha                     1       495.00           495            1        405.00           405
Family Labour                    m-d                  25         27.00           675           22         27.00           594
Harvesting/Threshing             ha                    1        405.00          405             1        360.00          360
Total Direct Costs                                                             6227                                     5148
C. Net Return (A -B)                                                              4314                                     2780
File: RDSEA.WK3



INDIA: National Water Management Project I - ICR
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
RDS Sub-project
Table 16: Economic Crop Budget (per hectare) - Sunflower - Rabi
Items                              Unit                  Adequate Irrigation                     Inadequate Irrigation
Quantity    Unit Price     Value        Quantity     Unit Price    Value
(Rs)         (Rs)                       (Rs)          (Rs)
A. Gross Value of Production
Yield                            kg                  950          9.00         8550          700           9.00        6300
Byproduct                        kg
Gross Return                     Rs                                            8550                                    6300
B. Cost of Farm Inputs
Land Preparation                 ha                    1        315.00          315             1       315.00          315
Nursery                          ha                                                                                            0
Seed                             kg                  7.5         45.00          338           7.5        45.00          338
Sowing                           ha                    1        180.00          180             1        180.00          180
Manure                           t                     5        198.00          990            3        198.00          594
Fertilizer - Urea                kg                  150          7.16         1074          100          7.16          716
- DAP                     kg                 125          7.86          983           100          7.86          786
- MOP                     kg                    0         5.82            0             0          5.82            0
- Lime                    kg                    0         4.50            0             0          4.50            0
Pesticides - Chemicals          litre                  0        270.00            0            0        270.00             0
- Sprayer + labour     per spray             0          0.00            0             0          0.00            0
Weeding                          ha                    1        450.00          450             1       450.00          450
Family Labour                    m-d                  25         27.00          675           22         27.00          594
Harvesting/Threshing             ha                    1        504.00          504             1       450,00          450
Total Direct Costs                                                            5508                                     4423
C. Net Return (A-B)                                                              3042                                     1878
File: RDSEA.WK3



INDIA: National Water Management Project I - ICR
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
RDS Sub-project
Table 17: Economic Crop Budget (per hectare) - Sunflower - Kharif
Items                              Unit                  Adequate Irrigation                     Rainfed
Quantity    Unit Price     Value        Quantity     Unit Price    Value
(Rs)         (Rs)                       (Rs)         (Rs)
A. Gross Value of Production
Yield                            kg                  900          9.00         8100          700          9.00         6300
Byproduct                        kg
Gross Return                     Rs                                            8100                                    6300
B. Cost of Farm Inputs
Land Preparation                 ha                    1        337.50          338            1        315.00          315
Nursery                          ha
Seed                             kg                  7.5         45.00          338           7.5        45.00          338 N
Sowing                           ha                    1        180.00          180            1        180.00           180
Manure                           t                     5        198.00          990            3        198.00          594
Fertilizer - Urea                kg                  100          0.00            0           50          0.00            0
- DAP                    kg                  100          0.00            0            50          0.00            0
- MOP                    kg                   50          0.00            0             0          0.00            0
- Lime                   kg                    0          4.50            0             0          4.50            0
Pesticides - Chemicals          litre                  0        270.00            0            0        270.00            0
- Sprayer + labour     per spray             0          0.00            0             0          0.00            0
Weeding                          ha                    1        450.00          450            1        360.00          360
Family Labour                    m-d                  25         27.00          675           22         27.00          594
Harvesting/Threshing             ha                    1        504.00          504            1        450.00          450
Total Direct Costs                                                            3474                                     2831
C. Net Return (A-B)                                                              4626                                     3470
File: RDSEA.WK3



INDIA. National Water Management Project I - ICR
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
RDS Sub-project
Table 18: Economic Crop Bidget (per hectare) - Cotton - Biseasonal
Items                                Unit                  Adequate Irrigation                       Inadequate Irrigation                     Rainfed
Quantity     Unit Price     Value         Quantity     Unit Price     Value         Quantity     Unit Price     Value
(Rs)         (Rs)                        (Rs)          (Rs)                        (Rs)          (As)
A. Gross Value of Production
Yield                             kg                  1500          14.75        22125          1100          14.75        16225           500          14.75         7375
Byproduct                         kg
Gross Retum                       Rs                                             22125                                     16225                                      7375
B. Cost of Farm hIputs
Land Preparation                  ha                     1       1080.00          1080             1       1080.00          1080             1        720.00           720
Nursely                           ha
Seed                              kg                  3.75        180.00           675          3.75        180.00           675             8         81.00           648
Sowing                            ha                     1        675.00           675             1        675.00           675             1        202.50           203
Manure                            t                     10        198.00          1980             5        198.00           990             0         198.00            0
Fertilizer - Urea                 kg                   150          7.16          1074           100          7.16           716            50           7.16          358
- DAP                     kg                   100           7.86          786            50           7.86          393            50           7.86           393
- MOP                     kg                    50           5.82          291            50           5.82          291              0          5.82             0     5
- Lime                    kg                     0           4.50            0             0           4.50            0             0           4.50             0
Pesticides - Chemicals            ha                     1       6750.00          6750             1       6300.00          6300             1       2700.00          2700
- Sprayer               per spray              5           9.00           45             4           9.00           36             2           9.00            18
Weeding                           ha                     0        450.00             0             0        360.00             0             0         360.00             0
Family Labour                     m-d                   55         27.00          1485            48         27.00          1296            30         27.00           810
Harvesting/rhreshing              ha                     1        504.00           504             1        450.00           450             1        450.00           450
Total Direct Costs                                                               15345                                     12902                                      6300
C. Net Retum (A-B)                                                                  6780                                       3323                                      1076
Fie: RDSEA.WK3



INDIA: National Water Management Project I - ICR
Appendix 2: Economic and Fhiancial Analysis
RDS Sub-project
Table 19 Economic Crop Bidget (perhectare) - Groundnut - Kharif
Items                               Unit                  Adequate Irrigation                      Inadequate Irrigation                     Rainfed
Quantity    Unit Price      Value        Quantity     Unit Price     Value        Quantity     Unit Price      Value
(Rs)         (Rs)                        (Rs)         (Rs)                        (Rs)          (Rs)
A. Gross Valu e of Production
Yield                             kg                  900          8.11          7299          650           8.11         5272           450          8.11         3650
Byproduct                        ha                     1       1800.00          1800            1        1350.00         1350             1        900.00          900
Gross Retum                       Rs                                            9099                                      6622                                     4550
B. Cost of Farm inputs
Land Preparation                 ha                     1        337.50           338             1        337.50          338             1        315.00           315
Nursely                          ha
Seed                             kg                    80         1215            972           80          1Z15           972            60         1215            729
Sowing                            bullock pair        2.5         7650            191           2.5         76.50          191             2         76.50           153
Manure                           t                      4        198.00           792            2         198.00          396             2        198.00           396
Fertlizer - Urea                 kg                    50          7.16           358           50           7.16          358            50          7.16           358
- DAP                     kg                  100           7.86          786            75          7.86          590            50           7.86          393
-MOP                      kg                    0           5.82            0             0          5.82            0             0          5.82             0  0
-Uime                     kg                   50           4.50          225            50          4.50          225             0           4.50            0
Pesticides - Chemicals           litre                 2.5       270.00           675             2        270.00          540             1        270.00           270
- Sprayer +labour       per spray             2         90.00           180             2         90.00          180             1         45.00            45
Weeding                           ha                    1        495.00           495             1        450.00          450             1        360.00           360
Famly Labour                      m-d                  25         27.00           675           22          27.00          594            12         27.00           324
Harvesting/rhreshing             ha                     1        405.00           405             1        360.00          360             1        360.00           360
Total Direct Costs                                                              6092                                      5193                                     3703
C. Net Retum (A-B)                                                                 3007                                      1428                                      847
Fie: RDSEA.WK3



INDIA: National Water Management Project I - ICR
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
RDS Sub-project
Table 20: Economic Crop Budget (per hectare) - Sorghum - Khaif
Items                               Unit                     Rainfed
Quantity    Unit Price     Value
(Rs)         (Rs)
A. Gross Value of Production
Yield                            kg                 1200           5.81         6972
Byproduct                        kg                 1500           0.32          473
Gross Return                     Rs                                             7445
B. Cost of Farm Inputs
Land Preparation                 ha                     1        405.00          405                                                    
Nursery                          ha
Seed                             kg                   7.5          9.00           68
Sowing                           ha                     1        225.00          225
Manure                           t                     2         198.00          396
Fertilizer - Urea                kg                   50           7.16          358
- DAP                     kg                   25          7.86           197
- MOP                     kg                   25          5.82          146
- Lime                    kg                    0          4.50            0
Pesticides - Chemicals           litre                 0        270.00             0
- Sprayer + labour      per spray             0          0.00            0
Weeding                          w-d                   15         22.50          338
Family Labour                    m-d                  15         27.00           405
Harvesting/Threshing             m-d                   15        27.00           405
Total Direct Costs                                                             2941
C. Net Return (A- B)                                                              4504
File: RDSEA.WK3



INDIA: National Water Management Project I - ICR
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
RDS Sub-project
Table 21: Economic Crop Budget (per hectare) - Sesame - Khaff
Items                              Unit                    Rainfed
Quantity    Unit Price     Value
(Rs)         (Rs)
A. Gross Value of Production
Yield                           kg                  450          9.00         4050
Byproduct                       kg
Gross Return                    Rs                                            4050
B. Cost of Farm Inputs
Land Preparation                ha                    1        225.00          225
Nursery                         ha
Seed                            kg                    6         10.80           65
Sowing                          ha                    1        180.00          180
Manure                          t                     2        198.00          396
Fertilizer - Urea               kg                   25          7.16          179
- DAP                    kg                   50          7.86         393
- MOP                    kg                   25          5.82          146
- Lime                   kg                    0          4.50            0
Pesticides - Chemicals          litre                 1        135.00          135
- Sprayer              per spray             1          9.00           9
Weeding                         ha                    1        162.00          162
Family Labour                   m-d                  14         27.00          378
Harvesting/Threshing            ha                    1        360.00          360
Total Direct Costs                                                           2627
C. Net Return (A-B)                                                             1423
File: RDSEA.WK3



INDIA: National Water Management Project I - ICR
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
RDS Sub- project
Table 22: 1 Hectare Farm Model - Distributary 24
CROP                                      1 FE CTARE FARM MODEL
WITHOUT PROJECT       WITH PROJECT
AREA
Kharif
- paddy                                0.25                      0.25
- sesame                               0.20                      0.20
- sorghum                              0.20                      0.20
- sunflower                            0.20                      0.20
Rabi
- paddy                                0.25                      0.25
- groundnut                            0.50                      0.50
- cotton                               0.10                      0.10
- sunflower                            0.15                      0.15
GROSS INCOME                           17848                     21962
COST OF PURCHASED INPUTS (1)            9506                     11759
NET INCOME                              8341                     10203
NOTES:
(1) Includes cost of family labour
File: RDSFA.WK3



INDIA: National Water Management Project I - ICR
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
RDS Sub- project
Table 23: 1 Hectare Farm Model - Distributary 16a
CROP                                       1 -E CTARE FARM MODEL
WITHOUT PROJECT        WITH PROJECT
AREA
Kharif
- paddy                                 1.00                        1.00
Rabi (well irrigation)
- groundnut                             0.20                       0.20
- sunflower                             0.15                       0.15
oo
GROSS INCOME                            18670                      22796
COST OF PURCHASED INPUTS (1)             8992                       11445
NET INCOME                               9679                       11351
NOIES:
(1) Includes cost of family labour
File: RDSFA.WK3



INDIA: National Water Management Project (Cr.1770-IN)
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Table 24.   Cropped Area. Yield and Production used for Analysis" - Vani Vilas Sagar Scheme
Future without Project                                                     Future with Project
Item                             Cropped Area                Yield                Production             Cropped Area                 Yield                 Production
(ha)                 (ton/ha)                  (ton)                    (ha)                   (ton/ha)                  (ton)
Kharif
- Groundnut                          2,160                    1.0                   2,160                    1,000                     1.0                     1,000
- Millet                               100                    1.75                     175                      100                    1.75                      175
- Sunflower                            200                    0.9                      180                      200                    0.9                       180
Sub-total                            2,460                                                                    1,300
Rabi
- Paddy                                550                    3.0                   1,650                       550                    3.0                     1,650
- Groundnut                          2,450                    1.5                   3,675                    2,450                     1.5                    3,675
- Sunflower                          1.050                    1.3                   1,365                    1,050                     1.3                     1,365
Sub-total                            4.050                                                                   4.050
Perennials
- Coconuts (copra)                   5,29021                  2.1                  11,109                    6,450                     2.1                    13,545
TotaL Cropped Area                  11,8003'                                                                 11,8003'
Net Cultivated Area                 12,250                                                                   10,250
Cropping Intensity (X)                  96                                                                       96
Assumed that the project impact would only be an increased coconut area, as explained in para 41 of this appendix.  Cropped areas are based on 1994/95 records
provided by the scheme office and no further increase in coconut area is assumed.
2/ Estimated based on annual rate of increase of coconut area in non-project area of Hiriyu Tank over the past nine yeas (1986/87 to 1994/95).
V With the rehabilitation of the sugar mill (at appraisal it was recommended that the mill should be closed down), some farmers started new planting of cane which
was limited to a small area (225 ha).  As this is not a direct result of the project it is therefore not included for the purpose of the analysis.
4/ Assumed kharif irrigated groundnuts during immature period.



INOIA:  National Water Management Project (Cr.1770-IN)
ImpLementation Comptetion Report
Appendix 2: Economic and FinanciaL Analysis
Table 25.  Coconut Crop Budgets" - Vani Vilas Sagar Scheme
Year                               1          2          3         4          5          6          7          8          9          10          11          12
onvwards
Yield
- Nuts/tree                                              -         -          -           5        25         40         60          70         80           85
- Copra (kg)/tree2'                -          -          -         -          -           1         5          8          12         14         16           17
Revenue per Tree (Rs)
- Copra at Rs3O/kg                 -          -          -         -          -         30        150        240        360         420        480          510
- Leaves at RsO.6/leaf             -          -          -         -          -          6          6          6          6           6          6            6
- Husks at RsO.25/nut                   -                -         -          -           1         6         10          15         18         20           21
- Shells at RsO.10/nut             -          -          -         -          -          -          3          4           6          7          8            9
Sub-Total                        -          -          -         -          -          37       165        260         387        451        514          546                 o
Cost per Tree (Rs)
- Fertilizer                      0.8        2.0       5.0        7.0        7.1        7.2        7.4        7.5        7.6        7.8         7.9         8.0
- Pesticides                      1.3        1.5        1.6       1.6        1.8        1.9        2.0        2.1        2.2        2.3         2.4         2.5
- Compost                         1.4        2.0       2.5        3.0        3.5        3.6        3.7        3.8        4.0        4.2         4.4         4.5
- PLanting materiaL               6.0                    -         -          -                     -          -                      -                       -
- Labour                         12.5        8.0       9.0        10.0       12.0       13.0      14.0       15.0        16.0       17.0       19.0         20.0
Sub-Total                      22.0       13.5       18.1       21.6       24.4       25.7      27.1       28.4        29.8       31.3       33.7         35.0
Net Revenue
- Rs per tree                   -22.0      -13.5      -18.1      -21.6      -24.4       11.3     137.9      231.6       357.2      419.7      480.3        511.0
- Rs per ha3'                   -2,750    -1,688    -2,263    -2,700    -3,050         1,413     17,238    28,950       44,650     52,463     60,038       63,875
Intercropping"
- Net Revenue (Rs/ha)            7,980      7,980     7,581      6,384      5,586      3,990        -          -          -           -          -            -
Total Revenue (Rs/ha)          5.230      6.292      5.318     3.684      2,536      5.403      17.238    28.950      44.650     52,463     60.038       63,875
Revenue at Economic Prices
- Coconuts                      -2,550    -1,663    -2,388    -2,913    -3,238          -263      9,238    16,438       26,013     30,700     35,275       37,563
- Intercropping4/                3,166     3,166      3,008      2,533      2,216      1,583        -          -          -           -          -            -
Total (Rs/ha)                    616      1.503        620      -380    -1.022    -1,320        9.238    16,438       26.013     30.700     35.275       37.563
1  Based on re-estimated data provided by M & E unit of Karnataka Irrigation Department.
2/ At 200 g/nut.
3/ At 125 trees per ha.
4  Assumed kharif irrigated groundnuts during immature period.



INDIA: National Water Management Project (Cr.1770-lN)
Im,lementation Completion Report
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Table 26.   Crop Yield and Input Requirement (per ha) used for Analysis - Vani Vilas Sagar Scheme
Fertilizer
Crop                                               Yield                                               Seed       Pesticides   Miscellaneous        Labour         Bullocks
N            P          K
(ton/ha)     .  . . . . .(kg/ha). . . . . .    (Rs/ha)            (Rs/ha)         (Rs/ha)        (Man-day)       (Pair-day)
Future with and Future without Project1'
Groundnut
-  Kharif                                           1.0           20           35          30          127           151              115             130             23
-  Rabi                                             1.5           27           45          37          127           227              172             157             23
Millet - Kharif                                     1.75          30           20           -           50           180              150              70             18
Sunflower
-  Kharif                                          0.9            40           45                       15           100              150              75             18
-  Rabi                                             1.3           45           50           -           15           120              172             90              18
Paddy - Rabi                                        3.0           80           35          20           50           300              268             203             26
Cocoruts2/
V  See footnote 1 of Table 24 of this appendix.
2/ See Table 25 of this appendix.



INDIA: National Water Management Project (Cr.1770-IN)
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Table 27. Crop Budget (per ha) used for Analysis - Vani Vilas Sagar Scheme
Gross Return                                         Financial Cost of Inputs                                     Net Return
Crop                                                                     Fertilizer
Product    By-product      Total                                    Other      Labour"'      Bullocks       Total    Financial   Economic
N         P        K
. ........................ . ...                                . (Rs/ha) .
Future with and without
Project"'
Groundnut
-  Kharif                   12,000        1,200        13.200      148       315       200       490       2,457          1,610         5,220        7,980
-  Rabi                     18,000        1,800        19.800      200       405       247       643       2,967          1,610         6.072       13,728
Millet - Kharif              7,000          700         7,700      222        180       -        580        1,323         1,260         3,565        4,135
Sunflower
-  Kharif                    9,000          -           9,000      296       405        -        277        1,418         1,260         3,656       5,344
-  Rabi                     13,000          -          13,000      333       450        -        319        1,701         1,260         4,063       8,937
Paddy - Rabi                16,980        1,698        18.678      591        315      133       968       3,837          1,820         7,664       11,015          -
Coconuts3'
See footnote 1 of Table 24 of this appendix.
21 Excluding family labour; assumed 70% of total labour requirements.
' See Table 25 of this appendix.



INDIA: National Water Management Project (Cr.1770-IN)
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix 2: Economic and Financiat AnaLysis
Table 28.   Economic Costs and Benefits - Vani Vilas Sagar Scheme
(Rs miLtion)
Item                                 FY87    |   FY88          FY89          FY90         FY91          FY92         FY93         FY94          FY95          FY96
Scheme Costs
- Investment cost'                  0.362        3.543        10.634        13.480        8.483        15.166       5.033         7.269        3.576          1.215
- Incremental 0 & K costs             -            -             -            -             -            -          0.437         0.123        0.352          0.976
Total Costs                       0.362        3.543        10.634        13.480        8.483        15.166       5.470         7.392        3.928          2.191
Scheme Benefits
Incrementat net benefits2/          -         (0.185)       (0.306)      (0.490)       (0.745)      (1.051)      (1.376)       (0.935)       0.027          1.869
- Net benefits                     (0.362)      (3.728)      (10.940)      (13.970)      (9.228)      (16.217)      (6.846)      (8.327)      (3.901)        (0.322)
Item                                 FY97         FY98         FY99         FY2000       FY2001        FY2002       FY2003        FY2004       FY2005       FY2006-14
Scheme Costs
- Investment cost1'
Incrementat l   & N costs         0.976        0.976        0.976         0.976        0.976         0.976        0.976         0.976        0.976         0.976
Total Costs                       0.976        0.976         0.976        0.976         0.976        0.976        0.976         0.976        0.976          0.976
Scheme Benefits
- Incrementat net benefits2'        3.986        6.498         8.749        12.047       14.866       16.919        18.451       19.288        19.786        19.952
- Net benefits                      3.010        5.522         7.773        11.071       13.890       15.943        17.475       18.312        18.810        18.976
NPV at 12%                                                  -Rs13.7 miltion
ERR (25 years)                                               8.6%
See Table 4.
Incremental net benefits at full devetopment are distributed between years in the proportion of investment costs, with a time Lag of one year.



114
INDIA: National Water Management Project (Cr. 1770-IN)
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Table 29. Farm Incomes - Vani Vilas Sagar Scheme
1. Size of Farm Model:    3 ha
2. Cropping Pattern:
Crops                         Without Project              With Project
....... . .  (ha) .
Kharif
- Groundnut                           0.55                       0.40
- Millet                              0.02                       0.02
- Sunflower                           0.03                       0.03
Rabi
- Paddy                               0.10                       0.10
- Groundnut                           0.60                        0.60
- Sunflower                           0.25                       0.25
Coconut                               1.30                       1.45
2.85                       2.85
Cropping intensity (%)                     96%                        96%
3. Farm Incomes:
Without Project              With Project
........        .........
Gross Value of Production                     113,407                    121,665
Production Cost                                14.164                     14,037
Water charges"                                   429                        429
Net Return                                    98,814                     107,199
Incremental:                                               Rs8,385
" Based on the following rates:
- Groundnut, sunflower and coconut:  RsI47/ha
- Paddy                            Rs245/ha
- Millet                           Rs86/ha.



INDIA: National Water Management Project (Cr.1770-IN)
Imptementation CompLetion Report
Appendix 2: Economic and FinanciaL AnaLysis
Table 30. Economic Costs and Benefits - Sathanur Scheme
(Rs miIIion)
FY88         FY89        FY90         FY91         FY92          FY93         FY94           FY95         FY96       FY97-2017
Scheme Costs
- Investment cost                    1.290        3.465        10.711      16.637       15.962        8.813         1.869        14.448        5.914             -
- Incremental 0 & M costs              -             -            -           -          0.357        0.308         0.497         1.231         1.233          1.233
Total Costs                        1.290        3.465        10.711      16.637       16.319        9.121         2.366        15.679         7.147          1.233
Scheme Benefits
- Incremental net benefit              -           0.120        1.470       3.045        4.560        5.392         5.572        6.937         7.500           7.500
Net Benefit                       (1.290)       (3.345)      (9.241)    (13.592)    (11.759)       (3.729)        3.206        (8.742)        0.353          6.267
NPV at 12%                                                    -Rs13.8 million
ERR (25 years)                                                 6%



INDIA:  Nationat Water Management Project (Cr.1770-1U)
Implementation Coaptetion Report
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Table 31.   Crop Yield and Input Requirement (per ha)1' used for Analysis - Sathanur Scheme
Fertilizer
Crop                                         Yield                                               Seed       Pesticides   Miscellaneous        Labour        Bullocks"'
N           P            K
(ton/ha)    . . . . . . .(kg/ha). . . . . . .    (Rs/ha)           (Rs/ha)        (Rs/ha)        (Man-day)       (Pair-day)
Future with and without Project2'
Kharif 
-  Paddy                                     2.75         80.0         34.0         21.0           50          1,035            362             150            20.0
-  Groundnut                                 1.63          22.5        45.0         34.0          220            290            217              65            15.0
-  Millet                                    2.20         38.0         19.0          9.5           50            197            197              60            12.5
Rabi                                         3.00          85.0        37.0         23.0           50          1,087            393             155            20.0
-  Paddy                                     1.75         25.0         50.0         37.0          225            311            228              70            15.0
-  Groundnut                                 2.50         50.0         25.0         12.5           50            259            217             65             12.5
- Millet
Biseasonal
-  Sugarcane                                 80.0         125.0        60.0        30.0          3 ton         1,449            414            275             30.0
Based on SAR, pesticides and miscellaneous costs were updated to FY95 prices.
21 See footnote I of Table 32 of this appendix.



INDIA: National Water Management Project (Cr.1770-IN)
ImpLementation Completion Report
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial AnaLysis
Table 32.   Cropped Area, Yield and Production used for Analysis" (Left Bank Canal Command Area - 9,707 ha) - Sathanur Scheme
Future without Project                                                  Future with Project
Item                       __ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _     _ _ _____F_I__ ___ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ __I_    __ _ _ _ _
Cropped Area               Yield               Production             Cropped Area                Yield                Production
(ha)                 (ton/ha)                (ton)                    (ha)                  (ton/ha)                 (ton)
Kharif
- Paddy                               350                   2.75                    963                     350                    2.75                     963
- Groundnut                           128                   1.63                    209                     128                    1.63                     209
- Millet                              650                   2.20                  1,430                     650                    2.20                   1,430
Sub-total                           1.128                                                                 1,128
Rabi
- Paddy                             2,838                   3.00                  8,514                   1,985                    3.00                   5,955
- Groundnut                         3,437                   1.75                  6,015                   7,295                    1.75                  12,766
- Millet                            1.554                   2.50                  3,885                     395                    2.50                     988
Sub-total                           7,829                                                                 9,675
Biseasonal
- Sugarcane                           629                 80.00                  50,320                     151                  80.00                   12,080
TotaL Cropped Area                  9,586                                                                 10,954
Net Cultivated Area                 9,707                                                                  9,707
Cropping Intensity (%)                 99                                                                   113
Assumed that the project impact would be an increased Rabi-groundnut area (partial shift from Rabi-paddy, Rabi-millet and sugarcane) as explained in para 48
of this appendix.  Kharif cropped area is based on a three-year average (1991/92 to 1993/4) and assumed no change between "with" and "without" project, as
there is no suppty of canal irrigation water during kharif. Rabi cropped area is an average of 1979/80, 1981/82 and 1983/84 for "without" project and an average
of 1991/92 to 1993/94 for "with" project. These years were chosen as they had a more or less simitar leveL of rabi water diversion.
21 Based on SAR with project yield.



INDIA: National Water Management Project (Cr1770-IN)
Implementation Compnetion Report
Appendix 2. Economic and Financial Analysis
Table 33.   Crop Budget (per ha) used for Analysis - Sathanur Scheme
Gross Return                                      Financial Cost of Inputs                                   Net Return
Crop                                                                   Fertilizer
Product   By-product"    Total                                     Other     Labour"      Bullocks     Total    Financial    Economic
N         P         K
.  . ..  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .    (Rs/ha) . . . . . .  .  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  .  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  .  .  .  .  .
Future with and without                                                                                                                                                       -
Project3
Kharif
- Paddy                    11,083       1,053       12,136      602        646      164       1,647      3,675        1,400       8,134       4,002       7 576
- Groundnut                19,234       1,923       21.157      169        855      265       3,367      1,593        1,050       7.299      13,858       7,460
- Millet                    8,800         704        9,504      286        361       74         644      1,470          875       3,710       5,794       4,494
Rabi
- Paddy                    12,090       1,149       13,239      639        703      179       1,730      3,798        1,400       8.449       4,790       8,744
- Groundnut               20,650        2,069       22.715      188        289      289      3,464       1,715        1,050       7.656      15,059       8,166
- MilLet                   10,000         850       10,850      376         98       98         726      1,593          875       4.143       6,707       5,169
Biseasonal
Sugarcane                  48,000         -         48.000      940      1,140      234       3,813      6,738        2,100       14,965      3,035       10,481
Assumed at 9.5% (paddy), 10% (groundwater) and 8.5% (millet) of gross value of respective products as applied to SAR.
2/ Excluding family labour; assumed 70% of total Labour requirements.
3' See footnote 1 of Table 32 of this appendix.



119
INDIA: National Water Management Project (Cr.1770-IN)
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Table 34. Farm Incomes - Sathanur Scheme
1. Size of Farm Model:    1.5 ha
2. Cropping Pattern:
Crops                        Without Project              With Project
....... . .  (ha) .
Kharif
- Paddy                              0.05                      0.05
- Groundnut                          0.02                       0.02
- Millet                             0.10                       0.10
Rabi
- Paddy                              0.45                       0.30
- Groundnut                          0.50                       1.13
- Millet                             0.25                       0.06
Sugarcane                            0.10                       0.02
1.47                      1.68
Cropping intensity (%)                    98%                       112%
3. Farm Incomes:
Without Project             With Project
.. .......(R*s).
Gross Value of Production                    26,808                     33,231
Production Cost                              11.087                     12,658
Water charges"                                  124                       128
Net Return                                   15,597                     20,445
Incremental:                                              Rs4,848
" Based on Rsl25/ha for paddy and Rs63/ha for non-paddy crops.



120
INDIA: National Water Management Project I - ICR
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Thambaraparani Sub-project
Table 35: 1 Hectare Farm Model - Manimuthar Command
CROP                                       1 HECTARE FARM MODEL
WITHOUT PROJECT        WITH PROJECT
AREA
Pishanam paddy
- irrigated                           0.54                       0.63
- rainfed                             0.36                       0.27
Kar paddy (1)
- irrigated                           0.18                       0.20
Banana - irrigated                        0.10                       0.10
GROSS INCOME                          23059.08                   25225.17
COST OF PURCHASED INPUTS              11375.78                   11977.29
NET INCOME (2)                        11683.31                   13247.88
RETURN TO FAMILY LABOUR (Rs/m-d)          328                         361
TOTAL LABOU R INP UT (m -d/ha)             128                        133
NOTES:
(1) Assumes a kar crop of paddy is grown about once every three years.
(2) Excludes cost of family labour
File: THAMBAFA.WK3



121
INDIA: National Water Management Project I - ICR
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Thambaraparani Sub-project
Table 36: 1 Hectare Farm Model - Thambaraparani Command - Drainage Affected Area
CROP                                        1 HECTARE FARM MODEL
WITHOUT PROJECT         WITH PROJECT
AREA
Pishanam paddy
- irrigated/adequate drainage                                     1.00
- irrigated/drainage impediment       1.00
Kar paddy
- irrigated                           0.50                        0.50
Pulses - residual moisture                0.30                        0.30
GROSS INCOME (Rs/ha)                  26532.75                   29161.50
COST OF PURCHASED INPUTS (Rs/ha)    11987.50                      12410.00
NET INCOME (Rs/ha) (1)                14545.25                    16751.50
RETURN TO FAMILY LABOUR (Rs/m-d)           306                        353
TOTAL LABOUR INPUT (m-d/ha)                151                        154
NOTES:
(1) Excludes cost of family labour
File: THAMBAFA.WK3



122
INDIA: National Water Management Project I - ICR
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Thambaraparani Sub-project
Table 37: 1 Hectare Farm Model - Thambaraparani Command
CROP                                       1 HECTARE FARM MODEL
WITHOUT PROJECT         WITH PROJECT
AREA
Pishanam paddy
- irrigated                           1.00                       1.00
Kar paddy
- irrigated                           0.65                       0.65
Pulses - residual moisture                0.30                       0.30
GROSS INCOME (Rs/ha)                  32894.33                   34419.00
COST OF PURCHASED INPUTS (Rs/ha)    16148.50                     16411.50
NET INCOME (Rs/ha) (1)                16745.83                   18007.50
RETURN TO FAMILY LABOUR (Rs/m-d)          294                         316
TOTAL LABOUR INPUT(m-d/ha)                 180                        182
NOTES:
(1) Excludes cost of family labour
File: THAMBAFA.WK3



123
INDIA National Water Management Project I - ICR
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Thambaraparani Sub-project
Table 38: Financial Crop Budget (per hectare) - Kar Paddy - Manimuthar Command
Items                               Unit                 Irrigated
Quantity    Unit Price     Value
(Rs)         (Rs)
A Gross Value of Production
Yield                             kg                 5500          3.75        20625
Byproduct                         kg                 6600          0.38         2508
Gross Retun                       Rs                                           23133
B. Cost of Farm Inputs
Land Preparaton                   ha                    1       1200.00          1200
Nursery                                               0.1       3500.00          350
Seed                              kg                   75          6.00           450
Transplanting                     ha                    1       1150.00          1150
ManLre                            t                     6        120.00           720
Ferilizer - Urea                  kg                  200          3.45           690
- DAP                     kg                   100          7.90          790
- MOP                     kg                    50          3.75          188
- Lime                    kg                     0          1.50            0
Pesticides - Chemicals            ha                    1        300.00          300
- Sprayer               ha                     1         10.00           10
Weeding                          ha                     1        750.00          750
Water Charges                    ha                     1        125.00          125
Malnt field channels             ha                     1          12.5           13
Harvesting/Threshing             ha                     1         3400          3400
Total Drect Costs                                                              10135
C. Net Retun (A-B)                                                                12998
Family LaboLr                     m-d                  30
Retum to Family Labour            RsIm-d                                         433
D. Labour
Hred labour                       m-d                  25
w-d                  90
Total labour (1)                  m-d                 109
(1) Family labourplus hred labour expressed in man-days (m-d) assuming 1 woman day (w-cO is equivalentto 0.6 man-day.
File: THAMBAFA.WK3



INDIA: National Water Management Project I - ICR
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Thambaraparani Sub-project
Table 39: Financial Crop Budget (per hectare) - Pishanam Paddy - Manimulhar Command
Items                             Unit                With Project - Irrigated                Without Project - Irrigated              Rainfed
Quantity    Unit Price    Value        Quantity    Unit Price     Value        Quantity    Unit Price     Value
(Rs)        (Rs)                       (Rs)         (Rs)                       (Rs)         (Fs)
A. Gross Value of Production
Yield                           kg                 5000         3.75        18750         4500          3.75        16875         3500         3.75        13125
Byproduct                       kg                6000          0.38         2280         5400          0.38        2052          4200         0.38         1596
Gross Return                    Rs                                          21030                                   18927                                  14721
B. Cost of Farm Inputs
Land Preparation                ha                    1      1200.00         1200             1      1000.00         1000            1       1000.00        1000
Nursery                                             0.1      3500.00          350           0.1      3900.00          390          0.1       3500.00         350
Seed                            kg                   75         6.00          450           75          6.00          450           75          6.00         450
Transplantng                    ha                    1      1150.00         1150             1      1050.00         1050            1       1150.00        1150
Manure                          t                     6       120.00          720            5        120.00          600            2        120.00         240
Fertilizer - Urea               kg                  200         3.45          690          200          3.45          690          100          3.45         345
- DAP                    kg                  100         7.90          790          100          7.90          790           50          7.90         395
- MOP                    kg                   50         3.75          188           50          3.75          188           25          3.75          94
- Lime                   kg                    0         1.50            0            0          1.50            0            0          1.50           0
Pesticides - Chemicals          ha                    1       300.00          300             1       300.00          300            1        300.00          300
- Sprayer              ha                    I        10.00           10            1         10.00           10            1         10.00           10
Weeding                         ha                   1        750.00         750             1       750.00          750             1       650.00          650
Water Charges                   ha                   1        125.00          125            1        125.00         125             0       125.00            0
Malnt.fieldchannels             ha                   1          12.5          13             1          12.5          13            0          12.5            0
HarvestngflTreshing             ha                   1         3400         3400             1         3400         3400             1         3000         3000
Total Direct Costs                                                          10135                                   9755                                    7984
C. Net Return (A-B)                                                            10895                                   9172                                    6737
Family Labour                   m-d                  30                                     30                                      25
Return to Family Labour         Rs/m-d                                        363                                     306                                    269
D. Labour
Hired labour                    m-d                  25                                     25                                      15
w-d                 90                                      90                                     70
Totallabour(1)                  m-d                 109                                     109                                     82
(1) Family laboLr plus hired labour expressed In man-days (m-d) assuming 1 woman day (w-d) Is equivalent to 0.6 man-day.
File: THAMBAFA.WK3



INDIA: NaUional Water Management Project I - ICR
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Thambaraparanl Sub- project
Table 40: Financial Crop Budget (per hectare) - Kar Paddy - Thambaraparani Command
Items                              Unit                With Project                             Without Project
QLantity    Unit Price     Value        Quantity    Unit Price     Valiue
(Rs)         (Rs)                      (Rs)          (Rs)
A. Gross Value of Production
Yield                            kg                5000          3.75        18750          4750          3.75        17813
Byproduct                       kg                 6000          0.38         2280         5700          0.38         2166
Gross Return                     Rs                                          21030                                   19979
B. Cost of Farm InpLts
Land Preparation                 ha                    1      1200.00         1200             1       1200.00         1200
NuLsery                                              0.1      3500.00          350           0.1      3500.00          350
Seed                            kg                   75          6.00          450            75         6.00          450
Transpiarting                    ha                    1  -  1100.00          1100             1       1100.00         1100
Manure                          t                     6        120.00          720             5        120.00          600
Fertilizer - Urea               kg                  200          3.45          690           200         3.45           690
- DAP                    kg                  100          7.90          790           100         7.90          790
- MOP                    kg                   50          3.75          188           50          3.75          188
- Lime                   kg                    0          1.50            0            0          1.50            0
Pesticides - Chemicals           ha                   1        300.00          300             1       300.00           300
- Sprayer              ha                    1         10.00           10            1         10.00           10
Weeding                         ha                    1        700.00          700            1        600.00          600
Water Charges                   ha                    1        125.00          125            1        125.00          125
Malnt field channels            ha                    1          12.5           13            1          12.5           13
Harvesting/Threshing            ha                    1         3125          3125            1         3125          3125
Total Direct Costs                                                            9760                                    9540
C. Net Return (A-B)                                                             11270                                   10439
Family Laboux                    m-d                 30                                       30
Retuxn to Family Labour          Rs/m-d                                        376                                      348
D. Labout
Hled labour                      m-d                 25                                       25
w-d                 85                                       82
Total abour (1)                  m-d                106                                      104
) Family labour plus hired labour expressed In man- days (m-d) assuming 1 woman day (w-d) Is equlvalert to 0.6 man-day.
File: THAMBAFAWK3



INDIA: National Water Management Project I - ICR
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Thambaraparani Sub- project
Table 41: Financial Crop Budget (per hectare) - Pishanam Paddy - Thambaraparani Command
Items                              Unit                With Project                             Without Project
Quantity    Unit Price     Value        Quantity    Unit Price     Value
(Rs)        (Rs)                       (Rs)          (Rs)
A. Gross Value of Production
Yield                            kg                4500          3.75        16875          4300          3.75        16125
Byproduct                        kg                5400          0.38         2052          5160          0.38         1961
Gross Return                     Rs                                          18927                                    18086
B. Cost of Farm Inputs
Land Preparation                 ha                    1      1200.00         1200             1       1200.00         1200
Nursery                                              0.1      3500.00          350           0.1      3500.00           350
Seed                             kg                  75          6.00          450            75          6.00          450
Transplanting                    ha                    1       1100.00        1100             1       1100.00         1100
Manure                           t                     6        120.00         720             5        120.00          600
FerTiizer - Urea                 kg                  200          3.45         690           200          3.45          690
- DAP                    kg                  100          7.90          790           100         7.90          790
-MOP                     kg                   50          3.75          188           50          3.75          188
- Lime                   kg                    0          1.50            0            0          1.50            0
PesUcides - Chemicals            ha                    1       300.00          300             1        300.00          300
- Sprayer              ha                    1         10.00           10             1        10.00           10
Weeding                         ha                    1        700.00          700             1       700.00          700
Water Charges                   ha                    1        125.00          125             1       125.00          125
Maint. field channels           ha                    1          12.5           13             1         12.5           13
Harvesting[Threshing            ha                    1         3125          3125            1          3125         3125
Total Direct Costs                                                            9760                                    9640
C. Net Return (A-B)                                                              9167                                    8446
Family Labour                    m-d                 30                                       30
Rettin to Family Labour          RsIm-d                                        306                                      282
8
D. Labour
Hired labour                     m-d                 25                                       25
w-d                 85                                       83
Total labour (1)                 m-d                 106                                     105
(1) Family laboL, plus hired labour expressed in man-days (m-d) assuming 1 woman day (w-d) is equivalent to 0.6 man-day.
File: THAMBAFA.WK3



INDIA: National Water Management Project I - ICR
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Thambaraparani Sub- project
Table 42: Financial Crop Budget (per hectare) - Pishanam Paddy - Drainage Affected Area - Thambaraparani Command
Items                              Unit                With Project                             Without Project
Quantity    Unit Price     Value        Quantity    Unit Price     Value
(Rs)         (Rs)                      (Rs)          (Rs)
A. Gross Value of Production
Yield                            kg                 4000         3.75        15000          3500          3.75        13125
Byproduct                        kg                4800          0.38         1824          4200          0.38         1596
Gross Return                     Rs                                          16824                                    14721
B. Cost of Farm Inputs
Land Preparation                 ha                    1       1000.00         1000            1       1000.00         1000
Nursery                                              0.1      3500.00          350           0.1       3500.00          350
Seed                             kg                   75         6.00          450            75          6.00          450
Transplanting                    ha                    1       1050.00         1050            1       1050.00         1050
Manure                           t                     4        120.00         480             3        120.00          360
Fertilizer - Urea                kg                  100          3.45          345          100          3.45          345
- DAP                    kg                   50          7.90          395            50          7.90          395
- MOP                    kg                   50          3.75          188            50          3.75          188
- Lime                   kg                    0          1.50            0             0          1.50            0
Pesticides - Chemicals           ha                    1        250.00         250             1        250.00          250
- Sprayer               ha                    1        10.00           10             1         10.00           10
Weeding                         ha                    1        600.00          600             1        500.00         500
Water Charges                   ha                    1        125.00          125             1        125.00          125
Maint. field channels           ha                    1           105          105             1          12.5          13
Harvesting/rhreshing            ha                    1          1875         1875             1         1875         1875
Total Direct Costs                                                            7223                                    6910
C. Net Return (A- B)                                                             9602                                    7811
Family Labour                    m-d                  25                                      25
Return to Family Labour          Rs/m-d                                        384                                      312
D. Labour
Hired labour                     m-d                  20                                      20
w-d                 80                                       78
Total labour (1)                 m-d                  93                                      92
(1) Family labour plus hired labour expressed In man-days (m-d) assuming 1 woman day (w-d) Is equivalent to 0.6 man-day.
File: THAMBAFA.WK3



INDIA: National Water Management Project I - ICR
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Thambaraparanl Sub- project
Table 43: Financial Crop Budget (per hectare) - Banana - Manimuthar Command
Items                               Unit                Adequate Irrigation
Quantity    Unit Price     Value
(Rs)         (Rs)
A. Gross Value of ProducUon
Yield                            bunches            1500         22.50        33750
Byproduct                        kg
Gross Return                     Rs                                           33750
B. Cost of Farm Inputs
Land Preparation                 m-d                  60         35.00         2100
Nursery
Seed (suckers)                   no.                2500           1.00        2500
Planting                         m-d                  10         35.00          350
Manure (olilcake)                kg                  375          7.15         2681
Fertilizer - Urea                kg                   50           3.45          173
- DAP                     kg                  100          7.90          790
- MOP                     kg                  200          3.75          750
- Lime                    kg                    0          1.50            0
Pesticides - Chemicals           ha                     1       375.00           375
- Sprayer               ha                    4         10.00           40
Weeding                          m-d                  30         35.00         1050
Bunch supports                   no.                 400             6         2400
Water Charges                    ha                    1        125.00          125
Maint. field channels            ha                    1          12.5           13
Harvesting                       bunch              1500           0.5          750
Total Direct Costs                                                            14096
C. Net Retum (A-B)                                                               19654
Family Labour                    m-d                  50
Retuxn to Family Labour          Rs/m-d                                         393
D. Labour
Hired labour                     m-d                 150
w-d                   0
Total labour (1)                 m-d                 200
(1) Family labour plus hired labour expressed in man-days (m-d) assuming 1 woman day (w-d) is equivalent to 0.6 man-day.
File: THAMBAFA.WK3



INDIA: National Water Management Project I - ICR
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Thambaraparani Sub- project
Table 44: FInancial Crop Budget (per hectare) - Summer Pulses (Residual Moisture) - Thambaraparani Command
Items                              Unit                   Before Project                                        After Project
Quantty     Unit Price     Value                     Quantity    Unit Price     Value
(Rs)         (Rs)                                   (Rs)          (Rs)
A. Gross Value of Production
Yield                           kg                  500         12.00         6000                        500         12.00        6000
Byproduct                       kg                  250          0.30           75                        250          0.30          75
Gross Return                    Rs                                            6075                                                 6075
B. Cost of Farm Inputs
Land Preparation                 ha                    1       500.00          500                          1        500.00          500
Nursery
Seed                            kg                   35         15.00          525                         35         15.00         525
Manure                          kg                    0          7.15            0                          0          7.15            0
Fertilizer - Urea               kg                    0          3.45            0                          0          3.45           0
- DAP                    kg                    0          7.90            0                         0          7.90            0
-MOP                     kg                    0          3.75            0                         0          3.75            0
-Lime                    kg                    0          1.50            0                         0          1.50            0
Pestcides - Chemicals            ha                   0        375.00            0                          0        375.00            0
- Sprayer              ha                    0         10.00            0                         0         10.00            0
Weeding                         ha                    0        300.00            0                         0        300.00            0
Water Charges                   ha                    0        125.00            0                         0        125.00            0
Malnt. field channels           ha                    0          12.5            0                         0          12.5            0
Harvesting                      ha                    0           35             0                         0            35            0
Total Direct Costs                                                            1025                                                 1025
C. Net Retum (A-B)                                                               5050                                                 5050
Family Labour                    m-d                 25                                                    25
Retin to Family Labour           Rs/m-d                                        202                                                  202
D. Labour
Hired labour                     m-d                  0                                                     0
w-d                  0                                                     0
Total labour (1)                 m-d                 25                                                    25
(1) Family labou plus hired labour expressed In man-days (m-d) assuming 1 woman day (w-d) Is equivalent to 0.6 man-day.
File: THAMBAFA.WK3



INDIA: National Water Management Project I - ICR
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Thambaraparani Sub-project
Table 45: Economic Crop Budget (per hectare) - Kar Paddy - Manimuthar Command
Items                               Unit                With Project                             Without Project
Quantity    Unit Price     Value        Quantity     Unit Price     Value
(Rs)         (Rs)                        (Rs)         (Rs)
A. Gross Value of Production
Yield                            kg                 5500           5.57        30635         5500           5.57        30635
Byproduct                        kg                 6600          0.34          2257         6600           0.34         2257
Gross Return                     Rs                                            32892                                    32892
B. Cost of Farm Inputs
Land Preparation                 ha                     1      1080.00          1080             1       1080.00         1080
Nursery                                               0.1      3150.00           315           0.1      3150.00           315
Seed                             kg                    75          5.40          405           75           5.40          405
Transplanting                    ha                     1       1035.00         1035             1       1035.00         1035
Manure                           t                      6       108.00           648            6         108.00          648
Fertilizer - Urea                kg                  200           7.16         1432          200           7.16         1432
- DAP                     kg                  100          7.86          786           100          7.86          786
- MOP                     kg                   50          5.82          291            50          5.82          291
- Lim e                   kg                    0          1.35            0             0          1.35            0
Pesticides - Chemicals           ha                     1       270.00           270             1       270.00           270
- Sprayer               ha                    1          9.00            9             1          9.00            9
Weeding                          ha                    1        675.00          675             1        675.00          675
Family labour                    m-d                  30         31.50          945            30         31.50          945
Maint. field channels            ha                    1         11.25           11             1         11.25           11
Harvesting/Threshing             ha                    1         3060          3060             1         3060          3060
Total Direct Costs                                                            10962                                    10962
C. Net Return (A-B)                                                              21930                                    21930
File: THAMBAEA.WK3



INDIA: National Water Management Project I - ICR
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Thambaraparani Sub-project
Table 46: Economic Crop Bfidget (per hectare) - Pishanam Paddy - Manimuthar Command
Items                                Unit                With Project - Irrigated                 Without Project - Irrigated                   Rainted
Quantity     Unit Price     Value         Quantity     Unit Price      Value        Quantity     Unit Price      Value
(Rs)          (Rs)                        (Rs)          (Rs)                        (Rs)          (Rs)
A. Gross Value of Production
Yield                             kg                  5000           5.57        27850           4500          5.57         25065          3500           5.82        20370
Byproduct                         kg                  6000           0.34         2052          5400           0.34          1847          4200          0.34          1436
Gross Return                      Rs                                             29902                                      26912                                     21806
B. Cost ot Farm Inputs
Land Preparation                  ha                     1        1080.00         1080              1       1080.00          1080             1        900.00           900
Nursery                                                 0.1      3150.00           315            0.1       3150.00           315           0.1       3150.00           315
Seed                              kg                    75           5.40          405             75          5.40           405            75          5.40           405
Transplanting                     ha                      1       1035.00          1035             1       1035.00          1035             1        1035.00          1035
Manure                            t                      6         108.00          648              5        108.00           540             2        108.00           216
Fertlizer - Urea                  kg                   200           7.16         1432            200          7.16          1432           100           0.00            0
- DAP                      kg                   100          7.86           786           100          7.86           786            50           0.00             0
- MOP                      kg                    50          5.82           291            50          5.82           291            25           0.00             0
-Lime                      kg                     0          1.35             0             0           1.35            0             0           1.35             0
Pesticides - Chemicals            ha                      1        270.00           270             1        270.00           270             1        270.00           270
- Sprayer               ha                      1          9.00             9             1          9.00             9             1           9.00             9
Weeding                           ha                     1        675.00           675             1         675.00          675              1        585.00           585
Family labour                     m-d                   30         31.50           945            30         31.50           945            25          31.50           788
Maint. field channels             ha                     1         11.25            11             1          11.25           11              0         11.25             0
Harvesting/Th reshing             ha                     1          3060          3060             1          3060          3060              1         2700           2700
Total Direct Costs                                                               10962                                     10854                                       7223
C. Net Returm (A-B)                                                                 18940                                     16058                                      14584
Fle: THAMBAEA.WK3



INDIA: Nabonal Water Management Project I - ICR
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Thambaraparani Sub-project
Table 47: Economic Crop Budget (per hectare) - Kar Paddy - Thambaraparani Command
Items                                Unit                With Project                               Without Project
Quantity     Unit Price     Value         Quantity     Unit Price     Value
(Rs)         (Rs)                        (Rs)          (Rs)
A. Gross Value of Production
Yield                             kg                  5000          5.57         27850          4750           5.57        26458
Byproduct                         kg                  6000          0.34          2052          5700          0.34          1949
Gross Return                      Rs                                             29902                                     28407
B. Cost of Farm Inputs
Land Preparation                  ha                     1       1080.00          1080             1       1080.00          1080
Nursery                                                0.1       3150.00           315           0.1       3150.00           315
Seed                              kg                    75          5.40           405            75           5.40          405    ,
Transplanting                     ha                     1        990.00           990             1         990.00          990
Manure                            t                      6        108.00           648             5        108.00           540
Fertilizer - Urea                 kg                   200          7.16          1432           200           7.16         1432
-DAP                       kg                  100           7.86          786           100           7.86           786
- MOP                      kg                   50           5.82          291            50           5.82           291
-Lime                      kg                    0           1.35            0             0           1.35             0
Pestcides - Chemicals             ha                     1        270.00           270             1        270.00           270
- Sprayer               ha                     1           9.00            9             1           9.00            9
Weeding                           ha                     1        630.00          630              1        630.00           630
Family labour                     m-d                  30          31.50          945            30          31.50           945
Maint. field channels             ha                     1         11.25           11              1         11.25            11
Harvesting/Threshing              ha                     1       2812.50         2813              1       2812.50         2813
Total Direct Costs                                                              10625                                      10517
C. Net Return (A- B)                                                               19277                                      17890
File: THAMBAEA.WK3



INDIA: National Water Management Project I - ICR
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Thambaraparani Sub-project
Table 48: Economic Crop Budget (per hectare) - Pishanam Paddy - Thambaraparani Command
Items                               Unit                 With Project                              Without Project
Quantity    Unit Price     Value         Quantity     Unit Price     Value
(Rs)         (Rs)                        (Rs)          (Rs)
A. Gross Value of Production
Yield                             kg                 4500          5.57         25065          4300          5.57        23951
Byproduct                         kg                 5400          0.34          1847          5160          0.34         1765
Gross Return                      Rs                                            26912                                    25716
B. Cost of Farm Inputs
Land Preparation                  ha                    1       1080.00          1080             1       1080.00         1080
Nursery                                                0.1      3150.00           315           0.1       3150.00          315  L
Seed                              kg                   75          5.40           405            75          5.40          405
Transplanting                     ha                    1        990.00           990             1        990.00           990
Manure                            t                     6        108.00           648             5        108.00          540
Fertilizer - Urea                 kg                  200          7.16          1432           200          7.16         1432
- DAP                     kg                   100          7.86          786           100          7.86           786
- MOP                     kg                    50          5.82          291            50          5.82           291
- Lime                    kg                     0          1.35            0             0           1.35            0
Pesticides - Chemicals            ha                    1        270.00           270             1        270.00          270
- Sprayer               ha                     1          9.00            9             1          9.00             9
Weeding                          ha                     1        630.00          630             1        630.00           630
Family labour                    m-d                  30          31.50          945            30         31.50           945
Maint. field channels            ha                     1         11.25           11             1         11.25            11
Harvesting/Threshing             ha                     1       2812.50         2813             1       2812.50          2813
Total Direct Costs                                                             10625                                     10517
C. Net Return (A-B)                                                               16287                                     15199
File: THAMBAEA.WK3



INDIA: National Water Management Project I - ICR
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Thambaraparani Sub-project
Table 49: Economic Crop Budget (per hectare) - Pishanam Paddy - Drainage Affected Area - Thambaraparani Command
Items                               Unit                 With Project                              Without Project
Quantity    Unit Price     Value         Quantity     Unit Price     Value
(Rs)         (Rs)                        (Rs)          (Rs)
A. Gross Value of Production
Yield                             kg                 4000          5.57         22280         3500           5.57        19495
Byproduct                         kg                 4800          0.34          1642         4200           0.34         1436
Gross Return                      Rs                                            23922                                    20931
B. Cost of Farm Inputs
Land Preparation                  ha                    1        900.00           900             1        900.00          900
Nursery                                                0.1      3150.00           315           0.1       3150.00          315
Seed                              kg                   75          5.40           405            75          5.40          405  4
Transplanting                     ha                    1        945.00           945             1        945.00          945
Manure                           t                      4        108.00           432             3        108.00          324
Fertilizer - Urea                 kg                  100          7.16           716           100          7.16          716
- DAP                     kg                   50           7.86          393            50          7.86           393
- MOP                     kg                   50           5.82          291            50          5.82           291
- Lime                    kg                     0          1.35            0             0          1.35             0
Pesticides - Chemicals            ha                    1        225.00           225             1        225.00          225
- Sprayer               ha                     1          9.00            9             1          9.00             9
Weeding                          ha                     1        540.00          540             1        540.00           540
Family labour                    m-d                  25          31.50          788            25         31.50           788
Maint. field channels            ha                     1          94.5           95             1         11.25            11
Harvesting/Threshing             ha                     1       1687.50         1688             1       1687.50          1688
Total Direct Costs                                                              7741                                      7549
C. Net Return (A-1B)                                                              16181                                     13382
File: THAMBAEA.WK3



INDIA: Natloial Water rVWnagemert Prolect I - ICR
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Thambaraparart Sub-project
Table S0: Economic Crop Budget (per hectare) - Banana - Manimuthar Command
Items                               Unit                Adequate Irrigation
Quantity    Unit Price     Value
(Rs)         (Rs)
A. Gross Value of Production
Yield                            bunches            1500         20.25        30375
Byproduct                        kg
Gross Return                     Rs                                           30375
B. Cost of Farm Inputs
Land Preparation                 m-d                  60         31.50          1890
Nursery
2 no.               2500          0.90         2250
Planting                         m-d                  10         31.50          315                                                       L
Manure (oilcake)                 kg                  375          6.44         2413
Fertilizer - Urea                kg                   50          7.16          358
-DAP                      kg                  100          7.86          786
- MOP                     kg                  200          5.82         1164
- Lime                    kg                    0          1.35            0
Pesticides - Chemicals           ha                    1        337.50          338
- Sprayer               ha                    4          9.00           36
Weeding                          m-d                  30         31.50          945
Bunch supports                   no.                 400           5.4         2160
Family labour                    m-d                  50         31.50         1575
Maint. field channels            ha                    1         11.25           11
Harvesting                       bunch              1500          0.45          675
Total Direct Costs                                                            14916
C. Net Retuin (A-B)                                                              15459
File: THAMBAEAWK3



INDIA: National Water Management Project I - ICR
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Thambaraparani Sub-project
Table 51: Economic Crop Budget (per hectare) - Summer Pulses (Residual Moisture) - Thambaraparani Command
Items                              Unit                   Without Project                                      With Project
Quantity    Unit Price     Value                     Quantity    Unit Price     Value
(Rs)         (Rs)                                   (Rls)         (Rs)
A. Gross Value of Production
Yield                           kg                  500         10.80         5400                       500         10.80         5400
Byproduct                       kg                  250          0.27           68                       250          0.27           68
Gross Retum                     Rs                                            5468                                                 5468
B. Cost of Farm Inputs
Land Preparation                ha                    1        500.00          500                         1        500.00          500
Nursery
Seed                            kg                   35         13.50          473                        35         13.50          473
Manure                          kg                    0          7.16            0                         0          7.16            0 w
Fertilizer - Urea               kg                    0          7.86            0                         0          7.86            0  '
-DAP                     kg                    0         5.82            0                          0          5.82            0
- MOP                    kg                    0         3.75            0                          0          3.75            0
- Lime                   kg                    0          1.50           0                          0          1.50            0
Pesticides - Chemicals          ha                    0        375.00            0                         0        375.00            0
- Sprayer              ha                    0         10.00           0                          0         10.00            0
Weeding                         ha                   0        300.00            0                          0        300.00           0
Family labour                   m-d                 25         31.50          788                         25         31.50         788
Maint. field channels           ha                   0          12.5            0                          0          12.5           0
Harvesting                      ha                   0            35            0                          0           35            0
Total Drect Costs                                                            1760                                                 1760
C. Net Return (A-B)                                                             3707                                                 3707
File: THAMBAEA.WK3



NDLk NolanSWaiMulu0tlgomnngPolet I - ICR
Appuux2: Eto Ic udFkimrcnId myI
Tr,eftma4po1v an-pmgst
Tas 652 tncc k C.o, flbDodu Fi. .Io  1995l eniwopito)
YEAR                                       1            2            3           4             5            5            7            5            9           10        11        12       13        14        16       16        11        it        1S        20        21       22        23        24        25
PROJBCT COSTS
hwoo.CoCm (1)                                         47        7000       $2.0          314707        02177       10773        02200
W"tl-pmjclOUCmM(2)                                 16             4 124      13.92        1o60 01      I4      o    7..00 0        - 1o0                   I00        0                  0000    10s000I.-00s--0               I.0       10        1.-       10-       1S00    1o         120oo    10        10
TOTALCOSTS                                          2000 2. 720              0722    *     1200        0702          4 o 26      02 39           0ow       1-0       low       low       low      low       100        0o00    Is 0      1 0       100        -.0       0ow      low00    low       1-0       1oe0
PRt.T BENEBfS
WtoiU-pjoINtN PmUt  Bmds                                         I2          1000    27       - 04     0oso         1.2         1 1702        2 070       202  72                                202 --0   20007    2020        20 .     22  I0226            2       22670   20267    242670   222070 2202ft7
Wtt-pAojNctNePmdxionB.du                                         7007        1-4.2        02*0         00007       1.76 7 ?     1775         261644       23704   227044 2I7n42..   227044 so               072      2                  201644   227244   2074.24   2        227244   2 44    07  o                      i
ttlemwntlNat Bnds                                                010          I 00         02           0.2         16662        17010        24000        22-0    000 2        0002    22*02    24000    24002    20 00       226       0 204-0    20002    20000    2042    24          223 002    24002    2000
Wtt.A-pjoCtMO&M(SwW) Co.s1(3)                      II 06        Il 0                      1122 .       11022        11202        1124 2       11642        11002      l002    1-7 10 002    11622    11692    11062    1102 1,122    1 1-2    11202    11692    11602    11662    14202    1100*.
TOTALBENEFITS                                      1162        1 720        1200.        10           44*7         27104        2.7.02       06003        220       00   43220         02662        40       0       00622    2-0       0          20020    224       02 2 634   06204   4 3 0223   2462     00222
NETBrENE4 S                            0000       -1247       -4 .20-2220-34240                      -2 727        -7110  -2 I 20 7           17 602       17 740    172       7703     170        74       772 0     7 720    177X6    17 04    17 030    7703         7 12    17200    1760    77636    1700
WPV 1216S 2Y---)
EPIR t25  lyo)                         * 6 6S
NOTES
(1AiktS eqOPdlJe epiwod0 ii 1I95pic.cowold 40 .cu         -nly  Asi%l96uo luoJldoo  by Sflat 0 5
(2(Acu2101A cotlbtloeioKd 1ttU/Wl_193/93, 1903494 and liONlllwoboam amitd Isdnis nod1 aonpro taud 1906tv9-9092 torntnccoalhose born osimatdly 2g4paugt7 SCP dODSS D1 stoeul hnlootioos
(3) OIIBSI stoSCU2 i owlccchyd Dcomc psn byoqo igfl SCP?d 09S
Mli THAb6AEkY*(3



138
INDIA: National Water Management Project I - ICR
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Thambaraparani Sub-project
Table 53: 1 Hectare Farm Model - Manimutar Command
CROP                                       1 HECTARE FARM MODEL
WITHOUT PROJECT           WITH  PROJECT
ARFEA
Pishanam paddy
- irrigated                           0.54                       0.63
- rainfed                             0.36                       0.27
Kar paddy
- irrigated                          0.18                        0.20
Banana - irrigated                        0.10                       0.10
GROSS INCOME (Rs/ha)                  31340.77                   34341.93
COST OF FARM INPUTS (As/ha) (1)       11926.19                   12540.33
NET INCOME (Rs/ha)                    19414.58                   21801.60
NOTES:
(1) Includes cost of family labour
File: THAMBAEA.WK3



139
INDIA: National Water Management Project - ICR
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Thambaraparani Sub-project
Table 54: 1 Hectare Farm Model - Thambaraparani Command - Drainage Affected Area
CROP                                       1 HECTARE FARM MODEL
WITHOUT PROJECT           WITH  PROJECT
AREA
Pishanam paddy
- irrigated/adequate drainage                                    1.00
- irrigated/drainage impediment       1.00
Kar paddy
- irrigated                           0.50                       0.50
Pulses - residual moisture               0.30                       0.30
GROSS INCOME (Rs/ha)                 36775.10                   40512.85
COST OF FARM INPUTS (Rs/ha) (1)      13335.63                   13580.88
NET INCOME (Rs/ha)                   23439.48                   26931.98
NOTES:
(1) Includes cost of family labour
File: THAMBAEA.WK3



140
INDIA: National Water Management Project I - ICR
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Thambaraparani Sub-project
Table 55: 1 Hectare Farm Model - Thambaraparani Command
CROP                                       1 HECTARE FARM MODEL
WITHOUT PROJECT           WITH  PROJECT
AREA
Pishanam paddy
- irrigated                          1.00                       1.00
Kar paddy
- irrigated                          0.65                       0.65
Pulses - residual moisture               0.30                       0.30
GROSS INCOME (Rs/ha)                 45934.08                   47988.35
COST OF FARM INPUTS (Rs/ha) (1)      17922.70                   18058.84
NET INCOME (Rs/ha)                   28011.38                   29929.51
NOTES:
(1) Includes cost of family labour
File: THAMBAEA.WK3



N    INISSalWSllurnoPi cz I -CR
I 2: Emvivienrc       ilAm"i
MelanVia &lbh-pvnt
T*le 66. ccommc COS  d Beld  pf olI  1996 cofltpico)
Y61R                                       1            2            3            4            6            6            1            a            9           10        11        12       13        14        1S       16        17        16        19        20        21       22        23        24        25
PAOE,W OOSTS
hbMIMOoCoCl (1)                                                               a..          6.46        23.097       00-40        20660
W6-pjcJtoLMCWS (2)                                                            000          3 3.         4102         a160         6201         6201         60        63        *701  6   $201      201      .01       6200     621       620       01        6201      6.    601 0s.20 6I             0       620
TOTAL COSTS                            0.000        0.000        0 000        6             .          27000        000          06.700        6200         6 01      6 201     6.201     6.20     6000      6 201     *.00     *      201          6 001     6 201                        on20,  201  6"20  6.20 * 600
PROJECTBBIEFIS
Wtoxx-pojctNerPdxlac  Bndus                                                                I.1.        12 7-        266. -         0.027   0600            61 010     -.41    6064       6 601    64 61    60641    641    601    60 61              460144641  6041 636-1    60601    60641    6641
AlpmjtNoo Pc*dtni.dw                                                                        as6        16623        01 647       0446  41       770        60        79617    1667    76601        -1617    761.7    76.417    76.617    76-67    1611    71667    70601    7167    79617    1007              67Im?
WclelOfnelNSBOkdf                      o0.0         0.00         2000         0.000        I041         310          610          60           606         1221    16776    16776    0s61         1I7."     16770    16s716    16.776    61.76.   16          6716    1I6776    1677$    10176    16716    01.76
AtOoI-P.91c0 O&M  (Sr ad) Co  (2)                                             2.003        2000         20 00        2200         200          2 00         2 003     2 00      2 002        3     2 00      2 00      2002      2204     2 00      2004      23        0004 2    200       2        20        20 0 3
TOTALBEINIETS                          oooo         0000         0000         2.00         300          016          6                        11466 .,     17                     7 10620    17176    11177  117  17776    17776    17776    1177  116    1176    17 776  1 777 6    1777776    117  17 7716    17176
NErBB      S0EF.S00                                 0000         0 00        -4.60        -6060       -22.041      -.7.       -16    0         6246         6024 2   1161 6 116 76       1 1676    11 67    11 616    1116    1161611676           11676    110    11  67 11616    11 676    1161             11 676
NPV (12%,26yeu)                       -6776
52 (2lye)                               -42 X
(1)E6p6fdu6zo besadonleb 6, KdsICR. 1H94tISowoub   d 9awd0e0,l0tc0 rtef 1994pka  sldIanSlFbSl116ostill
(2)BmId  GO, ,caa. Fcnltcoaho.oboefcno.dm  eo os 0o                  0 mAp yUby tie WFot 0S
Fik. MALAMEAfl3



INDIA: Nabonal Water Managemert Project I - ICR
Apperndix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Maiampuzha Sub-project
Table 57: Malampuzha Sub-project Benefiting Areas (Hectares)
YEAR                                           1             2              3             4             5              6             7             8              9            10         11.          25
Tailend                                                                                                73           222            443           591           665            886       1108       1108
Middle Reaches                                                                                        125           378            756          1007           1134          1512       1890       1890
NOTES:
1. It assimed that the areas that benefit are realized over a 5 year period (years 5 to 9), following a linear trernd.
2. It is assumed that tailend farmers will change from rainfed to adeqately irigated paddy over a three year period, so that full benefits are not reached until the third year after the delivery of water.
3. It is assumned that middle reach farmers will respond immediately to extra water sipply. Therefore benefits are based on these areas moving from inadequate to adequate irrigation as soon as addidonal water is delivered to them.
File: MALAMEA.WK3



143
INDIA: National Water Management Project I - ICR
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Malampuzha Sub-project
Table 58: 1 Hectare Farm Model - Tailend
CROP                                      1 HECTARE FARM MODEL (1)
WITHOUT PROJECT        WITH PROJECT
AREA
First Paddy Crop
- rainfed                            1.00                       1.00
Second Paddy Crop
- adequate irrigation
- inadequate irrigation                                         1.00
- rainfed                            1.00
GROSS INCOME                         30640.00                   40520.00
COST OF PURCHASED INPUTS             16460.60                   19279.40
NET INCOME (2)                       14179.40                   21240.60
RETURN TO FAMILY LABOUR (Rs/m-d)          284                       386
TOTAL LABOUR INPUT (m-d/ha)               171                       196
NOTES:
(1) Farm model includes only irrigated areas. Farmers typically also have upland
rainfed areas which have been excluded from the farm model
(2) Excludes cost of family labour
File: MALAMFA.WK3



144
INDIA: National Water Management Project - ICR
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Malampuzha Sub-project
Table 59: 1 Hectare Farm Model - Middle Reach
CROP                                       1 HECTARE FARM MODEL (1)
WITHOUT PROJECT        WITH PROJECT
AREA
First Paddy Crop
- rainfed                             1.00                       1.00
Second Paddy Crop
- adequate irrigation
- inadequate irrigation                                          1.00
- rainfed                             1.00
GROSS INCOME                          41040.00                   44680.00
COST OF PURCHASED INPUTS              19357.60                   21175.00
NET INCOME (2)                        21682.40                   23505.00
RETURN TO FAMILY LABOUR (Rs/m-d)          394                         427
TOTAL LABOUR INPUT (m-d/ha)                196                        207
NOTES:
(1) Farm model includes only irrigated areas. Farmers typically also have upland
rainfed areas which have been excluded from the farm model
(2) Excludes cost of family labour
File: MALAMFA.WK3



Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
145       kf&Iampuzha Sub-project
Table 60: Financial Crop Budget (oar hectare) - First Crop Paddy
Items                              Unit                   Rainfed
Quantity    Unit Price     Value
(Rs)         (Rs)
A. Gross Value of Production
Yield                            kg                 3800          5.00        19000
Byproduct                        kg                 4560          0.50         2280
Gross Retun                      Rs                                          21280
B. Cost of Farm Inputs
Land Preparation                 ha                    1       1100.00         1100
Nursery                                              0.1       4000.00          400
Seed                             kg                   75          6.00          450
Transplanting                    ha                    1       1400.00         1400
Manue                            t                     5        250.00         1250
Fertilizer - Urea                kg                  150          3.40          510
- DAP                    kg                   100         6.20          620
- MOP                     kg                  50          3.80          190
- Lime                    kg                    0         1.50            0
Pesticides - Chemicals           ha                    1       350.00          350
- Sprayer               ha                    1        10.00           10
Weeding                          ha                    1        900.00          900
Water Charges                    ha                    1         33.00           33
HarvestingfThreshing             ha                    1  .1 7 of paddy        3230
Total Drect Costs                                                            10443
C. Net Retum (A-B)                                                              10837
Family Labour                    m-d                  25
Retum lo Family Labour           Rs/m-d                                        433
D. Labour
Hired labour                     m-d                  25
w-d                 85
Total labour (1)                 m-d                 101
(1) Family labourplus hired labour expressed in man-days (m-d) assuming  woman day (w-d) is equivalenttoO.6 man-day.
File: MALAMFA.WK3



INDIA: National Water Management Project I - ICR
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Malampuzha Sub-project
Table 61: Financial Crop Budget (per hectare) - Second Crop Paddy - Tailend
Items                             Unit                 Adequate Irrigation                    Inadequate Irrigation                  Rainfed
Quantity    Unit Pfice    Value        Quantity    Unit Price     Value        Quantity    Unit Price    Value
(Rs)        (Rs)                       (Rs)         (Rs)                      (Rs)         (Rs)
A. Giross Value of Production
Yield                           kg                 4300         4.60        19780         3700          4.60        17020         1800         4.60         8280
Byproduct                       kg                5160          0.50         2580         4440          0.50        2220          2160         0.50         1080
Gross Return                    Rs                                          22360                                   19240                                   9360
B. Cost of Farm Inputs
LandPreparation                 ha                    1      1100.00         1100            1       1100.00         1100            1       1100.00        1100
Nursery                                             0.1      4000.00          400           0.1      4000.00         400           0.1      4000.00          400
Seed                            kg                   75         6.00          450           75          6.00          450           75         6.00          450
Transplantng                    ha                    1      140000          1400            1       1200.00         1200            1       1100.00        1100
Manure                          t                     5       250.00         1250            3        250.00          750            0       250.00            0
Fertlizer - Urea                kg                  150         3.40          510          100          3.40          340          100         3.40          340
- DAP                    kg                  100         6.20          620           75          6.20         465            50         6.20          310
- MOP                    kg                  50          3.80          190           25          3.80           95            0         3.80            0
- Lime                   kg                   0          1.50            0            0          1.50           0             0         1.50            0 ON
Pestcides - Chemicals           ha                    1       350.00          350            1        300.00          300            1       200.00          200
- Sprayer              ha                    1        10.00           10            1         10.00           10            1         10.00          10
Weeding                         ha                    1       900.00          900            1        800.00          800            1        700.00         700
Water Charges                   ha                    1        33.00           33            1         33.00           33            1          0.00           0
Harvestng/Threshing             ha                    1  .17of paddy       3362.6            1   .17Of paddy       2893.4            1   .17of paddy       1407.6
Total Direct Costs                                                         10576                                    8836                                    6018
C. Net Return (A-B)                                                           11784                                   10404                                    3342
Family Labour                   m-d                  30                                     30                                      25
Return to Family Labour         Rs/m-d                                        393                                     347                                    134
D. Labour
Hired labour                    m-d                 25                                      20                                      15
w-d                 85                                      75                                     50
Total labour (1)                m-d                 106                                     95                                      70
(1) Family labour plus hired labour expressed in man-days (m-d) assuming 1 woman day (w-d) is equivalent to 0.6 man-day.
File: MALAMFA.WK3



INDIA: National Water Management Project I - ICR
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Malampuzha Sub-project
Table 62: Financial Crop Budget (per hectare) - Second Crop Paddy - Middle Reach
Items                                Unit                 Adequate Irrgation                        Inadequate Irrigation
Quantity     Unit Price     Value         Quantity     Unit Price     Value
(Rs)         (Rs)                        (Rs)          (Rs)
A. Gross Value of Production
Yield                             kg                  4500           4.60        20700          3800           4.60        17480
Byproduct                         kg                  5400           0.50         2700          4560           0.50         2280
Gross Return                      Rs                                             23400                                     19760
B. Cost of Farm Inputs
Land Preparation                  ha                     1        1100.00         1100              1       1100.00          1100
Nursery                                                 0.1      4000.00           400            0.1       4000.00           400
Seed                              kg                    75           6.00          450            75           6.00           450
Transplanting                     ha                      1       1400.00         1400              1       1200.00          1200
Manure                            t                      5         250.00         1250              3        250.00           750
Fertilizer - Urea                  kg                  150           3.40          510            100          3.40           340
- DAP                      kg                   100          6.20           620            75          6.20           465
- MOP                      kg                    50          3.80           190            25          3.80            95
- Lime                     kg                     0          1.50             0             0           1.50            0
Pesticides - Chemicals            ha                      1        350.00          350              1        300.00           300
- Sprayer                ha                     1         10.00            10             1         10.00            10
Weeding                           ha                      1        900.00          900              1        800.00           800
Water Charges                     ha                      1         33.00           33              1         33.00            33
Harvesting/Threshing              ha                     1   .17 of paddy         3519              1   .17 of paddy       2971.6
Total Direct Costs                                                               10732                                      8915
C. Net Return (A-B)                                                                 12668                                     10845
Family Labour                     m-d                   30                                        30
Return to Family Labour           Rs/m-d                                           422                                       362
D. Labour
Hired labour                      m-d                   25                                        20
w-d                  85                                         75
Total labour (1)                  m-d                  106                                        95
(1) Family labour plus hired labour expressed in man-days (m-d) assuming 1 woman day (w-d) is equivalent to 0.6 man-day.
File: MALAMFA.WK3



INDIA: National Water Management Project I - ICR
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
M alampuzha Sub- project
Table 63: Economic Crop Budget (per hectare) - First Crop Paddy
Items                               Unit                   Rainfed
Quantity    Unit Price     Value
(Rs)         (Rs)
A. Gross Value of Production
Yield                            kg                 3800          5.57        21166
Byproduct                        kg                 4560          0.45         2052
Gross Return                     Rs                                           23218
B. Cost of Farm Inputs
Land Preparation                 ha                    1        990.00          990
Nursery                                               0.1      3600.00          360
Seed                             kg                   75          5.40          405                         X
Transplanting                    ha                    1       1260.00         1260
Manure                           t                     5        225.00         1125
Fertilizer - Urea                kg                  150          3.60          540
- DAP                     kg                  100          8.40          840
- MOP                     kg                   50          3.80          190
- Lime                    kg                    0          1.35            0
Pesticides - Chemicals           ha                    1        315.00          315
- Sprayer               ha                    1          9.00            9
Weeding                          ha                    1        810.00          810
Family labour                    m-d                  25         40.50         1013
Harvesting/Threshing             ha                    1   .17 of paddy      3598.22
Total Direct Costs                                                            11455
C. Net Return (A-B)                                                              11763
File: MALAMEA.WK3



INDIA: National Water Management Project I - ICR
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Malampuzha Sub-project
Table 64: Economic Crop Bu dget (per hectare) - Second Crop Paddy - Talend
Items                               Unit                 Adequate Irrigation                       Inadequate Irrigation                     Rainfed
Quantity     Unit Price     Value        Quantity     Unit Price      Value        Quantity     Unit Price     Value
(Rs)         (Rs)                        (Rs)          (Rs)                       (Rs)          (Rs)
A. Gross Value of Production
Yield                             kg                 4300           5.57        23951          3700          5.57         20609          1800          5.57        10026
Byproduct                         kg                 5160          0.45          2322          4440          0.45          1998         2160           0.45          972
Gross Return                      Rs                                            26273                                    22607                                     10998
B. Cost of Farm Inputs
Land Preparation                  ha                    1        990.00           990             1        990.00           990             1        990.00          990
Nursery                                                0.1      3600.00           360           0.1       3600.00           360           0.1       3600.00          360
Seed                              kg                   75           5.40          405            75          5.40           405            75          5.40           405
Transplanting                     ha                     1       1260.00         1260             1        1080.00         1080             1        990.00           990
Manure                            t                     5        225.00          1125             3        225.00           675             0        225.00             0
Fertlizer - Urea                  kg                  150           3.60          540           100          3.60           360           100          3.60           360
- DAP                     kg                   100          8.40           840           75           8.40          630            50          8.40           420
-MOP                      kg                    50          3.80           190           25           3.80           95             0          3.80             0
- Lime                    kg                     0          1.35             0            0           1.35            0             0           1.35            0   o
Pesticides - Chemicals            ha                     1        315.00          315             1        270.00           270             1        180.00           180
- Sprayer               ha                     1          9.00             9            1           9.00            9             1          9.00             9
Weeding                           ha                     1        810.00          810             1        720.00           720             1        630.00           630
Familylabour                      ha                   30          40.50         1215            30         40.50          1215            25         40.50          1013
Harvesting/rhreshing              ha                    1   .17 of paddy      4071.67             1   .17of paddy       3503.53             1   .17 of paddy      1704.42
Total Direct Costs                                                              12131                                    10313                                      7061
C. Net Returm (A-B)                                                                14142                                    12294                                      3937
Fie: MALAMEA.WK3



INDIA: National Water Management Project I - ICR
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Malampuzha Sub-project
Table 65: Economic Crop Budget (per hectare) - Second Crop Paddy - Middle Reach
Items                               Unit                 Adequate Irrigation                       Inadequate Irrigation
Quantity    Unit Price      Value        Quantity     Unit Price     Value
(Rs)         (Rs)                        (Rs)          (Rs)
A. Gross Value of Production
Yield                             kg                 4500          5.57         25065          3800          5.57        21166
Byproduct                         kg                 5400          0.45          2430          4560          0.45         2052
Gross Return                      Rs                                            27495                                    23218
B. Cost of Farm Inputs
Land Preparation                  ha                    1        990.00           990             1        990.00          990
Nursery                                                0.1      3600.00           360           0.1       3600.00          360
Seed                              kg                   75          5.40           405            75          5.40          405 C
Transplanting                     ha                     1      1260.00          1260             1       1080.00          1080
Manure                            t                     5        225.00          1125             3        225.00          675
Fertilizer - Urea                 kg                  150          3.60           540           100          3.60          360
- DAP                     kg                   100          8.40          840            75          8.40           630
- MOP                     kg                    50          3.80          190            25          3.80            95
- Lime                    kg                     0          1.35            0             0           1.35            0
Pesticides - Chemicals            ha                    1        315.00           315             1        270.00          270
- Sprayer               ha                     1          9.00            9             1          9.00             9
Weeding                           ha                    1        810.00           810             1        720.00          720
Family labour                     m-d                  30         40.50          1215            30         40.50         1215
Harvesting/Threshing              ha                    1  .17 of paddy       4261.05             1   .17 of paddy      3598.22
Total Direct Costs                                                             12320                                     10407
C. Net Return (A-B)                                                               15175                                     12811
File: MALAMEA.WK3



WNDLA         w g       np ~ tI - ISR
Thendno &h-pgqot
TWOs 66 onocO,t woS  Bondo fo aikn, 1395,oo.t4p.)s)
YP9R                                        1            2             3            4             6            6             7            8            9           1B         11        12        13        14        1S        16        17        18        19        20        21        22        23        24        25
PFR.ECT COSTS
hm"mCoa(1)                                          004           .702          -o         4 142716      4730         2003          74494        44704
Wti-pptOLMCo.s%(2)                                    400           .           I...          2.027        240          2044          0433         0002          0424      t43004044              02     404       4442 2442 040 .40 0                   2 3032      3442       30       2403      0042      0002      34
TOTALCOSTS                                            4 0          37           7.00         "00          30* 400      0 233         1703          6003         0-32       3402      3442      0402      0402      3432      3442      3442      4342      4-3 33 44 2         2042      3.033     4412      3442      A432
PFlOECTBENBFITS
W9tn-pojt Ng Pdxtn B,d                                            o0002         0o4           0.200        0.70,         1 21         1 914        3462           4 74     2 04- 2.47          2           71      27        2471    2371        2-7       2414      2 474     2471       2I4I  2371         2474       247
W".p otNdP"dxlnBr.ds                                               0.000s        040          0.70         2.04          0794         0932          7.00         7346      7409      7.339     7449      7030      742       7.330     701       79        730       7330       7.339    7I..       7490      7000      74349
t64c400ll4MNSBatIs                                                 .0043        3420          0404         4.420         2404         4740         0014          0000i    4000       4909429900004060                        000       4949      0090^    0000          460    4000      4090      00003e  040          4990
W mtU-p      tcOaM(Sodi)C.1(3)                       1460          44669       I4.9          14100         459           44           4.000       I400         I4000      4609      40        I100      40        4040      404                                     400       40        4010       1000     4566.
TOTALBE4EflTS                                         4009         4.96         4072          2049         29      403   0            0027         0200          0029      0320      4020 0 21 0          20-      042       6 420     9422        20 -    0420      6020      0423404 004                   906       64 20
NETSBENFIfS                                         -0000          1.07        -027        -14 204       -47.327      -10 002       -42207        -0604          2004      2 93      203       2200      20 04     2 904     2         20 0     20 0       20 0       2 093    2994      2 004     40        2940       2 93
NPv (12%, 26 yews)                    -2 434
56 (2S yeui)                            -442 %
NOTES:
(1)F.n COAP 40:oJsof eued t.1dul41cto4d (epqasndn 1935 pots by v qpp             re hd.24P1pka atmnrd.phaoo opandoutm% 1S39/S6 E -             .l$cdaedoweroeby%fpqlnghe 3CFol C0
521FDmGOAP smimrt dOf      M   1sqoo ,mov3 (to          edd  1199p9e1 n b  (We4tit196  1  oa  S doI eO 0 0O                               U pe      Econ3mic tomu d  ved by eppWgC Sf f9  9
F    mIo 1 OAPIn lCaf.UdOUM pnAEAW.3unodh 1 3YS1(e7p(.rdinl   p.cabyqepWVt,*   .Wl}Ec     wcosdt.,,dby"rSCFd0O9S
hi,l THANDAEA.WK3



INDIA: Nadonal Water Management Project - ICR
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Thandava Sub-project
Table 67: Thandava Sub-project Benefiting Areas (Hectares)
YEAR                                         1             2            3             4             5             6             7            8             9            10.         25
Tailend
- incremental area benefitdng                           1           25            79           190           236          275           189            46
- accumulated total area benefitdng                     1           26           105           295           530          805           994          1040      1040
NOTES:
1. This sub- project has not been effectively monitored. The areas that will benefit from 1 995/96 were assessed by the mission together with the field staff. The areas benefitting in any particular year
during the project implementation period have been calculated reladve to the investment costs in the preceding year.
2. It is assumed that farmers wif benefit from the additional water supply immediately.
File: THANDAEA.WK3



153
INDIA: National Water Management Project I - ICR
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Thandava Sub- project
Table 68: 1 Hectare Farm Model - Middle Reach
CROP                                       1 HECTARE FARM MODEL
WITHOUT PROJECT        WITH PROJECT
AREA
Paddy                                    0.65                       0.65
Groundnut                                0.20                       0.20
Sugar Cane                               0.15                       0.15
GROSS INCOME                            22003                      22003
COST OF PURCHASED INPUTS (1)            11102                      11102
NET INCOME (1)                          10900                      10900
NOTES:
(1) Includes cost offamily labour
File: THANDAEA.WK3



154
INDIA: National Water Management Project I - ICR
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Thandava Sub-project
Table 69: 1 Hectare Farm Model - Tailend
CROP                                       1 HECTARE FARM MODEL
WITHOUT PROJECT        WITH PROJECT
AREA
Paddy                                    0.40                       0.40
Groundnut                                0.40                       0.50
Sesame                                   0.10
Sugar Cane                               0.10                       0.10
GROSS INCOME                             9316                      16906
COST OF PURCHASED INPUTS (1)             6940                       9849
NET INCOME                               2376                       7057
NOTES:
(1) Includes cost of family labour
File: THAN DAEA.WK3



INDIA: National Water Management Project I - ICR
Appendix 2: Economic and Fuiancial Analysis
Thandava Sub-project
Table 70: Economic Crop Budget (per hectare) - Paddy - Kharif
Items                                Uni                    Adequate Irrigation                       Inadequate Irrigation                        Rainfed
Quantity     Unit Price     Value         Quantity     Unit Price      Value        Quantity     Unit Price      Value
(Rs)         (Rs)                         (Rs)          (Rs)                        (Rs)          (Rs)
A. Gross Vdu e of Production
Yield                             kg                  4500           5.57        25065           3500          5.57         19495          1875           5.57        10444
Byproduct                         kg                  5400           0.27         1458          4200           0.27          1134          2250          0.27           608
Gross Return                      Rs                                             26523                                     20629                                      11051
B. Cost of Farm Inputs
Land Preparation                  ha                     1        1125.00         1125              1       1125.00          1125             1        900.00           900
Nursery                           ha                    0.1       3150.00          315            0.1       3150.00           315           0.1       2700.00           270
Seed                              kg                    75           5.40           405            75          5.40           405            75           5.40          405
Sowing/Transplanting              ha                     1         765.00          765              1        765.00           765             1        765.00           765
Manure                            t                     10         144.00         1440              5        144.00           720             2        144.00           288
Fertlizer- Urea                   kg                   150           7.16         1074            100          7.16           716            75           7.16          537
- DAP                      kg                  100           7.86           786            75          7.86           590            50           7.86           393
- MOP                      kg                     0          5.82             0             0          5.82             0             0           5.82             0
- Lime                     kg                     0          1.35             0             0           1.35            0             0           1.35             0
Pesticides - Chemicals            ha                     3         810.00         2430              2        540.00          1080             1        270.00           270
- Sprayer               day                    3           9.00            27             2          9.00            18             1           9.00             9
Weeding                            ha                     1        810.00           810             1        675.00           675             1         540.00           540
Family Labour                     m-d                   30          27.00          810             25         27.00           675            20         27.00           540
Harvesting/Threshing              ha                     1           765            765             1           675           675             1           585           585
Total Direct Costs                                                               10752                                      7759                                       5502
C. Net Retum (A-B)                                                                  15771                                     12871                                       5549
Fie: THANDAEA.WK3



INDIA: National Water Management Project I - ICR
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Thandava Sub-project
Table 71: Economic Crop Budget (per hectare) - Groundnut - Kharif
Items                              Unit                  Adequate Irrigation                      Inadequate Irrigation
Quantity    Unit Price     Value        Quantity     Unit Price     Value
(Rs)         (Rs)                       (Rs)         (Rs)
A. Gross Value of Production
Yield                            kg                  850          8.11         6894          600           8.11        4866
Byproduct                        ha                    1       1620.00         1620             1      1260.00          1260
Gross Return                     Rs                                            8514                                    6126
B. Cost of Farm Inputs
Land Preparation                 ha                    1        315.00          315             1        315.00          315
Nursery                          ha
Seed                             kg                  150         16.20         2430           125         16.20         2025 0
Sowing                           Bullock/day         2.5         76.50          191           2.5         76.50          191
Manure                           t                     5        144.00          720            3         144.00          432
Fertilizer - Urea                kg                   50          7.16          358           100          7.16          716
- DAP                     kg                  100          7.86          786           75          7.86          590
- MOP                     kg                    0          5.82            0            0          5.82            0
- Lime                    kg                  50           1.80           90           50          1.80           90
Pesticides - Chemicals          litre                2.5        270.00          675             2       270.00           540
- Sprayer              day                    1         9.00             9            1          9.00            9
Weeding                          ha                    1        720.00          720             1        675.00          675
Family Labour                    m-d                  22         27.00          594            18        27.00          486
Harvesting/Threshing             ha                    1          765           765             1          675          675
Total Direct Costs                                                            7653                                     6744
C. Net Return (A-B)                                                               860                                     - 618
File: THANDAEA.WK3



INDIA: National Water Management Project I - ICR
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Thandava Sub- project
Table 72: Economic Crop Budget (per hectare) - Sesame - Kharif
Items                                Unit                   Rainfed
Quanlty     Unit Price      Value
(Rs)         (Rs)
A. Gross Value of Production
Yield                             kg                   450           9.00         4050
Byproduct                         ha
Gross Return                      Rs                                              4050
B. Cost of Farm Inputs                                                                                                             u
Land Preparation                  ha                      1        225.00          225
Nursery                           ha
Seed                              kg                     6          10.80           65
Sowing                            ha                     1         180.00          180
Manure                            t                      2         144.00          288
Fertilizer - Urea                 kg                    25           7.16          179
- DAP                      kg                    50          7.86           393
-MOP                       kg                    25          5.82           146
- Lime                     kg                     0          1.80             0
Peslcides - Chemicals             litre                  1         135.00          135
- Sprayer                day                    I          9.00             9
Weeding                           ha                     1         162.00          162
Family Labour                     m-d                   24          27.00          648
HarvesUng/Threshing               ha                     1           765           765
Total Direct Costs                                                                3194
C. Net Return (A-B)                                                                   856
File: THANDAEA.WK3



INDIA: National Water Management Project I - ICR
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Thandava Sub- project
Table 73: Economic Crop Budget (per hectare) - Sugar Cane - Perennial
Items                                Unit                  Adequate Irrigaton
Quantty     Unit Price      Value
(Rs)         (Rs)
A. Gross Value of Production
Yield                             kg                 60000          0.34         20400
Byproduct                         ha
Gross Return                      Rs                                            20400
B. Cost of Farm Inputs
Land Preparation                  ha                     1       1350.00          1350                                 0
Nursery                           ha
Seed                              kg                     1       2700.00          2700
Sowing                            ha                     1       1080.00          1080
Manure                            t                     10        144.00          1440
Fertilizer - Urea                 kg                   400          7.16         2864
- DAP                      kg                  200          7.86          1572
- MOP                      kg                  200           5.82         1164
- Lime                     kg                    0           1.80            0
Pestcides - Chemicals             ha                     1        450.00           450
- Sprayer               day                    1          9.00             9
Weeding                           m-d                   60         27.00          1620
Family Labour                     m-d                   60         27.00          1620
Harvestng/Threshing               m-d                   50         27.00          1350
Total DirectCosts                                                               17219
C. Net Return (A-B)                                                                 3181
File: THANDAEA.WK3



159
INDIA: National Water Management Project - ICR
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Thandava Sub-project
Table 74 :1 Hectare Farm Model - Midde Reach
CROP                                        1 HECTARE FARM MODEL
WITHOUT PROJECT         WITH PROJECT
AREA
Paddy                                      0.65                       0.65
Groundnut                                  0.20                       0.20
SugarCane                                  0.15                       0.15
GROSS INCOME                             19933                       19933
COST OF PURCHASED INPUTS (1)             10573                       10573
NET INCOME                                9360                        9360
RETURN TO FAMILY LABOUR (Rs/m-d)           284                         284
TOTAL LABOUR INPUT (m-d/ha)                104                         104
NOTES:
(1) Excludes cost of famiy labour
File: THANDAFA.WK3



160
INDIA: National Water Management Project I - ICR
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Thandava Sub-project
Table 75: 1 Hectare Farm Model - Tailend
CROP                                       1 HECTARE FARM MODEL
WITHOUT PROJECT        WITH PROJECT
AREA
Paddy                                     0.40                       0.40
Groundnut                                 0.40                       0.50
Sesame                                    0.10
SugarCane                                 0.10                       0.10
GROSS INCOME                            10220                       16723
COST OF PURCHASED INPUTS (1)             6398                        9489
NET INCOME                               3822                        7234
RETURN TO FAMILY LABOUR (Rs/m-d)          233                         249
TOTAL LABOUR INPUT (m -c/ha)                66                         84
NOTES:
(1) Exdudes cost of family labour
File: THAN DAFA.WK3



INDiA: National Water Management Project I - ICR
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Thandava Su b-project
Table 76: Financial Crop Budget (per hectare) - Paddy - Kharif
Items                               Unit                  Adequate Irrigation                     Inadequate Irrigation                       Rainfed
Quantity    Unit Price     Value         Quantity    Unit Price     Value         Quantity    Unit Price     Value
(Rs)         (Rs)                       (Rs)          (Rs)                       (Rs)          (Rs)
A. Gross Valu e of Production
Yield                            kg                 4500           4.00        18000         3500           4.00        14000         1875          4.00          7500
Byproduct                        kg                 5400          0.30          1620         4200          0.30         1260          2250          0.30          675
Gross Retum                      Rs                                            19620                                   15260                                     8175
B. Cost of Farm Inputs
Land Preparation                 ha                    1        1250.00         1250             1       1250.00         1250             1      1000.00          1000
Nursery                          ha                   0.1      3500.00           350           0.1      3500.00           350           0.1      3000.00           300
Seed                             kg                   75          6.00           450           75          6.00           450           75           6.00          450
Sowing/Transplanting             ha                    1        850.00           850             1       850.00           850             1       850.00           850
Manure                           t                    10        160.00          1600            5         160.00          800            2         160.00          320
Fertlizer - Urea                 kg                  150          2.96           444          100          2.96           296           75          2.96           222
-DAP                      kg                  100          8.50          850            75          8.50          638            50          8.50          425
-MOP                      kg                    0          3.82            0             0          3.82            0             0          3.82            0
- Lime                    kg                    0          2.00            0             0          2.00            0             0          1.50            0
Pesticides - Chemicals           ha                    3        900.00          2700            2         600.00         1200             1       300.00           300
- Sprayer               day                   3         10.00           30             2         10.00           20             1         10.00           10
Weeding                          ha                     1        900.00          900             1        750.00          750             1        600.00          600
Water Charges                    ha                     1       200.00           200             1        200.00          200             0        200.00            0
Harvesting/rhreshing             ha                     1          850           850             1          750           750             1          650           650
Total Direct Costs                                                            10474                                     7554                                      5127
C. Net Returm (A-B)                                                               9146                                     7707                                     3048
Famly Labour                     m-d                  30                                       25                                       20
Return to Famly Labour           Rs/m-d                                         305                                      308                                      152
D. Labour
Hired Labour                     m-d                  25                                       20                                       20
w-d                  80                                       70                                       50
Total Labour (1)                                     103                                       87                                       70
(1) Famly labour plus hired labour expressed in man-days (m-d) assumimg 1 women day (w-d) Is equivalent to 0.6 m-d
Fls: THANDAFA.WK3



INDIA: Nabonal Water Management Project I - ICR
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Thandava Sub-project
Table 77: Financial Crop Budget (per hectare) - Groundnut - Kharif
Items                                Unit                  Adequate Irrigaton                        Inadequate Irrigation
Quantity     Unit Price     Value        Quantity     Unit Price     Value
(Rs)         (Rs)                        (Rs)          (Rs)
A. Gross Value of Production
Yield                             kg                  850          11.00         9350           600          11.00         6600
Byproduct                         ha                     1       1800.00         1800             1        1400.00         1400
GrossReturn                       Rs                                            11150                                      8000
B. Cost of Farm Inputs
Land Preparabon                   ha                     1        350.00          350             1        350.00           350
Nursery                           ha
Seed                              kg                   150         18.00         2700           125          18.00         2250
Sowing                            Bullock/day          2.5         85.00          213            2.5         85.00          213
Manure                            t                     5         160.00          800             3         160.00          480
Fertilizer - Urea                 kg                    50          2.96           148          100           2.96          296
- DAP                     kg                   100          8.50           850            75          8.50           638
- MOP                     kg                     0          3.82             0             0          3.82             0
- Lime                    kg                    50          2.00           100            50          2.00           100
Pesticides - Chemicals            litre                2.5        300.00          750             2        300.00           600
- Sprayer               day                    1         10.00            10             1         10.00            10
Weeding                           ha                     1        800.00          800              1        750.00          750
Water Charges                     ha                     1         37.00           37              1         37.00           37
Harvesting/Threshing              ha                     1          850           850             1           750           750
Total Direct Costs                                                               7608                                      6473
C. Net Return (A-B)                                                                 3543                                      1527
Family Labour                    m-d                   22                                        18
Return to Famity Labour          Rs/m-d                                           161                                        85
D. Labour
Hired Labour                     m-d                   15                                        12
w-d                  20                                        15
Total Labour (1)                                       49                                        39
(1) Family labour plus hired labour expressed in man-days (m-d) assumimg 1 women day (w-d) is equivalent to 0.6 m-d
File: THANDAFA.WK3



INDIA: National Water Management Project I - ICR
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Than dava Sub- project
Table 78: Financial Crop Budget (per hectare) - Sesame - Kharif
Items                                 Unit                   Rainfed
Quantity     Unit Price      Value
(Rs)          (Rs)
A. Gross Value of Production
Yield                              kg                   450          10.00          4500
Byproduct                          ha
Gross Return                       Rs                                               4500
B. Cost of Farm Inputs
Land Preparation                   ha                     1         250.00           250
Nursery                            ha
Seed                               kg                     6          12.00            72
Sowing                             ha                      1        200.00           200
Manure                             t                      2         160.00           320
Fertilizer - Urea                  kg                    25           2.96            74
- DAP                      kg                     50          8.50           425
- MOP                      kg                     25          3.82            96
- Lime                     kg                      0          2.00             0
Pesticides- Chemicals              litre                   1        150.00           150
- Sprayer                day                     1         10.00            10
Weeding                            ha                      1        180.00           180
Water Charges                      ha                     0          37.00             0
Harvesting/Threshing               ha                      1           850           850
Total Direct Costs                                                                 2627
C. Net Return (A-B)                                                                    1874
Family Labour                      m-d                   24
Return to Family Labour           Rs/m-d                                              78
D. Labour
Hired Labour                      m-d                    10
w-d                   16
Total Labour (1)                                         44
(1) Family labour plus hired labour expressed in man-days (m-d) assumimg I women day (w-d) is equrvalent to 0.6 m-d
File: THANDAFA.WK3



INDIA: National Water Management Project I - ICR
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Thandava Sub- project
Table 79: Financial Crop Budget (per hectare) - Sugar Cane - Perennial
Items                                Unit                  Adequate Irrigation
Quantity    Unit Price      Value
(Rs)         (Rs)
A. Gross Value of Production
Yield                             kg                60000           0.55        33000
Byproduct                         ha
Gross Return                      Rs                                            33000
B. Cost of Farm Inputs
Land Preparation                  ha                     1       1500.00          1500
Nursery                           ha
Seed                              kg                     1       3000.00         3000
Sowing                            ha                     1       1200.00          1200
Manure                            t                     10        160.00          1600
Fertilizer - Urea                 kg                   400          2.96          1184
- DAP                     kg                   200           8.50         1700
- MOP                     kg                   200          3.82           764
- Lime                    kg                     0           2.00            0
Pesticides - Chemicals            ha                     1        500.00          500
- Sprayer               day                    1          10.00           10
Weeding                           m-d                   60         30.00          1800
Water Charges                     ha                     1        200.00           200
Harvesting/Threshing              m-d                   50         30.00          1500
Total Direct Costs                                                              14958
C. Net Return (A-B)                                                                18042
Family Labour                     m-d                  60
Return to Family Labour          Rs/m-d                                           301
D. Labour
Hired Labour                     m-d                  120
w-d
Total Labour (1)                                      180
(1) Family labour plus hired labour expressed in man-days (m-d) assumimg 1 women day (w-d) is equivalent to 0.6 m-d
File: THANDAFA.WK3



NDL4ANadWon slMmsgemrnPoijct&  I - ICR
Apffsx2: tlome  *sdFkvmidk,lA
Reapothi Sb-psojct
TtIsMW   toonm nn .ntB.sdu fhotll 1 99S5ssowupiou)
YEAA                                      1           2            3            4            6           6            t           a            9           10        11       12        13       14       IS        16        17       19        19       20        21       22        23       24        2S
PROECT COSTS
hnrtmtrniCotb (1)                                                                        1 -4       2I'77            4         50- 44
W ts-9.WOLM  Cnb (1)                                                                     04*          0*5*        4*42         2*42        0*44         0442      0*42     0424    4*42       0*42      0442     0*42      0444     0*42      4522      0442     0442    04M       0.42     0.542     0$42
TOTALCOSTS                                                                               5.755        2474        0-07         *900        0522         0*24      054      0*-2      0*42     0542      04 42    0242      04 0.2 4.2         042      0*42      04       052 02    0        042       0*42
PRPCECT EBNFrITS
WIroA-pmj8s NdeP8dx1t, s 5*,.48                                                                       245         07 I1 545                25           4454      0*54      2*53     4403     34$53     3*03     3653      3463    3.53       35* 3-4I                              34..      35       4I.
VA,-pcjcsNR tNaPrdx    5BsdV                                                                          032         0554         5720         4070        0070      4050      4070     4070     4070      4070     4.070     4.070    0070      4070      4070   40700 074  4050   *070    *070
MCI.uts.sSNstsE*s*                                                                       0000         0042        00*5         $107        0457         0417      0455     0417      0417     0417    0.457      0.417     0417    $411       0457     0057      0457     0457      0417    4057       *257
Wtn4-pjt5O&M (Sw-d)C.J    (1)                                                            044*         0*45        0544         050*         0.644       0544      0*4*      054*     0        0545      0.54*    0..654*   0.64*    0.0       0*0*      04*       0.4       04      0*44     0*44      0*04
TOTALBENFBfTS                                                                            0.4          45*         044          0728         o.9         00*4      o4        o."4     o 0.4  0904        O.9*    .0.90  4.404  0I 09         0.904     0.*40    0454    o04                  4n       0        H-'
NET BNEFITS                                                                             - 440       -2.252       -0455         5545         0.22        0422      0522      0.422    0524     05224    0.522      0.522    0.524    0.522    0544       0522      0542     0524    0524       024      0522 
NPV (12%, 25 yeo)                     -6 7
UP (2Sy yew                          -'.55%
(1 jBmtl m GC*sP 5ec0c5& Fh1nfft trme0 w endm 0t0000 qt     s mOghe SSFolS 9
Fi3. PATAPEA %93



167
INDIA: National Water Management Project I - ICR
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Ratapani Sub-project
Table 82: 1 Hectare Farm Model - Middle Reach
CROP                                       I HECTARE FARM MODEL
WITHOUT PROJECT        WITH PROJECT
AREA
Kharif
- soybeans - rainfed                    0.60                       0.60
Rabi
- HYV wheat - adequate irrigation       0.20                       0.80
- local wheat - presowing + 1 irrigation  0.60
- gram - adequate irrigation                                       0.20
- gram - inadequate irrigation          0.20
GROSS INCOME                             14698                      16494
COST OF PURCHASED INPUTS                 6556                        7367
NETINCOME(1)                             8142                        9127
RETURN TO FAMILY LABOUR (Rs/m-d)          275                         296
TOTAL LABOUR INPUT (m -d/ha)                59                         62
NOTES:
(1) Exdudes cost of family labour
File: RATAPFA.WK3



168
INDIA: National Water Management Project I - ICR
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Ratapani Sub-project
Table 83: 1 Hectare Farm Model - Tailend
CROP                                        1 HECTARE FARM MODEL
WITHOUT PROJECT         WITH PROJECT
AREA
Kh arif
- soybeans - rainfed                     0.60                        0.60
Rabi
- local wheat - presowing + 1 irrigation                             0.70
- loca wheat - presowing irrigation only  0.70
- gram - inadequate irrigation                                       0.30
- gram - residual moisture               0.10
- lentil - inadequate irrigation
- lentil - residual moisture             0.20
GROSS INCOME                             11563                       14018
COST OF PURCHASED INPUTS                  5451                        6227
NET INCOME (1)                            6111                        7791
RETURN TO FAMILY LABOUR (Rs/m-d)           226                         279
TOTAL LABOUR INPUT (m-d/ha)                  50                          57
NOTES:
(1) Excludes cost of famly labour



169
INDIA: Nabonal Water Management Project I - ICR
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Ralapani Sub-prolect
Table84: Economic Crop Budget (erhectare) - Soybean - Kharif
Items                              Unit                   Rainied
Quantty     Unit Price     Value
(Rs)         (Rs)
A. Gross Value of Production
Yield                            kg                1000          8.65         8650
Byproduct                       kg                  500          0.27          135
Gross Return                    Rs                                            8785
B. Cost of Farm Inputs
Land Preparation                ha                    1        810.00          810
Nursery                                                                          0
Seed                            kg                   50         10.80          540
Transplanting                   ha                    1        270.00          270
Manue                           t                     0        135.00            0
Fetilizer - Urea                kg                  100          7.16          716
- DAP                    kg                   50          7.86          393
- MOP                    kg                   20          5.82          116
- Ume                    kg                    0          1.35            0
Pestcldes - Chemicals           ha                    1        180.00          180
- Sprayer              ha                    1          9.00            9
Weeding                         ha                    1        270.00          270
Family labour                   m-d                  25         27.00          675
Harvesting/Threshing            ha                    1           324          324
Total Drect Costs                                                            4303
C. Net Return (A-B)                                                             4482
File: RATAPEA.WK3



INDIA: National Water Management Project I - ICR
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Ratapani Sub-project
Table 86: Economic Crop Budget (per hectare) - Gram - Rabi
Items                               Unit                  Adequate lrrigaton                       Inadequate Irrigation                   Residual Moisture
Quantity    Unit Price     Value        Quantity     Unit Price     Value        Quantity     Unit Price     Value
(Rs)         (Rs)                       (Rs)          (Rs)                       (As)         (Rs)
A. Gross Value of Production
Yield                            kg                 1000          7,74         7740           800          7.74         6192           500          7.74         3870
Byproduct                        kg                  500          0.32          158           400          0.32          126           250          0.32           79
Gross Return                     Rs                                            7898                                     6318                                     3949
B. Cost of Farm Inputs
Land Preparation                 ha                     1       810.00          810             1        720.00          720             1        630.00          630
Nursery
Seed                             kg                   50         10.80          540            50         10.80          540            40         10.80          432
Sowing                           ha                    1        315,00          315             1        315.00          315             1        315.00          315
Manure                           1                     3        135.00          405             2        135.00          270             0        135.00            0
Fertilizer - Urea                kg                   30          7.16          215            25          7.16          179            20          7.16          143
- DAP                     kg                   60          7.86          472            50          7.86          393            50          7.86          393
- MOP                     kg                   30          5.82          175            25          5.82          146             0          5.82            0
- Lime                    kg                    0          1.35            0             0          1.35            0             0          1.35            0
Pesticides - ChemicaJs           ha                    1        225.00          225             1        225.00          225             1         90.00           90
- Sprayer               ha                    1          9.00            9             1          9.00            9             1          9.00            9
Weeding                          w-d                  10         22.50          225            10         22.50          225             7         22.50          158
Family Labour                    m-d                  15         27.00          405            15         27.00          405            12         27.00          324
Harvesting/Threshing             w-d                  12         22.50          270            12         22.50          270            10         22.50          225
Total Direct Costs                                                             4065                                     3697                                    2719
C. Net Return (A-B)                                                               3833                                     2622                                     1230



INDIA: National Water Management Project I - ICR
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Ratapani Sub-project
Table 87: Economic Crop Budget (per hectare) - Lentil - Rabi
Items                               Unit                   Inadequate Irrigation                    Residual Moisture
Quantity    Unit Price      Value        Quantity     Unit Price     Value
(Rs)         (Rs)                        (Rs)         (Rs)
A. Gross Value of Production
Yield                             kg                  700          8.10          5670           500          8.10         4050
Byproduct                        kg                   350          0.32           110          250           0.32           79
Gross Return                      Rs                                             5780                                     4129
B. Cost of Farm Inputs
Land Preparation                  ha                    1        720.00           720             1        630.00          630 9
Nursery
Seed                              kg                   50         10.80           540            40         10.80          432
Sowing                            ha                    1        315.00           315             1        315.00          315
Manure                            t                     2        135.00           270             0        135.00            0
Fertilizer - Urea                 kg                   25          7.16           179            20          7.16          143
- DAP                     kg                    50          7.86          393            50          7.86           393
- MOP                     kg                    25          5.82          146             0          5.82             0
- Lime                    kg                     0          1.35            0             0          1.35             0
Pesticides - Chemicals            ha                    1        225.00           225             1         90.00           90
- Sprayer               ha                     1          9.00            9             1          9.00             9
Weeding                           w-d                  10         22.50           225             7         22.50          158
Famly Labour                      m-d                  15         27.00           405            12         27.00          324
Harvesting/Threshing             w-d                   12         22.50           270            10         22.50          225
Total Direct Costs                                                              3697                                      2719
C. Net Return (A- B)                                                               2084                                      1410
File: RATAPEA.WK3



INDIA: National Water Management Project I - ICR
Appendix 2: Economic end Financial Analysis
Ratapani Sub-project
Table 88: Financial Crop Budget (per hectare) - Soybean - Kharif
Items                               Unit                    Raited
Quantity    Unit Price      Value
(Rs)         (Rs)
A. Gross Value of Production
Yield                             kg                 1000          9.00          9000
Byproduct                        kg                   500          0.30           150
Gross Return                      Rs                                             9150
B. Cost of Farm Inputs
Land Preparation                 ha                     1        900.00           900
Nursery                                                                             0
Seed                             kg                    50         12.00           600
Transplanting                     ha                    1        300.00           300
Manure                           t                      0        150.00             0
Fertilizer - Urea                kg                   100          3.32           332
- DAP                     kg                    50          8.60          430
- MOP                     kg                    20          3.84            77
- Lime                    kg                     0          1.50             0
Pesticides - Chemicals            ha                    1        200.00           200
- Sprayer               ha                     1         10.00            10
Weeding                           ha                    1        300.00           300
Water Charges                     ha                                                0
Harvesting/rhreshing             ha                     1           360           360
Total Direct Costs                                                              3509
C. Net Return (A-B)                                                                5641
Family Labour                     m-d                  25
Returm to Family Labour           Rs/m - d                                        226
D. Labour
Hiredlabour                      m-d                    0
w-d                  24
Totel labour (1)                  m-d                  39
(1) Famly iabour plus hired labour expressed in man-days (m-d) assuming 1 woman day (w-d) is equivalent to 0.6 man-day.
Fie: RATAPFA.WK3



INDIA: National Water Management Project I - ICR
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Ratapani Sub-project
Table 89: Financial Crop Budget (per hectare) - Wheat - Rabi
Items                               Unit              HYV - Presowing + 3 irrigations        Local Variety - Presowing + 1 irrigaton  Local Variety - Presowing irrigation only
Quantity    Unit Price     Value         Quantity    Unit Price      Value        Quantity    Unit Price      Value
(Rs)         (Rs)                        (Rs)         (Rs)                        (Rs)         (Rs)
A. Gross Value of Production
Yield                            kg                  2500          4.50        11250          1750          4.50         7875          1400          4.50         6300
Byproduct                        kg                 3000           0.25          750          2188          0.25          547          1750          0.25          438
Gross Retum                      Rs                                            12000                                     8422                                     6738
B. Cost of Farm Inputs
Land Preparation                 ha                     1        900.00          900             1        800.00          800             1        800.00          800
Nursery
Seed                             kg                   150          5.50          825           100          4.50          450            75          4.50          338
Sowing                           ha                     1        500.00          500             1        500.00          500             1        500.00           500
Manure                           t                      5        150.00          750             3        150.00          450             2        150.00           300
Fertilizer - Urea                kg                   100          3.32          332            80          3.32          266            50          3.32           166
- DAP                     kg                  100           8.60          860            50          8.60          430            50          8.60          430
- MOP                     kg                   30          3.84           115            25          3.84           96            20          3.84           77
-Lime                     kg                    0           1.50            0             0          1.50            0             0          1.50            0  4
Pesticides - Chemicals           ha
- Sprayer               ha
Weeding                          w-d                   15         25.00          375            12         25.00          300            10         25.00           250
Water Charges                    ha                     1         62.00           62             1         62.00           62             1         62.00            62
Harvesting                       m-d                   16           30           480            14           30           420            12            30          360
Threshing                        ha                     1           500          500             1           450          450             1           400           400
Total Direct Costs                                                              5699                                     4224                                     3682
C. Net Return (A-B)                                                                6301                                     4198                                     3055
Famly Labour                     m-d                   16                                       14                                       12
Retum to Family Labour           Rs/m-d                                          394                                      300                                      255
D. Labour
Hiredlabour                      m-d                   16                                       14                                       12
w-d                  15                                       12                                       10
Total labour (1)                 m-d                   41                                       35                                       30
(1) Famlylabour plushired labour expressedin man-days (m-d) assuming I woman day (w-d) is equivalent to 0.6 man-day.
Fie: RATAPFA.WK3



INDIA: National Water Management Project I - ICR
Appendix 2: Economic and Fhiancial Analysis
Ratapani Sub-project
Table 90: Fhiancid Crop Budget (per hectare) - Gram - Rabi
Items                               Unit                   Adequate Irrigation                     Inadequate Irrigation                    Residual Moisture
Quantity    Unit Price     Value         Quantity    Unit Price      Value        Quantity     Unit Price     Value
(Rs)         (Rs)                        (Rs)         (Rs)                        (Rs)         (Rs)
A. Gross Value of Production
Yield                            kg                  1000          8.60         8600           800          8.60         6880           500          8.60          4300
Byproduct                        kg                   500          0.35          175           400          0.35          140           250          0.35            88
Gross Return                      Rs                                            8775                                     7020                                     4388
B. Cost of Farm Inputs
Land Preparation                 ha                     1        900.00          900             1        800.00          800             1        700.00           700
Nursery
Seed                             kg                    50         12.00          600            50         12.00          600            40         12.00           480
Sowing                           ha                     1        350.00          350             1        350.00          350             1        350.00           350
Manure                           t                      3        150.00          450             2        150.00          300             0        150.00             0
Fertiizer - Urea                 kg                    30          3.32          100            25          3.32           83            20          3.32            66
- DAP                     kg                    60          8.60          516            50          8.60          430            50          8.60          430      '
- MOP                     kg                    30          3.84          115            25          3.84           96             0          3.84            0      u
- Lime                    kg                    0           1.50            0             0          1.50            0             0          1.50            0
Pesticides - Chemicals           ha                     1        250.00          250             1        250.00          250             1        100.00           100
- Sprayer               ha                     1         10.00           10             1         10.00           10             1         10.00           10
Weeding                          w-d                   10         25.00          250            10         25.00          250             7         25.00           175
Water Charges                    ha                     1         42.00           42             1         42.00           42             0         42.00             0
Harvesting/Threshing             w-d                   12           25           300            12            25          300            10            25           250
Total Direct Costs                                                              3883                                     3511                                     2561
C. Net Returm (A-B)                                                                4892                                     3509                                     1826
Famly Labour                     m-d                   15                                       15                                       12
Retum to Famdy Labour            Rs/m-d                                          326                                      234                                       152
D. Labour
Hired labour                     m-d                    0                                        0                                        0
w-d                  22                                       22                                       17
Total labour (1)                  m-d                  28                                       28                                       22
(1) Famly labour plus hired labour expressed in man-days (m-d) assuming 1 woman day (w-d) is equivalent to 0.6 man -day.
File: RATAPFA.WK3



INDIA: National Water Management Project I - ICR
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Ratapani Sub-project
Table 91: Financial Crop Budget (per hectare) - Lenti - Rabi
Items                               Unit                  Inadequate Irrigation                    Residual Moisture
Quantity    Unit Price     Value        Quantity     Unit Price      Value
(Rs)         (Rs)                        (Rs)         (Rs)
A. GrossVelue otProduction
Yield                            kg                   700          9.00         6300           500          9.00         4500
Byproduct                        kg                   350          0.35          123           250          0.35           88
Gross Return                     Rs                                             6423                                     4588
B. Cost of Farm Inputs
Land Preparation                 ha                     1        800.00          800             1        700.00          700
Nursery
Seed                             kg                    50         12.00          600            40         12.00          480
Sowing                           ha                     1        350.00          350             1        350.00          350
Manure                           t                      2        150.00          300             0        150.00            0
Fertlizer - Urea                 kg                    25          3.32           83            20          3.32           66
- DAP                     kg                   50           8.60          430            50          8.60          430
- MOP                     kg                   25           3.84           96            0           3.84            0                                    -.1
- Lime                    kg                    0           1.50            0             0          1.50            0
Pesticides - Chemicals           ha                     1        250.00          250             1        100.00           100
- Sprayer               ha                     1         10.00           10             1         10.00           10
Weeding                          w-d                   10         25.00          250             7         25.00          175
Water Charges                    ha                     1         42.00           42             0         42.00            0
Harvesting/rhreshing             w-d                   12           25           300            10            25          250
Total Direct Costs                                                              3511                                     2561
C. Net Retum (A-B)                                                                 2912                                     2026
Famiy Labour                     m-d                   15                                       12
Returm to Family Labour          Rs/m-d                                          194                                      169
D. Labour
Hired labour                     m-d                    0                                        0
w-d                  22                                       17
Total labour (1)                  m-d                  28                                       22
(1) Famly labour plus hired labour expressed in man-days (m-d) assuming 1 woman day (w-d) is equivalent to 0.6 man-day.
Fie: RATAPFA.WK3



INDIA: NationaL Water Management Project (Cr.1770-IN)
Implementation Conpletion Report
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Table 92.   Cropped Area, Yield and Production used for Analysis - Peechi Scheme
Item                                                     Future without Project                                             Future with Project
Cropped Area            Yield             Production            Cropped Area              Yield               Production
(ha)              (ton/ha)               (ton)                  (ha)                (ton/ha)                (ton)
1st Paddy (rainfed)                          7,184                2.5                 17,960                 7,184                   2.5                  17,960                    s
2nd Paddy (irrigated) i                      5,931                 3.0                 17,793                6,281                  3.0"                  18,843
Total Cropped Area                           13.115                                                          13,465
Net Cultivated Area2'                        7,184                                                            7,184
Cropping Intensity (X)                        182                                                               187
Cropped area based on ICR of Kerala Irrigation Department.
2 Excluding kate area (8,816 ha). There has been no change in annual irrigated area in the Kole area according to the ICR of Kerala Irrigation Department.
3 Assumed constant yieLd of 3.0 ton/ha in the existing irrigated area and this Level of yield is projected to be achieved by the incremental aea of 350 ha.



INDIA: National Water Management Project (Cr.1770-IN)
Imptementation CompLetion Report
Appendix 2: Economic and FinanciaL Analysis
Table 93.   Crop Budget (per ha) used for Analysis - Peechi Scheme
Gross Return                                        Financial Cost of Inputs                                    Net Return
Crop                                                                    Fertilizer
Product   By-product       Total              I        I           Other      Labour2'    Power Tiller    Total      Financial    Economic
.. . . . .                                   .  .  .  .   . . . . . . (Rs/ha).            .  . .                  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Future without Project                                                                                                                                                           co
-  1st Paddy                12,570       1,275        14.025      548        270       63       800       6,545          2,000        10.226       3,799       2,699
-  2nd Paddy                15,300       1,530        16.830      626        333      139       890       7,140         2,000         11,128      5,702        4,536
Future with Project
1st Paddy                 12,750       1,275        14,025      548        270       63       800       6,545         2,000         10.226      3,799        2,699
- 2nd Paddy                 15,300       1,530        16.830      626       333       139       890       7,140         2,000         11.128      5,702        4,536
'/ Assumed at 10X of gross value of product.
2/ Excluding family Labour; assumed at 70X of total Labour requirement.



INDIA: National Uater Management Project (Cr.1770-IN)
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Table 94.   Crop Yield and Input Requirement (per ha) used for Analysis - Peechi Scheme
l     |            ~~~~~Fertilizerlllll
Crop                                   | Yield                                                 Seed        Pesticides   Miscellaneous      Labour      Power Tiller"
N           P           KI   
(ton/ha)    . . . . . . .(kg/ha). . . . . . .    (Rs/ha)         (Rs/ha)         (Rs/ha)       (Man-day)        (Rs/ha)
Future without Project
1st Paddy2/                               2.5           70           30          10           300          300             200            110            2,000
- 2nd Paddy                                 3.0           80          37           22           300          370             220            120            2,000
Future with Project
-  1st Paddy2                               2.5           70           30          10           300          300             200             110           2,000
-  2nd Paddy                                3.0           80           37          22           300           370            220             120           2,000
" Including cost of buLtocks (Rs500/ha) for final tand preparation.
2/ Rainfed paddy.



INDIA: Nationat Uater Management Project (Cr.1770-IU)
Imlementation Ccmpletion Report
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Anatysis
Table 95.   Economic Costs and Benefits - Peechi Scheme
(Rs mitlion)
Year                                            FY93                    FY94                     FY95                    FY96                     FY97-2017
Scheme Costs
- Investment cost"/                            0.005                   16.049                   23.361                     -                          -
- Incrementat 0 & N costsu                                                -                        -                     0.757                      0.757
Total Costs                                 0.005                   16.049                   23.361                   0.757                      0.757
Scheme Benefits                                                                                                                                                                 o
- Incrementat net benefit"                                                -                        -                     0.607                      1.587
Net Benefits                               (0.005)                 (16.049)                 (23.361)                 (0.150)                     0.830
NPV at 12X                                                     -Rs25.5 million
ERR (25 years)                                                 -5.9X
I See Table 7.
vIncremental benefits at full deveLopment are shared between years in the proportion of investment costs, with a time lag of one year.



181
INDIA: National Water Management Project (Cr.1770-IN)
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Table 96. Farm Incomes - Peechi Scheme
1. Size of Farm Model:      0.25 ha
2. Cropping Pattern:
Crops                           Without Project                With Project
....... .(ha) .
1st paddy                              0.25                         0.25
2nd paddy                               0.20                         0.22
0.45                         0.47
Cropping intensity (%)                       180%                         188%
3. Farm Incomes:
Without Project               With Project
.. .......(Rs).
Gross Value of Production                        6,872                        7,209
Production Cost                                  4.783                        5,005
Water charges"                                      15                           16
Net Return                                       2,074                         2,188
Incremental:                                                    Rs114
" At the rate of Rs33/ha/crop.



INDIA: National Water Management Project (Cr.1770-IN)
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix 2:  Economic and FinanciaL Analysis
Table 97.   Crop Yield and Input Requirement (per ha) used for Analysis" - Haryana Scheme
Crop                   Fertilizer
Crop                                         Yield           N      |    P                        Seed       Pesticides        Manure          Labour         Bullocks2l
NPK
(ton/ha)    . . . . . . .(kg/ha). . . . . . .    (Rs/ha)           (Rs/ha)         (Rs/ha)        (Man-day)       (Pair-day)
Cotton                                        1.2           45           20            0           231         1,241              20             105              22                 oo
Paddy                                         3.5           75           30           30           343           580             290             125              24
Wheat                                         2.3           65           25           10           652           251             157              78              22
Based on PCR of Haryana Irrigation 11 (Credit 1319-IN, 1994) and mission's interviews with project farmers.
Z1 AssLined that land preparation, threshing etc., are done by animals, although tractors and mechanical threshers ae also used.



INDIA: National Water Management Project (Cr.1770-IN)
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Table 98.   Cropped Area. Yield and Production used for Analysis - Haryana Scheme
Item                                                        Future without Project                                               Future with Project
Cropped Area             Yield        |     Production            Cropped Area               Yield                Production
(ha)              (ton/ha)                (ton)                   (ha)                 (ton/ha)                 (ton)
Cotton                                         4,071                 1.2                  4,885                  12,213                   1.2                   14,656                     co
Paddy                                          1,781                 3.5                  6,233                  5,343                    3.5                   18,700
Wheat                                          6,869                 2.3                  15,799                 20,609                   2.3                   47,400
Total Cropped Area                            12,7211/                                                           38,1652/
Assuined one-third of potential irrigated area created (38,165 ha), would be irrigated without project due to availability of groundwater exploitation, based on
mission's interviews with selected farmers.
2/ PotentiaL irrigated area estimated based on theoretical savings in seepage Losses due to lining of canals and watercourses under the project.   For analysis
purposes, cotton, paddy and wheat, the three main crops in Haryana, were chosen.



INDIA: National Water Management Project (Cr.1770-IN)
Implementation CompLetion Report
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Table 99.   Crop Budget (per ha) used for Analysis - Haryana Scheme
Crop  Gross                         Financial Cost of Inputs                                          Net Return
Crop                             Gross                                                                                 .
Return                 Fertilizer
Other     Labour"    Power Tiller       Total      Financial      Economic
_______                               ~~    ~~~         ~~~~~~N [P  [K
.   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  (Rs/ha)  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .
Cotton                           24,000          352         180          -        1,492       3,381        1,892          7.297        16,703         9,435
Paddy                            13,300          587         270         190       1,213       4,025        2,064          8,349         4,951         9,658
Wheat                            10,350          509         225         63        1,060       2,511         1,892         6,260         4,090         6,169
1' ExcLuding family Labour; assumed at 70% of totaL Labour requirement.



INDIA: National Water Management Project (Cr.1770-IN)
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Table 100.   Economic Costs and Benefits - Haryana Scheme
(Rs million)
Year                                    l          FY93                     FY94                     FY95          |          FY96                     FY97-2017
Scheme Costs
- Investment cost"'                              417.645                  509.642                   47.298                     -                           -
- Incremental 0 & M costs'                           -                       -                         -                      5.29                        5.29
Total Costs                                   417.645                  509.642                  47.298                     5.29                        5.29
Scheme Benefits                                                                                                                                                             |0
- Incremental net benefit2                           -                     24.95                   114.44                    189.32                      196.00
Net Benefits                                  (417h645)                (509.642)                   67.24                   184.03                      190.71
NPV at 12%                                                         Rs322.0 million
ERR (25 years)                                                     17. 1%
1' See Table B.
21 Incremental benefits at full development are shared between years in the proportion of investment costs, with a time lag of one year for potentially new irrigated
area of 11,350 ha irrigated with savings in watercourse seepage losses, and a time lag of two years for 26,815 ha irrigated with savings in seepage losses
from the canals.



186
INDIA: National Water Management Project (Cr.1770-IN)
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Table 101. Farm Incomes - Haryana Scheme
1. Size of Farm Model:     4 ha
2. Cropping Pattern:
Crops                          Without Project              With Project
....... (ha) .
Cotton                               2.0                         2.5
Paddy                                1.0                         1.5
Wheat                                3.0                         4.0
6.0                         8.0
Cropping intensity (%)                      150%                       200%
3. Farm Incomes:
Without Project              With Project
........ .(Rs).
Gross Value of Production                      92,350                     121,350
Production Cost                                41.721                      55,760
Water charges"                                    420                         570
Net Return                                     50,209                      65,020
Incremental:                                                Rsl4,811
" At the rate of Rsl2/000m2.



187
m'aB 1e 1 n          NationalWater Management Project Subproject Initiation Schedule  (Page 1
1987      1988       1989       1990       1991       1992       1993       1994
TAMIL NADU ( 10 subprojects)                            3          1          2          2          1          1
Sathanur                                        X0oooooooa_
Kodayar                                        X)ooooooo C
Thambaraparani                                 a oc(xxxx_
Amaravathy                                                X'ooOoo
Cumbum Valley                             _0 ooXXX ____
Marudhanadhi                         __ __                                       )0cXooo    _
Setiathope                                                            aoooooOX _
Tholudur                                 _                                      )OOOOoCooo(
Chittar                                _ _  _   _ _  _  __                                                            _ _
Manjalar                             __   _  __                                                            _  _  _   _  _
KERALA ( 5 subprojects)                                                       1                    4
Malampuzha                           _____axxxo
Mangalam                                ._ _xxxx___
Pothundi                                 _xxxoooxxx
Peechi                                                                                      ________
Vazhani                                                                                      )XXXXX  ____
KARNATAKA (30 subprojects                    9          1                     7 _                  2         11
Maidala                                        XXooooooo__
Naregal Tank                         XXooooo                                               ___
Areshankar                            OVOOOXX)=            _
Ramanahalli                         )oooooCooXo
Bhadra                               xooooooox_
Vanivilas sagar                     )oooooooo__
Shanthisagar                                                                               Xooooooooo:
Haganbommanahalli                                                    )Ooooooc  I
Kanakanala                           ____                                ooooo(                .
TBLBC Distributary # 54                                             xzoooocx                                     _
BagewadiDistributary                       _                         xoooooxx
TBRHLC Distributary # 7                                    __         ooooooO
Chandrampalli                        XKOOoooooo                              .                                   .
Dha rna                              xxoooccxx 
Kanva                                ooooooo                                                                     _
Marconahalli                         XXoooooo_
Tunga Anicut                         _____                 __     _xxx,
Anjanapur                                    _oXXxoooooo
Ambligola                                                  _         Xmoooooooc                _
TBRHLC Distributary # 12                                   _oKX,oocx .
TBRHLC Distributary # 13            ____oooooo_
TBRHLC Distributary # 14                                                                              XXXXXX_ Xo
TBRHLC Distributary # 15                                                                              XXXOOOOXXX
TBLBC Distributary # 31 t_                                                              _ _00oooo x
TBLBC Distributary # 55                                                                               x,oooooox.
TBLBC Distributary # 76                                                                               xooooooooox 
TBLBC Distributary # 85                                   _                                    _      z)oovoooooo  .
TBLBC Distributary # 89                                                         ___                   ,oooooooo.x
TBLBC Distributary # 98                        _XzOOOOOCX_
Gondi Anicut                         __._.____                                                                    _______.
ANDHRA PRADESH (10 subprojects               1          1                     5                     3
Rajolibunda Diversion Scheme                   .OOo                                                    ._.             -
K.C.Canal                                                  .____                         _ X.X     O   __  .
Thandava                             xOOcJOOOOO(           __ ..
Mu si                                                       .         x)OOOOOO.
Dindi                                                          _     xxooooox
BhairavanXthippa                       __       _oooooox                                  _ ..
Upper Pennar                             __x_______.
TBP LLC                              __    _   _x I_ xoooc_
Mylavaram                                       _______              X                                       _
Nizamsagar                               _       _=_____                                                           ___



188
TahA-e  n2
(sage 2)
1987      1988       1989       1990       1991      1992       1993       1994
MADHYA PRADESH (19 subprojects                                                         2         12          4
Sakalda                                                                                   xxoooooox
Gagan                                                                                     zooooooocx
Segwal                              _                                                     oooxooox
Sonkh edi                                                                                 xoooooo
Ratapani                                                             _xooooo.
Chandrakeshar                                                                                        ) 0ooooooooc
Paronch                                                                                   )00(ooooooo
Mola                                                                                      x0oooooooo_
Sukta                                                                                     xoxoooxsOO
Chillar                                                                                   xxooooooo __
Kethan                                                                                    xooooooooxx
Barna                                                                          0ooooooo0    I
Halali                               _xoooooooo 
Aoda                                _)0_00oooc(
Bila                                                                                       oooooooxx
Kharung                                                                                              )00000000XC
Gangulpara                                                                                           )0      0()oooooo
Saroda                              _                                                                           ooooooooc
Tawa                                                      _                                          ooooooooo
ORISSA ( 8 subprojects)                                                                           8
Hi raku d                                                                                     0ooooooo0
Mahanadi Delta Stage I                                                                     )000oo0ooo0
Mahanadi Delta Stage II oOooocx
Salandi                                        _____                                       ooooo
Rushikulya                          x_Oooooooox
Deriang                                                                                   xxooooooo
Salia                              T=  -   IOOcl 
Dhanei                                         _)0_00___ I____( I   I
GUWARAT (2 subprojects)                                                                                      2
Dharoi (LBC)                         ______                                               __TI__I_   ooooooooo
Meshwo                             |____                                                  __T_i__ooooooxo
UTTAR PRADESH (10 subprojects)  ___    ___    ___                                                           10
Absara Distributory                                                                                  00000 o 0 Cx
D.B.Feeder                                                                                           )oooooooo0
Hardoi Branch Km 21.60 to Km 85.00    _oX)oooooo(
Shahjahanpur Branch Head to Km 29.90                                                                 )ooooooxo0
Shahabad Distributory System                                                                         )oooooo00
Hardoi Branch Km 85.00 to Km 158.80
and Lucknow Branch Head to Km 60.80                                                                  )0__ _ _ _ _00(
Sandila Branch and Lucknow Branch
from Km 60.80 to Km 115.60                                                                           xooooooox
Hardoi Branch Km 158.80 to Tail and
Asiwan Branch                                                                                        xoooooooox
Purwa Branch and Unnao Branch                                                                       x)000ooox
Lucknow Branch Km 115.60 to
Km 188.60                                                                                         _oooooooox
BIHAR ( 2 subprojects)                                                       2
Hatua                                                               xocooDooo
Dumraon                                                             xxxosooooX
MAHARASHTRA
Induction Training Program
HARYANA
Bridge Financing
Total ( 96 subprojects)                    10          5            |       171        4         30         281



189
,a3le  10.       National Water Management Project Subproject Command Areas (ha) Covered  (Page 1)
1987      1988      1989      1990      1991      1992       1993      1994
TAMIL NADU ( 10 subprojects)                        3          1         2         2         1         1
Sathanux                                        18210 
Kodayar                                         36836
Thambaraparani                                  45282
Amaravathy                                                22384
Cumbum Valley                                                        8099
Marudhanadhi                                                                    2665
Setiathope                                                           19466
Tholudu-                                                                       14915
Chittar                                                                                   9644
Manjalar                                                                                            2169
Sub-Total                                    100328    22384    27565    17580         9644      21691              179670
KERALA (5 subprojects)                                                   I 1                 4
Malmpuzha                                                           20553
Mangalam                                                                                  3440
Pothundi                                                                                  4685
Peechl                                                                        _           7184
Vazhani                                                                                   4313
Sub-Total                                                        20553                1_9_622                        40175
KAFNATAKA (30 subprojects)                9         1                    7                   2        11
Maldala                                           472
Naregal Tank                            650
Areshankar                             1234
Ramanahalli                            1944
Bhadra                                92360
VanMlas saga,                         12250
Shanthisagar                                                                              2819
Hagaribommanahalli                                                   3465
Kanakanala                                                           2149
TBLBC Distribulary # 54                                       _     39761
BagewadiDistibutary                                                  16285
TBRFLC Disiributary #7                                               17683
Chandrampalli                          5223                                                      .
Oharma                                 7692
Kanva                                  2576
Marconahalli                           5942                                      .. .
Tunga Anicut                                      .                                       9319,
AnjanapLr                                                            6736
Ambligola                                                            3203
TBRI-LC Distibutary #12                                                                             3600
TBRI-LC Distributary # 13                                                                          10269
TBER-LC Distributary # 14                                                                          14157
TBRHLC Distributay # 15                                                                             6915
TBLBC DIstribulary # 31                                                                            17728
TBLBC Distributary # 55                                                                             7128
TBLBC Distribulary # 76                                                          .                 28930
TBLBC Distributary # 85                                                                            11349
TBLBC Dlstributary # 89                     ____=    15342
TBLBC Distibutary # 98                                                                             13521
Gondi Anicut                                                                                        4600
Sub-Total                         129871       472               89282               12138   133539                365302
ANDHRA PRADESH (10 subprojects)           1         1                   5                    3    .      .
Ralolibunda Diversion Scheme                    35410
K.C.Canal                                                                                31378
Thandava                              20828
MusI                                                                13360
Dindi                                                                5062
Bhairavanithippa                                                     4860
Lpper Pennar                                                         3947  ._ .
TBP LLC                                                                                  13306
Mylavaram                                                           30352
Nizamsagar                                                                              93622
Sub-Total                          20828    35410                 57581              138306           1             252125



190
cTh11   0 e O?
(Page 2)
1987      1988      1989      19901    1991       1992       1993      1994
MADHYA PRADESH (19 subproiects)                                                    2        12         4         1
Sakaldb                                                                                   1700
Gagan                                                                                     1000
Segwal                                                                                    1 200
Sorkhedi                                                                                  1330
Ratapani                                                                                  1655
Chandrakeshar                                                                                       40001
Paronch                                                                                   2145      _
Mola                                                                                      2400
SLkla                                                                                    14200
Chillar                                                                                   3500
Kethan                                                                                    3000
Barna                                                                          58000
Hbala i                                                                        27924
Aoda                                                                                      8900
Bilb                                                                                     12267
Kharung                                    _                                                       56000
Gangulpara                                                                                          3110
Saroda                                                                                                        6400
Tawa                                                                                               41000
Sub-Total                                                                   85924    53297   104110         6400    249731
ORISSA (8 subprojects)                                                                       8
Hirakud                                                                                  24125
Mahanadi Delta Stage I                                                                   10222
Mahanadi Delta Stage II                                                                  31980
Sabndi                                                                                   10000
Rushkulya                                                 _                              12609
Derjng                                                                                    5951
Salia                                                                                     8445
3hanei                                                                                    3831
Sub-Total                                                                            107163                          107163
GUJARAT (2 subprojects)                                                            _                   2
Dharoi (LBC)                                                                                       12980
leshwo                                                                                              6880
Sub-Total                                                                                        19860                19860
UTTAR PRADESH ( 10 subprojects)                                                                       10
Absara Distributory                                                                                17000
D.B.Feeder                                                                                          6000
Hardoi Branch Km 21.60 to Km 85.00                                                                 15500
Shahjahanpur Branch Head to Km 29.9C                                                               37400
Shahabad Distributory System                                                                       42000
Hardoi Branch Km 85.W to Km 158.80
and Luckncw Branch Head to Km 60,80                                                               141000
Sandila Branch and Lucknow Branch
from Km 60.30 to Km 115.60                                                                        136000
Hardoi Branch Km 158.80 to Tail and
Asiwan Branch                                                                                     166000
Purwa Branch and Unnao Branch                                                                     132000
Lucknow Branch Km 115.60 to                                                                    _
Km 188.60                                                                                         105000
Sub-Total                                                                                      797900               797900
BIHAR (2 subprojects)                                                   2
Hatua                                                              107508
Dumracn                                                             59130
Sub-Total                                                        166638                                             166638
MAHARASHTRA
Inducton Training Program
HARYANA
Bridge Financing                                                    _
Total (96 subprojects)                   10         5         1        17          4       30         28         1  2178564



191
riLI e7~  -5    Natioral Water kanagement Project Subproject Original Cost Estimates (Page 1)
(Rs. Million)
1987     1988      1989      1990      1991      1992      1993      1994
TAMILNADU (10 subprojects)                         3         1         2         2        1         1
Sathanur                                       46.80
Kodayar                                        86.59
Thambaraparani                                 97.69
Amaravathy                                               35.02
Cumbum Valley                                                      13.13
Maudhanadhi *                                                                 9.78
Setiathope *                                                       71.40
Tholudt.r                         _ _ _ _   __ _ _ _ _  _ _ __54.70
Chittr *                                                                               35.36
Manialar *                                                                                        8.34
Sub-Total                                   231.08     35.02     84.53     64.48    35.36      8.34              458.80
KERALA (5 subprojects)                                                 1                  4
MaSmpuzha                                                  _       79.79
Nangalam                                                                               17.40
Pothundi                                                                               23.60
Peechl                                                                                 54.34
Vazhani                                                                                15.60
Sub-To1al                      _                            _   79.79              110.94                        190.73
KAFNATAKA (30 subprojects)               9         1                   7                  2        11
9aidaba                                         1.73
Naregal Tank                           1.47
Aresharkar                             2.64                               .
Ramanahalli                           4.29               _  _
Bhadrta                              146.30
Vanivilas sagar                      30.00
Shanthisagar                                                                            7.90
Hagaribommanahalll                                                 6.95
Kanakanala                                                          5.37
TBLBC Di stributary # 54                                           48.50,
BagewadiDistibutary                                                15.87 _
TBRHLC Distributary #7                                             24.42
Chancrmpalli                         10.60
Dharma                                14.00         T         I
Kanva                                 4.86                                         _
Marconahalli                          7.65               .
Tunga Anicut                                                                           29.70
Anjanapur                                                          12.40
Ambligola                                                           6.25
TBRf-LC Oistributtary  12                                                                         8.38
TBRHLC Distributary # 13                   _                                                     23.75
TBRH-LC Distnbutary # 14                                 _                                      32.73
TBRH-LC Distibutary # 15                                                                         15.94,
TBLBC Distributary # 31                                   --                      _       _     40.37
TBLBC Distibutary # 55                                                                           16.40
TBLBC Distributary # 76                                                                         66.84
TBLBC Distibutary # 85                                                                           26.18
TBLBC Distibutary # 89                                                                          35.52
TBLBC Distributary # 98                                                                          29.93
Gondi Anicut                                                                                     14.40
Sub-Toaal                        221.81      1.73              119.76              37.60   310.44_               691.34
ANDHRA PRADESH (10 subprojects)          1         1                   5,                 3
Rajolibunda Dlversion Scheme                   61.40
K.C.Canal                                                 .                            95.00
Thandava                             51.10
MusI                                                               33.40
Dindi                                                              16.40
Bhairavanithippa                                                   12.15
Lpper Pennar-                                                       9.90
TBP LLC                                                  _.                            33.27
Mylavaram                                                          75.59
Nizamsagar                                                                           230.50
Sub-Total                          51.10     61.40             147.44              358.77                        618.70



192
,abl]e 104
(Page 2)
1987     1988      1989      1990      1991     1992      1993     1994
MACHYA PRADESH (19 subprojects)                                                2        12        4         1
Saalkda                                                                               6.24
Gagan                                                                                 5.07
Segwal                                                                                4.04
Sornkhedi                                                                             3.57
Ratapani                                                                              6.74
Chancrakeshar                                        .                                         20.16
Paronch                                 _                                      _      9.45
MAola                                                                                10.50
Sukta                                                                                40.45
Chillar                                                                              15.80
Kelhan                           _ _ _ _   __  _ __8.95                                     _  _ _    _ _ _ _
Bama                                                                       177.20     8.95
Halaii                                                                      83.77
Aoda                                                                                 22.04
Biia                                                                                 59.20
Kharung                                                                                       177.60
Gangulpara                                                                                     16.12
S raoda                          _ _  _ __             _ _ __             _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _   _ __     21.26
Tawa                                                 _ _  ___                          __     133,001_  _  _
Sub-Total                              =                                260.97   192.05   346.88    21.26    821.16
CRISSA (8 subprojects)                                                                   E
Hirakud                                                                              84.42
Mahanadi Delta Stage i                                                           _   30.70
Mahanadi Delta Stage II                                                             103.60
Salandi                         j        .______33.00
Rushkulya                                                                            37.80
Derjang                                                                              17.90 _______9
Salia                                                                                25.40
Dhanei                                                                               11.50
Sub-Total                                                                         344.32                       344.3
CLIIARAT (2 subprolects)                                                                          2
Dharol (LBC)                                                                                   31.30
Meshwo                                                                                         15.37
Sub-Total                                                                                   46.67               46.67
UTTAR PRADESH (10 subprojects)                                                                    1c 
Absara Dsiributory                                                                             40.60
D.B.Feeder                                                                                     56.39
Fardoi Branch Km 21.60 to Km 85.00                                                             84.90
Shahjahanpur Branch Head tl Km 29.9C                                                           41.52
Shahabad Dis#rlbutory System                                                                   52.35
Harcol Branch Km 85.00 to Km 158.80
and Lucknow Branch Head to Km 60.80                                                            24.93
Sandila Branch and Lucknow Branch
from Km 60.80 to Km 115.60                                                                     33.64
Hardo Branch Km 158.80 to Tail and                                                       _
Aslwan Branch                                     _                                            43.20
Purwa Branch and Unnao Branch                                                                  66.00
Lucknow Branch Km 115.60 to                                                                     _  _
Km 188.60                                                                                      47.70
Sub-Total                                                                                  491.23              491.23
BIHAR (2 subprojects)                                                2
Hatua                                                            267.15
Oumraon                                                          152.43
Sub-Total                                                     419.581                                          419.58
MAAHARASHTRA
Inductin Training Program                                         40.26
HARYANA
BEidge Firnncing                                                                   1742.60
Total (98 subprojects)              IO.00      5.00         1       17         4       30        28         1  4082.53
Total Cost of Subprolects
Committed (Rs Million)             272.91    294.21    35.02   891.36   325.45  2821.63  1203.56    21.26  4082.53
Rupee - USS Exchange                12.96     13.92    16.23     17.50    22.74      25.92    30.49    31.37
Toll Cost of Subprojects         _
Committed (US$ Million)             21.06    21.14      2.16    50.93      14.31    108.86    39.47      0.68   258.61



193
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
NATIONAL WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1770-IN)
Appendix 3
Observations of Ministry of Water Resources on the Draft Implementation
Completion Report Prepared by FAO/CP on National Water Management Project
(Credit 1770-IN)
1. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1.1   The National Water Management Project (NWMP) was formulated on pilot basis
to improve the performance of existing irrigation systems. Initially, at the appraisal stage,
three southern States of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu were selected who
had more or less the same rules, procedures and practices for project planning, design
construction and operation. The prevailing deficiencies in system management resulting in
unreliable, unpredictable and inequitable water deliveries at the designated outlets in these
States were attributed to inadequacies of physical systems to implement the operational
plan, lack of farmers' participation in canal management and lack of adequate funds for
system maintenance. The concepts underlying the NWMP were based on the various
conclusions drawn from experiences in these States.
1.2   The purpose of the project was to increase productivity and farm incomes in
existing irrigation schemes through a more reliable, predictable and equitable irrigation
service. To achieve these objectives and facilitate extension of similar activities
throughout the country, the project was to help participating States and Government of
India to develop an institutional capacity to plan, implement and monitor improved O&M
practices and to provide for selected schemes for low-cost infrastructural improvements
designed to support an improved operational plan. In each case, the most appropriate
technique of water supply was to be adopted (SAR para 3.03 refers).
2. PROJECT DESIGN
2.1   The major component of the project was the improved water management. It
envisaged provisions for scheme investments, engineering and administration, incremental
recurrent O&M expenditures, institutional strengthening, training programmes, special
studies and programmes. The scheme investments was the principal component. It was to
provide for scheme minimal but essential investments required to implement the
operational plan. These were to include repairs and renovations to the water conveyance
system including existing structures; provision of new control structures, measuring
devices and investments in upgraded O&M facilities and equipment, including housing for



194
staff and transport and communication equipment as required to execute the operational
plan. The investment was limited to Rs.2500 per hectare at 1986-87 price level for
improvement of infrastructure required for implementation of improved operational plan.
2.2   The strategy for each scheme under NWMP was to be derived from the objectives
which could be accomplished with the known constraints reflecting understanding of how
the system evolved in its present form and how dces it operate. However, soiutions were
required to be responsive to the established socio-economic environment and evolving
agricultural conditions. The main thrust of NWMP was on converting the systems from
demand-based to supply based and thus delivering of allotted water at different outlets
according to a pre-determined and agreed schedule. This was to be made possible
through infrastructural improvements in the conveyance system.
2.3.  The project also supported two other components related to the general objectives
of improved water management in India namely (a) Maharashtra Induction Training
Programme (MITP) designed to support initial vocational training for engineers recruited
to the Maharashtra Irrigation Department; and (b) an Institutional Strengthening and
Training Fund (ISTF) to plan, implement and monitor the irrigation schemes under
NWMP.
3. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND ASSESSMENT OUTCOME
3.1   Immediately after closing of the project in March, 1995, Ministry of Water
Resources (MOWR) had prepared the Completion Report (CR) on NWMP a copy of
which was forwarded to the World Bank. The Report deals at length with various aspects
of the project implementation, including the performance of individual states. It highlights
the performance of each of the components of the project with special focus on overall
performance, implementation and operation experiences and the lessons learnt that would
be relevant for the future. In the light of the findings of the MOWR's elaborated in the
Completion Report the following observations are made on the final draft of the
Implementation Completion Report prepared by FAO/CP Mission on NWMP.
3.2.  The FAO/CP Mission has rated the project outcome as unsatisfactory merely based
on partial progress in terms of physical progress. It is true that a large number of schemes
against those envisaged at appraisal were cleared for implementation under NWMP. A
total of 96 schemes covering a CCA of 2.18 million hectares (mha) were initiated under
the project. In addition, bridge finance was provided for lining of main canal and water
courses in Haryana for a period of two years to allow that State to continue work on these
aspects until the approval of the Haryana Water Resources Consolidation Project (WIRCP)
in 1994. Out of the above schemes, only 32 schemes covering a CCA of 0.34 mha against
the appraisal target of about 0.50 mha could be completed at credit closure. The
following reasons could be attributed to it:-
(i)   In addition to the 16 schemes identified in original three States
viz. Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu covering a CCA



195
of 0.45 mha at appraisal, an allowance was made in the SAR
to cover an additional CCA of 0.12 mha in schemes to be
identified later. This provided a leaverage for inclusion of more
schemes/States under the NWMP.
(ii)   The value of the credit assistance of SDRs 93.2 million available
under the project was equivalent to US $ 114 million or Indian
Rs. 1482 million at 1986-87 price level. Due to exchange rate
fluctuations, the current value of the credit assistance stood
enhanced to be estimated at US $ 127.27 million (i.e. equivalent
to Indian Rs.3500 million. This enabled GOI to accommodate
the pressing demands for covering additional participating states
and inclusion of more schemes from participating States.
(iii)   During the project implementation, an impression crept in that
the second phase of NWMP would follow concurrently without
any transition period between the two phases. To capitalise on
this situation to sustain the tempo built up at the later years of the
project due to development of institutional capability at State level,
GOI/WB cleared several projects for implementation even at a later
date fully realising that they would not be completed before the
closing date of the project. It was presumed that these schemes
would continue to receive funds under the follow-up phase. It may
be added that much before the closing of the NWMP, the World Bank
Mission during their visit to India in March 1994, held identification
discussions with MOWVR on follow-up phase of NWM1P. During the
discussion, it was observed that NWMP, with its limited objectives,
concentrated on raising the performance of specific pilot irrigation
project. Considering the good prospects for a follow-up project,
need was felt for a more comprehensive approach to water service
management. Accordingly, the action points required to be taken in
a time bound manner for preparation of proposals for follow-up phase
of NVMP, first at the State level and then for the overall appraisal
report at the national level, were discussed and finalised.
(iv)  Initially, the progress of implementation of NWMP remained slow due
to several reasons. The approval of the sub-projects and negotiations
under the project consumed most of 1986-87. Subsequently, preparation
of summary reports followed by detailed scheme reports and other
technical studies took another one or two years. NWMP being a new
concept, it took quite some time in setting up requisite organisational
structure for implementation of N-WMIP in the States. Besides,
Irrigation Department (ID) staff took some time in getting themselves
acquainted with the NWMP concepts. Due to the above reasons, very
little investment was made in the intial two-three years. However,



196
once initial hurdles were over pace of implementation picked up
in 1990 and steadily improved since then as is evident from the
reimbursement claims made. In fact, the level of investment during
the year 1992-93 constituted about twice the cumulative expenditure
incurred during the first four years of the project and nearly two and
a half times that in the previous year i.e. 1991-92. The pace of work
was further increased during 1993-94. Anticipating shortfall in
utilization of the credit, the closing date of the project was extended
by one more year i.e. from 31st March, 1994 to 31 st March, 1995.
With the extended period of one year, the credit assistance available
for improved water management under the project was utilized fully
completing 32 schemes and leaving others in different stages of
implementation when the project came to a close in March, 1995.
The completed schemes though covered 15 per cent of the project
command area of all the approved schemes, yet they achieved 67
per cent of the appraisal target that too in three-four years of actual
implementation of the project.
3.3   The findings of the Mission about realisation of objectives under NWMP ought to
be viewed in the light of the following constraints.
(i)    The irrigation schemes chosen for improved water management under
NWMP were scattered and even the selected schemes were not taken
up for rehabilitation in entirety. This stymied the implementation of the
operational plan prepared for whole scheme. The canal section not
rehabilitated under the project constrained the system performance as
required under the operational plan. This, in fact, is an important
lesson learnt during the project implementation and will need to be
kept inview while planning for the follow-up phase.
(ii)   The schemes selected under NWMP were such as operating at low
irrigation efficiencies because of inadequate maintenance in the past.
To implement the operational plan prepared as per NWMP objectives, it
was essential that the canal networks were brought to proper shape.
As such, the structural interventions proposed under NWMP formed
an important component of the programme. Nearly eighty five per cent
of schemes' outlays was earmarked for infrastructural improvements.
Being the first phase, this seemed to be inevitable. A better balance is
expected in the follow-up phase.
(iii)   Changes in the timing of irrigation releases methods of water delivery,
efficiency of water use and effectiveness of supporting services neces-
sarily lead by themselves and together to modify cropping patterns,
increase irrigation intensities and raise yields and value added. However,
the speed with which these results can be achieved depends on the



197
effectiveness of operational plan adopted which in turn is directly
linked up with the completion of the required construction activities
in all respects. Mere acceptance of the improved operational plan by
the users before the structural interventions are completed, cannot be
expected to cause achievement of these end.
3.4   The Economic Rate of Returns (ERR) of nine schemes evaluated by the Mission
has been found to be lower than that computed at appraisal. Given the status of
implementation of the project by closure, it would be too early to quantify the benefits. As
such, the results of the economic and financial analysis made under ICR by the Mission
could be regarded as indicative and not definitive as these schemes have just been
completed in some form or the other. The benefits considered in the economic analysis
are primarily those which relate to the areas in the command which in the past were either
not receiving any irrigation supplies or even if irrigation waters fed these areas in some
years, it was both inadequate and not dependable and which after NWMP interventions
have started receiving timely and adequate irrigation supplies. Improved infrastructural
system results in not only increase in irrigated area and production thereof but also in
enhancing the overall productivity of the entire command due to timeliness of irrigation
supplies and improved water use efficiency. If such benefits were also taken into account,
ERR of the said schemes would improve considerably.
3.5.   The lower ERR is stated to be attributable to (i) reduction in benefitted area (ii)
increase in cost of rehabilitation and (iii) less than anticipated changes in cropping
patterns. This situation arose because of the fact that the rehabilitation and modernisation
works were scattered, started at a late date and therefore some of the important works
were still incomplete by the closing date. The farmers were also unwilling to change the
cropping pattern, as planned in the SAR. Morevoer, there is always considerable time-lag
between the scheme completion and accrual of the full benefits. After realising the
anticipated benefits of the said schemes, ERR would reach optimum level.
3.6   Insufficient farmers participation has been cited as one of the major weakness of
the programme. It will be appreciated that at the time the project was launched, the
concept of farmers participation was in infancy. Also no provision was made in the
project estimates for meeting the cost of promotion of farmers participation in the schemes
included under the programme. However, over the period the concept of farmers
participation in irrigation management has gained momentum and at present this concept
has found wide acceptance both amongst the States and the farmers. GOI has prepared a
National Action Plan (NAP) to support Participation Irrigation Management (PIM) in the
country. One of the wings (WM Wing) of MOWR has been designed as nodal wing for its
promotion. The implementation of NAP has begun. As per the present thinking, Water
Users' Association would be established at minor canal level. The system below minor
would be turned over to them. Powers will be delegated to WUA's to undertake O&M of
the system and also collect water charges. MOWR has recently organised a series of
seminars on PIM in different States for propagation of the concept. The underlying
objective of these seminars was to help prepare the draft action plan on PIM for the



198
States. Most of the States are now preparing the State action plans on PIM. The
Planning Commission has constituted a Working Group on PIM, recommendations of
whcih would be considered during finalization of the country's Ninth Five Year Plan. It is
hoped that funds will be earmarked for PIM. In the follow up NWMP, efforts towards
farmers organisations would be an explicit part of both operational systems improvement
and physical works. The farmer organisations would be multilevel, capable of dealing with
problems and representing farmers below the outlet, at the minor distributing level and at
system level.
3.7   Even after the completiion of restoration work under the project, it is essential to
maintain all the schemes properly so that they continue to provide sustainable service.
There has been general awareness in the States of the need to improve the level of
maintenance by providing adequate O&M funds and for rationalising the existing water
rates so as to convey the scarcity value and foster the motivation for economy in water use
with recovery of annual maintenance and operation charges. The Committee on Pricing of
Irrigation Water set up by the Planning Commission has examined these aspects in detail
and made important recommendations thereon in its report (September, 1992). The
recommendations of the Committe, inter-alia, include adequate provisions for O&M and
linking of water rates with recovery of O&M costs in phases. The Tenth Finance
Commission also seeks to make adequate provisions for O&M based on certain norms. In
view of these facts, it is expected that State Governments would provide adequate O&M
funds for sustenance of the NWMP schemes.
3.8.   Systematic monitoring and evaluation of the key parameters of the schemes taken
up for improvement is undoubtely important. However, in the absence of proper
measuring, devices and other necessary infrastructure the monitoring process started late
in most of the schemes. However, data on physical progress of works, financial
expenditure, cropped area, reservoir levels, gauge, and discharge of important canals etc.
were maintained by the project authorities right from the beginning and were reviewed
from time to time. The hydraulic data so maintained were used for finalising operation
schedules in the various canals in consultation with the beneficiary farmers.
3.9   In the above backdrop, it is apparent that NWVP being a pilot programme has
been a modestly successful programme. The experience of the project has given
encouraging results and its impact has been well appreciated at various forums including
Bank missions. Water management and maintenance have improved considerably in the
schemes completed and those nearing completion. The benefitted areas have shown an
increase in agricultural productivity ranging between 15 per cent and 67 per cent through
improved water deliveries and by better water use efficiency. Thus, the project schemes
have been able to raise the productivity of land thereby increasing the income of farmers in
the command areas. The project interventions have also created conditions for equitable
distribution of irrigation water. There has also been increase in irrigated area in the
NWMP schemes. The tail end commands of completed NWMP schemes have started
getting irrigation water, some for the first time after the inception. The impact of some of
these schemes in terms of irrigated area and agricultural productivity has been highlighted



199
in chapter 9 of the MOW1R Completion Report on NWMP. All this reflects the positive
impact of the programme on irrigated agriculture.
4.0   LESSONS LEARNT
4.1   Some of the lessons drawn from the project implementation are given below:
(i)    The working period in the command being limited, adequate funds are
required to be made available at the State level at the beginning of the
financial year.
(ii)   The concept of NWMP should be clearly understood by the users,
managers and administrators of the system through trainings, seminars and
workshops with a view to realise the objectives of the project.
(iii)  There is considerable scope for strengthening the operational plan aspect in
NWMP schemes. The selected scheme included for improvement under
the NU7MP should be taken up for rehabilitation in its entirely, instead of
treating only a part of it.
(iv)  Inter-organizational coordination of irrigation and agricultural management
which has hitherto been quite inadequate in most of the NWMP States
needs to be strengthened to make the programme more effective.
(v)   Even after carrying out the restoration works, NWMP schemes still
suffer from the problem of O&M. It is imperative to provide adequate
provisions for maintaining all the project components properly so that
the irrigation projects continue to provide sustainable service.
(vi)  It should be obligatory on the part of the project authorities to ensure
formation of users' groups in the command and transfer the responsibility
of O&M below certain level of the irrigation system to the beneficiaries.
(vii)  The progress of the communication component of the schemes under
NWMP on the whole have been practically insignificant. A greater use of
modern tools of communication under NWMP scheme is called for.
(viii)  Efforts need to be made by the States for monitoring and evaluating
the scheme performance intensively and effectively.
5.0 BORROWERS PERFORMANCE
5.1   The Water Management Cell (WMC) in the MOWR was established to help
prepare and promote the NWMP. The Cell provided policy direction, acted as a catalyst
for extending the approach across State boundaries and administered and coordinated the



200
NWVMP as a whole. It was also responsible for the clearing of the detailed scheme reports.
The cell has an all round technical support from other specialised organisations like CWC,
ICAR, Ministry of Agriculture, Planning Commission etc. WMC was staffed as per
requirements assessed by the Ministry from time to time. With the progress of the project,
the number of States/schemes under implementation increased. Because of lateral entry of
larger number of schemes into the programme and the urgency for according them
approval, the time available for proper scrutiny was short. However, with the active
support of the above referred specialised organisations all possible efforts were made to
ensure proper appraisal of the schemes. After the schemes were cleared by GOI they were
agrain examined by the World Bank and approval accorded. Nevertheless, inadequate and
poor quality of hydrological and other data on which some of the schemes were
formulated affected adversely on their performance. Central Water Commission (CWC)
has now established it's regional offices in most of the irrigation dominated States, to
coordinate the work in the water resources sector in terms of National Water Policy.
Modalities are being worked out to deploy the monitoring and appraisal units of the
regional offices of CWC in the concerned State for technical test-auditing and monitoring
the progress and performance of schemes under follow-up project.
5.2   All the above aspects have been discussed in detail in Chapter 10 of the MOWR
Completion Report on NWMP referred to in para 3.1 above.
6.0 BANK PERFORMANCE
6.1   Excellent cooperation was received from the World bank for implementation of
NWMP. The Bank while clearing the schemes under the project thoroughly examined the
project reports and rendered valuable suggestions to the project authorities with regard to
feasible interventions required for dealing with the problem of water management. The
Bank Missions had been reviewing the progress of implementation - Statewise regularly as
is evident from Missions' Supervision Reports prepared from time to time.
7.0 CONCLUDING REMARKS
7.1    NWMP has been modestly successful. The deliberately limited objectives of this,
which was a first intervention for system upgradation as a pilot project, now need
broadening with a comprehensive approach to water service management to resolve
several problems experienced during the project implementation. The follow up project as
and when materialises will focus on project sustainability, rationalising its scope by taking
up priority schemes in their entirely instead of going in for individual distributaries as far
as possible; introducing flexibility in the per hectare ceiling on expenditure; careful
prioritising investment programme; strengthening institutional and organisational structure
for better management and service delivery; providing appropriate level of funds for O&M
facilities; preparing pragmatic improved operational plans with focus on conjunctive use of
surface and ground water and implement them effectively with proper tools of monitoring
and evaluation; introducing modem management information system; promoting farmers
participation in water management and rotational water supply (RWS) principles to them;



201
volumetric supply of water to Water Users' Associations (WUAs) and moving over time
to price services at cost etc.



202
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
NATIIONAL WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1770-IN)
Appendix 4
Excerpts from the Ministry of Water Resources' Completion Report
Chapter 10. Lessons Drawn from NWMP-I
10.1 BACKGROUND
10.1.1 The NWMP is in operation for the last eight years. During this period the NWMP
activities gained momentum and its impact has been well appreciated. Beginning with
merely three states in the South, the project now covers eight additional States. More
States are keen to be included under the NWMP. It is evident from the study of some
schemes already completed under NWMP, like Bhadra in Karnataka, Sathanur in Tamil
Nadu, that water management and maintenance of such schemes have greatly improved,
resulting in increase in productivity per unit of land and water. These have been able to
create conditions for reliable and equitable distribution of irrigation water.
10.1.2 Keeping in view the usefulness of the programme, the Eight Five Year Plan (1992-
97) envisages covering more areas under the NWMP. The Committee on Pricing of
Irrigation Water has also appreciated the functioning of the NWMP schemes and stressed
to expand the project substantially, having considered it as an appropriate instrument for
implementation of their recommendations.
10.1.3 At the stage when the programme is coming to a close, it is necessary to know the
extent to which various requirements laid down under the NWMP have been fulfilled by
the individual schemes, the difficulties faced in attaining these requirements and the extent
to which these requirements need to be modified in the subsequent phase in the light of the
experience gained so far. All said and done, though the credit has been utilized fully under
the project, the programme remains incomplete since spill-over schemes under the project
are as many as 70, despite an extension of time by one year from the originally
contemplated date of closure. The lessons learnt can mostly be described from the
problems faced in the implementation. Some of the lessons learnt which could be relevant
for future implementation of any such programme are highlighted in the following
paragraphs.



203
10.2 FUNDS CONSTRAINTS
10.2.1 The NWMP programme was to be cost effective and the schemes thereunder were
expected to yield results quickly within a span of 3-5 years. Even during the
implementation of the programme itself, the benefits from the scheme were expected
flowing to the farmers. This has not happened in many of the schemes in different States.
This has mainly been due to non-availability of funds at State level in accordance with the
schedule of implementation. The working period in the command being limited,
substantial funds are required to be made available right at the beginning of the financial
year. The States due to resource constraints find it difficult to provide requisite funds in
time. Whatever is provided is found to be meager. Moreover, reimbursement takes quite
sometime and whatever amount is reimbursed at Central level is credited to the State's
resources which takes time in percolating down to the project authorities. The proceeds
available under NWMP should be treated as earmarked outlays in the State plan and
should not be adjusted against the State's resource liability in general.
10.2.2 Although the Ministry of Finance has been providing advance Central Assistance
from time to time, but the amount is quite meager. Presently, the Irrigation Departments
in each of the NWMP State have built up departmental capabilities to spend annual budget
of considerable order. It would be appropriate to explore possibility of releasing an
advance of about Rs.50 Million in the first week of April every year as a revolving fund
directly utiliseable by the organizations responsible for NWVMP works.
10.3 CONCEPT
10.3.1 The project authorities formulated revised operational plans in most of the
completed or nearly completed sub-projects and water delivery practice had accordingly
commenced under NWMP. However, the progress in adoption of the operational plans
and the rules had not been steady. In most of the cases, the operational plans were either
notional or still at draft stage, to be approved by the State Government. Merely
preparation of operational plan does not help unless it is implemented. This implies that
the main system management has to be responsive and effective in terms of canal
operation, and effective communication with the farmers and monitoring of the system.
10.3.2 This further implies that unless the operation plan is implemented strictly, the
farmers are involved actively in compliance of the same, the objectives of the NWMP
cannot be attained. Apparently there is a considerable scope for strengthening the
operational plan aspect in NWMP schemes. It is, therefore, necessary to get the farmers
fully acquainted with the plans and their reactions taken into account. The canal
operational plan is to be notified in advance of each crop season. While issuing the
notification of the irrigation schedule, strict implementation of the relevant section of the
Irrigation Act has to be intensified with greater use of modern techniques.



204
10.3.3 Operational plan should be prepared with a good understanding of the water
balance within the command. A major component of the water balance comprises the
losses, return flows, rainfall, groundwater development and utilisation.
10.3.4 The plan should be prepared after studying the whole infrastructural system,
cropping pattern etc. in consultation with the agricultural and soil analyst and should be
approved by the farmers. Unauthorised command area should also be included in the plan.
10.3.5 The operational plan prepared should be continuously revised and refined on the
basis of flow measurements, rainfall, cropping pattern etc.
10.4  Coordination
10.4.1 Inter-organizational coordination of irrigation and agriculture management has
been quite inadequate in most of the NWMP States. Various agencies such as irrigation,
agriculture, the CADAs, credit institutions etc. are still functioning independently and in
isolation from each other. The role of agricultural office in advising the engineer on water
delivery schemes on one hand and the farmers on cropping patterns and irrigation
practices below outlets on the other is equally important in providing linkage between the
farmers and the engineers in irrigation system management. There should be strong
organizational coordination among all the concerned agencies -- irrigation, agriculture,
revenue and the beneficiaries to facilitate the formulation and implementation of the
operational plan.
10.5 MAINTENANCE
10.5.1 Under the NWMP, physical improvements are being made not only to restore the
capabilities of an irrigation system but also upgrade the main system to bring it to the
desired standard to ensure a more reliable, predictable and equitable irrigation service.
About 80 percent of the total cost of a scheme under NWMP is spent on physical works.
Even after such restoration work is carried out, it is essential to maintain all the project
components properly so that the project continues to provide sustainable service. Unless
the system is maintained properly it cannot perform well and the purpose of the NWMP
could get defeated. For a defined operation under varying conditions of availability and
demand pattern, only a well maintained system can respond quickly with minimum loss in
operation. Operations and maintenance are thus inter-related and integral part of the
management of the system. Therefore, adequate funds and responsible agencies are the
pre-requisites for satisfactory operation and maintenance.
10.6 FARMERS' PARTICIPATION
10.6.1 It is learnt from the experience of the current phase of the NWMP that without the
active involvement of farmers in irrigation water management, the objective of the NWMP
schemes could not be realised completely. Even if some of the objectives were realized
partially they could not be sustained in the long run. There is, therefore, a pressing need



205
to organise the farmers during the course of implementation of NWMP scheme to deal
with the problem related to irrigation management. It should be obligatory on the part of
the project authorities to ensure formation of users' groups in the command and transfer
the responsibility of O&M below certain level of the irrigation system. However, the steps
for accelerating the process of forming effective users' groups have to be conceived in a
wider framework combining better management of the system as a whole with incentive
for group operation. Initially, the aim should be to increase user participation in
management at the level of distribution and minors, and in due course at the level of the
system as a whole.
10.7 COMMUNICATION
10.7.1 The progress of the communication component of the schemes under NVMP ON
the whole have been practically insignificant. The efforts made in this regard in respect of
Bhadra, Sathanur and Thandva have not yielded encouraging results. Computerised
management information system is yet to be developed. Although National Informatic
Center has developed a software package for Bhadra, the same is yet to be replicated in
other sub-projects in and outside the State. However, NRSA, Hyderabad is using satellite
remote sensing techniques which have been quite useful for monitoring the Bhadra
command area. The technique needs to be applied increasingly in all the important
command areas of the NWMP schemes. The telecommunication network, along with
computer processing facilities and the remote sensing techniques, provide the means for an
efficient monitoring and analysis of irrigation management system with a view to
accelerate the optimum utilization of scarce water resources. The greater use or such
modern tools under NWMP schemes is called for.
10.8 MONITORING
10.8. 1 Monitoring and evaluation has been receiving increasing attention of most of the
project staff who are intensively monitoring project performance utilising the formats
recommended for the purpose in the participating States of Karnataka and Tamil Nadu.
The monitoring data maintained by the project staff shows that most sub-projects are
using less water, per hectare than what was used before they were brought under NWMP.
Also there has been overall increase in crop yield and also productivity per unit of water
delivered. As a result, the gross agricultural income per unit of water delivered at main
canal head has also substantially increased. This is indeed an encouraging feature. A lot
more could be done in this regard by the intensive application of modern tools of
communication as mentioned above, and monitoring the projects as per norms. Efforts
need to be made by States for monitoring the project performance intensively and
effectively.









I ll AG I NG i
iep&z Mo     c I I:     160- -I1
TypDe:  IC'1



