O FF11C IA L
CREDIT NUMBER 1770 IN
Project Agreement
(National Water Management Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
STATE OF ANDHRA PRADESH
STATE OF KARNATAKA
STATE OF TAMIL NADU
Dated                             , 1987


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1770 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated         /!6,/2--'              , 1987, among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIA ON (the Association) and the
STATE OF ANDHRA PRADESH (Andhra Pradesh), STATE OF KARNATAKA
(Karnataka) and STATE OF TAMIL NADU (Tamil Nadu) each acting by
their respective Governors.
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India (the Borrower) and the Association, the
Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to ninety three million
two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 93,200,000), on
the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka
and Tamil Nadu each agree to undertake such obligations toward
the Association as are set forth in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu, each, in
consideration of the Association's entering into the Development
Credit Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed to undertake the
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW TREREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Crcdit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu,
each, declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and,
to this end, each shall carry out Parts A (i), A (ii), A (iv),
A (v) and A (vi) of the Project with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
engineering and agricultural practices, and each shall provide,


﻿-2 -
or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for such Parts
of the Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Association and Andhra Pradesh,
Karnataka and Tamil Nadu shall otherwise agree, Andhra Pradesh,
Karnataka and Tamil Nadu shall carry out Parts A (i), A (ii),
A (iv), A (v) and A (vi) of the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for Parts A (i), A (ii), A (iv), A (v) and A (vi) of the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.03. Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu,
each, shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03,
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relat-
ing to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules,
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respec-
tively) in respect of Parts A, (i), A (ii), A (iv), A (v) and
A (vi) of the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu,
each, shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views
with the Association with regard to the progress of Parts A (i),
A (ii), A (iv), A (v) and A (vi) of the Project, the performance
of its obligations under this Agreement and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu, each, shall
promptly inform the Association of any condition which interferes
or threatens to interfere with the progress of Parts A (i), A
(ii), A (iv), A (v) and A (vi) of the Project, the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by Andhra
Pradesh, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu of their respective obligations
under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu
each shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained records and


﻿-3-
accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect
of Parts A (i), A (ii), A (iv), A (v) and A (vi) of the Project
or the departments or agencies of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and
Tamil Nadu responsible for the carrying out of its part of Parts
A (i), A (ii), A (iv), A (v) and A (vi) of the Project or any
part thereof.
(b) Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu each shall:
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by indepen-
dent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than
nine months after the end of such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information concern-
ing said records, accounts and financial statements and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 3.02. For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditures, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Tamil
Nadu each shall:
(a) maintain in accordance with Section 3.01 of this Agree-
ment records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(b)   retain, until at least one year after the Association
has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the
last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all records,
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other docu-
ments) evidencing such expenditures;
(c)   enable the Association's representatives to examine
such records; and
(d)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in Section 3.01 of this Agreement
and that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by
the said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures
and internal control involved in their preparation, can be relied
upon to support the related withdrawals.


﻿-4-
Section 3.03. Each of the Participating States shall make
adequate budgetary allocations for covering the operation and
maintenance of each Scheme.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu
thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two
dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) the date 20 years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in para-
graph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly
notify Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have


﻿-5-
designated. by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For ANDHRA PRADESH:
Secretary to Government of Andhra Pradesh
Irrigation and Command Area Development
Secretariat
Hydrabad, 500022
Andhra Pradesh, India
Cable address:                    Telex:
CHIEFSEC                         155-6325 APCS-IN
Hydrabad, India
For KARNATAKA:
Secretary II
Public Works, CAD and Electricity
Department (Irrigation)
Government of Karnataka
Bangalore 560001
Karnataka, India
Cable address:
WORKSEC
Bangalore, India


﻿-6-
For TAMIL NADU:
Commissioner and Secretary
Public Works Department - Government of
Tamil Nadu
Fort Saint George
Madras 600001
Tamil Nadu, India
Cable address:
CHIEFSEC
Madras, India
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu
may be taken or executed by their respective Secretary in-charge
of their Irrigation Department or such other person or persons as
Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu shall designate in
writing, and Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu, each shall
furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority
and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿-7-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By/
Regional Vice President
Sou."h Asia
ANDHRA PRADESH
By
Authorized Representative
KARNATAKA
By
Authorized Representative
TAMIL NADU
By 5
/ Authorized Representative


﻿-8 -
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   Procurement Procedures
1.   All contracts for civil works shall be procured on the basis
of competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association; Drovided, however,
that contracts estimated to cost each the equivalent of $40,000
or less and not to exceed in the aggregate the equivalent of
$20,000,000, may be procured through piece work or unit price
contracts in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Association; provided, further, that works not to exceed in the
aggregate the equivalent of $20,000,000 may be carried out by
force account.
2.   Contracts for equipment and vehicles shall be procured on
the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Part B:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract for civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $80,000 or more and for each contracts
for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $40,000 or more,
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.02 Kb) of this Agreement.


﻿-9-
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II: Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Participating States in carrying out
Parts A (i), A (ii), A (iv), A (v) and A (vi) of the Project,
each of the Participating States shall employ, as and when
required, consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu, each shall:
1.   provide, promptly, as needed, the funds, staffing, facili-
ties, services and other resources required to carry out through-
out the districts under the Project effective agricultural exten-
sion services, satisfactory to the Association;
2.   take all such actions as shall be necessary to ensure that
agricultural extension services for each Scheme are fully
operational and adequately staffed by the time each Scheme is
completed;
3.   select, plan and design and seek approval of each Scheme in
accordance with procedures, standards and criteria satisfactory
to the Association;
4.   establish and, thereafter, maintain or strengthen, as the
case may be, the PPM Cells and O&M Cells pursuant to a program
and time-table satisfactory to the Association;
5.   one year prior to the completion of each Scheme investment,
establish and, thereafter, maintain or strengthen, as the case
may be, for each Scheme an appropriate committee for purposes of
formulating annual and seasonal operational and maintenance
plans;
6.   (a) under terms of reference satisfactory to the Associa-
tion, carry out a detailed interim operation and maintenance
review of the Schemes;
(b) by December 31, 1991, in consultation with the Associa-
tion review the results of the above-mentioned studies; and
(c) taking into account such review and the Operation and
Maintenance experience gaiend in other irrigation projects else-
where in each Participating State, not later than December 31,
1992, in consultation with the Associaton prepare an appropriate
Action Plan for improving Operation and Maintenance practices in
each of the Participating States, and, promptly thereafter,
initiate the implementation of such Action Plan.


﻿- 11 -
7.   by December 31, 1987, prepare a monitoring and evaluation
program for the various activities under Part A of the Project
satisfactory to the Association, and implement the said monitor-
ing and evaluation program accordingly;
8.   without limitation to the generality of Section 9.06 of the
General Conditions, until completion of the Project, furnish to
the Association annual reports of such scope and in such detail
as the Association shall reasonably request covering the progress
of the Project, such reports to be submitted through the WMC and
furnished to the Association within three months after the end of
each reporting period. The first report shall be furnished to the
Association by June 30, 1988;
9.   by December 31, 1987, prepare and furnish to the Association
for its review and comments, detailed schedules for the training
programs under Part A (iv) of the Project, and thereafter, taking
into account the Association's comments, if any, implement such
training programs;
10. without limitation to the provisions of Section 2.01 of this
Agreement, by November 30 of each year, commencing on Novem-
ber 30, 1987, and thereafter, until the completion of the Pro-
ject, prepare and furnish to the Association, for purposes of
exchanging views, proposed financial requirements for the forth-
coming Borrower's Fiscal Year for carrying out Part A (i), (ii),
(iv), (v) and (vi) of the Project; and
11.   by December 31, 1987, establish a Dam Safety Panel with
membership and terms of reference satisfactory to the Associa-
tion, for purposes, inter alia, of inspecting periodically in
accordance with sound engineering practices, the dams and related
structures serving Schemes under Part A of the Project, in order
to determine whether there are any deficiences in the condition
of such structures or in the quality and adequacy of maintenance
or methods of operation of the same, which may endanger their
safety, and shall promptly carry out any repair works which shall
be required to ensure the safety of such dams and structures.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


