Document of
The World Bank
FILE        COPY                  FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2092-RO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
INVESTMENT BANK OF ROMANIA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF ROMANIA
FOR THE
CIMPULUNG MUSCEL POLYESTER PROJECT
May 24, 1977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
I their offielal duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorintion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1. Official.Rate
Lei  4.97   =   US$1.00
Leu  1.00   =   US$0.20
2. Tourist Rate
Lei 12.00   =   US$l.OO
Leu  1.00   =   US$0.08
3. Conversion Rate for TTaded Goods
Lei 20.00   =   US$1.00
Leu  1.00   =   US$0.05
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY-OF ABBREVIATIONS
COFACE    -    Compagnie-Frangaise d'Assurance pour le
Commerce ExtErieur
ECOD      -    Export Credit Guarantee Department
SEPMES    -    Hermes Kreditversicherings-Aktiengesellschaft
ZITPIC    -    Technological Engineering and Design Institute
for the Chemical Industry
ROMCHIM   -    Import Agency for Chemical Equipment and Technology
under the Ministry of Chemical Industry
tpy       -    Tons per year



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ROMANIA
CIMPULUNG MUSCEL POLYESTER PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:           Investment Bank of Romania
Guarantor:          Socialist Republic of Romania
Beneficiary:        Cimpulung-Muscel Synthetic Fiber Enterprise
Amount:             US$50 million, in various currencies
Terms:              Amortization in 15 years, including 3 years of grace,
at an interest rate of 8.2 percent per annum.
Project             The project consists of the construction of facilities for
Description:       a new polyester plant in Cimpulung-Muscel (district of
Arges) for the production of 31,500 tons per year (tpy)
of polyester staple, tow and tops and 15,200 tpy of poly-
ester chips. It includes:
(a) polymerization, spinning and drawing sections to
produce 31,500 tpy of polyester staple fiber in
the form of cotton-type, wool-type or flax-type
tow or staple;
(b) facilities to produce 15,200 tpy of polyester
chips which will be processed further in other
Romanian plants;
(c) facilities to convert 5,000 tpy of wool-type tow
to tops;
(d) infrastructure and related installations for power
and steam generation; raw material and product
transportation, handling and storage; recovery and
recycling of raw materials and by-product methyl
alcohol; as well as extensive maintenance and
laboratory facilities.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their officil duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Cost Estimates:
Estimated Cost"-
Local   Foreign    Total
Item                                    ----- (US$ million)-----            %
Equipment, Supplies & Spares            21.1      30.5     51.6           48.7
Freight                                  2.8       0.3      3.1            2.9
Erection & Supervision                   8.4       2.1     10.5            9.9
Licenses & Engineering                    1.6      8.7     10.3            9.7
Land & Site Development                   1.4       -       1.4            1.3
Civil Works                             24.6       1.3     25.9           24.4
Pre-Operating Costs                       2.3       -       2.3            2.2
Training                                  0.7      0.2      0.9            0.9
Base Cost                             62.9      43.1    106.0          100.0
Physical Contingencies                    7.6      3.4     11.0           10.4
Price Escalation                          1.2      3.7      4.9            4.6
Total Installed Cost                   71.7     50.2    121.9          115.0
Working Capital                           6.8      0.2      7.0            6.6
Total Project Cost                     78.5     50.4    128.9          121.6
/1   Discrepancies due to rounding.
Financing Plan:                                US$ Million
Local   Foreign    Total
State Funds for:
Fixed Assets                     71.7      0.2      71.9
Working Capital                   6.8       0.2      7.0
IBRD                                0.0     50.0      50.0
Total                            78.5     50.4     128.9
Estimated
Disbursements:                 Calendar Years    1977   1978   1979   1980
------(US$ Million)------
Annual            10.0   22.5   13.7    3.8
Cumulative        10.0   32.5   46.2   50.0



Procurement:        The major package proposed for Bank financing comprises
imported technology, engineering, and key equipment and
includes drawings, specifications and foreign technical
assistance for items of equipment to be made by Romanian
fabricators. This complex package, costing an estimated
US$23.6 million and including physical and prices contin-
gencies, would be procured through international competi-
tive bidding. Price bids were submitted at the end of
December 1976, and it is expected that, following evalua-
tion of the proposals, a contract for this package will
be signed by the end of June 1977. Other equipment and
materials estimated to cost about US$24.6 million will
also be procured following international competitive bid-
ding. Romanian suppliers participating in international
competitive bidding would be accorded a margin of
preference of 15 percent or applicable customs duty,
whichever is lower, and it is expected that Romanian
suppliers would win about $10.2 million of contracts
for power plant, recovery systems for raw materials and
by-products, and other equipment. Imported items costing
less than US$100,000 each, and up to a total of $1.8 mil-
lion, may be purchased through international shopping on
the basis of suitability, availability and price considera-
tions, subject to prior approval by the Bank of the list
of items involved.
Economic Rate
of Return:          15.6 percent.
Appraisal Report:    No. 1436-RO, dated May 24, 1977
Division III
Industrial Projects Department
EMENA
May 24, 1977






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE INVESTMENT BANK OF ROMANIA, WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF ROMANIA,
FOR THE CIMPULUNG-MUSCEL POLYESTER PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Investment Bank of Romania, with the guarantee of the Socialist Republic
of Romania, for the equivalent of US$50 million, to help finance a polyester
project.  The loan would have a term of 15 years, including three years of
grace, with interest at 8.2 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The latest economic memorandum for Romania (818a-RO) was circulated
to the Executive Directors on December 29, 1975, and an agricultural sector
survey (953a-RO) was circulated on November 15, 1976. A basic economic mission
visited Romania in October/November 1976 and its report is under preparation.
Preliminary findings of this mission are incorporated in this report. Country
social and economic data are given in Annex I.
3.        Since the founding in 1947 of the People's Republic of Romania,
which in 1965 was reconstituted as the Socialist Republic of Romania, economic
management has been organized along socialist principles which have included
state and cooperative ownership of almost all productive resources, and the
absence of private enterprise. Economic activity is directed by means of
obligatory development planning, coordinated by the central authorities.
Productive enterprises operate within the framework of the development plan
which defines the scope of their activity, the outlines of their production
and investment goals and their targets for operating efficiency. The plan is
elaborated within a five-year time frame, each year having a separate Annual
Plan. The country began its latest Five-Year Plan in January, 1976.
4.        The technical and functional Ministries are the State's chief agents
for the administration of economic activity. They are assisted by subordinate
units known as Centrals, which coordinate and supervise activities within a
common branch or industry without being directly engaged in production. En-
terprises subordinate to the Centrals are responsible for production which
is controlled through a system of physical production and financial targets.
Production enterprises generally are not authorized to engage directly in
foreign trade and rely on specialized foreign trade enterprises for this
purpose. In agriculture, large State farms and cooperatives are the pre-
dominant units of production.
5.        Economic development is of paramount concern to the Romanian Gov-
ernment. Rapid industrialization is a major objective with priority being
1/   Identical to the corresponding sections of the President's Reports dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors on May 16, 1977 for the Brasov Bear-
ings Project and on May 23, 1977 for the Bucharest Glass Fiber Project.



- 2 -
given to heavy industry including steel, engineering products and chemicals.
To achieve their growth objectives, the Romanian authorities have made consid-
erable efforts to mobilize domestic resources for development and to maintain
a high rate of capital formlation. In the 1971-75 Five-Year Plan, planned and
actual investment rates of around 30 percent of GNP were the norm. As a
consequence, consumption has been restrained, and the development of the
consumer goods industry has been less strongly emphasized than that of heavy
industry. In 1975, heavy industry (led by engineering and metal working,
chemicals and ferrous metallurgy) accounted for about 61 percent of industrial
production.
6.        As a result of this strategy, a marked change has been achieved in
the strmcture of Romania's economy. Rapid industrial growth, which over the
last decade has averaged more than 13 percent per annum, has expanded the
share of the labor force employed in industry (including power and construc-
tion) from about 14 percent in 1950 to approximately 40 percent in 1975.
During the same period, the share of labor force engaged in agriculture has
declined from 74 percent to around 38 percent; and while agricultural output
almost tripled, its share in GNP amounted to only 15 percent in 1975.
7.        Notwithstanding the emphasis on industrialization, more than half
of the population (about 57 percent in 1975) still lives in rural areas and
agriculture remains a key sector of the economy. Apart from supplying food,
industrial inputs and the residual labor increment for industrial growth
(which requires an expansion in agricultural productivity), the sector also
supplies about one quarter of the nation's convertible foreign exchange earn-
ings. These earnings, which are largely used to buy imported inputs for in-
dustry, have often been jeopardized as a result of unstable production growth
in agriculture. The maintenance of the industrial development program, there-
fore, is dependent on the performance of the agricultural sector.
8.        Romania's population growth is around one percent per annum.    Thus,
the impact of rapid economic growth on per capita incomes has been only mar-
ginally diluted by the population increase. In the last decade, GNP growth
has averaged nine percent per annum, implying a growth of about eight percent
per annum of per capita GNP. It is estimated that GNP per capita in 1975
was US$1,300 based upon official national income information and using the
World Bank Atlas methodology.
9.        The organization of production in both the urban sector and in agri-
culture is such that all labor is employed and there is no open unemployment.
There is, however, some seasonal labor surplus, mainly in agriculture. Income
distribution is also relatively equal. In 1975, average monthly wages were
1,813 lei (over $90 equivalent) up nine percent over the previous year. About
87 percent of all monthly wages in 1975 were within the range of 1,300-2,500
lei. Four percent were under 1,300 lei and about nine percent were above
2,500 lei. Prices for essential consumer goods and services such as basic
foodstuffs, rents and urban transport are relatively low and most social
services, notably education and health care, are provided without charge.
Standards of living, while still modest, have been increasing because of the
rapid growth of national income. Romania also pursues an active regional
policy which has sought to bring a balanced development of both human and
natural resources to all parts of the country.



10.       The official exchange rate of lei 4.97 per US$1 is used only for
accounting purposes. The rate used for tourist transactions is lei 12 per
US$1, having been revalued from a rate of lei 14.38 per US$1 in October 1974.
Beginning in July 1973, a trading rate of lei 20 per US$1 has been used to
convert the prices of all traded goods; this rate is considered representa-
tive of the average cost of convertible foreign exchange. The rate of lei 20
per US$1 has also been used to convert national income statistics from lei to
dollars. Consequently, this rate has been used as the base rate for calcula-
tion in the appraisal.
Recent Developments
11.       Since the National Party Conference of 1967, which set the stage
for major qualitative advances in Romania's economic and social development,
there have been important new emphases in Romania's economic management.
Measures were taken to improve the institutional basis of planning (e.g. by
creating centrals to assist in plan administration), to increase the effi-
ciency of economic management and to improve the quality of products in
industry. In agriculture efforts were made to raise productivity and
stabilize growth through irrigation, mechanization and the expanded use
of chemical fertilizers. To promote the growth of foreign trade and
technical-economic cooperation the Government has concluded trade and
cooperation agreements with a wide range of countries. In this context,
Romania has also made positive efforts to expand its multilateral external
relations and to pursue full cooperation with international agencies, in-
cluding UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, FAO, UNIDO, GATT and more recently, the IMF
and the Bank.
12.       Measures aimed at continued improvement of the management system
include a reorganization (involving a reduction from 217 to 95 in number)
of industrial centrals and a concentration within the centrals of all plan-
ning, control and research functions. The pursuit of purely physical goals in
production and trade, while still an important element in the system, is being
supplemented by much greater emphasis on production and investment efficiency,
product quality, pricing and foreign competitiveness. To eliminate wasteful
investment and production expenditures, a Superior Court of Financial Control
has been established, among other things, to oversee a new system of financial
control.
13.       Foreign trade has expanded rapidly in recent years both in volume
and in regional diversity. There has also been a tendency to move away from
trade on a bilateral basis toward trade involving multilateral payments.
During 1971-75, total foreign trade grew at approximately 18 percent per
annum in current prices. In 1975, however, after the very rapid growth in
the value of trade of 33 percent in 1974, trade grew by only 6.6 percent,
with exports increasing by 9.6 percent to US$5.34 billion and imports by 3.9
percent also to US$5.34 billion. This slower increase in 1975 was explained
chiefly by the floods of July 1975 which resulted in a smaller exportable
surplus of agricultural goods and necessitated cancellation of some imports.
About 54 percent of 1975 trade was with the convertible currency area. Over-
all current account deficits have generally remained small; in 1975 the
deficit was only US$135 million, while the deficit with the convertible
currency area was US$260 million. In recent years, imports from eastern



- 4 -
European socialist countries have been slightly lower than Romania's exports
to that region. In Romania's trade with western industrialised countries, on
the other hand, exports have typically been considerably less than imports.
These deficits have generally been increased by deficits on the invisibles
account with western countries.
14.       The structure of Romania's trade with the developed market economies
remains essentially unfavorable. Raw materials and agricultural commodities,
both of which are subject to unstable price and production conditions, com-
prise about 60 percent of total exports to these countries. At the same time
imports from these countries are largely of machines and equipment and other
manufactures. Because of the present low level of reserves, any instability
in export earnings, as frequently arises from shortfalls in agriculture (para-
graph 7 above), tends to place the import program in immediate jeopardy.
15.       Preliminary results for 1976 indicate that most major targets of
the 1976 Annual Plan have been met. National income rose by 10.5 percent,
gross industrial production increased by about 11.5 percent, and gross agri-
cultural production was a record, exceeding the flood affected 1975 level by
17.2 percent. These achievements were realized despite a lower than planned
investment growth rate (8.2 rather than 19.4 percent). The volume of trade
increased less than plan targets, but a reported overall trade surplus of
US$40 million was attained hecause of measures to economize on imports. In
November 1976, Romania's National Assembly approved the country's 1977 Annual
Plan and Budget, which calls for continued high rates of growth. National
income is expected to rise by 11.3 percent and gross industrial production
by 10.5 percent. The Plan provides a range of 1.9-3.6 percent growth for
the gross farm output. This wide range is provided because of the uncertain
impact climatic conditions might have on production. Investments in the
national economy are expected to increase by 16.7 percent and total foreign
trade volume by 15.5 percent. Insufficient information is available to assess
the full impact of the earthquake in March 1977. The Government has announced
that production targets for 1977 will be met and that no revisions of the
annual plan will be made. While it is possible that planned production levels
will be attained, it is likely that replenishment of the damaged capital stock
will take longer and require additional resources and/or diverting of invest-
ment resources from new projects.
16.       A campaign to increase efficiency in the utilization of existing
capacities and to effect significant economies in the consumption of raw
materials and intermediate goods is being implemented throughout the economy.
Targets have been established to reduce by 30 percent the previously antici-
pated construction and erection costs of industrial projects between 1976-80.
Substantial, but as yet unspecified, savings have also been prescribed for
most other industrial inputs during 1976-80, while the global production
targets as set in the Five Year Plan remain unchanged.
External Assistance
17.       The expansion of Romania's trade with the non-socialist industrial
countries has led to an increased need to obtain convertible currencies to



- 5 -
pay for imports from those countries. Romania has met this need both by bor-
rowing abroad and by mounting a major effort to expand exports and tourism.
Gross inflows of convertible currency through medium- and long-term loans
were US$946 million in 1976, consisting mostly of financial and suppliers'
credits with relatively short repayment periods. This gross inflow repre-
sented a net inflow of some $312 million after accounting for the country's
repayment obligations.
18.       As part of its effort to expand its foreign trade and cooperation
relationships, Romania has also taken active steps to attract long-term pri-
vate capital. A regulation passed in 1972 defines the conditions under which
foreign firms can establish joint ventures with domestic enterprises, prefer-
ably in foreign exchange earning or saving industries. As of January 1977,
seven joint venture agreements had been signed. In contrast with the first
six which were of a small scale involving total direct foreign investment of
about US$10-15 million, the seventh agreement which was signed a few months
ago with Citroen, involved a contract of FF 2.5 billion (about US$500 million)
of which 49 percent is direct foreign investment. Romania also receives
medium-term trade credits from U.S. Eximbank and trades under ECGD, COFACE,
and HERMES credit guarantees with the United Kingdom, France and the Federal
Republic of Germany, respectively. Romania succeeded in securing a US$60
million, eight-year loan from Kuwait as part of a general cooperation agree-
ment and more recently a $50 million Eurodollar loan. In addition, Romania
has access to non-convertible currency investment credits from the Interna-
tional Investment Bank, Moscow.
19.       As it stands Romania's access to long-term finance in convertible
currencies is still very restricted. The IBRD is the only major source of
such long-term development finance, though Romania is making efforts to
improve its access to the major financial markets. The Bank's presence on
a significant scale would have a positive influence in this regard and might
serve a. a catalyst for involving other lenders in Romania. This could
serve both to increase the total amount of Bank-sponsored funds available to
Romania and to build outside confidence in the country, thereby enhancing in
the long-term its independent access to the world's financial markets.
Prospects
20.       The 1976-80 Five-Year Plan reflects Romania's continued strategy
of rapid growth. Investment rates of some 30 percent of GNP are to be main-
tained, and the major thrust is in industry. The plan targets are impressive.
National income is expected to grow at 10-11 percent per annum and gross in-
dustrial output by 10.2-11.2 percent per annum, with more rapid growth in
heavy industry than in consumer goods. Continued emphasis is to be placed
on foreign trade which is expected to double in real terms, with the aim of
securing a continued transfer of technology needed for the modernization and
diversification of Romanian industry and the raw materials required by indus-
try. Greater emphasis than in the 1971-75 Plan is to be given to developing
the infrastructure in agriculture, particularly with regard to irrigation
and drainage and the plans for fertilizer production envisage an increase
in supply sufficient to double the 1974 application rates by 1980.



- 6 -
21.       Romania has good potential for further economic growth.    Endowed
with importan. natural resources (fuels, some minerals, timber, rich soils
and source.s    Ltrigation water for agriculture, and a favorable climate for
agriculture atid tourism) and located conveniently with respect to its major
international markets in the East and West, the country has built a broad
industrial infrastructure (power, metallurgy, chemicals) which will serve as
a base for the expansion of secondary manufacturing sectors such as machine
building and consumer durables. Above all, Romania has a hard-working and
increasingly skilled population. In order for Romania to attain its growth
objectives, however, it will have to rely on a major expansion of exports
of manufactured goods in order to finance modern foreign technology and an
increasing dependence on imported raw materials and fuel.
22.       Economic growth and structural change call for the introduction of
new technologies, improvements in the quality of products, more efficient use
of materials and factor inputs, and reductions in production costs. The in-
creasing diversity and complexity of Romania's economic stru,cture require
continuing improvements in the efficiency of economic planning and coordina-
tion and further refinements in economic management. To keep up with these
changes and requirements, large programs of education and manpower training
have been mounted, investments in scientific and technological research have
been emphasized, and efforts are being made to strengthen technical coopera-
tion with industrialized countries and international organizations.
Creditworthiness
23.       As of December 1976, Romania's total medium and long-term external
debt amounted to US$3,095 million. Most of these debts (US$3,023 million)
were denominated in convertible cuirzencies, the major creditor countries being
Germany, France, UK and Italy.   While the total debt does not appear excessive
in relation to the volume and growth of external trade, average- miaturities are
relatively short and convertible debt service payments are estiliated to be
in the order of US$550 million a year during 1975-76.    The convertible debt
service ratio was approximately 14 percent in 1D,i5.   The correspondi,g figure
for 1976 is estimated to havc been 19 percent and is expect lcd to be 18 per(:fntt
for 1977.
24.       The organization of eco,i,n,i.c acLivity in Romania, the pursuit nf
a development strategy involving I,igh investment and saving rates, and rapid
income growth ensure the effective use of foreign credits. Moreover, the
country's major efforts to expand exports (particularly to convertible cur-
rency areas) are increasing the foreign exchange available for debt service.
Convertible export earnings rose from US$830 million in 1971 to US$2,839
million in 1975, and are estimated to have been about US$3,250 million in
1976. The preferential trade status accorded to Rumania ;y the European
Communities in June 1973 is facilitating the expansion oi such exports as is
the g, ting of most favored nation status by the U.S. In 1973, the GoverLi-
ment also restricted the use of short-term credit facilities from western
suppliers in an effort to improve the structure of the country's external
debt.  Assuming a continu;liion of present export and debt management policies,
we estimate that the debt service ritie- w-ill remain around 20 percent during



- 7 -
the 4-;.ementation of the Five-Year Plan 1976-80 and decline thereafter to
about i, percent by 1985. The country's present outward-looking posture,
the success of both its domestic growth and foreign trade policies, and its
potential for continued development, all support the judgment that Romania
is creditworthy for substantial Bank lending.
25.       When Romania joined the Bank, most pre-war foreign debts of the
country had been settled. Settlements which were still under discussion at
that time concerned claims in the United Kingdom and in the United States.
With regard to the settlement of these claims, the final payments of U.S.
claims began in September 1975 and were completed in October 1976 based upon
agreements reached in May 1975. Settlement of British claims proved more
difficult, but a final agreement was signed in January 1976. The Bank has
also been informed recently of certain Swedish claims concerning public loans
from the pre-war period, nationalized Swedish property and other interests
such as concessions granted to Swedish companies before the Second World War.
The eleventh and most recent meeting to discuss these claims was held in
Bucharest in October 1976. The Romanian and Swedish authorities have also
dealt with this matter in April 1977 in the context of more general dis-
cussions of bilateral trade, and further discussions are planned at a date
to be established through diplomatic channels.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ROMANIA 1/
26.       The proposed loan, would bring total Bank commitments to Romania to
US$626.3 million. 2/ Disbursements under the Bank's initial loans were slow
during 1975, but this situation improved considerably during 1976. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans to Romania and notes on the execu-
tion of ongoing projects as of April 30, 1977.
27.       Foreign exchange, especially in convertible currencies, continues
to be a major constraint and one of the major objectives of Bank lending con-
tinues to be to help alleviate the country's shortage of foreign exchange by
providing long-term external capital and by financing projects which will
expand foreign exchange earnings or savings. Bank lending also aims at sup-
porting the Government's efforts to introduce new industrial technologies, to
improve the quality of products and production efficiency, to reduce produc-
tion costs and to provide for necessary electric power development. Market
aspects and marketing, especially for export goods, are also emphasized.
Special attention is given to agriculture which is heavily dependent upon
favorable weather and where productivity levels are still comparatively low.
1/   Substantially the same as the corresponding section of the President's
Reports distributed to the Executive Directors on May 16, 1977 for the
Brasov Bearings Project and on May 23, 1977 for the Bucharest Glass
Fiber Project.
2/   Assuming approval of the proposed loans of $38 million for the Brasov
Bearings Project and $18.3 million for the Bucharest Glass Fiber Project.



-8-
28.       A number of projects are under consideration for future lending.
Negotiations have begun recently for a pork production and processing project
which is expected to provide the basis for a loan proposal during 1977. In
addition, projects for further irrigation works, poultry production, dairy
cattle development, chemical and tire plants, and seamless pipes have been
proposed, and further power projects will also be considered in context of a
sector investment study currently being prepared by the Government.
29.       In addition to lending, the Bank (through EDI) has assisted Romania
by conducting industrial and transportation project appraisal training courses
for Romanian officials in Belgrade in October 1973 and in Bucharest in January/
February 1975, November/December 1975, January/February and October/November
1976. Additional courses, including one in agricultural project appraisal,
are planned.
30.       The projects, for which assistance has been committed or is being
considered, represent only a small portion of Romania's total need for ex-
ternal financing and of its total disbursed convertible debt. However, they
provide a substantial net addition to the inflow of convertible currency
finance, and may set a pattern for obtaining longer term convertible finance
from other sources. The disbursed IBRD debt outstanding to the Bank is
expected to constitute about 12 percent of Romania's total projected con-
vertible currency debt in 1980; the Bank's share in Romania's debt service
payments in 1980 would be about 3 percent.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR IN ROMANIA
Industrial Development 1/
31.       Performance of Romania's industrial sector during the last 25 years
has been impressive, and great efforts have been made to transform a nation
that once specialized in the exportation of raw materials into a country with
a strong and broad based industrial sector. Large capital investments, at
annual rates in the order of 30 percent of GNP have been concentrated on basic
and heavy industry, particularly on fuel, electric power, metallurgy, machine
building and chemicals and have resulted in a rapid expansion and diversifica-
tion of industrial output. During the last Five Year Plan gross industrial
output increased by about 85 percent surpassing significantly plan targets.
Growth in the chemical, engineering and metal working, and ferrous metallurgy
sectors has been the fastest with production about doubling.
32.       In the process of this impressive development the industrial sector
of Romania has assimilated in a relatively short period of time vast amounts
1/   Identical to the corresponding sections of the President's Reports dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors on May 16, 1977 for the Brasov Bear-
ings Project and on May 23, 1977 for the Bucharest Glass Fiber Project.



- 9 -
of technology and know-how, and it is assuming a sophistication with which it
is increasingly capable of solving complex techaica'l problems and producing
products that require a high degree of technological achievement. One of the
comparative advantages of Romanian industry is its relatively low-cost, skilled
and unskilled man-power, supported by well organized training programs.
33.       Industrialization will remain the first priority of development both
in the 1976-80 Five Year Plan and in the longer run with output expected to
grow seven fold in the period 1970-1990 (or roughly 10 percent per annum).
While previous growth was often achieved at sacrifice of quality, efforts for
quality and productivity improvement are more evident now. Internally, the
areas of major emphasis will be manpower planning and development, growth in
technological capabilities, industrial modernization, and central efficiency
auditing. By applying the most advanced scientific methods and by stressing
scientific organization of manpower, substantially more value will be incor-
porated per ton of product. The thrust of the sector's development will
continue to be the growth of the chemical, engineering, metal working and
ferrous metallurgy sectors.
Industrial Organization
34.       At present nine industrial ministries are responsible for the indus-
trial sector in Romania. Subordinate to each Ministry are several foreign
trade enterprises, research and design institutes and a number of Centrals,
which in turn direct the activities of a group of related enterprises. The
work on overall design and supervision of projects is delegated by each Min-
istry to one of its research and design institutes. The enterprises, Centrals
and Design Institutes, which have not been authorized to trade abroad (see
also para 4 above) conduct their foreign business through the foreign trade
enterprises which normally belong to the same Ministry.
The Chemical Industry
35.       Petrochemicals have provided the basis for development of the
chemical industry in Romania. While Romania is no longer a significant ex-
porter of simple petroleum products, it has established a flourishing petro-
chemical industry based upon domestic oil and natural gas resources, and has
a highly trained workforce on which to base further development of the sector.
Beginning from a relatively small base in 1950, the chemical industry has
grown at an average rate of 21 percent per annum from 1950-75. Growth rates
in the past decade have also been substantial, at about 21 percent for 1965-70
and 16 percent for 1971-75, with the decline in growth rate reflecting increas-
ing absolute size of the industry and delays in commissioning new plant. In
1975, the chemical industry accounted for 11.3 percent of industrial output
(compared with 2.1 percent in 1950) and 10.8 percent of industrial exports
(compared with 1.7 percent in 1950). The sector received 14.7 percent of
industrial sector investments during the 1971-75 Five-Year Plan period.
36.       Production of synthetic fibers in Romania began with nylon in 1960,
and was extended to include acrylics during the 1960-65 Five-Year Plan and
polyester during the 1966-70 Plan. Textile fiber production and consumption



- 10 -
have grown very rapidly--at average annual rates of 18.4 percent and 9.4 per-
cent respectively in the last ten years--but the net deficit of fibers has
still been increasing and now amounts to more than 100,000 tons per year
(virtually all due to imported cotton). Production and consumption growth of
synthetic fibers during the same period has been more impressive, amounting to
about 40 percent and 27 percent per year respectively. From 1975 through 1985
fiber consumption is projected to grow at a slower pace, with annual rates of
7.1 percent for all yarn and 12 percent for synthetics. Production through
1980 is forecast to increase slightly faster than consumption, so that the
textile fiber deficit would drop to about 90,000 tons. If no new plants
were to be built after those now projected, substantial fiber imports would be
again required, by 1985. However, the Government is expected to initiate new
synthetic projects in the early 1980's with the objective of maintaining an
export position in synthetic fibers and thereby reducing the net fiber deficit
further.
37.       Chemical industry facilities are largely concentrated in the
center and the south of the country, where large refinery and petrochemical
complexes have been developed around the Ploiesti and Pitesti oil fields
to produce a broad range of refinery products, petrochemical intermediates
and end-products. The Government is making an effort to locate new plants
for production of end products, such as fertilizers or synthetics, away
from these traditional industrial centers, partly to promote a more balanced
regional growth and to avoid industrial congestion, and partly to take
advantage of the availability of labor and accommodations.
The Borrower
38.       The borrower for the proposed loan would be the Investment Bank,
which is the specialized agency, under the Ministry of Finance, for invest-
ment projects in all sectors of the economy except agriculture (including
water resources) and food processing. It has a large technical and economic
staff with branch offices in all districts of the country. The Investment
Bank's involvement in investment projects commences in the preparation phase
of a project; its staff appraises all major investment projects technically
and financially and recommends approval or otherwise of their financing
to the Council of Ministers. When a particular project and its financial
plan has been approved by the Council of Ministers, all funds are channeled
through the Investment Bank in accordance with the approved financial plan.
All payments for the execution of a project have to be authorized by the
Investment Bank which keeps separate accounts for each category in the
financial plan for every enterprise. It is the Investment Bank's obliga-
tion to ensure that a project is executed according to the financial and
technical data included in the final technical and economic study approved
by the Council of Ministers. Its inspectors check whether the project is
proceeding according to the schedule approved in the Plan.
39.       While the Investment Bank's supervision and control function is thus
rather strong during the implementation phase of a project, its functions
are much more limited during the operation phase of a project. Although it
has the right and obligation to verify th:-t the enterprise is meeting the



- 11 -
targets set in the investment plan, it has no legal authority to influence
directly the management of the enternrise or to force the enterprise directly
to take operational actions which it considers necessary. In practice, how-
ever, it can request such actions very effectively by reporting through the
Ministry of Finance to the Government.
40.       The Investment Bank is the channel for all sources of major domestic
investment financing, but its own funds for onlending as credits are still
relatively small. Its prime source of funds is the state Budget. The Gov-
ernment will ensure the availability of sufficient funds including foreign
exchange requirements for the implementation and operation of the project
(Section 2.02 of the Guarantee Agreement). The Guarantor will ensure that
the Investment Bank can meet the debt service on the Bank loan.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
41.       The project was proposed to the Bank in February 1976 as one of a
number of projects for which the Romanians sought Bank financing during the
1976-80 Five-Year Plan. Following preparation of project data requested by
the Bank, it was identified as a project of further interest to the Bank
in May 1976 by a mission which reviewed ten chemical sector projects.
The project was appraised in September and October 1976, and negotiations
were held in Washington in March 1977. The Romanian delegation was led
by Mr. Mihai Diamondopol, President of the Investment Bank, and included
representatives of the Ministry of Chemical Industries and the Investment
Bank.
Project Description
42.       The objective of the project is to increase production of high
quality polyester primarily for domestic consumption. The project would be
established as a new facility in a relatively less developed region of the
judet (district) of Arges, about 50 kilometers north of Pitesti and 160 kilo-
meters northwest of Ploiesti (see map). It would have a design capacity of
46,700 tons per year (tpy). The project would produce about 31,500 tpy of
polyester fiber suitable for blending with cotton, wool or flax, and about
15,200 typ of polyester chips which would be further processed at other plants
in Romania. Additional facilities would be provided to process 5,000 tpy of
longer-fiber polyester suitable for blending with wool. Infrastructure and
facilities would also be provided for steam and power generation; raw material
and product transportation, handling and storage; recovery and recycling of
raw materials and by-products; maintenance; and quality control and chemical
laboratories. The Appraisal Report (No. 1436-RO, dated May 24, 1977), is
being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
Project Execution and Operation
43.       A new enterprise to be established for the project (the Cimpulung
Enterprise) will be responsible for the implementation and operation of the



- 12 -
project. A project management team was established months ago and includes
staff from the several specialized agencies responsible for particular aspects
of the project. IITPIC (Technological Engineering and Design Institute for
the Chemical Industry) is responsible for project scope and design, technical
aspects of imported technology and equipment, overall site layout, construc-
tion design and detailed engineering. Civil works and construction work will
be carried out, under supervision of IITPIC, by a construction trust from the
Ministry of Industrial Construction. International procurement would be
handled by ROMCHIM (Import Agency for Chemical Equipment and Technology under
the Ministry of Chemical Industry), subject to technical review by IITPIC.
Overall responsibility for the project would rest with the Cimpulung Enter-
prise. Although these arrangements may appear rather fragmented, the respon-
sibilities of each party will be mandated by law after the Council of Ministers
has approved the project (Condition of Effectiveness, see paragraph 53).
Arrangements of this sort are well-established under the Romanian system and
have worked satisfactorily in previous projects.
Project Cost and Financing
44.       The estimated total cost of the project is US$128.9 million, with
an estimated foreign exchange component of US$50.4 million. The cost of
equipment and materials to be procured from foreign suppliers has been esti-
mated at the international prices prevailing in 1976. Physical contingencies
have been provided at 6 percent for licenses and engineering, 8 percent for
equipment and 12 percent for civil works. Price contingencies on foreign
exchange cost are based on an annual increases of 7.5 percent during the
construction period for equipment and an overall allowance of 5 percent for
licenses and engineering. Due to near zero inflation under the Romanian
system of administered prices, annual price contingencies on local costs have
been calculated at one percent.
45.       The proposed Bank loan of US$50.0 million would finance the foreign
costs of the project. The remaining project costs would be financed by the
Government. The proposed loan to the Investment Bank would be for 15 years
including a grace period of 3 years and would be guaranteed by the Govern-
ment. It is Romanian practice for the state to invest virtually all funds in
such projects through the Investment Bank without formal onlending agreements
and to recover investment costs from project beneficiaries through a variety
of financial mechanisms including net income transfers from state enterprises,
taxes and depreciation payments. For this reason, the Investment Bank would
not actually relend the Bank loan to the enterprise. However, the enterprise
would be the beneficiary of the Bank loan and its provision of funds to the
State Budget and Investment Bank would be sufficient to cover the Lei equiva-
lent of the debt service on the Bank loan including (notional) payment of
principal plus interest at 10 percent (Section 4.01 (a)(ii)(4) of the Loan
Agreement). This arrangement is in line with our practice in previous indus-
trial projects.



- 13 -
Procurement and Disbursement
46.       The major package proposed for Bank financing comprises imported
technology, engineering, and key equipment and includes drawings, specifica-
tions and foreign technical assistance for items of equipment to be made by
Romanian fabricators. This complex package, costing an estimated US$23.6
million and including physical and price contingencies, would be procured
through international competitive bidding. Price bids were submitted at the
end of December 1976, and it is expected that, following evaluation of the
proposals, a contract for this package will be signed by the end of June 1977.
Other equipment and materials estimated to cost about US$24.6 million will
also be procured following international competitive bidding.   Romanian sup-
pliers participating in international competitive bidding would be accorded
a margin of preference of 15 percent or applicable customs duty, whichever is
lower, and it is expected that Romanian suppliers would win about $10.2 mil-
lion of contracts for power plant, recovery systems for raw materials and by-
products, and other equipment. Imported items costing less than US$100,000
each, and up to a total of $1.8 million, may be purchased through interna-
tional shopping on the basis of suitability, availability and price considera-
tions, subject to prior approval by the Bank of the list of items involved.
47.       The Bank loan would be disbursed for (i) 100 percent of foreign
expenditures for imported technology, equipment and materials, and (ii) 100
percent of local costs ex-factory for equipment.
Audit
48.       Romania has developed an elaborate control and audit system, under
which enterprises submit periodic operational and financial reports to their
central, the technical ministry and the banks concerned. The central and
the technical ministry, as well as a special unit in the Ministry of Finance
and the National Bank and Investment Bank, conduct extensive audits of these
reports to ensure achievement of Plan targets and proper use of funds. The
Bank would receive quarterly project progress reports, annual financial
statements on the enterprise and Investment Bank, and copies of annual audit
reports prepared by the Ministry of Finance (Sections 6.01(c), (e) and (f) of
the Loan Agreement).
Environment
49.       The general level of effluents permitted in Romania is somewhat
higher than in the United States or Western Europe, but for touristic areas
or near larger cities, stricter standards are applied on a case-by-case basis.
Internationally accepted effluent standards will be employed since, in par-
ticular, the site is in a touristic area.and the Tirgu River is upstream of
major cities, and the Loan Agreement (Section 4.01(ii)(A)) provides that the
project will be operated with due regard for ecological, environmental and
safety factors.



- 14 -
Benefits and Risks
50.       The project will mainly provide for necessary expansion in polyester
production capacity to supply anticipated growth in domestic consumption
through 1983; there will also be exportable surpluses (averaging 7,200 tons
annually) during the initial period of operation from 1980-83. Substantial
transfer of technology for both the chemical and machine building industries
will result from the project, in line with the objectives of the Bank program
in Romania. In addition, the project will develop industry and employment
opportunities in a relatively less developed section of the country. The
estimated net annual foreign exchange savings or earnings of the project are
about US$30 million. Virtually all costs and benefits of the project have been
quantified, and the estimated economic return of the project is 15.6 percent.
51.       No serious risks to the achievement of project benefits are fore-
seen. About three-fourths of project output will be sold domestically in
the first four years of operation (100 percent after 1983). The Romanian
planning system provides that project output will meet future needs and no
problem is anticipated in marketing the relatively small amounts of exportable
surplus during the initial years of operation. The production process is well
established outside of Romania, and all key technology equipment which must
be imported, as well as technical assistance for the manufacture of equipment
in Romania will be provided under the contract noted in paragraph 46 above.
Conclusion of this contract, including satisfactory performance guarantees,
is a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan (Section 7.01 of the
draft Loan Agreement). These measures will minimize the technical risks of
the project. Romania has adequate supplies of indigenous raw materials for
the production process, and the draft Loan Agreement provides that necessary
feedstocks will be made available to the Cimpulung Enterprise (Section
4.01(a) (i) ).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
52.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Investment Bank
of Romania, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Socialist Republic of
Romania and the Bank, the report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement and the draft resolution approving
the proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
53.       Special conditions of effectiveness of the loan are (i) the approval
by the Council of Ministers of the technical and economic indicators of the
project, (ii) establishment of the Cimpulung Enterprise, and (iii) the entering
into force of the main contract under the project as noted in paragraph 51
(Section 7.01 of the Loan Agreement). Approval of detailed project parameters
(the technical and economic indicators) is normal under the Romanian system
and will provide the legal basis for financing and implementing the project.
54.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 15 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
55.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 24, 1977
Washington, D.C.






a -emtI 1 
* SB                                                                                                0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 t ~ l~1
a -t                                             A, 01 ~  M,                    " 
W    0                               Z8
o                                                                                                                       8~ 0
-   a                            0                                                                   A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  0~~~ 
roe ~ ~ ~   ~   ~   .. 00                                                                                  Ul
Os   00                                         ~~~~~~~0S In  8-
cm       0Uo



ANNEX i
Page 2 of 3 pages
unlees othorise noted, data for 1960 refer to any yea        betwee  1959 end 1961, for 1970 betwee     1968 and 1970 end for Moat Recet Estlean       bet-een
1973 and 1975.
a   ti-tlaaatntz.s,loooCCl      -       5       l s.ftaa,arbo,so
anThe Federal Rapublit of Garnsay ha. been seleotad asa         bjotiwa c-try beneoao in is indnttriliead European coutry with najor trade ties
wi th cRnst.U
c,-  he  aclia      of thee. flgorna is   idac dis.....ion.
RCgiAIlIA              1960    /a   1962;    lb   Ratio of population under 15 end 65 end ove      to total labor fae;        Ic  Hospitals only, neclodee
sonftart   cod naternity h-aa
1970    /a   Ratio of populatIon coder 15 and 65 ad ant to total leber faine;            Lb  Hospitala only, -eludes esiarsad
ctetnity harce;       /.  1966;     /d  Inaide only.
6100? RECE1r :Ft' flix(:   /c   1970-75;    /b   Ratio of popolation code    15 and 65 and   -ns  to total labor force;       I   Hoapitals
only, enCl..odo   siaranod noterely hca;             Ld   1969-71 avrae;        I   unadjusted. 1974-75
rrlntotako a      P.a pecetage ofth   6-14 end 15-19 age gronpa repe-tively of oid-1974
PoploIcII;      If   1974, officia   nsl-at    is 100 percent.
YMO01LAVIA             1970     /   Agric-lture land bald by    -ioll  -otar "Itoblnato";       lb  Agrlcoltoro land held hy private sn11-ho1ders "10
bec.t.ra  n-dooa       /c  Inoloding niiova,      nistant    id.wtv    ass...istant nose  ad nursingoutria
ITALY                  1970    Ra Oat     of popoilFlon ovde       15o  iS nod over to total lohor force;      /b  HosPItal personne.
iET1tkfY Ff0. REP.     1070    I    TotL1, orac, nr,d r-ra;      /b U1oido 0=57,
R15, APril 25, 1977
IRPTNITIO;S3 At SACIAL UINDICATORS
Land ore  fihoo k.'                                                                      P.polntin net noteiangpro        Popoletic  divIded by noober of proto lcng
TotAl - Total sort a.co area cptiig land ares and m.Ind ocet.                                l  and fan1l gcndosst     raa,   trained" or "oetiifid" c-reec    ..ad
isri  - Mot recnt astiato of sgriooleo-e  area ced caporsily or pae-                  -,iliaey ptrs-1e othb training or-      prin
nenil  fororope  pasures,aerht & kitohan garden  orto lie fila_.                poMeltion ner hoarita   bad - Popolatio   divdod by nonh- of hospital beds
owiblal  in pnbl   ad private ga.era. and sP`oieli-ad hospitel ard
iHP_par -pjtta fUll   - GNsP Per capita satictns cc core      akcpricae,                   rehabliation centers; an.cldes nuring bhns       and esithlihl,ete tot
alc-1-,d b,y eas   ocovrato    sethd as World icek Atlas (1973-75 beais);                ctndia1 sod pceveni-scae
1960; 1970 sod 1975 deta.                                                              Pe   cieaelyo         aoiai       of rniren-ts) - Ccopo-d fran ensogy
eqoivElntIo nt od oppliec         -vilable in coontry Pee -pitc Per day;
ooolatoo end  Ita  eteietftc                                                          avilable eoppli.     -ps tnise docestic prodocitot . tPor  I... -oports.  cd
lt-eolcio  (nid-,.e tIlitoc)-O       fJyfit         if not -vslcbln, avrg                   hanges in ettok; tet aoppli. le  nc lode anLol feed, eosde, qo.stinaod
oftw  nd- year astIboi  ; 1-160, 1970 and 1975 dcto.                                  in food Process Ing and losens in disiribocion; raqoiraeni .were . est-ecd
by FAQ basedZo   Physiologicl. needs. for c-no  ac:tivityand heith cocid-
(100 bacceres) of cocol orpso.I                                                 popoq kil   I-  ie_Ine, an talcin 1_ !  berasos  boossb,oldlel.  t bio      f
.porlction denat, - rtp  sytoat I ) of oortc. Icod  C-Cpo-d aabove for                   Per ..pitsoel of'1    orotein o.    sordy        Protein   atons of Per oa0h .  )  f" .Pits
agrico1tora1 land ooly.                                                                  nat soply atfoo     Per day; not eopply of fond Is deined os aboo; ceqoie-
!ntafo    all cotias e-tabiiehed by USDA EIoonio Re...nrnb Sernio..
0 cit oei.1   y                                                                            prov Ide foanIelo        alaac    f60 gret    nf toto~l Protnn1 Per day, and
trodo, bItch rac  pot Ibhwenod. avree-     ct     lv  birbepa        tboe-d of,             20  rso     1naa   and plsprocelo,ofhoicy          grn_   bood be soled
nid-prar popnletioo; ceo-year orttoas It -veras     n din  in 1960:nd 1970,               protein; thesa standads are loser than chose of 75 ngin    of total protein
and, ft, -eya    avrgo r-Idng in 2975 folot    retIoct estiotet.                         en   23 grot  of atioc1 pro-tein  s    vrg     for the corid, propond by FOG
Crd Ioahrc  oar thotoand, vra    A -oooI deaths per thonsand of nid-yact            in the Third W.lord Food Sorvy.
pooaion; to-yea   .,thrlnrtic --etage  aodlg in 1960 and 1970 nod fiv-              Pet s nice protein aol    fran aslol and roles - Protein eopply of food
yea  coergs toditg is 1975 for.          I. noscr -etoei-cte.                            dncv.    fr  n   ia.ol  end pol.a. in Srts Per dcy.
iofcncnorte icy ote (thy-,  -n-Ivov .. sth. of iofaoIso-d-r one yea  of age         5ecih rate fthhno) aces 1-4 -. Annol d-ahe Pet th-o.asod iv age grop 1-4
per ihoo   d  iebirth,,far,t                                                                       tidron in this      8 ege top; sogfested so nn todicecr of
Lifertoataio atbirh lyre) -Aeoaothrfyseoflife ronaining ateanrion
biroh; ..soally fiv-yea   evIEtge  eoding io 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
Ing coonties.                                                                          Ed-otico
iroe. -pcrod-cioorIto-      Ao..r.geno-be  of lImo d-oght-r  a  catwll boa               Adloeted enrolmet ratio - Prot o sc,hool -i tor.lII-     of all ages ee Pe-
it h ben onI ceprodootivo por,iod If0 h. -oprrlo-e    presnt age-ep_oific                centega ofprinty eohool-age ponsi_n ioldes ohildrn aged 6-li years
I_rtIIity ttcee   osoly     ~ iv-y-o avrrcgea ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975              hoc edjoated for dIfferent lengths of pri-sty edoc-eon; for     ontris-   it
Poroltion  rnaibrcne(7) - cocc  C-Capood o.... 1 gr-Lh nita. of   id-yoar            or ah      he officIal soho   age.
popolettoo for 1950 -60, 1962-70~ cd 1970-75.                                          Adotd      atlnt rstio-aaooo da-       sohooI - Canpoted ee ahoe;ne odet
rocoicction  rotrteT)-rhn-Ccopnted 1 o                rI_th rate of intel                  edoocir    reo-e    t  1es   fotyaao         Pprndpiayiarc
popolation; different dninitioca of orban arasny effect -opaokilicy of                   provides general, vovtioal or test.bh,   teining Ins..octions for popila
deco onong c_tosi_o                                                                      of 12 to 17 yer     fae     oraodnenoaeaegenerally anlodd.
bra   onltn(, fcci            - Ratio of orb c  to tota  PoPolation ; different         User of soboolion crooldd    (firse an   aod level) -Tolyeaso
definitions of orben aton   nay effect ronpar-ility of date awing conra.                 ahonling; at secondary isel, v-ctional in        -oolo  nay be partially o
ooaletely   ..loded.
one  ttoroca  ercet) -Childre  (0-14 years), -orkig-gal  (15-64 yacto),           focatiaalenonnt (U of aecondoty) - V-oct1n1 intiiLotiooe I.cride
and recitd )65 y.ar a.,nd00cr) as pa tcnta0r, of old-year roponl,tic.toice,idorilo                                  te   progret  shlob opertel iodopand...ly ora
000 deroodnoty ratio-RaIoPo pooato    5nc       I) d 65  n  vrt     those             depe   ona-   feeotdsr    osItoI_ ion.
oags15 throog hO64                                                                 idolt1 i  .. crty rae(a)- Ltra     ado1ts   .bi s t  read sod cruet  ccPr-
tcoidrod._ cy rtoRatio of PoPltiato, coder 15 cod 65 o         vrt                  eto     fttloocpplto               odl     or    n    vr
the labor force in age gro..p of I5-h4 yesra.
Pal iv, onlcnoiv-accrrtorn      italoive, chAt) -   oolto     csa    of.1 occ-ptri       g-snm
of hic-oco        d-vc-   onder a..yIcI_ of notIonlfooly plnnn         .rogr           Pctsns pot coon orhn      - A-ercge nohor of P-r-n     Pr ton   in occopied
oIn- loception.                                                                          convenL 'lnI dwellings in orba  areas..; doellin,s rot lode non-pe-nne-
ooic clni,-or           7  f tapiod  -oon) - rP-ootgro of nar-e       -oa   of            o rcoe     a nd o-ccpied patti.
child-bt..rIng age (5-44 -ra) obo -o birth,-ooot-o      device  to .ii earnetd         Octted doelldicgs cithot ciced -ac     (,)   O- O pied convo .looI doelliog
0crin con  ag  groP.                                                                  In orhn an  _tta   areas  ith-o inolde or.oat id. piped ctrfclte
as.pero.nt.g of all oocaptd dwellings.
toot oynant                                                        gocese to electricity (7, ~.c.. t.of elI duelligos) -  onvenioaldwelicscih
foallao     forc  (cho..oand) - E-ovni-l 1ly so-ite parsons, inclodlyg c-nd                electriity tn I1icig qoorters aa porten    of tocIdolItosi         rban and
..cc  cod vopod ...   hot roiding h.oooye       .stdenca. t.-; definitions              rualaras
ino toococlsaenot IP coprbl.                                                   Rota!dwellings conntned to electricity (7      - Cp-cd as shov     for rota
Labo  Forc  In cocico1tore C)-A...tc...tota    labor force (in facoIng, foresty,           delings only.
hoot tog cod fiahing) as pIeratago of totel labo- force.
unopoelyed (% of labor force) -Llnanployed.aen Aally drfitnd as parsons oho.              oson
are able, an   t   ito toke ajob ,Io of a       b on . gi-e dey, reinamd Oc             adorr        -r leer ihon pop) - All types of resvers fr raio hroa,%dccnto
ofajo,sd see blc f0     - it .p  Ified ninlac   parid  -o sotnding.ona             tognea      poblir Per th...eo  nfpooeto; onlde           n tesd rcio
oe, naynth    coael etwrncoricdoe to differ-t definItion                            incrunctis   cod In ysara ohen   fgtea itracionof ra'dio sets  a    fet
of oaptoyed androre        f dat, e.g. , npl.tys-    office scttnis      -aple           date for reen    years nay not be canperabh setce . etcoon-i-s      boliahed
.o-vY., canpoloory vo-ploy-et netae-lIcensing.
Paeeeoger nets (partheo roe) - Pa....oger care canprise Ioo .cr  esig
incoan distributiono-Petcee-ag     of Privat  int,ne (both in cash cod hind)               lesthe    eight paron; -niodes      nholan-re  h ...here end ailitary
re-olod by rtrhret 55, riches    20%, poores  205, cod poores   Oil of boner-            vehicle.
holds.                                                                                Etisti.tyot   (kwh/or pot tee) - Atn-a  con-,aption of ind-sria1,tseia
pobltc and private electritiry .kin bunst hoots per -ptt. generally
Utrbotioo of tond ownerhi -Percentagae of Icod owod by -altbi-s 107,                    hosed onprdticdate, vithoit allacn-            for loseIn grida ht ala
and poorest 102. of land net.ing for inor-an                                                                  oprt    f   l   ctrtiy.
N7:sPrLi,t .(kg/nt potca)    Per nopti     . ooc  on-option in kilogran
jeslth an.d N-ocriticoI.pd                                                                                                 t.p.        .tf.          -pi,
yon ht    y ecp),itiao - Popolatioo diotded by nchb- of pr-ctictng
phynicla.. qoellfted frn a ordinal sohool at onlecaicy leve.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 3 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1975                                 ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH -- (% and in constant prices)
US$ Mln.   % of GNP           1961-65        1966-70        1971-75
GNP at Market Prices                  24,900      100               9.0 1/        7.7 1/          11.3 1/
Cross Fixed Domestic Investment        7,560       30              11.3          11.2             11.2
Exports of Guods                       5,341       21.4             9.0 2/       10.9 2/          23.6 2/
Tmports of Guo-:.                      5,342       21.4            10.7 2/       12.7 2/          22.3 2/
LABOR FORCE IN 1975                             GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Mlxi.   %                                            General Government
Agriculture       3.9     38                                       (lei bill.)       % of GDY 3/
Industry         4.0      40                                          1975             1975
Services         2.3      22
Total Receipts            238.6             47.9
Total Expenditure         236.2             47.4
Total Surplus               2.4               0.5
RETAIL PRICES     1971       1972      1973      1974       1975
(1966 = 100)     101.6     10-1.      102.4     103.7     103.9
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                              MERCHANDISE EXPORTS 1975
(Mln. US$)           1971       1972      1973      1974      1975
us$ Mln.      %
Exports of goods        2,102     2,884     3,667     4,858      5,341
Imports of goods       2,102      2,910     3,424     5,049      5,342           Capital goods            1,351     25
Consumer goods             860     16
Trade balance               0       -26      +243      -191         -1           Foodstuffs                 566     11
Net services              -23       -31      -107      -168       -134           Intermediate goods         577     11
Raw materials            1,986     37
Balance on goods                                                                   Industrial             1,682     31
and services          -23       -60      +136      -359       -135             Agricultural             304      6
Nct MLT Capital             5        24        83       643        437           Total                    5,341    100
Disbursements         350       516       589     1,055        817
Amortization         -345      -492      -506       412        380
Residual Balance          -18       -36      +219      +284       +302
EXTERNAL DEBT, December 31, 1976
RATE OF EXCHANGE
US$ Mln.
Official Rate:              Tourist Rate:
Total                      3,095
US$ 1.00 = Lei 4.97         US$ 1.00 = Lei 12.00                                 of which convertible
Leu 1.00 = US$ 0.20         Leu 1.00 = uS$  0.08                                 currencies               3,023
Official Trading Rate:                                                           DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1976 (Estimate)
US$ 1.00 = Lei 20                                                                                               %
Leu 1.00 = US$ 0.05
Convertible currencies only     19.0
1/ Net National Income
2/ Current Prices
3/ Gross Domestic Income
Country Programs Department 1
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
May 24, 1977



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4 pages
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ROMANIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (As of April 30, 1977)
Amount in $ millions
Loan                                                        Less Cancellations
Number       Year    Borrower      Purpose      Bank   IDA        Undisbursed
Ln. 1020-RO    1974   Investment    Fertilizer    60.0     -            37.0
Bank
Ln. 1027-RO    1975   Investment    Special       70.0    -             63.7
Bank        Steel
Ln. 1028-RO    1975   Investment    Thermal       60.0    -             18.0
Bank        Power
Ln. 1082-RO    1975   BAFI 1/       Irrigation    70.0    -             22.5
Ln. 1083-RQ-   1975   BAFI          Agricultural  30.0    -             15.8
--                         Credit
Ln. 1169-RO    1976   BAFI          Flood         40.0    -              3.6
Recovery
Ln. 1170-RO    1976   Investment    Flood         20.0    -              1.9
Bank        Recovery
Ln. 1242-RO    1976   Investment    Hydropower    50.0     -            46,4
Bank
Ln. 1247-RO    1976   BAFI          Irrigation    60.0     -            59.5
Ln. 1368-RO 2/ 1977   BAFI          Irrigation    60.0     -            60.0
Total                             520.0 4/              328.4
of which has been
repaid                           -_-_-
Total now outstanding             520.0     -              -
Amount sold           1.6            -      -              -
of which repaid      0.0           1.6     -              -
Total now held by
Bank 3/                          518.4     -              _
Total undisbursed                 328.4     _           328.4
1/ Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry
2/ Not yet effective.
3/ Excluding exchange adjustments
1 Excludes proposed loans for the Brasov Bearings Project ($38 million)
and Bucharest Glass Fiber Project ($18.3 million).



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4 pages
B. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Ln No. 1020     Bacau Fertilizer Project; US$60 million Loan of
June 28, 1974; Effective Date: December 31, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
By agreemenc between the Bank and the Borrower, the project site
was changed from Tecuci to Bacau which is more advantageous from the point
of view of controlling effluents. After a slow start, due mainly to the
change of site, lack of familiarity with Bank procurement procedures, and
the floods of spring 1975, the project is now proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln No. 1027     Otelinox Special Steel Project; US$70 million Loan of
July 10, 1974; Effective Date: April 3, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Execution of the project was delayed several months, primarily be-
cause of the complexity of two large bid packages and because of the Romanians'
lack of familiarity with international competitive bidding procedures under
the Bank's Guidelines. Progress on procurement has been closely monitored by
several Bank supervision missions, and US$50,000 allocated for procurement
consultants but not used has been cancelled. The contracts for the two steel
mills under the loan have been signed and construction has begun.
Ln No. 1028     Turceni Thermal Power Project; US$60 million Loan of
July 10, 1974; Effective Date: November 6, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Delays in construction due to late delivery of equipment are likely
to result in a five month delay in commissioning of the first generating unit.
Project execution is otherwise according to plan and satisfactory. Training
of future operational staff is in hand. Financial performance has been satis-
factory despite a reduction in energy sales growth in response to energy
conservation measures.
Ln No. 1082     Giurgiu-Razmiresti Irrigation Project; US$70 million Loan
of February 6, 1975; Effective Date: May 5, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978.
Construction of project works is progressing satisfactorily and
about 60 percent of the project has been completed more or less on schedule.
International procurement was delayed initially by the Romanians' lack of
familiarity with international bidding procedures required by the Bank,
and by a delay in appointing consultants to assist with this work. All
contracts have now been awarded. The project is expected to be completed
by October 1977, ahead of the December 1977 schedule anticipated at the
time of appraisal.



AN4EX II
Page 3 of 4 pages
Ln No. 1083     Sadova-Corabia Agricultural Credit Project; US$30 million
Loan of February 6, 1975; Effective Date: April 29, 1975
Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Progress of the project is satisfactory. Contracts for chemicals
were not awarded after international competitive bidding because the Romanians
judged all bid prices to be too high; the Bank has advised the Romanians that
Bank financing for these items would be possible only if the contracts were
retendered. The Bank has concurred in the award of a contract for technical
know-how and for supplying equipment for the premix feed mill as recommended
by the Romanians.
Ln No. 1169     Flood Recovery Project (Agricultural Component); US$40 million
Loan of November 12, 1975; Effective Date: December 2, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Project execution is proceeding well and disbursements are ahead of
schedule. Equipment procured under international competitive bidding has been
delivered and only small quantities of spare parts remain to be procured.
Bids have been received for the early warning system equipment and bid evalua-
tion is in progress.
Ln No. 1170     Flood Recovery Project (Industry, Mining and Transport Com-
ponent); US$20 million Loan of November 12, 1975; Effective
Date: December 2, 1975; Closing Date: September 1, 1977.
After a slow start due to difficulties encountered in Romania in
preparing and assembling documentation on procurement of imported industrial
machinery, disbursements have improved considerably since September 1976. The
closing date has been extended from March 31 to September 1, 1977 to permit
full disbursement of the loan.
Ln No. 1242     Riul Mare Retezat Hydropower Project; $50 million of
April 28, 1976; Effective Date: July 26, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981.
Project execution is according to plan. Civil works for the dam
and underground power station are well underway. Commitments concerning
some 73 percent of the loan amount have been made and although disbursements
are delayed they are expected to catch up by mid 1977.
Ln No. 1247     Rasova-Vederoasa Irrigation and Agriculture Development
Project; $60 million of April 28, 1976; Effective Date:
November 3, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Advertisement for international competitive bidding has been com-
pleted and the Bank has approved tender documents. Bids for virtually all
items have already been opened, and bid evaluation reports are expected to be
submitted for IBRD review during the spring of 1977.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4 pages
Ln No. 1368     Ialomita-Calmatui Irrigation Prolect; $60 million of March 2,
1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Loan documents were signed on March 2, 1977 and the deadline for
effectiveness is June 2, 1977. Tender documents for this project were combined
with those for the Rasova-Vederoasa Irrigation and Agricultural Development
Project (Loan No. 1247) and have been approved by the Bank. Bids for virtually
all items have been opened, and bid evaluation reports are expected to be sub-
mitted for IBRD review during the spring of 1977.
EMENA
May 24, 1977



ANNEX III
ROMANIA
CUMPULUNG-MUSCEL POLYESTER PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Project first identified by the Bank: May 1976
(b) Time taken by the country to prepare the project: 28 months
(c) Agency which prepared the project: Ministry of Chemical Industry
(d) Date of first Bank mission to consider the project: May 1976
(e) Date of departure of Appraisal Mission: October 18, 1976
(f) Date of completion of negotiations: March 31, 1977
(g) Planned date of effectiveness: About September 7, 1977
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
Procurement for the main contract has been closely monitored since
project appraisal, and the contract is expected to be signed by the end of
June 1977.
Section III: Special Conditions
Special conditions of effectiveness of the loan are (i) the approval
by the Council of Ministers of the technical and economic indicators of the
project, (ii) establishment of the Cimpulung Enterprise, and (iii) the enter-
ing into force of the main contract for the project. Approval of detailed
project parameters (the technical and economic indicators) is normal under
the Romanian system and will provide the legal basis for financing and imple-
mentation of the project (paragraphs 51 and 53).
EMENA
May 24, 1977



222                                                    10 C4tP00UTSV  20e                     2G2
U.+*   S.            R. s   <+  )   is o                    SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF ROMANIA
-48-                                                        .18/ o r I       <'          J   t  5 X a SYNTHETIC FIBRE PLANTS
C,                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~THE CISIPULUNG POtOJECT
ELIPOPEANJ HIGHWAY5
R I T A2 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~   ~   ~~~       __
1  A                    -   . \  5 \  $   t ___  MAJOR NAT IONA  HIWGHAYS
-- RAIS,ROA1DS
y t 9 z > , R , A 7 .tk ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*ON H                           OUNTY 00J206
N A ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~   ~   ~   ~   ~  ~   ~~.I
RITA                                       -TE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RONATJONAL BOUNDARIES
I /                                                   'COUJNTY CAPITALS
PIATRA -.T                   !~~~~~~0 MUNtCPALI0 ES
X I R 0 R ,0 v^stu 0 ^ '^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ IVE 
-URES ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~   ~   ~     000      010  6       00 0
, / H A Fi c fi I  A                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS
ELRA ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~016-
-A':-d t4;W~~~~~~~~-
T''  '  L-   'A                                                      p
- A  N      TEW2.60             IIUR IU9  (   W
\>  uLstA  ^Rvw                                                                                <  _       Xtbu_Juoshfxs _1D  _ mA
>s1   1 fcE_  ,   \B   2  UL                 G2V6LRg URSg I          I               2Z W VLbAl W\Bdll-ieJ#ts/d- &Xet L rOm-r



