CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1448 RO
Loan Agreement
(Cimpulung-Muscel Polyester Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANCA DE INVESTITII
Dated June 15, 1977


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 15, 1977, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and BANCA DE INVESTITII (hereinafter called the Borrower).


﻿L
-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set
forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to L5an
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter
called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Romania" and "Guarantor" both mean The Socialist
Republic of Romania;
(b) "Foreign Trade Bank" means the Romanian Bank for
Foreign Trade, established by Law No. 16/1968 of Romania;
(c) "Charter" means the Charter of the Borrower as
approved by Decree No. 314/1971 of the Council of State of
Romania, and Decree No. 125/1970 concerning the organization
and operations of the Borrower, ratified by Law No. 22/1970
of Romania, as amended by Decree No. 314/1971 of the Council
of State of Romania, as amended from time to time;


﻿-3-
(d) "Enterprise" means the Cimpulung-Muscel Synthetic Fiber
Combine, to be established by the Council of Ministers of Romania;
(e) "IITPIC" means the Technological Engineering and Design
Institute for Chemical Industry established by Decree No. 22/1977,
which modifies Decree No. 531/1973, of the Council of State of
Romania;
(f) "Plant" means the plant described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement; and
(g) "ROMCHIM" means the foreign trade enterprise under
Romania's Ministry of Chemical Industry established by Decision
No. 1423/1970 of the Council of Ministers of Romania.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty million
dollars ($50,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank,
for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made)
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement which
the Bank and the Borrower have agreed are to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan.
(b) The Foreign Trade Bank is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purpose of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and Article V of the General Conditions.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, contracts for the purchase of goods and services
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4
to this Agreement.


﻿- 5 -
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1981 or
such other date as shall be agreed between the Bank and the
Borrower.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of eight and two-tenths per cent (8.20%) per annum on the princi-
pal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall cause the Project to be
carried out with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate engineering, financial, ecological,
environmental and administrative practices as follows:
(a) the Borrower shall supervise the execution of the
Project, including the procurement of the goods and services
required therefor;
(b) IITPIC shall provide the general engineering services
required for the Project;
(c) ROMCHIM shall in accordance with the technical advice
received from IITPIC procure the goods and services required for
the Project and to be awarded in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
(d) the Enterprise shall:
(i) make timely arrangements, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, with
IITPIC for the supply of the general engineering
services required for the Project, and with the
appropriate industrial construction trusts of
Romania as required for the civil works and
erection included in the Project;


﻿-7-
 (ii) in accordance with the technical assistance
received from IITPIC procure the goods and services
required for the Project other than those referred
to in the foregoing paragraph (c); and
(iii) have overall responsibility for the coordination
of the implementation of the Project and for the
coordination of the Project-related activities
of the other agencies of Romania.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause adequate provision
to be made for the insurance of the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loen against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of
importation into the territory of Romania, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be used exclusively for the Project.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Bank and the Borrower agree that, in
order to realize the purposes of the Project:
(i) it shall be necessary that the feedstocks required
for operation of the Plant are made available to
the Plant as required to operate it at its normal
operating capacity;
(ii) it shall be necessary for the Enterprise:
(A) to operate the facilities established under
the Project with due regard to ecological,
environmental and safety factors;
(B) to maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained
appropriate accounting practices its
operations, resources and expenditures;
(C) to submit its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each
fiscal year to an independent audit conducted,
in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by the
Ministry of Finance of Romania;


﻿-9
(D) at all times to manage its affairs, plan its
future expansion and carry on its operations,
all in accordance with appropriate engineering,
financial and administrative practices and
under experienced and competent management,
assisted by qualified staff in adequate
numbers;
(E) to be granted all such rights and interests
in land and all such other rights and powers
as are necessary in the management or operation
of the assets managed or operated by it;
(F) at all times to operate and maintain the
installations, equipment and other property
managed or operated by it, including all
structures constructed and machinery installed
under the Project, and, as and when required,
make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with appropriate
administrative and engineering practices;
(G) except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, not to transfer or otherwise
dispose of any of the assets managed or
operated by it, except in the normal course of
its business; and


﻿-10-
(H) that in any year after 1980 the sum of the
annual benefits of the Enterprise and the
annual provision for depreciation of the
Enterprise shall be at least sufficient to
cover the sum of (i) the equivalent in Lei of
the payments of the principal of, and charges
other than interest on, the Loan which the
Borrower is required to make to the Bank that
same year and (ii) ten per cent of the average
principal amount of the Loan outstanding that
same year; for the purposes of this paragraph
(H), the term "Lei" means Lei in currency of
Romania, and the term "annual benefits" means
the difference between gross revenues and
operating and administrative expenses
(4ncluding adequate provision for maintenance
and depreciation) accountable to any one
fiscal year.
(b) The Borrower shall, to the extent that it is authorized
under the laws of Romania, ensure that the Enterprise will conduct
its operations in accordance with the requirements set forth in
this Section.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE V
Management and Operations of the Borrower;
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall manage and conduct its
operations and affairs in accordance with appropriate
administrative and financial standards and practices and in
accordance with the Charter.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations in respect of the Enterprise.
Section 5.03. (a) It is not the practice of the Borrower to
create liens as security for debt. Accordingly, the Borrower
represents that at the date of this Agreement no lien exists
on any of its assets as security for any debt.
(b) For the event that, notwithst?ai,,g the foregoing, a
lien shall be created on any of the Borrower's assets as security
for any debt, the Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create the
lien, such lien will equally and ratably secure the payment
of the nrincipal of, and interest and other charges on, the
Loan, and in the creation of such lien express provision will
be made to that effect, at no cost to the Bank; and (ii) if the
lien shall be created by law, the Borrower shall grant, at no


﻿- 12 -
cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank to
secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan.
Section 5.04. The Bank and the Borrower agree that in
carrying out the provisions of this Agreement the Borrower
shall take such measures as shall be necessary according to
the State Plan of Romania and the applicable laws in order
to achieve the purposes of the Project.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE VI
Cooperation and Information
Financial Data
Section 6.01. The Bank and the Borrower shall cooperate
fully to assure that the purposes of the Loan will be
accomplished. To that end:
(a) the Bank and the Borrower shall from time to time
at the request of either party exchange views through their
representatives with regard to the progress of the Project,
the benefits derived from the Project, the performance of their
respective obligations under the Loan Agreement, the compliance
by the Enterprise with the requirements set forth in Section 4.01
of this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of
the Loan, the compliance by ROMCHIM with the requirements of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and the Borrower shall enable the
Bank's representatives to exchange views with representatives of
the Enterprise with regard to the Project, the benefits derived
from the Project, the resources and expenditures of the Enterprise
and the compliance by the Enterprise with the requirements set
forth in Section 4.01 of this Agreement and with representatives
of the Romanian synthetic fiber industry with regard to the
benefits of the Project to the Romanian economy and the position
of the Enterprise in such industry;


﻿- 14 -
(b) the Borrower shall obtain from the Enterprise and the
other agencies concerned of Romania, and furnish to the Bank, upon
their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract
documents and construction and procurement schedules for the
Project, and the material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank and the Borrower shall agree;
(c) the Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to record the progress of the Project
(including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods
manufactured from materials or components financed out of such
proceeds, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; and (ii)
shall furnish to the Bank within forty-five calendar days after
each calendar quarter a report, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank and the Borrower shall agree, on the progress of the
Project during such quarter;
(d) the Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives
to visit and examine the goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, the plants, installations, sites, works, buildings
and equipment of the Enterprise, the factories, installations,
sites and works in Romania where goods required for the Project
are manufactured insofar as the Project is concerned, the other


﻿- 15 -
facilities and construction sites included in the Project, the
records and documents of the Enterprise insofar as they concern
the Project and the other records and documents relating to the
Project;
(e) the Borrower shall for each fiscal year of the
Enterprise: (i) obtain from the Enterprise and furnish to the Bank
not later than three months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of the financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statements) of the
Enterprise for such year audited in accordance with the provisions
of Section 4.01 (a) (ii) (C) of this Agreement, and (B) the report
of such audit by the auditors referred to in said Section 4.01 (a)
(ii) (C) of such scope and in such detail as the Bank and the
Guarantor shall agree; and (ii) furnish to the Bank such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of
the Enterprise and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time
to time reasonably request;
(f) the Borrower shall: (i) furnish to the Bank not later
than four months after the end of each of its fiscal years, (A)
certified copies of its financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statements, as
agreed between the Bank and the Borrower) for such fiscal year


﻿- 16 -
submitted to an independent audit conducted, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by the
Ministry of Finance of Romania, and (B) the report of such audit
by said auditor of such scope and in such detail as the Bank and
the Guarantor shall agree; and (ii) furnish to the Bank such other
information concerning the before-mentioned financial statements
of the Borrower and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time
to time reasonably request; and
(g) the Bank and the Borrower shall from time to time
furnish to each other such additional information as the other
party shall reasonably request with regard to the progress of the
Project, the position of the Enterprise, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Loan, the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds, the operations, resources and expenditures of the
Enterprise, the benefits derived from the Project and the general
status of the Loan.
Section 6.02. The Bank and the Borrower shall promptly inform
each other of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to
interfere with, the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Loan, the maintenance of the service thereof
or the performance by either party of its obligations under the
Loan Agreement.


﻿- 17 -
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) that the Council of Ministers of Romania has approved
the technical and economic indicators for the Project and such
approval has become effective;
(b) that the Enterprise referred to in Section 1.02 (d) has
been established; and
(c) that a contract, satisfactory to the Bank and the
Borrower, for technology, engineering and equipment relating to
the items to be financed from Category (1) of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement has been signed and is effective in accordance with its
terms.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the technical and economic indicators for the
Project have been duly approved by the Council of Ministers of
Romania and such approval has become effective;


﻿- 18 -
(b) that the Enterprise referred to in Section 1.02 (d) has
been established; and
(c) that a contract, satisfactory to the Bank and the
Borrower, for technology, engineering and equipment relating to
the items to be financed from Category (1) of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement has been signed and is effective in accordance with its
terms.
Section 7.03. The date September 15, 1977, is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.


﻿- 19 -
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Banca de Investitii
Str. Doamnei No. 4
Bucharest
Romania
Telex:
011238 BINVR
011239 BINVR
011188 BINVR


﻿- 20 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ M.P. Benjenk
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
BANCA DE INVESTITII
By /s/ Nicolae M. Nicolae
Authorized Representative


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Technology and              23,600,000         100% of foreign
engineering for                               expenditures
Plant (including
licenses, knowhow
and technical as-
sistance), and
equipment and spare
parts and training
supplied by sup-
plier of techno-
logy and engineering
(2) Stainless steel,            10,900,000        100% of foreign
special materials                            expenditures
and intermediate
products
(3) Tow-to-Top con-              5,300,000        100% of foreign
verting and other                            expenditures
specialized equip-
ment for Plant


﻿- 22 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(4) Equipment for power         10,200,000         100% of foreign
plant, recovery sys-                          expenditures and
tems for raw mate-                            100% of local ex-
rials and by-products,                        penditures ex-
and other equipment                           factory
agreed between the
Bank and the Borrower
to be financed under
this Category
TOTAL       50,000,000


﻿- 23 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
for goods or services supplied from the territory of and in the
currency of any country other than Romania; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of Romania and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of Romania.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, Romania on goods or services, or on
the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if any event occurs which shall affect the amount of any
such taxes included in the cost of any item to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
correspondingly adjust the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of the


﻿- 24 -
Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet such estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the design, engineering, procurement
and erection of a plant to produce polyester having the capacity
to produce 46,700 tons annually. The Plant will include (a)
production lines (comprising polymerization, spinning and drawing
sections), capable of producing about 31,500 tons per year of
polyester fiber in the form of cotton-type, wool-type or flax-type
tow or staple, (b) a production line capable of producing 15,200
tons of polyester chips per year, (c) facilities to convert 5,200
tons of wool-type tow per year to tops and (d) ancillary facilities
including steam and power generation plants; raw material and
product transportation, handling and storage facilities; facilities
to recover and recycle raw materials and methyl alcohol; and
adequate maintenance facilities and laboratories.
The Plant is expected to be completed by January 31, 1980 and
to reach full production prior to 1984.


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                            (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 1 and December 1
beginning December 1, 1980
through   December 1, 1991                   2,085,000
on June 1, 1992                                   2,045,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 27 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion
of the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                          1.65%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                          3.30%
More than six years but
not more than eleven years
before maturity                          6.00%
More than eleven years but
not more than thirteen years
before maturity                          7.10%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                          8.20%


﻿- 28 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
(Section 2.03)
A.   General Procedures
1.   Except as provided in paragraph 2 of this Part A, goods
and services shall be procured in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2. Contracts for goods covered by Categories 2 and 3 in Schedule
1 to this Agreement which cannot be grouped together in accordance
with paragraph 3 of this Part A and which are estimated to cost
less than $100,000 equivalent shall, after solicitation of bids
from potential suppliers from at least three member countries
of the Bank and Switzerland on the basis of bid invitations
consistent with the provisions of the Guidelines, be awarded in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 through 3.10 of
the Guidelines unless this would be impractical for technical
reasons, in which event the items involved shall be procured by
prudent shopping, provided the aggregate amount of contracts let
pursuant to the procedures permitted by this paragraph 2 shall not
exceed $1,800,000 equivalent.


﻿- 29 -
3.   Identical or similar items to be procured for the Project
shall be grouped together, wherever practicable, for the purpose
of bidding and procurement, and such grouping of items shall
be subject to agreement between the Bank and the Borrower.
4.   Bidders are required to prequalify in accordance with
criteria agreed between the Borrower and the Bank in respect of
goods covered by Categories (3) and (4) of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement. The list of prequalified bidders, together with a
statement of their qualifications and of the reasons for the
exclusion of any applicant for prequalification, shall be
furnished by ROMCHIM to the Bank for its comments before the
applicants are notified and ROMCHIM shall make such additions to
or deletions from such list as the Bank shall reasonably request.
B.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the
ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods shall be excluded;
and (iii) the cost of inland freight and other expenditures
incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their use or
installation shall be included.


﻿- 30 -
2.   Goods manufactured in Romania will be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Romania if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Romania equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods
manufactured in Romania.
(3) Group C: bids offering goods manufactured outside
Romania.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on


﻿- 31 -
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then
be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated Did from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the lowest evaluated bid
from group C shall be selected.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equivalent
of $200,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, ROMCHIM shall furnish to the
Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid


﻿- 32 -
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a list of prequalified bidders to whom the invitations to bid will
be sent, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) Promptly after the bids have been opened, ROMCHIM
shall inform the Bank of the names of the bidders and the
respective amounts of the bids.
(c) After bids have been evaluated, ROMCHIM shall, before a
final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank of the
name of the bidder to which the contract is intended to be awarded
and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids
received, together with the recommendations for award and such
other information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The
Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform ROMCHIM and state the reasons for such determination.
(d) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.


﻿- 33 -
(e) Two conformed copies of C1e contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $200,000 and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, ROMCHIM shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with a list of the parties invited to bid or to submit
quotations, the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award or, if a single offer is solicited pursuant to paragraph
2 of Part A of this Schedule, the reasons why a single offer was
solicited and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and the Enterprise, and state the
reasons for such determination.


