Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 22165
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE SECTOR PROJECT
(Loan 3419-ME)
April 27, 2001
Environmental and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Management Unit
Colombia, Mexico and Venezuela, Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without the World Bank's authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Average - October 2000)
Currency Unit  Mexican Peso (Mex$)
US$1 = Mex$9.45
Mex$1 million =US$0.1058
BORROWER FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANUR              -     Asociaci6n Nacional de Usuarios de Riego (National Federation of Irrigation
Users)
BANRURAL          -     Banco Nacional de Credito Rural (National Rural Credit Bank)
CNA               -     Comisi6n Nacional del Agua
EIA               -     Environment Impact Assessment
FIRA              -     Fideicomisos Instituidos en Relaci6n con la Agricultura
FIRCO             -     Fideicomiso de Riesgo Compartido
(Trust Fund for Shared Farmers' Risk)
GOM               -     Government of Mexico
IDSP              -     Irrigation and Drainage Sector Project
IMTA              -     Instituto Mexicano de Tecnologia del Agua
(Mexican Institute of Water Technology)
INIFAP            -     Instituto Nacional de Investigaciones Forestales y Agropecuarias
(National Institute for Crop, Animal and Forestry Research)
IDs               -     Irrigation Districts
I&D               -     Irrigation and Drainage
LA                -     Loan Agreement
NGO               -     Non-Governmental Organization
NAFIN             -     Nacional Financiera, SNC (National Finance Company)
NPV               -     Net Present Value
O&M               -     Operation and maintenance
PAC               -     Programa Alianza para el Campo
SAR               -     Staff Appraisal Report
SARH              -     Secretaria de Agricultura y Recursos Hidraulicos
(Secretariat of Agriculture and Water Resources)
SHCP              -     Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico
(Ministry of Finance and Public Credit)
OCC               -     Opportunity Cost of Capital
OFMINP            -     On-Farm and Minor Irrigation Networks Project
TA                -     Technical Assistance
WUOs              -     Water User Organizations
Vice President:                                        Mr. David de Ferranti
Country Director:                                      Mr. Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Director:                                       Mr. John Redwood
Sector Leader:                                         Mr. Adolfo Brizzi
Task Team Leader:                                      Mr. Jose Simas



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE SECTOR PROJECT
(Loan 3419-ME)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface .......................................................                               iv
Evaluation Summary .......................................................                    v
1. Project Data .......................................................                        1
2. Principal Performance Ratings ................................................1 
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at                            2
Entry.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs .......................................                5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome ..................                      10
6. Sustainability .......................................................                     11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance .............................................                12
8. Lessons Learned .......................................................                    14
9.Partner's Comments .......................................................                  17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix .................                        19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing ..........................................               20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits .........................................                22
Annex4. BankInputs .......................................................                    23
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of                                     26
Components.
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank ands Borrower Performance .....................                      26
Annex 7. List of Supporting DoCuments ........................................                27
Annex 8. Borrower ICR. Resumen Ejecutivo .................................                    28
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.
iii



MEXICO
IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE SECTOR PROJECT
Loan 3419-ME
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Irrigation and Drainage
Sector project for which Loan 3419-ME in the amount of US$400 million equivalent was
approved on December 3, 1991, and made effective on June 18, 1992. The original closing
date was December 31, 1995 and the fimal closing date was June 30, 2000. Some US$350
million were disbursed from the loan and US$50 million were cancelled in 1995, as a result of
Mexico's fiscal crisis.
The ICR was prepared by Mr. Juan Morelli (FAO consultant), and reviewed by Adolfo
Brizzi (Sector Leader, LCC1C), Fernando Gonzalez (Senior Irrigation Advisor, RDV), Abel
Mejia (Water Sector Manager, LCFPS) and Jose Simas (Senior Water Resources Engineer,
LCSER).
Preparation of this ICR was begun at the end of 2000. It is based on material in the
project file, field visits and meetings with the actors involved in CNA, IMTA, and in a number
of irrigation districts. The borrower contributed with its own ICR which is available upon
request. The executive summary is included in the Annexes.
iv



MEXICO
IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE SECTOR PROJECT
Loan 3419-ME
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
A.  Introduction
1.   The project supported the Government's national Irrigation and Drainage program. For
the first time the Bank approached a government's full irrigation, drainage and flood control
program within a timne-slice operation, providing much broader scope for a dialogue and
agreement on irrigation policy issues including investment selection criteria, environmental
safeguards, procurement and auditing, rules and M&E procedures. It was conceived as the first
phase of a broader irrigation and investment program for the sustainable development of water
and soil productivity in the Irrigation Districts (IDs). The project supported the transition from
an engineering-driven, centrally-managed irrigation investment program relying mainly on
Government grants, to a more decentralized system based on transparent investment selection
criteria and greater participation of beneficiaries and users in decision making and cost
recovery. The strategy was also in line with the Bank's policy, stressing the need for
decentralization as an important element of an integrated approach to water resource
management and private sector development. The institutional reform process for imnproved
irrigation management and cost recovery was instrumental to ensure that the legal
requirements for cost recovery were implemented. The sectoral time-slice approach based on
the early definition of clear investment selection criteria and methodology and strong
institutional building and strengthening, has also proved to be adequate.
B.  Project Objectives and Components
2.   According to the SAR the project would help the Government of Mexico (GOM) to: (a)
sustain the irrigation and drainage (I&D) sector through adequate levels of investments
selected on the basis of rigorous economic and technical criteria, procured competitively and
implemented efficiently; (b) decentralize irrigation fun,ding and management through
institutional reforms that would gradually move fiunding of I&D investments from a centrally-
managed system of Government grants towards a system based on regional and local public
utilities which would help to recover costs through user charges and collection instruments,
and thus help sustain the investments made by the beneficiaries; (c) fully utilize existing
irrigation schemes by finishing uncompleted works, upgrading deteriorated infrastructure, and
rehabilitating irrigated land affected by waterlogging,. salinity problems and lack of
maintenance; (d) improve water use efficiency by introducing: better water management
techniques, the conjunctive use of surface and ground water, volumetric measurement of water
providing more adaptive research results, and training of technicians and farmers in better
operation and maintenance (O&M) of the irrigation infrastructure; (e) strengthen the
institutional capacity of the federal water authority and executing agency, the Comisi6n
v



Nacional del Agua (CNA) and the user organizations to implement policy programs,
investments and maintenance; (f) monitor and help prevent environmental and natural resource
degradation; and (g) optimiize the use of land and water resources in the Irrigation Districts
(IDs) and Units.
3.   The project was the GOM's Irrigation and drainage investment program for fiscal years
1991 through 1994, estimated at US$1.2 billion (US$400 mnillion financed by IBRD and
US$200 million by IDB) and comprised of three main components: (i) Irrigation and
Drainage Construction Components (US$1.1 billion) for construction of Irrigation Districts
(IDs), construction of Small Irrigation, Rehabilitation and Modernization of IDs,
Rehabilitation of Small Irrigation, Deferred Maintenance, O&M equipment and Reuse of
Sewage Waters; (ii) Support Action Components (US$58 million), including 2
subcomponents for Environmental Actions and Institutional Development; and (iii) Other
Project Components (US$88 million) including 3 subcomponents for Studies and Designs,
Small River Training Works (i.e., small drainage infrastructure) and Dam Safety.
C.  Implementation Experience and Results
4.  Project outcome is considered highly satisfactory. Most of the relevant objectives have
provided good results in its sectoral policies, physical, institutional, environmental, financial
and economic development targets. Mexico has undertaken a radical program  of
decentralization and private sector promotion in irrigation involving substantial policy
changes, restructuring of agencies, and transfer of management responsibilities to autonomous
Water Users Organizations (WUOs). Going beyond the original targets of transferring the 21
best prepared IDs foreseen at appraisal (1.97 million ha), the project transferred O&M
functions for 72 IDs to 431 WUOs, and an additional 8 IDs are in the process of being
transferred. From a total irrigated area in the IDs of 3.4 million ha, 3.28 million ha (96 percent
of the total and 166 percent of the target) had been transferred by October 2000. Funding for
O&M is ensured through water fees paid by users, who increased their share in O&M costs
from 20 percent to an average of 90 percent, almost reaching self-sufficiency and significantly
improving water use efficiency. To supplement this project, the government, with Bank
financing, launched in 1994 an On-Farm and Minor Irrigation Networks Project (OFMINP) to
enhance farm-level productivity and water conservation, as well as a program to register and
assign water rights to users. The combination of the two programs may become a model for
many development countries that embark on the revision of their irrigation sector and are
sending officials to Mexico to learn from this experience.
5.   Before the project, irrigated agricultural production declined at an average rate of 0.4
percent per annum (1982-1989), while since the transfer program was in operation the trend
was reversed and production grew at a rate of 4.8 percent per annum (1992-1998). The
reduced risk associated with availability of water for irrigation no longer depending on central
government budgets and timely transfers, strongly stimulated a modernization process through
production investments and technology improvements. Iligher efficiency resulted from
improvement and installation of better structures, and the adoption of innovative technologies.
Investments are now increasingly decided and selected by the WUOs following transparent
criteria, procured competitively and implemented efficiently. It is estimated that O&M costs
are about 30 to 40 percent lower under the new WUOs' responsibility and better management.
vi



6.   A new water law was passed to help address some of the problems associated with the
transfer progran4 and the change to more commercial agriculture in general. It also provides
the legal framework to allow the sale of water rights to higher-value uses. Water concessions
are granted by thie government as part of the legal agreement with the WUOs, with each
association having a proportional right (based on area) to the supply of water available to the
ID for that season. With the transfer of nearly all the IDs, irrigation funding and management
have been effectively decentralized, shifting investment funding from fiscal resources towards
a new system based on regional and local public utilities and thus promoting the sustainability
of the investments by the beneficiaries.
7.   Based on the 11 IDs where 46 percent of project investment took place, the overall
Economic Rate of Return (ERR) for the project was estimated by the ICR team at 31.5 percent
over a 20-year period until 2010. Overall, O&M costs are significantly reduced and the self-
sufficiency target has been almost completely achieved, upgrading the operation and water use
efficiency of the IDs and almost eliminating the pressure on public funds. Even though only
about 70 to 80 percent of the required funds for optimal O&M costs are claimed to be
collected because of the recent droughts that affected water availability for irrigation and fees
collection, in almost all IDs the needed O&M works are being adequately performed, as well
as deferred maintenance and new investments, which improved overall efficiency. Water fees
charged to users are adequately covering the reduced O&M costs with the exception of CNA
salaries, reducing federal subsidies by more than 90 percent compared with 1989.
8.   Besides finishing several uncompleted works, upgrading deteriorated infrastructure, and
rehabilitating irrigated land affected by water-logging, salinity and lack of maintenance, in
most areas it has been demonstrated that high returns are involved in these investments.
Today's WUO demands for modernization under the 50-50 shared investment arrangements
clearly exceeds available resources. Water use efficiency and productivity are improving at an
annual rate of about 3 percent. Additionally, CNA and WUO institutional capacity was
strengthened significantly to implement the new policy and programs as well as to monitor and
help prevent environmental and natural resource degradation. The capacity-building process
today allows users an active role in optimizing the allocation of resources in the IDs and
Irrigation Units. Modernization in the irrigation sector is especially important given the
economic challenges involved in the required transition from traditional cropping patterns to
higher-value crops required in the context of the NAFTA.
D.  Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
9.   The country's experience with the transfer of irrigation districts is redefining the
relationship between WUOs and the State. Many other developing countries are learning
valuable lessons from the devolution of irrigation management responsibilities to users. The
case of Mexico has been used to demonstrate an approach for reforming institutions for the
sector and was an inspiration for other countries as Turkey and India (Andrah Pradesh).
10. The main lessons learned are:
* High-Level Government Commitment. The inability of governments to provide the
required funding for the irrigation sector from the public budget, results in a situation
vii



where public infrastructure cannot be maintained and is unsustainable over time. Strong
political will is required to charge the full O&M cost to users of irrigation facilities, while
devising acceptable transfer mechanisms. This was achieved from the very top level of the
President's Cabinet, to the Ministers involved (Agriculture and Economy), and to CNA.
Without this political commitment it would have been impossible to achieve project
objectives.
Infrastructure biais. It is important to mitigate the traditional bias that government
irrigation agencies have in favor of infrastructure development as they tend to overlook or
ignore broader sector policies, legal and regulatory issues, institutional development and
capacity building, resources allocation, and agronomic aspects, that affect the overall
performance.
* World Bank Priority. The Bank also committed itself to high standards to assist Mexico
with the best efforts from preparation to implementation, by assigning top expertise,
adequate resources, intensive supervision and proactive dialogue. The benchmarking of
key indicators and the updating of progress during supervision were key to planning,
dialogue and evaluation. Bank monitoring, benchmarking and follow-up discussion were
extremely important during the implementation stage. The Bank was flexible and
supportive under the Borrower's changing conditions and the extreme economic instability
prevailing during most of the implementation period. To address the lack of funds the
Bank recommended a cost-sharing financing mechanism to modernize the off-farm IDs,
keeping pace with the accelerated transfer program, and amending the legal documents.
-  Co-financing and Coordination with IDB. Because the Project was designed with a high
policy content, it was important to coordinate with IDB. Preparation of the project was
carried out together with IDB as a joint endeavor from the very beginning and
implementation was carried out in very close coordination.
-  Institutional Building and Training. The creation of institutional capacity for project
implementation was fundamental. This included sensitization and training inside the
government (CNA and IMTA) and in the States, in the WlOs and sometimes in the
private sector. The creation of the model for WUOs was made through a process of
"learning by doing" with intensive follow-up for corrections as well as for dissemination,
as no blueprints were available. Legislation and regulation were required while the
knowledge was being developed. CNA's top management took a strong lead in the process
which was fundamental to achieve the results. The IMTA played an instrumental role in
the training program.
*  Participatory Process and Empowerment of the Users. CNA succeeded in adequately
promoting the participation of beneficiaries in the planning, design, construction and
maintenance phases. Ownership of the project beneficiaries' was sought from the early
stages, through involvement in preparation work and lobbying activities throughout the
project cycle. For this, a very intensive promotion program was organized by CNA,
including the use of audiovisual materials prepared with IMTA as well as a number of
promotion teams contracted from the private sector. The empowerment of WUOs was
sought through their responsible involvement in the decision-making for the timely
viii



collection of water fees, the use of funds and the procurement of goods and services.
Another very important ingredient in the consolidation of the participation process was the
creation of the National Association of Irrigation Users (ANUR), which now represents
irrigation farmers all over Mexico (about 350,000 users) at very high levels in Congress,
Federal Government, etc.
*  Adaptive Research and Selection of Appropriate Technology. This topic was extremely
important in the transfer process. Five categories merit to be mentioned: (i) cost-effective
machinery and technology to clean canals and drains; (ii) efficient reclamation of saline
and waterlogged lands; (iii) efficient telecommunications in the IDs; (iv) piping of minor
distribution laterals; and (v) new water measurement structures. IMTA was very helpful in
assisting CNA and the WUOs in all these cases.
*  Adequate Size of the Transfered Modules. The transfer of modules was formed initially
by small units (2,000 to 4,000 has) as it was felt they would be easier to manage, but larger
ones were created later as it became clear that financial self-sufficiency required larger
areas to generate sufficient income and economy of scale (over 1 8,OOOhas).
-  Appropriate Structure of Water Fees: Irrigation water fees in Mexico were set by the
National Water Law as a volumetric "single step". Over time, IDs operation through the
WUOs has demonstrated that the best structure would be through a two-steps structure that
would consider the volume and the irrigation right in the registry. This new structure
makes collection more effective and O&M more sustainable during special circumstances
such as: (i) dry years (less water to sell but still substantial fixed costs of O&M to pay); or
(ii) during very rainy years (less demand from users).
D  Economic and Financial efficiency of the WUOs. Even without previous experience,
WUOs were much more efficient than a specialized govermnent agency in managing and
performing rehabilitation, O&M and modernization of irrigation systems wherever
pertinent training and strengthening activities were provided.  It is conservatively
estimated that O&M costs are about 30 to 40 percent lower under the WUOs'
responsibility due to better management practices (private sector style) and technology
innovations.
11. The agenda for the future. Based on its own merits and stated objectives, the project
can be considered highly satisfactory as it exceeded by far most of the performance indicators.
However, with time, a number of 'elements have-emerged that would require specific and
stronger attention and that would needJo be increasingly taken into consideration in the future
of the irrigation agenda:
*  The sector would benefit from a more decisive decentralization of CNA both to the States
and to water users organized around watersheds. CNA would become over time a "Water
Authority," relinquishing infrastructure development functions with the exception of
matters related to national security (dams, reservoirs, international waters, etc.).
* A clear mechanism for continuous performance measuring and benchmarking can improve
accountability in a service that is a natural monopoly.
Ix



*  The issue of the availability of the water resource should become much more central to
future irrigation programs and in particular the aspects related to correct pricing, tariff
structures, increasing competition from growing cities, and environmental issues.
*  Agricultural productivity per unit of water "consumed" should become a key criteria in
deciding to invest in irrigation schemes. In that respect subsidizing certain crops (basic
grains) and under-pricing water, can induce into inefficient production patters and reduce
the country's competitiveness.
x



IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE SECTOR PROJECT
Loan 3419-ME
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Project ID: P007667                        Project Name: Irrigation and Drainage Sector Project
Team Leader: 00021234 Jose Simas           TL Unit. 7632
ICR Type: Core ICR                         Report Date: April 24, 2001
1. Project Data
Name:                Irrigation and Drainage Sector Project    L/C/TF    3419S
Number:  3419A
Country/Department:  MEXICO/LCCIC                             Region:   Latin Ameria and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector.'   Al: Irrigation & Drainage
Original           Revised/Actual
Key Dates
PCD:        December 21, 1988      Effective:        November, 1991    June 18, 1992
Appraisal:  February 19, 1991      MTR:              Not foreseen        May 16, 1997
Approval:   December 3, 1991       Closing:           December 31, 1995  June 30.2000
Borrower/Implementing Azency:  Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
Other Partners:                 Interamerican Development Bank
STAFF               CURRENT                            AT APPRAISAL
Vice President:     David de Ferranti                  S. Shahid Husain
Country Director:    Olivier Lafourcade                 R. Steckhan
Sector Director:    John Redwood                       H. Binswanger
Sector Leader.      Adolfo Brizzi                       V. Narcissiantz
- Task Team Leader:   Jose Simas                        J. Simas/V. Narcissiantz
ICR Primary Author: Juan Morelli (consultant)
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=tnsatisfactory, HL-Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantl, M=Modest, NNegligible)
Outcome:                             HS
Sustainability.'                     HL
Institutional Development Impact:    SU
Bank Performance:                    HS
Borrower Performance.                S
QAG (if available) ICR
Quality at Entry:                                   HS
Project at Risk at Any Time:                        No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective: According to the SAR the project would help the Government of
Mexico (GOM) to: (a) sustain the irrigation and drainage (I&D) sector through adequate levels
of investments selected on the basis of rigorous economic and technical criteria, procured
competitively and implemented efficiently; (b) decentralize irrigation funding and
management through institutional reforms that would gradually move funding of I&D
investments from a centrally-managed system of Government grants towards a system based
on regional and local public utilities which would help to recover costs through user charges
and collection instruments, and thus help sustain the investments made by the beneficiaries; (c)
fully utilize existing irrigation schemes by finishing uncompleted works, upgrading
deteriorated infrastructure, and rehabilitating irrigated land affected by waterlogging, salinity
problems and lack of maintenance; (d) improve water use efficiency by introducing: better
water management techniques, the conjunctive use of surface and ground water, volumetric
measurement of water providing more adaptive research results, and training of technicians
and farmers in better operation and maintenance (O&M) of the irrigation infrastructure; (e)
strengthen the institutional capacity of the federal water authority and executing agency, the
Comision Nacional del Agua (CNA) and the user organizations to implement policy programs,
investments and maintenance; (f) monitor and help prevent environmental and natural resource
degradation; and (g) optimize the use of land and water resources in the Irrigation Districts
(IDs) and Units.
3.2 Objectives of the project were clear, realistic and relevant. The irrigated areas in Mexico
had experienced large expansions' in the previous three decades, contributing to agricultural
development and modernization. However, growth at that time had stagnated as a result of the
financial crisis which began in 1982 and the sharp reduction in investment due to the
government's stabilization and anti-inflationary policies. Annual public investment in the
sector declined from US$3.6 billion in 1981 to US$230 million in 19902. Additionally, over
time the percentage of total irrigation O&M costs covered by farmer contributions (water fees)
declined from 85 percent in the fifties to 20 percent (self-sufficiency level) during the eighties,
relying increasingly on fiscal transfers. The Bank's experience in irrigation was being
confirmed once more: the lack of political will to charge the full O&M costs, not to mention
the investment costs to users of irrigation facilities, complicated by the inability of
governments to provide the required funds from the public budget, resulted in a situation
where public infrastructure became unsustainable over time. This new loan was also the
expression of the Bank's move frgm project-specific lending operations toward a sector
investment approach aimed at supporting policy and institutional reforms. This included the
financing of a percentage of public investments on the basis of previously agreed criteria and
greater participation of beneficiaries in decision making and cost recovery.
'The Bank had previously provided about 12 loans totaling US$3.4 billion in various regions of the country,
increasing the irrigated areas by 0.5 million ha, and rehabilitating an additional 0.9 million of the existing 6
million ha at the time of this project preparation and appraisal (1988-1991).
2 The Secretaria de Agricultura y Recursos Hidraulicos' (SARH) budgetary restrictions since 1982 and up to 1988
have reflected on Bank-financed irrigation projects through the cancellation of US$261 million of loan amounts,
slow implementation of two ongoing irrigation projects and doubtful prospects for new operations with SARH.
2



3.3 The project strategy was also in line with the Bank's policy, stressing the need for
decentralization as an important element of an integrated approach to water resource
management and private sector development. The institutional reform process for improved
irrigation management and cost recovery was instrumental to ensure that the legal
requirements for cost recovery were implemented. The sectoral "time-slice" approach based
on the early definition of clear investment selection criteria and methodology and strong
institutional building and strengthening, has also proved to be adequate.
3.4 Revised Objective: During implementation, the objectives remained unchanged but budget
and targets were adjusted due to a positive shift in priority from new constructions toward
more rehabilitation and transfer not only of the targeted 21 IDs but all 82 IDs under the control
of CNA. This more ambitious target combined with the fiscal budget constraints after 1995,
led to a slower disbursement pace and it appeared that the original implementation schedule of
only 4V/2 years when the standard profile was eight to ten years would not be sufficient to
achieve project objectives and a longer time frame would be required. Restructuring the
project together with the associated extension of the closing date resulted positive.
3.5 Original Components: The project was well conceived as the first phase of a broader
irrigation and investment program for the development of water, soil and human resources
productivity in the high-potential irrigated areas, supporting the transition from an
engineering-driven, centrally-managed irrigation investment program relying mainly on
Government grants, to a more decentralized system based on transparent investment selection
criteria and greater participation of beneficiaries in decision making and cost recovery. The
project was the GOM's I&D investment program for fiscal years 1991 through 1994,
estimated at US$1.2 billion (US$400 million financed by IBRD and US$200 million by IDB)
and comprised of 12 sub-components grouped in three main categories: (i) Irrigation and
Drainage Construction Components: including 7 subcomponents (US$1.1 billion) for
construction of Irrigation Districts (IDs), construction of Small Irrigation, Rehabilitation and
Modernization of IDs, Rehabilitation of Small Irrigation, Deferred Maintenance, O&M of
equipment and Reuse of Sewage Waters; (ii) Support Action Components (US$58 million),
including 2 subcomponents for Environmental Actions and Institutional Development; and
(iii) Other Project Components (US$88 million) including 3 subcomponents for Studies and
Designs, Small River Training Works (i.e., small drainage infrastructure) and Dam Safety.
3



fi  Cowe:t                  Appraisal      Acttual     ActuaVl      Rating
''Estimate    Estimnate    Appraisal
I. I&D Construction Components             1,099.0       1,264.9      115%         HS
1. Construction of IDs                  522.0        388.9        75%          itS
2. Construction of small irrigation      129.0        111.8        87%          S
3. Rehabilitation of IDs                258.0         340.3       132%         HS
4. Rehabilitation of small irrigation    21.0         285.0       1,357%        S
5. Deferred maintenance                  88.0         61.3         70%          S
6. O&M equipment                         71.0         77.3        109%         HS
7. Reuse of sewage waters                10.0          0.3         3%           S
II. Support Actions Components              58.0          23.6        41%          HS
1. Environmental actions                 34.0         9.1         27%           S
2. Institutional Development             24.0         14.5         60%         HS
III. Other Proiect Actions                  88.0         139.7        159%/5,      HS
1. Studies and designs                   37.0         18.6        50%          HS
2. Small river training works            22.0         66.2        301%         HS
3. Dam safety                            29.0         54.9        189%         HS
4. Rainfed Areas                          -           54.5          -          HS
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                 1,245.0       1,482.7      119%         HS
3.6 Revised Components: There was no change in the original components. However, there
were some adjustments in budget allocation and targets among the components as the transfer
program was advancing far beyond expected targets. As of December 31, 1994, full or partial
management responsibility for 55 IDs with a command area of about 2.5 million ha (27
percent over appraisal targets) had been transferred while only US$227 million (57 percent of
the IBRD loan amount) was disbursed. Given these highly satisfactory results, the annual
program revisions gave higher priority to rehabilitation and transfer works rather than to new
constructions, and to the incorporation of modernization concepts. Additionally, the Bank
agreed in 1996 to finance some emergency flood control and irrigation investments in the
southern states previously supported by the Rainfed Areas Development Project (Ln 7607-
MX). The loan was amended to include a number of modifications: (i) the pari-passu for
certain investment categories; (ii) partial cancellation of the loan (US$50 nmillion); (ii) budget
reallocation; (iii) introduction of an innovative 50150 cost-sharing financing mechanism for
modernizing off-farm irrigation infrastructure; and (iv) extension of the closing date.
3. 7 Quality at Entry: At the time of appraisal the project was consistent with the government's
priorities for the sector and with the Bank's CAS. In 1989, recognizing the problems in the
irrigation subsector, the government created the National Water Commission (CNA), with the
explicit mandate to define a new policy for the management of the country's water resources.
This led to the development of the National Program for the Decentralization of the IDs (the
transfer program) under the National Development Plan (1989-1994). It was designed to
increase water charges, reduce and eliminate government subsidies to O&M of the transferred
IDs, and to establish a system of co-responsibility between CNA and the water users where all
public IDs would become financially self-sufficient. The new policy would also aim at the
partial recovery of any future capital cost expenditure. The decision to implement the program
was made at the highest level, the Office of the Presidency, and was strongly supported by
producers, especially in the more commercial irrigated areas. Farmers' support was based on
the recognition that the IDs were only going to get worse as the government did not have the
funds to properly operate and maintain them. Consequently, the systems initially targeted to be
4



transferred were concentrated in the more commercial areas where the program had strong
local support.
3.8 For the first time the Bank approached a government's full irrigation, drainage and flood
control program within a time-slice operation, providing much broader scope for a continuous
policy dialogue and agreement on irrigation policy issues including investment selection
criteria, environmental safeguards, procurement and auditing, rules and O&M procedures.
The design correctly followed the Bank's Irrigation Subsector Survey (1982) fmdings that the
production value of existing irrigated land could be doubled through a combination of
increased area and cropping intensity, improved productivity, and diversification toward
higher-value crops, which required the completion of partially constructed irrigation works and
the rehabilitation and modernization of existing works. Previous Bank lending for investment
projects focused on technical issues of investments for irrigated area expansions, ignoring
sectoral and resource allocation issues. The project also followed safeguard policies regarding
environment, poverty alleviation, dam safety and natural resource management. The design
included provisions for: (a) environmental impact assessments (EIA) consistent with
government legislation and Bank guidelines for I&D projects; (b) strengthening of the
executing agency to monitor the project's environmental impact and to prevent environmental
and natural resource degradation; and (c) inspection of dams by a panel of experts satisfactory
to the Bank.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective: Project outcome is considered highly satisfactory.
Most of the relevant objectives have provided good results in its sectoral policies, physical,
institutional, financial and economic development targets. Mexico has undertaken a radical
program of decentralization and private sector promotion in irrigation involving substantial
policy changes, restructuring of agencies, and transfer of management responsibilities to
autonomous WtJOs. Going beyond the original targets involving the transfer of the best
prepared 21 IDs foreseen at appraisal (1.97 million ha), the project transferred O&M functions
for 72 IDs to 431 WUJOs, and an additional 8 IDs are in the process of being transferred. From
a total irrigated area in the IDs of 3.4 million ha, 3.28 million ha (96 percent of the total and
166 percent of the target) had been transferred by October 2000. Funding for O&M is ensured
through water fees paid by users who increased their share in O&M costs from 20 percent to
an average of 90 percent, almost reaching self-sufficiency and significantly improving water
use efficiency. To supplement this project, the government, with Bank financing, launched in
1994 an On-Farm and Minor Irrigation Networks Project (OFMINP) to enhance on-farm level
productivity and water conservation, as well as a program to register and assign water rights to
users. The combination of the two programs may become a model for many developing
countries that embark on the revision of their irrigation sector and are sending officials to
Mexico to learn from this experience.
4.2 In spite of several adverse factors, the project is already generating a variety of benefits
including higher agricultural production and productivity, increased incomes, higher
government savings and revenues, and enhanced environmental quality of areas both inside
and outside the irrigated perimeters. Before the project, irrigated agricultural production
declined at an average rate of 0.4 percent per annum (1982-1989), while since the transfer
program was in operation the trend was reversed and production grew at a rate of 4.8 percent
5



per annum (1992-1999)3. The reduced risk associated with availability of water for irrigation
no longer depending on central government budgets and timely transfers, strongly stimulated a
modernization process through production investments and technology improvements. Higher
efficiency resulted from improvement and installation of better structures, and the adoption of
innovative technologies. Investments are now increasingly decided and selected by the W[Os
following transparent criteria, procured competitively and implemented efficiently. It is
estimated that O&M costs are about 30 to 40 percent lower under the new WUOs'
responsibility and better management.
4.3 With the transfer of nearly all the IDs, irrigation funding and management have been
effectively decentralized, shifting investment funding from fiscal resources towards a new
system based on regional and local public irrigation utilities and thus promoting the
sustainability of the investments by the beneficiaries. The participation of States and local
governments along with the users, within the Programa Alianza para el Campo (PAC),
combines federal, state and municipal efforts and resources together with farmers and also
contributes to improve the efficiency in the allocation of fiscal funds. The rehabilitation and
modernization of IDs under the project (off-farm systems) and the OFMINP (on-farm and
minor systems) are now being co-financed through the PAC. Even though only about 70 to 80
percent of the required funds for optimal O&M costs are claimed to be collected because of the
droughts that have recently affected water availability for irrigation and fees collection, in
almost all IDs the needed O&M works are being adequately performed, as well as deferred
maintenance and new investments, which improved overall efficiency. Water fees charged to
users are adequately covering the reduced O&M costs with the exception of CNA salaries,
reducing federal subsidies by more than 90 percent compared with 1989.
4.4 Besides finishing several uncompleted works, upgrading deteriorated infrastructure, and
rehabilitating irrigated land affected by waterlogging, salinity and lack of maintenance, in most
areas it has been demonstrated that high returns are involved with these investments. Today,
WtOs' demands for modernization under the 50-50 shared investment arrangements clearly
exceed available resources. Water use efficiency and productivity are improving at an annual
rate of about 3 percent4. Additionally, CNA's and WlOs' institutional capacity was
strengthened significantly to implement the new policy and programs as well as to monitor and
help prevent environmental and natural resource degradation. The capacity-building process
allows users to play an active role in optimizing the allocation of resources in the IDs and
Irrigation Units. Modernization in the irrigation sector is especially important given the
economic challenges involved in the required transition from the traditional cropping patterns,
to the higher-value crops required in the context of the North American Free Trade Agreement
(NAFTA).
4.5 Outputs by components:
* I&D Construction Components. Construction of IDs and units was implemented at a
satisfactory level of quality and in line with the revised program. In the IDs, the target of
94,800 ha with completed infrastructure was exceeded by 17 percent; and in the irrigation
units the target of 37,000 ha was 95 percent achieved. During implementation there was a
3Colegio de Postgraduados y CNA. "AnAlisis de la Productividad de los Recursos Agua y Tierra," 1999.
According to the Colegio de Postgraduados, between 1990 and 1998 water productivity increased from $0.X0/m3 to $1/rn3.
6



positive shift in priorities from construction of new works and expansion of irrigated areas
towards the rapid transfer and efficiency improvement of existing irrigation systems. The
revision was also a means to adjust to the smaller budget allocated to the irrigation
subsector, given that area expansion is more expensive than rehabilitation of existing
irrigated areas.
Rehabilitation of IDs and Small Irrigation Units and Deferred Maintenance. Project-
financed rehabilitation and deferred maintenance were generally behind schedule,
especially considering the revised ID transfer program. Works were concentrated on
520,400 ha (89 percent) out of the targeted 586.700. However, in many cases WUOs have
taken responsibility for management and financing of rehabilitation and deferred
maintenance works through their increased water fees collection. In the Alto Rio Lerma
ID, the amount of sediment removed from canals and drains increased more than five times
after irrigation management transfer took place and users started to address some of the
deferred maintenance of canals and drains, many of which had not been maintained for
more than 10 years. To address the shortage of funds to support an expanded transfer
prograrn, a cost-sharing program to implement the rehabilitation and modernization of the
systems was negotiated and agreed between CNA, the Bank and WUOs of the transferred
IDs. With Bank support, rehabilitation was accelerated with the additional users' funds.
Rehabilitation designs have been substantially improved, incorporating modem irrigation
concepts and structures. Weed control costs in canals and drains have been reduced
significantly through effective biological means.
* O&M equipment. The acquisition of modern O&M equipment was satisfactory and
consistent with the revised program. Provision of heavy and light equipment was 354
percent and 117 percent, respectively, compared with SAR target quantities, contributing
to improve the WUOs' capacity to operate and maintain their modules. Moreover, as part
of the transfer program, CNA transferred most maintenance equipment to the WUOs so
that they could have the means to maintain their respective ditches and drains. This was a
strong incentive for farmers to accept the transfer program since they realized that without
it they would not be able to maintain the system. About 30 percent of the existing
equipment was repaired, but some was old and in poor condition. As a consequence, many
modules purchased new light equipment, more adequate for maintenance and for carrying
out agricultural tasks such as land leveling using lasers to help increase irrigation
efficiency. The new light equipment reduced the time and the cost required for O&M, and
improved the quality of works.
* Environmental actions. Most of,the environmental issues flagged at appraisal showed
improvements since the main cause of the problems stemmed from the lack of maintenance
in the IDs. The IDs are now operating in good shape as a consequence of the establishment
of adequate technical support from the project-financed IMTA programs, including land
leveling, irrigation plans according to soil and plant needs, increased control over
agrochemical use and other practices. Routine control.of water quality, pesticide levels,
drainage and soil salinity has been introduced in many IDs. However, it needs to be
mentioned that little has been done regarding deforestation of upper watersheds and the
resulting soil erosion which in turn causes silting of reservoirs and irrigation canals.
Additionally, in many areas subsidized electricity rates continue to lead to excessive use of
7



groundwater with falling water tables and in some cases saltwater intrusion in the coastal
areas.
* Institutional Development. IDs were successfully transferred to 431 legally constituted
WUOs which are now in charge of the irrigation modules, which are served by one or
more secondary channels. By October 2000, more than 96 percent of the 3.4 million ha of
publicly irrigated land in the country had been transferred to joint management.
Additionally, there are 10 Companies (Sociedades de Responsabilidad Limitada - LRSs),
created as federations of the WUOs, which are responsible for operating main canals,
drains, and roads within the IDs. LRSs also allow the pooling of maintenance equipment
resulting in economies of scale. Parallel to this private sector development process, the
number of CNA staff has been reduced significantly and in most IDs the systems are
operated with higher levels of efficiency5. Today, CNA has improved its implementation
capacity and strengthened its staff's professional skills in several areas, particularly in
promoting social participation in water use efficiency matters. The new decentralized
structure is based on 13 regions where participation is being organized through watershed
basin consultative councils and where stakeholders share their needs and solutions. WtUOs
have proven capable of operating and maintaining the modules, and the water fees
collected have not only supported O&M activities but have funded most of the O&M of
main canals and leveling carried out by CNA staff. This is in sharp contrast with the
previous situation when the systems were heavily dependent upon government subsidies
and consequently structures were deteriorating rapidly due to lack of stable funding and
farmers' worsening income situation. A National Association of Irrigation Users (ANUR)
was created to serve as an official representative of WUOs, help with human resource
development, and serve as a mechanism to access credit and technical assistance. While
CNA was successful in devolving IDs' management responsibility to the users, it remains
a heavily centralized agency with respect to infrastructure financing and water resource
management, with little authority decentralized so far to watershed agencies (COTAS) and
to the States.
4.6 Present Net Value/Economic Rate of Return: Based on the 11 IDs where 46 percent of
project investment took place, the overall Economic Rate of Return (ERR) for the project was
estimated by the ICR team at 31.5 percent over a 20-year period until 2010. Detailed
calculations were made as of the project closing date, quantifying the production effects up to
ten years during which some of the systems have operated under WUO management, and
evaluating the expected production response to the improved overall production environment.
The project area under cultivation fejt in the 11 IDs by abot4t 4 percent due to the scarcity of
water in the reservoirs but it is assumed to have recovered and increased by about 10 percent
in the last years, given the improved efficiency in the use of water. The cropped area is
showing a slow trend towards higher-value crops from the previous pattern of corn and other
basic grains. The analysis was based on crop budgets and the actual area changes mainly in
the last five years, considering border prices for the principal products and market prices for
production costs, since they adequately reflect their opportunity cost and/or border prices. It
was assumed that O&M would continue to be adequately performed in the future and that
higher-value crops would increase from 8 percent to 10 percent of the irrigated area in the next
5From 1990 to mid-1994, 42% of the CNA personnel involved in irrigation O&M were retired or released. The elimination
of unionized staff controlling O&M activities has removed one of the farmers' major complaints.
8



five years in response to increased water costs. The results confirm the conclusion that the
project is achieving its development objectives regarding the optimization of water use and
land resources and that there has been a profitable investment of public funds.
4. 7 Financial rate of return: Land value changes in rehabilitated saline areas, from an average
of US$500 per ha before rehabilitation to US$2,000 after a US$600 investment, are a proxy
indicator of financial returns. The financial results of five farm models covering the most
relevant activities in three IDs supported by the project, are summarized in Annex 3, Table 1.
These models illustrate the project's effect with regard to compensating for the deterioration of
the terms of trade resulting from the elimination of guaranteed prices through strong
improvements in production efficiency and productivity. Agricultural production in the II IDs
where 46 percent of the IDSP investment took place, has grown from 7.3 to 10.5 million tons
and could reach about 12 rnillion tons in three to five years if water availability were to return
to normal levels and IDs reach full production. In terms of incremental economic production
value, the 11 IDs are producing about US$2.1 billion annually, 50 percent more than what
would be produced without the project. These numbers are the combined result of the
improved economic environment for agriculture, reduced irrigation-related risks, private
investments induced by the new joint responsibilities in ID management and funding.
However, there is still a great amount of benefits to be gained from the IDs if proper incentives
for crop diversification are put in place. About 90 percent of the 1.5 million ha in the 11 IDs
are still under extensive and low-value agricultural crops, mainly under basic grains
production.
4.8 Fiscal impact: The original objective of the transfer program was to seek long-term
sustainability of the irrigation systems and to reduce govermment subsidies to zero. In early
1990, as the transfer program was starting, the irrigation budget was about US$109 million, of
which users' contributions were US$40.4 million. This budget was about US$42 million short
of the approximately US$150 million needed for sustainable O&M for the 3.2 million ha of
publicly irrigated land. Today, funding for O&M of IDs is ensured through water fees paid by
users. In contrast to the previous situation, the 1995 irrigation fees collected by users alone
totaled US$180 million. Today, in spite of reduced collections due to the droughts (US$107
million in 1999), overall O&M costs are significantly reduced and the self-sufficiency target
has been almost completely achieved, upgrading the operation and water use efficiency of the
IDs and almost eliminating the pressure on public funds. However, it has not been possible to
pay all the salaries of the remaining CNA employees in charge of water sources and the main
canals which are directly paid by the government.
4.9 Institutional Development Impact: A new water law was passed to help address some of
the problems associated with the transfer program, and the change to more commercial
agriculture in general. It also provides the legal framework to allow the sale of water rights to
higher-value uses. Water concessions are granted by the government as part of the legal
agreement with the WUOs, with each association having a proportional right (based on area)
to the supply of water available to the ID for that season. The project has been particularly
successful with respect to transferring to and strengthening of the WUOs, the cost recovery of
adequate levels of O&M, and the efficiency of budget allocation among subprojects.
Currently, 431 WUOs and 10 LRSs are organized and fully took over from the government
O&M functions and funding, introducing modern technologies for O&M, including
telecommunications, use of satellite GIS devices, modern maintenance machinery mix, and
9



chemical and biological methods for controlling weed growth in canals and drains. Modules
were formed initially into small units as it was felt they would be easier to manage. Later on,
larger ones were created as it became clear that financial self-sufficiency required larger areas
to generate sufficient income. In addition to WlUOs and LRSs, an Hydraulic Committee,
comprised of the Chief Engineer of the ID and representatives (usually the presidents) of each
of the WtUOs and other interested parties, meets once a month and is in charge of the effective
functioning of the [Ds, serving as a forum for exchanging opinions and as a mechanism for
reconciling conflicting needs.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors beyond the control of the governmenl or implementing agency. During
implementation, Mexico experienced major adjustments in its economy and in its social
contract with the peasant (ejido) sector. The financial crisis of 1994 obliged the government to
reduce budget allocations to the sector. This could have had severe consequences on the
performance of the transfer program; however, during those difficult years, WUOs
demonstrated strong ownership of the program since they maintained the pace even if initially
they had no reserves and were collecting fees just in time to pay salaries and expenses for the
following month. The program also suffered several severe drought years, placing the
transferred systems in a condition of stress.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control: GOM's commitment to project
objectives was a strong factor favoring and supporting the reform process. The irrigation sector
proposals were adequately framed in the context of a larger set of macroeconomic and
agricultural policy reforms that have been implemented since the end of the 80s, helping to
improve resources allocation and competitiveness, and reducing government intervention in
the economy. Agricultural terms of trade changed substantially in the last decade. Most
subsidies on inputs and price guarantee programs were eliminated with the exception of basic
grains, where CONASUPO's intervention remained in effect until 1998. Corn area continued
to occupy a disproportionate amount of the irrigated land, to the detriment of other crops
offering better economnic returns. The 1994 economic crisis was concurrent with the change of
federal administration, including CNA's transfer from the Secretariat of Agriculture and Water
Resources (SARH) to the Ministry of Environment, Natural Resources and Fisheries
(SEMARNAP). This resulted in a significant slowdown after a rapid and promising project
start-up. Project implementation was much slower during 1995 and 1996 as a result of lower
budget allocations and priority given to other water uses and constructions rather than
irrigation. Budget allocations improved in real terms in the following years by 36 percent, 58
percent and 27 percent in 1997, 1998 and 1999, respectively, compared with the previous year.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control: One of the most difficult tasks
in initiating the transfer process was to attain cooperation from the various levels in CNA.
Some of the operating staff did not agree with the policy of transferring O&M to WUOs and
had to be persuaded through lengthy discussions and some had to leave for other employment
or sought early retirement. It has been reported that the ability of WUOs to hire and fire their
own staff has improved the responsiveness of CNA's operational staff to the needs of the users.
5.4 Costs and financing: The total project cost was estimated at US$1.2 billion and would
cover the IDs investment program for fiscal years 1991 - 1994. The Bank loan of up to $400
10



million would finance a 50 percent share, or "time-slice," of the program in selected areas.
Similarly, the IDB would finance US$200 million, also covering 50 percent of the program in
different areas. Due to the financial crisis, budget allocations and disbursements for 1994
onwards were far below SAR estimates. This was compounded by recurring delays in
releasing the approved budgets in time (usually the annual budget was not released before
September), so that by the original closing date, disbursements were US$227 million, 43
percent below the SAR estimate. The slower disbursement pace induced the approval of three
extensions for a cumulative total of 42 additional years and a cancellation of US$50 million
(August 1995). The first two extensions were for one year each and accounted for delays in
effectiveness and implementation, in order to make the project compatible with the original
intended time frame of 41/2 years. However, slow disbursements caused by the fiscal crisis
justified a new two-year extension, considering that the project was proceeding satisfactorily.
6. Sustainability. Project sustainability is rated highly likely.
6.1   Rationale for sustainability rating.' With increased users' contribution to O&M budgets
and more responsive CNA staff, the transfer program has created a more sustainable situation
than before the project.  This was evident during the 1995 financial crisis when the
government provided almost no operating budget to line agencies such as CNA. However,
funds from users not only kept the modules operating, but they actually carried out some of the
deferred maintenance and provided critical funds to ensure that CNA could carry out O&M at
the main canal and water source levels. In contrast, during the 1982 crisis, the IDs almost
stopped operating due to the lack of funds and all maintenance was deferred. Also, in 1997,
CNA introduced with Bank support a rehabilitation and modernization scheme cofinanced on
a 50-50 basis with users. Demand for modernization investments far exceeds all optimistic
expectations. This represented a major step towards the participation of WUOs in the
financing of investment costs as initially planned under the project. It would be particularly
important for the Bank to further assist CNA in this venture.
6.2   However, for long-term sustainability, additional actions and changes are required.
There are some problematic IDs with specific difficulties that need to be addressed, including:
(i) irrigation infrastructure with structural problems that farmers cannot solve by themselves;
(ii) land with very low productivity and/or polluted water; (iii) areas were water is scarce
and/or where there are land ownership problems; and (iv) IDs located in areas where there is
civil unrest such as in Chiapas. In addition, some second-generation problems resulting from
the speed with which the transfer program was implemented will have to be faced in order to
ensure the long-term success of the irrigation sector and the ability of the users and CNA to
sustain the transfer districts. The water fee system needs to be adjusted so that water use
efficiency can continue to improve and the districts can develop reserve funds for emergencies,
future replacement, and rehabilitation. After several years of scarce rains and droughts, some
modules were on the verge of going broke as they did not have sufficient water to deliver in
order to raise the fumds needed to meet their basic operating costs. Many WUOs are
recognizing the need to shift to a system where the module collects a fixed amount to pay the
costs of the staff and other facilities as well as a volumetric fee (or the number of hectares
irrigated as a proxy) to cover variable costs of delivering water.
11



6.3   Transition arrangement to regular operations.  IMTA is actively supporting the
transferred modules and CNA in the preparation of future modernization plans. Most of the
relevant WUOs, including LRSs operating the main canals and head works, have already
prepared their subprojects to be financed under the PAC mechanism. A PHRD trust fund was
approved to assist the government in the preparation of future operations, and includes
technical assistance and training activities. There is still a need to consolidate the expanded
transfer process, especially through the financing of complementary actions including the
rehabilitation and modernization of a much larger number of IDs and the acquisition of light
machinery for O&M. Both actions received lower budget allocations than originally planned
and the transfer of 82 IDs instead of the original 21 requires more funding and time than was
foreseen in the SAR. The positive response to the pilot cost-sharing program between CNA
and the WUOs proved to be innovative and effective and would be the basis for the follow-up
operation.
6.4  In spite of the adverse factors affecting development (droughts, economic crisis, terms
of trade, etc.), the consolidation of the transfer program and private sector development is seen
as highly successful since user participation and social capital have developed significantly.
The ANUR is assuming a catalytic role in the promotion of improved management and ID
development throughout the country, becoming a guarantee and a main interlocutor in the
sustainability and management of the irrigation systems. However, there is still a need for
considerable amounts of funds to finance the rehabilitation of the transferred IDs in order to
upgrade them to the required levels imposed by the increasingly integrated Mexican
agricultural economy. This is a process that has been successfully initiated but has still to be
supported since it takes considerable investments and time, and requires more training for
technicians and users in the induction of modern technologies, products and processes. With
IMTA's support, the project has developed several new technology demonstration events and,
together with CNA and ANUR, two specialized training centers are providing regular courses
that should be strengthened and diversified.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending: The Bank's performance in identification and preparation was satisfactory.
Since October 1987 several Bank and FAO/CP missions accompanied the governrment's
irrigation reform planning process, providing extensive analytical work and policy dialogue
that helped to discuss the pitfalls of previous irrigation projects in Mexico. Missions were
very active in identifying new strategies to increase the effectiveness of fiture interventions.
Previously, investment proposals only met engineering criteria and usually failed to comply
with economic, agronomic and environmental criteria. Even though the engineering bias has
been there for decades and is still present, the Bank managed to induce the implementation of
rigorous screening of the investment program in accordance with agreed criteria and
methodology. Preparation took about two years and was led by the GOM with the assistance
of IBRD, IDB and FAO. The strategy was clearly focused on resource allocation issues,
beneficiary participation in funding of investments and operation, adequate institutional
arrangements including WUOs and improved analytical capacity and balanced skill mix when
irrigation investment decisions were to be made.
12



7.2  Supervision: The Bank supported implementation through 18 supervision missions.
Performance is rated as highly satisfactory. As foreseen at appraisal, annual reviews were held
to assess progress, including investment allocation and action plans, compliance with
investment selection criteria and remedial actions each time problems arose. The Bank was
flexible and supportive under the Borrower's changing conditions and the economic instability
prevailing during most of the implementation period. To address the lack of funds, the Bank
recommended a cost-sharing financing mechanism to modernize the off-farm IDs, keeping
pace with the accelerated transfer program, restructuring the program and amending the legal
documents. The Bank was also active in pursuing project development objectives to carry out
ID subprojects and in improving the technical assistance program to strengthen WUOs to
adequately develop and manage IDs' activities. It also helped to expedite disbursements by
supporting local officials in charge of the critical steps at the State, CNA and NAFIN levels,
removing bottlenecks that were delaying the process. In spite of the complexity involved, the
process reached an acceptable level of reliability. The extension of the closing date by the
Bank made it possible to support: (i) the completion of the transfer process; (ii) its
consolidation through the financing of the required machinery for O&M, and the rehabilitation
and modernization of the transferred systems; (iii) the participation of WUOs in the 50-50
shared financing programs under the PAC; (iv) the CNA emergency programs in support of
the southern states; (v) training and institutional strengthening of the SRL and WUOs of the
transferred modules; and (vi) the preparation of the new portfolio of projects to be financed
under a possible new phase of the Bank's time-slice support.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance: Overall Bank performance is considered highly satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation: During preparation the borrower's performance was satisfactory but dual.
The investment program for 1991-1993 presented by CNA to the appraisal mission still
reflected the traditional strong engineering bias in investment selection without due regard to
the sectoral context. However, after all, there was a clear interest on the part of the Mexican
financial authorities to improve the existing policy mechanisms. A number of policy,
institutional and legal changes were put in place to support reforms in the irrigation sector.
7.5 Government implementation performance: The borrower's performance during
implementation was also satisfactory. Most policy constraints that distorted incentives for
agricultural development have been successfully lifted (with the exception of corn) and the
institutional and legal reform process for improved irrigation management and cost recovery is
in place. Article 27 of the constitution was modified in 1992, so that ejidos farmers could be
given the right to form associations and to rent and sell their water and land rights as well as
pledge their land as collateral for loans. Additionally, the water law was revised so that water
rights were clarified and the possibility of selling and leasing water to higher-value uses was
established, to encourage investment and productivity under the assumption that security of
tenure would promote growth. However, the persistent protection given to corn production
through prices (until 1998) and through marketing support (from 1998 to 2000) continued to
induce some distortions, preventing a better allocation of resources in the IDs6.  This
6 For 1991, de Janvry et al. (1995) calculated a nominal rate of protection of 77% for corn, a producer subsidy
equivalent (PSE) of US$92 for white corn and US$71 for yellow corn, a result of various government
13



represented an important fiscal cost to the Government, most of which went to medium- anid
large-scale farmers who were induced to produce corn through the artificially high financial
returns, away from other atternative higher-value crops. Only in 2001, with the new
Government, this grain support bias is being phased out.
7.6 Implementing Agency: CNA's performance was also satisfactory. Its management of the
major construction contracts was adequate. The implementing agency also succeeded in
adequately promoting the participation of beneficiaries in the planning, design, construction
and maintenance phases. In general its communications with stakeholders, particularly with
beneficiaries, were increasingly strong and effective. To persuade users to accept the transfer
program as well as to encourage them to agree to the proposed modules' boundaries, a very
intensive promotion program was organized by CNA, including the use of audiovisual
materials prepared by IMTA as well as a number of promotion teams contracted from the
private sector.
7. 7 Overall Borrower performance: In total the Borrower's (GOM, NAFIN and CNA)
performance was satisfactory.
8.   Lessons Learned
8.1. The country's experience with the transfer of irrigation districts is redefining the
relationship between WUOs and the State. Many other developing countries are learning
valuable lessons from the devolution of irrigation management responsibilities to users. The
case of Mexico has been used to demonstrate an approach for reforming institutions for the
sector and was an inspiration for other countries as Turkey and India (Andrah Pradesh).
8.2. The main lessons learned are:
 High-Level Government Commitment. The inability of governments to provide the
required funding for the irrigation sector from the public budget, results in a situation
where public infrastructure cannot be maintained and is unsustainable over time. Strong
political will is required to charge the full O&M cost to users of irrigation facilities, while
devising acceptable transfer mechanisms. This was achieved from the very top level of the
President's Cabinet, to the Ministers involved (Agriculture and Economy), and to CNA.
Without this political commitment it would have been impossible to achieve project
objectives.
* Infrastructure biais. It is important to mitigate the traditional bias that government
irrigation agencies have in favor of infrastructure development as they tend to overlook or
ignore broader sector policies, legal and regulatory issues, institutional development and
capacity building, resources allocation, and agronomic aspects, that affect the overall
performance.
* World Bank Priority. The Bank also committed itself to high standards to assist Mexico
with the best efforts from preparation to implementation, by assigning top expertise,
intervention programs for staple crops. In contrast, in the US and Canada, the PSE was US$28 for white corn and
US$21 for yellow corn.
14



adequate resources, intensive supervision and proactive dialogue. The benchmarking of
key indicators and the updating of progress during supervision were key to planning,
dialogue and evaluation. Bank monitoring, benchmarking and follow-up discussion were
extremely important during the implementation stage. The Bank was flexible and
supportive under the Borrower's changing conditions and the extreme economic instability
prevailing during most of the implementation period. To address the lack of funds the
Bank recommnended a cost-sharing financing mechanism to modernize the off-farm IDs,
keeping pace with the accelerated transfer program, and amending the legal documents.
*  Co-financing and Coordination with IDB. Because the Project was designed with a high
policy content, it was important to coordinate with IDB. Preparation of the project was
carried out together with IDB as a joint endeavor from the very beginning and
implementation was carried out in very close coordination.
*  Institutional Building and Training. The creation of institutional capacity for project
implementation was fundamental. This included sensitization and training inside the
government (CNA and IMTA) and in the States, in the WUOs and sometimes in the
private sector. The creation of the model for WUOs was made through a process of
"learning by doing" with intensive follow-up for corrections as well as for dissemination,
as no blueprints were available. Legislation and regulation were required while the
knowledge was being developed. CNA's top management took a strong lead in the process
which was fundamental to achieve the results. The IMTA played an instrumental role in
the training program.
*  Participatory Process and Empowerment of the Users. CNA succeeded in adequately
promoting the participation of beneficiaries in the planning, design, construction and
maintenance phases. Ownership of the project beneficiaries' was sought from the early
stages, through involvement in preparation work and lobbying activities throughout the
project cycle. For this, a very intensive promotion program was organized by CNA,
including the use of audiovisual materials prepared with IMTA as well as a number of
promotion teams contracted from the private sector. The empowerment of WUOs was
sought through their responsible involvement in the decision-making for the timely
collection of water fees, the use of fimds and the procurement of goods and services.
Another very important ingredient in the consolidation of the participation process was the
creation of the National Association of Irrigation Users (ANUR), which now represents
irrigation farmers all over Mexico (about 350,000 users) at very high levels in Congress,
Federal Government, etc.
Adaptive Research and Selection of Appropriate Technology. This topic was extremely
important in the transfer process. Five categories merit to be mentioned: (i) cost-effective
machinery and technology to clean canals and drains; (ii) efficient reclamation of saline
and waterlogged lands; (iii) efficient telecommunications in the IDs; (iv) piping of minor
distribution laterals; and (v) new water measurement structures. IMTA was very helpful in
assisting CNA and the WUOs in all these cases.
* Adequate Size of the Transfered Modules. The transfer of modules was formed initially
by small units (2,000 to 4,000 has) as it was felt they would be easier to manage, but larger
15



ones were created later as it became clear that financial self-sufficiency required larger
areas to generate sufficient income and economy of scale (over 1 8,000has).
*  Appropriate Structure of Water Fees: Irrigation water fees in Mexico were set by the
National Water Law as a volumetric "single step". Over time, IDs operation through the
WUOs has demonstrated that the best structure would be through a two-steps structure that
would consider the volume and the irrigation right in the registry. This new structure
makes collection more effective and O&M more sustainable during special circumstances
such as: (i) dry years (less water to sell but still substantial fixed costs of O&M to pay); or
(ii) during very rainy years (less demand from users).
*  Economic and Financial efficiency of the WUOs. Even without previous experience,
WUOs were much more efficient than a specialized government agency in managing and
performing rehabilitation, O&M and modernization of irrigation systems wherever
pertinent training and strengthening activities were provided. It is conservatively estimated
that O&M costs are about 30 to 40 percent lower under the WUOs' responsibility due to
better management practices (private sector style) and technology innovations.
8.3. The agenda for the future. Based on its own merits and stated objectives, the project
can be considered highly satisfactory as it exceeded by far most of the performance indicators.
However, with time, a number of elements have emerged that would require specific and
stronger attention and that would need to be increasingly taken into consideration in the future
of the irrigation agenda:
*  The sector would benefit from a more decisive decentralization of CNA both to the States
and to water users organized around watersheds. CNA would become over time a "Water
Authority," relinquishing infrastructure development functions with the exception of
matters related to national security (dams, reservoirs, international waters, etc.).
*  A clear mechanism for continuous perfornance measuring and benchmarking can improve
accountability in a service that is a natural monopoly.
*  The issue of the availability of the water resource should become much more central to
future irrigation programs and in particular the aspects related to correct pricing, tariff
structures, increasing competition from growing cities, and environmental issues.
*  Agricultural productivity per unit of water "consumed" should become a key criteria in
deciding to invest in irrigation schemes. In that respect subsidizing certain crops (basic
grains) and under-pricing water, can induce into inefficient production patters and reduce
the country's competitiveness.
16



9. Partner's Comments 7
9.1. The result of the program and its implementation is considered to be satisfactory. The
modernization and rehabilitation allowed productivity to increase substantially. Through the
Water Users' Organization technology transfer could be strengthened, O&M costs could be
reduced, and improvements in water technology lead to new attitudes and savings in water use.
To confirm this a thorough ex-post evaluation will need to be undertaken.
9.2. The program, contrary to previous loans, adopted a sectoral strategy including tariff
policies for investments and prioritization of projects for their financing. For this, an
investment planning system was implemented within a framework of fiscal constraints which
made it possible to obtain the maximum result and an equal distribution of income among the
population. Project selection was carried out annually and used grant allocation as a criteria.
9.3. Tariff policy is implemented by CNA; however, because of the diversity of the various
regions, cost-recovery capacity, type of district and of modules, its effectiveness is complex.
In this respect, the project did not include specific support for institutional development to
implement the tariff system. On the other hand, with the transfer of the IDs, the users
participated for the first tirne in the administration and cost recovery of the irrigation systems,
which considerably improved self-sufficiency.
9.4. The deferred maintenance, which was not carried out by the Federal Government before
the transfer, was taken over and completed by the users' organizations. It is important to
finalize this effort of deferred maintenance, especially in the districts which are less advanced.
It would be worth considering and possibly setting fixed tariffs for contingency funds. A
rehabilitation program with users' participation was established with differentiated support
criteria for the most disadvantaged districts.
9.5. Although it was contemplated in the SAR, the loan agreement did not cover financing for
dam safety, major works, and on-farm hydrological infrastructure jointly with the users based
on their capacity to pay. CNA had to face considerable pressure and demand for works
together with climatic conditions and constant budget difficulties, and it could not complete
the rehabilitation and modernization of all the districts. In other words, some districts were
transferred in better conditions than others. The establishment of volumetric measurement
devices was started but leaves much to be desired. It should be noted that there is an important
cultural component to it.
9.6. With respect to the financing of both International Banks, the amount corresponds to 30
percent of the total amount spent, compared to 50 percent of the cost initially estimated.
Moreover, implementation extended to a period twice as long as initially planned. This
occurred, among other reasons, because of the Banks' operational policies and conditionalities.
9.7. The Bank strategy for the irrigation sector should continue to consolidate and prioritize
infrastructure investment with emphasis on agricultural productivity and greater efficiency in
the use of water and soil, and promoting local sustainability. In the next operation, priority
7English translation of the Conclusions and Recommendations section of the Executive Summary included in
Annex 8. The entire Government ICR is available upon request.
17



should be given to a program that includes financing for all the activities required to
effectively increase productivity. It is important to make progress in CNA investment policy
towards the integrated modernization of the districts, which will permit the consolidation of
the investment decisions, enhanced efficiency in operations, economics and productivity.
9.8. It is recommended to define the actions that need to be carried out in areas with
incomplete irrigation extensions and in irrigation units with unoccupied land that do not
achieve fall utilization of their infrastructure . It will be necessary to elaborate an action plan
that would propose the installation of a new irrigation technology and provide capacity
building to small farmers' Water Users' Organizations. This will facilitate a more equitable
distribution of income.
9.9. It is proposed to continue with the improvement of hydraulic efficiency and the
productivity of the irrigation districts through the implementation of specific programs that
will develop users' capacity and self-sufficiency.
18



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log! Frame Matrix
:Outcomed/impact 104icators..
_ IndicgdorMatrix                PrnjedtedTh SAR                Actua1/LateS:esi AmaR
Adequate levels of investments in I&D  US$1.2 billion invested in 4.5 years  US$1.4 billion in 9 years due to delays
sector, selected and implemented under                              in reaching effectiveness and budget
rigorous economic and technical criteria                            constraints in 1995-97 financial crisis
Improved efficiency and sustainability Transfer to  WUOs of 21  IDs, 72 IDs transferred (343%), covering
of  IDs  by   decentralization   of comprising 1.97 million irrigated ha. 3.3 million ha (173%). 8 other IDs are
management, investment funding, and 100% O&M cost recovery in 21 IDs in process. O&M of transferred IDs is
O&M of IDs from federal govermnent and 90% in other IDs             fully funded by WUOs except for somne
grants to cost recovery through user New investment costs shared with CNA salaries. Users/local govermnents
charges  and  collection  instruments users                         are financing 50% of new investments.
based on WUOs.
Fully  utilize  existing  and  ongoing 132.100 ha of new irrigated area  148.542 new irrigated ha  (112%)
irrigation schemes by finishing pending  66.500 ha of improved area  48.829 improved ha         (73%)
works, upgrading  infrastructure, and 752.600 ha of deferred maintenance  360.000 ha deferred maintenan. (48%)
rehabilitating irrigation land     966.700 ha rehabilitated/modernized  1,402.900 ha rehabil/modemiz (145%)
Improved  water use  efficiency  by 380.000 ha efficient use water/energy 702.420 ha efficient use wa/en (185%)
adopting better management techniques, 144 heavy O&M equipment acquired 510 heavy O&M equipment   (354%)
conjunctive use of surface and ground 118 light O&M equipment acquired  138 light O&M equipment    (117%)
water, volumetric measurement, adaptive 322 pieces O&M equipment repaired 409 pieces of equipment  (127%)
research and training for better O&M.
Improved institutional capacity of CNA 350 training events for institut. dev.  280 training events  (80%)
and  WUOs to  implement policies, 45 feasibility studies/inspection  85 feasibility studies/inspection (189%)
investments and sustainable O&M.   35 detailed designs              60 detailed designs        (171%)
Monitor and help prevent environmental Upgrading of CNA environmental Most environmental problems show
and natural resource degradation.  Unit and  establishment of new improvements. Routine control of water
operational procedures to integrate quality, pesticide levels, drainage and
this Unit with CNA's project soil salinity is performed in many IDs.
preparation cycle
Optirnization of use of land and water Any project would have at least 12% Ten out of 11 IDs show ERR higher
resources in the IDs and units     ERR and the average over 14%     than 12% and an average of 31.5%
Output indicators.-
Indicat~r?Matrix                  SAR stimate       Actual EstimnatA
I. Construction & Rehabilitation
New areas in IDs and Small Irrigation Units (ha)  132,100             148,500              112
Improvements in IDs and SIUs (ha)                  66,500             48,829               73
Rehabilitation in IDs and SIUs  a)                966,700            1.402,900             145
Deferred Maintenance (ha)                         752,600             360,000              48
Heavy and Light O&M Machinery (pieces)              379                 648                171
II. Institutional Development
Training and Capacity Building (events)             350                 280                80
Environmental Actions (studies)                     45                  45                 100
Feasibility Studies                                 45                  85                189
Supervision Designs (studies)                      35                  60                 171
III. Other Components
Waste Water Reuse                                 3,000 ha            3,900 ha            130
Dam Safety (dams)                                   176                 337                191
River Training Projects                             46                  149               324
Rainfed Development (ha)                             -                31,800
19



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Projec:  oestimatet       istit cAppraisal.tAS
US$ million    USS willionft;:     %
1. 1&D Construction Comoonents                       1099          1,264.9           115
1. Construction of IDs                               522           388.9             75
2. Construction of small irrigation                   129           111.8            87
3. Rehabilitation of IDs                              258          340.3             132
4. Rehabilitation of small irrigation                 21            285.0           1357
5. Deferred maintenance                               88            61.3             70
6. O&M equipment                                      71            77.3            109
7. Reuse of sewage waters                             10             0.3             3
II. Support Actions Components                        58            23.6             41
8. Environmental actions                              34             9.1             27
9. Institutional Development                          24            14.5             60
MII. Other Project Actions                            88           139.7            159
10. Studies and designs                               37            t8.6             50
ll . Small river training works                       22            66.2            301
12. Dam safety                                        29            54.9            189
13. Rainfed Areas                                      -            54.5
Total Project Costs                                  1,245         1,482.7          119
Total External Financina                              600          550.0             92
IBRD                                        400 b/         350.0             88
IDB                                           200          200.0            100
a/ Excluding taxes and duties
b/ Excluding on-going IBRD loans at the time of appraisal
B. Cumulative Estimated and Actual IDRB Loan Disbursements (Latest Estimate)
-   -  -_                              ye         -
______________________  1992  199:  1994  1995 H 1995  1997.1998  19iI          2000 -Tota
(i) Appraisal Estimate         52.5  122.5  122.5  77.5    25          -          -            400
(ii) Revised Amount            39.9  96.3   33.8   40.4   21.4   13.2   9.1   55.8   40.0   350
(iii) Cumulative Estimate      52.5   175   297.5  375   400                      -      -     400
(iv) Cum. Revised Amount   39.9  136.2  170.1  210.5  231.9  245.1  254.2  310    350    350
(v) Actual                     39.9  96.3   33.9   40.4  21.4   13.2  13.1   54    37.8   350
(vi) Actual cumulative         39.9  136.2  170.1  210.5  231.9  245.1  258.2  312.2  350    350
(vii) Actual as % of (i)       76%   79%   27%    52%    86%           -          -      -     58%
(viii) Actual as % of()          .      -      -      -      -(i         144%   97%    95%    100%
(ix) Cumulative as % of (iii)  76%   78%    57%    56%    58%    61%   65%    78%    88%    88%
(x) Cumulative as % of (ii)                          = -                 102%   101%   100%   100
20



C. Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements a (US$ million equivalent)
r                                    Procurement Method
A pras  Estimai                         - AetaVate  Estimate
-ECitre-CateryL   -           C ICB   I tbo              Total    1CX      LCB    Other    Total
C ~~~~~~~~~otCos
Major Civil Works               320.0    100.0    61.0 a/   481.0    212.5   246.0        0       458.5
(356.0)   (40.0)      -      (296.0)
Small Works, Engineering Ser-    20.0     100.0   20.7 b/    140.7      0       57.0      0       57.0
vices and Electromechan. repairs   (16.0)    (40.0)   -      (56.0)
Equipment, Machinery,            45.0      15.0    25.8 c/    85.8
Instruments and Repairs         (36.0)    (6.0)       -      (42.0)
Technical    Assistance    and    -         -      16.6 d/    16.6      1.1     42.2    51.0      94.3
Consultancy                       -         -       (6.0)     (6.0)
Total               385.0    215.0    124.1    724.1    213.6   345.2    51.0         609.8
(308.0)   (86.0)    (6.0)    (400.0)
Note: Figures in parentheses include contingencies and reflect the estimated arnount to be financed by IB3RD.
a/ Includes US$37 million equivalent of local shopping (LS) and about US$24 million of force account (FA)
b/ Includes US$14 million equivalent of LS and US$6.7 million of FA
cl Refers primarily to LS
dl Includes US$7.5 million equivalent of Consulting Services and Technical Assistance to be contracted under IBRD
Guidelines
D. Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Co*noeitApaalIsie                                 Ac  ;lLtestEstiniit       Percefitig of' p0aisal
~~-    -EE -  OM   -- -  XD-
I. l&D Construction       521.0  385.0  193.0   1099  845.8  273.0  146.1  1264.9  162         71       76
1. Construction of IDs    250.0  200      72      522    n/a    n/a   36.8  388.9                      51
2. Const. Small Irrigation   79.0  -      50      129    n/a    n/a   48.3  111.8                      97
3. Rehabilitation of IDs    120.0  1001  38       258    n/a    n/a   25.5  340.3            _    _    67
4. Rehab Small Irrigation   21.0   --     --       21    n/a    n/a    8.9   285.0  _
5. Deferred maintenance   24.0   49.0   15.0    88    n/a    n/a    9.9   61.3                         66
6. O&M equipment           17.0   36.0   18.0      71    n/a    n/a   16.3   77.3                      91
7. Reuse sewage waters    10.0     -       -       10    n/a    n/a    0.3    0.3   _
II. SuPPort Actions        36      15  1  7       58    1.3   11.0   11.3   23.6        3     353      162
8. Environmental actions   20      10      4       34    n/a    n/a    8.8    9.1                     220
9. Institutional developm   16     5       3       24    n/a    nta    2.5   14.5                      83
Ill. Other Pr. Actions    88.0     -       -       88   85.6   66.0   42.6  194.2   97
10. Studies and designs    37.0     -      -       37    n/a    n/a      0     18.6
11. Small river tr. works    22.0  -      -       22    n/a    n/a   18.4   66.2
12. Dam safety             29.0     -      -       29    n/a    n/a   24.2   54.9
13. Rainfed Areas           -      -       -       -     n/a    n/a           54.5      -
Total=Costs  645   400    2001,245=932   350   200  1,482  1-4   87.5    100
Note: n/a not available
21



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
The following is a summary of the project's economic and financial analysis. A more detailed
description, including the data and parameters used, and tables for each crop activity and farm model,
are available in the project files. The analysis covered eleven separate IDs (Yaqui, Delicias, Alto Rio
Lerma, Rio Colorado, Colonias Yaquis, Bajo Rio San Juan, Rio Mayo, Carrizo, Rio Fuerte, Culuacan y
Guasave), where 46% of the project funds were invested, and their aggregate results. The financial
results of 5 farm models covering the most relevant activities in 3 IDs supported by the project, are
summarized in Table I below. These models make it possible to illustrate the project's effect on
compensating for deterioration of the terms of trade resulting from the elimination of guaranteed prices
through strong improvements in production efficiency and productivity.
Table 1. Financial Evaluation Farm Models
Guasave- Small property         30       143.2    50.2    102.1    51.9    104         297.8
Rio Colorado - Small property   14.2     77.6      30.9     41.6      10.8    35        60.5
Guasave Entrepreneur            100     1.762.9  1.083.6  1.464.7   381.1    35       2.049.6
Alto Lerma Ejido                 5       14.4      0.1       3.2      3.1    3100       17.1
GuasaveEido                      8       39.7      18.6     35.2      16.6    89        91.7
Economic Analysis.  The economic benefits of the project were generated by the increase in
agricultural production and farmers' net income, compared with the without-project alternative. Other
important results adding benefits to the project are not quantified. Some of the most relevant are: (i)
positive effects on natural resources; (ii) effects of strengthened farmer and community organizations;
(iii) promotion of modern irrigation and production technologies and on-farm productive investments;
and (iv) investments in human capital. Economic return calculations included the cost of all project
components and PRODEP investments. The overall evaluation has been undertaken by aggregating
individual results from the 11 IDs where 46% of total project costs were concentrated. The internal
economic rate of return (ERR) was estimated at 31.5%. Table 2 shows the aggregated project costs
(including PRODEP) and the resulting economic indicators (ERR, NPV).
Table 2. Economic Evaluation for the 11 IDs (in millions of S(year2000)
Valle del Yaqui       816.4     28.8       845.2        39.8           1,262
Delicias              383.3     45.1       428.4        23.6           235
Alto Rio Lerma        298.4     64.8       363.2        59.9           658
Rio Colorado         1,693.6    58.5      1,752.1       19.1           441
Colonias Yaquis       363.9       -        363.9       -2.1            -164
Bajo Rio San Juan     373.6     15.0       388.6        14.2            26
Valle Rio Mayo        326.1     29.3       355.4        41.6           582
Carrizo               577.2     19.4       596.6        19.3           273
Rio Fuerte            131.3     63.1       194.4       144.9          2,329
Culiacan             1,008.8    41.5      1,050.3       83.2          2,886
Guasave              1,163.2    22.5      1,185.7       18.5           375
Total 11 iDs         7,135.6    388.0     7,523.6       31.5           8,267
22



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
sta eof.Wpro et Cyle.    No. of Persos and .SpeciaJty                    Perfor.mae -2 :g
{cg.2 Economiists.IM&et.    mkuetio            tvlp,*t
MonthYa         on                                        PovressObetv
Identification/Preparation             Not fully available
February 1988              1           Mission Leader
Agronomist
May 1988                   1           Engineer, Mission Leader
July 1988                  1           Engineer, Mission Leader
November 1988              1           Engineer, Mission Leader
I          Economist
June 1989                  1           Agricultural Economist
July 1989                  1           Irrigation Engineer
September 1989             1           Mission Leader
I          Agricultural Economist
2           Irrigation & Drainage Eng.
I          Agronomist
1          Institutionalist
October 1989               1           Environmentalist
February 1990              1           Mission Leader
1          Agricultural Economist
I          Irrigation & Drainage Eng.
I          Agronomist
I          Project Analyst
April 1990 Pre-appraisal   I           Mission Leader
3          Economist
1          Environmental Officer
I          Institutional Specialist
I          Lawyer
1          Agronomist Consultant
2           Engineers
I          Project Analyst
December 1990              1           Mission Leader
1          Engineer
Appraisal/Negotiation
February 1991              1           Mission Leader
3          Economist
I          Environmental
1          Institutional Specialist
I          Lawyer
I          Accountant
3           Engineers
May 1991                   1           Engineer
2           Economists
23



Stage ofPrqjeetOC.ycle yNo. of PN rsonsmiad S ecia#t                        Per    ce   Rating,
(e.g. 2O :Ecoomists. I VFKS-. etc,   Implemeitt;:i:0wm  Ut'e4i nt
MonthIyear      Count:                             :         Proress           Obictive
Supervision
June 199 1, 5 SPN           I           Environmental
January 1992, 2nd SPN       I       Mission Leader
1      Economist
I      Legal
I      Sr. Irrigation Engineer
April 1992, 3r SPN          I       Mission Leader
October 1992, 4n SPN        I       Mission Leader                2                  1
1      Economist
December 1992, 5th SPN      I       Mission Leader                2                  1
April 1993, 6"' SPN         1       Mission Leader                2                 1
February 1994, 7th SPN      1       Sr. irTigation Engineer       2                  1
1      Drainage Engineer
I      Procurement Assistant
August 1994, 8th SPN        I       Irrigation Engineer           S                 HS
I      Financial Expert
November 1994, 9h SPN       I       lrrigation Engineer           S                 HS
I      Financial Expert
June 1995, IO" SPN          I       Irrigation Engineer           S                 HS
I      Financial Expert
April 1996, I 1th SPN       I       Irrigation Engineer           S                 HS
I      Financial Expert
I      Operations Officer
Septemb 1996, 12'- SPN      I       Irrigation Engineer           S                 HS
I      Financial Expert
I      Operations Officer
May 1997, 13h SPN           I       Irrigation Engineer           S                 S
Financial Expert
I      Agricultural Economist
January 1998, 14th SPN      2       Irrigation Engineer           S                 S
I      Financial Expert
October 1998, 15th SPN      I       Irrigation Engineer           S                 S
I      Financial Expert
June 1999, 16Oh SPN         I       Irrigation Engineer           S                 S
I      Financial Expert
November 1999, 17t' SPN     I       Irrigation Engineer           S                 S
I      Financial Expert
June 2000, 18"' SPN         I       Irrigation Engineer           S                  S
I      Financial Expert
ICR
November 2000               l       Agricultural Economist        S                 HS
24



(b) Staff:
o >.f j,                              :: :',,:.........----:, ,:    :. ActLat.sEstimat*......  ' 
Sta   .9t ProjoStaf wees                            US eoo
.e
IdentificationlPreparation            149.9                       201.1
Appraisal/Negotiation                  57.6                       101.4
Supervision                           187.0                       637.2
FY1992                          50.9                        128.4
FY1993                           17.1                       51.8
FY1994                           13.8                       47.2
FY1995                           10.5                       39.5
FY1996                           13.2                       42.7
FY1997                           9.3                        35.0
FY1998                          21.3                        83.5
FY1999                          25.9                        106.4
FY2000                           25'                       102.71
ICR                                     10                         25.0
FY2001                            10                       25.0'
-Total   -404.5                                                    964.7
1. An estimate.
25



Annex 5. Ratinas for Achievement of Obiectives/Outnuts of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
_b                  =                            =
Ojectiv                                       atn
Macro Policies                                 NA
Sector Policies                                 SU
Physical                                        SU
Financial                                       SU
Institulional Development                       SU
Environmental                                   M
Social
Poverty Reduction                             SU
Gender                                        NA
Other                                         NA
Private Sector Development                      H
Public Sector Management                        SU
Annex 6. Ratin!s of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                             Rating
Lending                                                         S
Supervision                                                    HS
| Overall                                                        I-S
6.2 Borrowerperformance                                        Rating
Preparation                                                   S
Government Implementation Performance                         S
Implementation Agency                                         S
Overall                                                       S
26



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Colegio de Postgraduados. Instituto de Recursos Naturales y Comision Nacional del Agua,
Subdirecci6n General de Operacion (1999). Evaluaci6n de la Actuaci6n de Asociaciones
Civiles de Usuarios y Sociedades de Responsabilidad Limitada en Distritos de Riego
Transferidos.
Comisi6n Nacional del Agua, Subdireccion General de Operaci6n (2000). Programa de
Transferencia de Distritos de Riego, Avance al 31 de Octubre del 2000.
Comisi6n Nacional del Agua, Subdirecci6n General de Programaci6n (2000). Informe de
Cierre del Proyecto Sectorial de Riego y Drenaje, Septiembre del 2000.
Comisi6n Nacional del Agua, Subdireccion General de Programacion (1988). Informe de
Evaluacion y Recomendaciones del Programa Sectorial de Riego y Drenaje. Resumen
Ejecutivo.
Gorritz, Cecilia M., Ashok Subramanian, and Jose Simas (1995). Irrigation Management
Transfer, Process and Progress. World Bank Paper Number 292.
Johnson, Sam H.. "Irrigation Management Transfer in Mexico: A Strategy to Achieve
Irrigation District Sustainability". International Irrigation Management Institute (IIMI)
Research Report 16.
Levine, G., A. Cruz Galvan, D. Garcia, C. Garces Restrepo, and S. Johnson III. "Performance
of Two Transferred Modules in the Lagunera Region: Water Relations". International
Irrigation Management Institute (IIMI) Research Report 23.
Palacios Velez, Enrique (1999). El Subsector Riego y la Transferencia de los Distritos de
Riego. Colegio de Postgraduados. Instituto de Ensefianza e Investigacion en Ciencias
Agricolas.
World Bank (1991). Staff Appraisal Report. Irrigation and Drainage Sector Project.
World Bank (1987 - 2000). Office Memoranda, Supervision Reports, Letters and Legal
Documents in Project Files.
27



Annex 8. Borrower ICR
RESUMEN EJECUTIVO
PROGRAMA SECTORIAL DE RIEGO Y DRENAJE
I.  INTRODUCCION
1.1    La Comisi6n Nacional del Agua (CNA) ha elaborado el presente Informe de Cierre de
Implementaci6n del Pr6stamo (ICI) del Programa Sectorial de Riego y Drenaje (PSRD), para cumplir
con los compromisos ante el Banco Mundial referentes a la evaluaci6n del programa, derivados de la
ejecuci6n del Prestamo 3419-ME mediante el cual se cofinanci6 parcialmente el PSRD.
1.2   Sobre la base de los acuerdos entre la CNA y el Banco Mundial, el Informe representa la
actualizaci6n y complemento del Estudio de Evaluaci6n y Recomendaciones del Programa Sectorial de
Riego y Drenaje, reconocido como la Evaluaci6n de Medio Termino del Proyecto (EMT). Por lo tanto,
el presente Informe de Cierre contiene los resultados del programa durante el periodo 1991-1999.
1.3    El contenido del documento incluye el analisis de los aspectos considerados en los terminos de
referencia para la preparaci6n del Informe de Cierre de Implantaci6n (ICI) acordados con el Banco
Mundial y se basa en las guias del Banco para la preparaci6n de los Informes de Terminaci6n (ICR -
Implementation Completion Report), adaptadas a las particularidades del PSRD. Adicionalmente el
reporte incluye como anexos, diversos trabajos sobre el programa, realizados por unidades tfcnicas de
la CNA y por instituciones especializadas.
I.  DESCRIPCI6N Y OBJETIVOS DEL PROYECTO
2.1    La operaci6n se formaliz6 el 6 de diciembre de 1991, mediante el prestamo 3419-ME, entrando
en efectividad en el mes de junio de 1992, por un monto de US$400.0 millones para financiar un
programa con un costo total de US$1,245.0 millones. El programa tambien contempl6 un
cofinanciamiento del Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo, por US$200.0 millones, y la contrapartida
local por US$645.0 millones. El periodo final de vigencia del programa fue para el periodo 1991-1999,
con efectividad del pr6stamo a partir de 1992.
2.2.   El ejecutor es la Comisi6n Nacional del Agua y el prestatario es Nacional Financiera.
2.3    Los objetivos principales asignados al programa son: a) proveer una mayor eficiencia en el
nivel de inversiones en el sector de irrigaci6n, sobre la base de rigurosos criterios econ6micos y
tecnicos (modelo de programaci6n de inversiones); b) descentralizar gradualmente las funciones de
administraci6n, operaci6n y mantenimiento de los distritos de riego, transfiriendo 21 distritos del
Gobierno a las Asociaciones de Usuarios organizadas; c) dar plena utilizaci6n a los sistemas de riego
existentes y en construcci6n, terminando los trabajos en proyectos inconclusos que permitiran iniciar la
operaci6n en secciones de los mismos, mejorando la infraestructura y rehabilitando los sistemas de
riego; d) mejorar la eficiencia del uso del agua; e) fortalecer la capacidad institucional de la CNA y de
las Asociaciones de Usuarios para implementar politicas, programas, inversiones y acciones de
operaci6n y mantenimiento; y f) ayudar a mantener el medio ambiente y prevenir la degradaci6n de
recursos naturales en las zonas de influencia de los proyectos del programa.
2.4    Las metas principales del programa son: a) participar en la ejecuci6n de 23 proyectos de
irrigacion mayor, en la rehabilitaci6n de 29 distritos de riego, en la realizaci6n de acciones de
rehabilitaci6n y complementaci6n para el mejor uso de aproximadamente 1,120 unidades de riego; b) la
28



adquisici6n y reparaci6n de equipo para operaci6n y mantenimiento de 77 distritos de riego; c) la
transferencia de 21 de estos a los usuarios para su operaci6n y mantenimiento; d) la ejecuci6n de 3
proyectos de reuso de aguas residuales. Ademis comprenden la ejecuci6n de las obras y las medidas
ambientales requeridas; el fortalecimiento institucional y otras acciones complementarias.
III. CUMPLIMIENTO DE OBJETIVOS.
En resumen, los objetivos globales son:
*  Ampliar, rehabilitar y mejorar las areas bajo riego en el pais.
* Transferir la operacion y mantenimiento de los distritos de riego a los usuarios.
*  Alcanzar la autosuficiencia tecnica y financiera de los distritos de riego.
En lo general los objetivos y metas globales sefialados han sido alcanzados satisfactoriamente y se
presentan a continuaci6n:
3.1    Entre los principales logros alcanzados en el periodo 1991-1999, cabe destacar la transferencia
de la infraestructura que corresponde a 3.2 millones de hectareas en lugar de las 1.97 millones previstas
originalmente. La creaci6n de condiciones propicias ha permitido que los productores organizados de
los distritos de riego transferidos administren, operen y conserven la infraestructura hidraulica, con una
mayor eficiencia y menor carga at presupuesto de egresos de la Federaci6n, revirtiendo la tendencia
previa predominante caracterizada por un creciente deterioro fisico y productivo de los distritos.
3.2    Avances en cumplimiento de objetivos8. El cumplimiento de los objetivos de desarrollo es en
general satisfactorio a muy satisfactorio. El anexo I presenta los 21 indicadores principales de la
implantacion que respaldan los avances fisicos respecto a las metas y objetivos del Proyecto: el 50% de
los 21 indicadores alcanzan el 100% de cumplimiento; el 14% superan el 90%; el 29% se ubican entre
el 80% y 90%. Debido a restricciones presupuestales para las acciones de construcci6n y rehabilitaci6n
previstas en el proyecto, los siguientes componentes registran un avance de cumplimiento de metas
entre el 80% y el 90%: construcci6n de pequefia irrigaci6n (78%), superficie mejorada en nuevos
distritos de riego (68%) y rehabilitaci6n/modemizaci6n de distritos de riego (119%). Las inversiones en
este uiltimo componente son basicas para dar sostenibilidad al programa de transferencia de los distritos
de riego por to que es necesario culminar las acciones en este rubro.
3.3   Hasta diciembre de 1999 la CNA ha erogado con cargo al PSRD el equivalente a US$1,447.2
millones, en comparaci6n con los US$1,245 millones en que se estim6 su costo original, los gastos
realizados representan el 98% de lo presupuestado en el periodo (anexos 2 y 3).
3.4   Transferencia de distritos. El programa considero originalmente la transferencia de 21 distritos
de riego con un total de 1.9 millones de hectareas, para una primera etapa, equivalentes al 61% de la
superficie total de los distritos de riego. Al 31 de diciembre de 1999, se transfirieron completamente 72
distritos, 7 en forma parcial y s6lo restan 3 pendientes de transferencia. La concesi6n para operar una
infraestructura que domina una superficie que totaliza 3.2 millones de hectareas (anexos 2 y 3), y que
representa el 95% de la superficie total de los 82 distritos de riego existentes, con 483 mil usuarios (362
mil ejidatarios y 121 mil pequeffos propietarios) organizados en 434 Asociaciones Civiles y 10
Sociedades de Responsabilidad Limitada (SRL). Los anexos 2 y 3 muestran la situaci6n de los distritos
totalmente transferidos, parcialmente transferidos y pendientes de transferir. Los logros en estos
aspectos son altamente satisfactorios y se han constituido en un modelo que varios paises estAn
implementando.
8 Estas cifras son respecto al SAR original. Documento del Banco Mundial.
29



3.5    Autosuficiencia de los distritos de rieuo. El porcentaje de autosuficiencia de los distritos de
riego en 1999, lleg6 al 69%; se recaudaron $1,069.2 millones de los requerimientos estimados de
operaci6n que ascienden a $1,544.5.
La tab la muestra la evoluci6n de la autosuficiencia en el periodo:
Afnos            11991   11992 11993  11994    1995    1996   11997  11998   11999 I
Autosuficiencia %   57.0    76.9  77.8   82.4    77.0    76.0    80.0  172.0   69.0
3.6    En los anexos 2 y 3 se presenta la situaci6n de la autosuficiencia en cada uno de los 80 distritos
hasta 1999. Antes de la implementacion del PSRD, Los distritos de riego del pais tenian una
autosuficiencia financiera global del 15%, en 1987. La meta del programa a alcanzar en este
componente, se ubic6 en un 90%, lograndose al final de la etapa, niveles de eficiencia superiores al
75% en la mayoria de los atios del periodo analizado. Considerando que en este componente influyen
aspectos ex6genos, como los afios atipicos en cuanto a precipitaci6n pluvial, en la oferta de agua a los
distritos, los niveles logrados con el programa son satisfactorios.
3.7    Varios distritos carecieron de agua suficiente para riego en algunos de los ciclos agricolas. De
los ciclos 1996/97 a 1998/99 la disponibilidad de agua disminuy6 un 23% en varios distritos de riego
importantes del pais, y aunque el costo de agua por ni3 aument6 en 14%, la recaudaci6n por servicio de
entrega de agua disminuyo un 12%.
3.8    Operaci6n. mantenimiento v administraci6n. Los costos de mantenimiento de la infraestructura
disminuyeron notablemente debido a tres causas principales: la participaci6n econ6mica directa de las
asociaciones de usuarios, la mejor oportunidad en la utilizaci6n de la maquinaria, ahora otorgada en
concesion a las asociaciones de usuarios, y la introducci6n con el PSRD de maquinaria ligera, mas
moderna y adecuada a la naturaleza de los trabajos, de menor valor y costo de operacion y
mnantenimiento, y mayor rendimiento en relaci6n con la maquinaria utilizada anteriormente. Asimismo,
se introdujo el control biol6gico de malezas acuaticas como una medida eficiente y respetuosa del
medio ambiente. En particular se destacan el control biol6gico del lirio acuatico con insectos
neoquetinos y de maleza sumergida con carpa herbivora.
3.9    Las actividades citadas en el parrafo anterior, actualmente se estan realizando con oportunidad
y en funci6n de las necesidades derivadas de los planes de riego y cultivos, a diferencia del pasado en
que se realizaban a partir de un procedimiento presupuestal menos eficiente. El costo estimado de
operaci6n, conservacion y administracion de los distritos de riego, para el anlo 2000, asciende
aproximadamente a $1,544.5 millones de pesos (precios de 1999).
3.10   Maquinaria v equipo. La concesi6n, adquisici6noy reparaci6n de maquinaria para conservaci6n
y mantenimiento de la infraestructura, ha sido uno de los componentes mas efectivos del programa ya
que contribuy6 facilitando la transferencia de los distritos y, con ello, a lograr mayor capacidad de las
asociaciones de usuarios para la conservacion de la infraestructura, por la disponibilidad de equipos y
su manejo en autogesti6n. El parque de maquinaria pesada se reactiv6, con efectos inmediatos en el
mejoramiento operativo de los distritos. Los costos de operaci6n disminuyeron con la maquinaria ligera
adecuada.
3.11   Las metas programadas en el componente de adquisici6n de maquinaria se cumplieron en un
100%, con resultados altamente satisfactorios, en sus tres subcomponentes: Las adquisiciones de
equipo pesado fueron de 510 unidades, con lo cual se super6 la meta original en 254% y respecto a la
meta reprogramada, se cumpli6 en 86%; al ampliarse al proceso de transferencia de los distritos de
riego, en equipo ligero se adquirieron 118 unidades, rebasando en 17% la meta original; las
30



reparaciones de equipo fueron en un total de 409 unidades con lo que tambien se superaron las metas
en 27%. Los anexos 2 y 3 presentan el detalle.
3.12 Estudios y disefnos. Se realizaron 85 estudios de factibilidad y 60 disefnos, con lo cual se
superaron las metas originales en 89% y 71%, respectivamente. Anexos 2 y 3. Cabe advertir que en
materia de disefios, la alta capacidad tecnica de la CNA se sigui6 manifestando durante el proceso del
programa y se avanz6 notablemente en la adopci6n de estructuras modernas y mas eficientes para
control de agua, obtener una mayor flexibilidad en las aplicaciones para mejorar la productividad,
introducir en lo posible el uso de tuberias para optimizar el uso del agua y de la energia natural
(desniveles del terreno) y recuperaci6n de suelos ensalitrados, entre otros.
3.13 Irrigaci6n mavor (Nuevos Distritos de Riego): El avance fisico hasta el 31 de diciembre de 1999
ha sido del 126% (119.4 mil hectareas) en superficie nueva y del 68% (40.5 mil hectareas) en
superficie mejorada.
3.14 Irrigaci6n menor (Nuevas Unidades de Riego): Hasta 1997 este componente se financiO con
recursos del BID, a partir de 1998 se incluy6 con recursos del Banco Mundial. Hasta el 31 de diciembre
de 1999, se habia terminado la infraestructura para incorporar al riego 29,069 hectareas que representan
el 78% de la meta programada, y la complementaci6n y mejoramiento de otras 6,873 hectareas que
representan un avance superior en 13% de las metas (anexos 2 y 3).
3.15   Rehabilitaci6n / modernizaci6n de distritos de rieao: Hasta el 31 de diciembre de 1999 se tiene
un avance del 119%, equivalente a 700.4 mil hectAreas de una meta total de 586.7 mil hectareas.
3.16   Se destaca que la CNA suscribi6 un importante acuerdo con la Asociaci6n Nacional de
Usuarios de Riego (ANUR), que hizo mAs dinamica la implantaci6n del componente de rehabilitaci6n
y modernizacion. Para el desarrollo de este acuerdo, la CNA y la ANUR, que agrupa a las sociedades
de responsabilidad limitada y asociaciones de usuarios del pais, cofinanciaron las obras (50% y 50%) y
los usuarios participaron directamente en la toma de decisiones, en la contratacion de las empresas y en
la construcci6n de las obras civiles, dentro del mecanismo de la Alianza para el Campo. Estas medidas
logradas por la CNA, permitieron acelerar la rehabilitaci6n de tal forma que en el periodo de 3 afnos,
1997-99, se realiz6 el 58% de la inversion total del periodo de 9 afnos.
3.17   En conservaci6n diferida, se tenia contemplado que este componente se ejerciera con apoyo
financiero durante dos aflos del periodo de ejecuci6n. Se beneficiaron 360,000 hectAreas, cumpliendose
con el 100% de lo programado. Desde el aflo de 1994 toda la conservacion diferida es realizada por los
usuarios a traves de sus cuotas, utilizando la maquinaria transferida y concesionada a ellos por ia CNA,
con resultados satisfactorios.
3.18   Modelo de Programaci6n de Jnversiones. La- aplicaciqn del Modelo de Programaci6n de
Inversiones desarrollado y utilizado pot la CNA, que contiene rigurosos criterios economicos y
tecnicos para la distribuci6n de las inversiones, se implement6 apropiadamente como una herramienta
gerencial a fn de racionalizar las inversiones bajo un concepto de equidad. La CNA ha seguido
mejorando dicha racionalidad de inversiones en virtud de que ha modulado los grandes proyectos,
haciendo mas efectiva dicha herramienta. (Anexo No. 4).
3.19   Metas financieras.- Hasta 1999 el PSRD cont6 con iina asignacion presupuestal para su
programa operativo anual de inversiones del periodo 1991-99, de US$1,476.6 millones, de los cuales se
ejercieron un 98.3% por el equivalente de US$1,452.4 millones, cumpliendo asi tambien en forma
satisfactoria con las metas financieras, en correlaci6n con el cumplimiento altamente satisfactorio de
las metas fisicas.
31



3.20   Desembolsos. Al 31 de diciembre de 1999 el monto total del credito estaba comprometido. Los
desembolsos acumulados al mes de agosto del 2000, incluyendo la cuenta especial, ascienden a
US$348.2 millones, el 99.5% del prestamo 3419-ME. La cuenta especial tiene un saldo por documentar
de US$23,000, y un saldo por desembolsar de US$1.845 millones de la categoria de servicios de
Consultoria. La siguiente tabla muestra el resumen del total del PSRD, por bancos, de la situaci6n final
de desembolsos de los prestamos (anexo 5):
Niumero       Valor    Desembolsado            Pendiente por Desembolsar
Prestamo    Prestamo   Valor    %        Cta. Espec.  Desembolso   Total    %
3419 ME       350.0     348.2   99.5       (0.023)       1.845       1.822    0.5
652 OC ME      200.0    200.0   100.0         0.0          00.0       00.0    0.0
Total       550.0    548.2   99.7        (0.023)       1.845       1.822    0.5
3.21   La evoluci6n anual de los desembolsos del prestamo del Banco Mundial fue acelerada en el
primer ailo de efectividad; en 1992 se desembols6 el 32.6% del prestamo, pero en los siguientes afios el
desembolso fue mas lento que lo programnado, debido a la insuficiencia de recursos de contrapartida por
los problemas financieros que se tuvieron a nivel pais entre 1993 y 1995. Esta situaci6n llevo a una
revisi6n conjunta del prestamo, y se tomaron medidas como la cancelaci6n de US$50.0 millones en
1995, y otras medidas de reajuste en cuanto a las inversiones elegibles.
3.22   Los objetivos logrados se pueden resumir en los siguientes aspectos: se mejoraron los niveles
de inversi6n en el sector de riego y drenaje; se introdujeron reformas al promover la organizaci6n de
asociaciones de usuarios y al transferir a los usuarios de manera gradual y sistematica la operaci6n y
mantenimiento de los distritos; se mejor6 el uso y manejo del agua, dandole prioridad a la
modernizaci6n en los distritos, asi como a la terminaci6n de proyectos en proceso; se promovi6 una
cultura del agua mediante la capacitaci6n a los usuarios en t6cnicas eficientes de riego, ejecutando
obras para el mejoramiento en el ambito parcelario; se previnieron los impactos ambientales que
pudieron derivarse de la ejecuci6n de los proyectos. En estos aspectos destac6 la colaboracion efectiva
del Instituto Mexicano de Tecnotogia del Agua, trabajando estrechamente para la CNA, quien ejecut6
obras para el mejoramiento en el ambito parcelario.
IV. PRINCIPALES FACTORES QUE AFECTARON AL PROYECTO
Factores no sujetos a control gubernamental
4.1    La crisis econ6mica del pais en el periodo 1993-95, afect6 negativamente al proyecto, en
cuanto a la asignaci6n presupuestal con recursos fiscales para contrapartida del programa.
'
4.2    Otro factor negativo fue la conjdnci6n de condiciones climaticas adversas durante el periodo,
cuya manifestaci6n mas evidente fue la escasa precipitaci6n pluvial de los afnos 1996 al 98, que incluso
fue la mas baja registrada hist6ricamente en diversas regiones del pais. Esta situaci6n propici6 que las
cuotas de recuperaci6n por uso de agua en los distritos de riego afectados, disminuyera en relaci6n con
periodos normales. Asimismo las contingencias derivadas de las avenidas extraordinarias por
temporadas cicl6nicas, forzaron a inversiones extraordinarias, utilizando recursos de asignaciones de
fondos comprometidos del credito externo para las obras de emergencias no previstas inicialmente en el
presupuesto.
32



4.3    Como factor positivo para el proyecto, se destaca el apoyo tecnico y administrativo de los
bancos para realizar adecuaciones en criterios y gesti6n, que permitieron flexibilizar el ejercicio del
credito.
Factores sujetos a control gubernamental
4.4    La participacion conjunta de los recursos federales, estatales, municipales y de los propios
usuarios hizo posible el logro de los objetivos y metas, generando las inversiones necesarias para que
posteriormente por medio de la recuperaci6n del credito externo ingresaran divisas al pais. Al respecto,
cabe destacar la favorable disposici6n de la Asociaci6n Nacional de Usuarios de Riego, A.C. (ANUR),
para participar en operaciones de cofinanciamiento, para la terminaci6n de proyectos pendientes.
4.5    La transformaci6n y el entorno del sistema financiero mexicano afectaron negativamente al
nivel de los productores usuarios de los distritos y unidades de riego y de drenaje, sobre todo por la
disminuci6n drastica de los creditos de la banca comercial y de desarrollo otorgados para la producci6n
agropecuaria.
Con la apertura comercial se afectaron los precios de los productos agropecuarios basicos,
como granos y semillas de gran consumo, y simultAneamente se registraron aumentos considerables en
los costos de los insumos como diesel, semillas, fertilizantes, energia el6etrica y pesticidas
principalmente, cuyo efecto ha repercutido en un cambio drastico en los patrones de cultivo. Esta
situaci6n, aunque no es generalizada para los productores de economia empresarial, si lo es para los
productores de economia campesina, que son la gran mayoria y quienes son los mas afectados por esta
situaci6n.
- Factores sujetos a control de la Comisi6n Nacional del Agua
4.6    Durante la vigencia del prestamo, la CNA impuls6 el desarrollo institucional interno y ademAs
foment6 y logro el fortalecimiento institucional de los usuarios, mediante diversas acciones, que
incluyen: capacitaci6n, desarrollo de sistemas informaticos, equipamiento de c6mputo, cursos para
directivos de las Asociaciones de Usuarios, cursos en manejo y operaci6n de maquinaria, etc.
4.7    La CNA tiene una amplia experiencia (mas de 30 afios) para el manejo de proyectos con
financiamientos externos. Ademas de su capacidad tecnica en ingenieria de disenio y de supervision,
tambidn se destaca su experiencia en el manejo y administraci6n para la contrataci6n y supervisi6n de
bienes y servicios, a traves de licitaciones publicas con base en las normas del Banco Mundial.
4.8    Un factor positivo de gran importancia para lograr superar las metas de la transferencia de la
operaci6n, conservacion y administraci6n de los distritos de riego, fueron las acciones de promocion y
coordinaci6n realizadas por la CNA con los usuarios, quje permiti6 la amplia participaci6n de estos en
el programa. El proceso estimul6 las actividades de la ANUR quien se convirti6 en un elemento central
para articular y consolidar la participaci6onde los usuarios.
V.    SUSTENTABILIDAD ESPERADA
5.1    El Programa Sectorial de Riego y Drenaje forma parte de los programas de modernizaci6n
gubernamentales para el sector. El Programa Nacional de Irrigacion y Drenaje estA inserto dentro de los
objetivos y lineamientos de estrategia del Programa Nacional de Modernizaci6n del Campo, y estA
orientado al desarrollo sostenible de la frontera agricola de riego, mediante el aprovechamiento pleno y
eficiente de )a infraestructura hidroagricola actual y al desarrollo de un potencial todavia importante de
tierras que son factibles de incorporarse a la agricultura de riego y al temporal tecnificado, mediante
infraestructura de drenaje. La sustentabilidad esperada guarda una relaci6n directa con la recuperaci6n
33



de costos, la organizaci6n de usuarios y la incorporaci6n de tecnologia. El grado en que se logren estos
rubros serA medido con una evaluaci6n ex post.
5.2    La experiencia de la participaci6n de la ANUR ha sido positiva; es necesario seguir apoyando
con mayores recursos a las organizaciones de los usuarios y dotarlas de los medios para que ejerzan de
forma eficiente las funciones de administracion en sus m6dulos. Lo anterior es indispensable para darle
continuidad a lo conseguido en cuanto a autosuficiencia. Especial atenci6n se debe poner a las
asociaciones civiles de usuarios en donde predominan los productores de economia campesina, a los
cuales no les es posible tener una suficiente capacidad institucional propia, fortaleciendo la autogesti6n
a traves de capacitaci6n, la comunicaci6n y participaci6n en las inversiones, de acuerdo con sus
posibilidades.
5.3    Se han obtenido logros en incrementos de la productividad y eficiencia del manejo del agua,
con el programa de desarrollo parcelario; este programa se debe integrar con el de rehabilitaci6n y
modernizaci6n, incorporados en uno solo que considere la tecnificacion de todos los distritos de riego,
desde la parcela hasta los canales principales.
5.4    Falta para la consolidaci6n del programa, que las asociaciones civiles de usuarios esten
trabajando eficientemente, formen empresas prestadoras de servicios para usuarios de economia
campesina que consideren la comercializaci6n de cosechas, la gesti6n de creditos, la compra de
insumos y la maquila de trabajos agricolas.
5.6    Es importante impulsar la vinculaci6n interinstitucional, particularmente entre la CNA y la
Secretaria de Agricultura, Ganaderia y Desarrollo Rural (SAGAR) y con los usuarios, para
complementar acciones en un contexto de cadenas productivas. Cuando la rentabilidad de la
producci6n en los distritos de riego sea suficiente para soportar los gastos de las inversiones, entonces
se generalizara la sostenibilidad del proyecto.
VI.   ACTUACION DEL BANCO
6.1    El Banco Mundial realiz6 misiones anuales de administraci6n con la CNA, SHCP y NAFIN,
con objeto de revisar y acordar el programa de inversiones del afio siguiente con base al Modelo de
Programaci6n de Inversiones.
6.2    Como parte de las misiones conjuntas se realizaron visitas de campo a los subproyectos en
ejecuci6n, revisando los avances generales de las categorias del Programa y definiendo anualmente los
proyeetos elegibles. En todas las misiones se discuti6 con las autoridades el impacto de la reducci6n de
asignaciones presupuestales y su efecto en la ejecuci6n normal de los proyectos.
6.3    El Banco Mundial particip6 activamente en estas misiones, proporcionando informaci6n,
asesorando tecnicamente y proponiendo soluciones para la realizaci6n del programa. En algunos casos
decidi6 sobre la flexibilidad de las normas de tal manera que se facilitara la ejecuci6n del proyecto. El
dialogo permanente entre el Banco Mundial y las autoridades del ejecutor, prestatario y unidades
supervisoras en el terreno, fue un factor clave para superar las dificultades relacionadas con
desembolsos, licitaciones y consolidaci6n de informaci6n.
6.4    Un merito digno de destacar por parte del Banco Mundial, fue la colaboraci6n en la estrategia y
su implantaci6n para la selecci6n del equipo apropiado ligero para conservaci6n y limpieza de canales
y drenes menores, lo cual redujo sensiblemente, como ya se dijo, los costos de conservaci6n.
6.5    Por otra parte en las visitas de los funcionarios del Banco Mundial se revis6 y promovi6,
mediante recomendaciones, la modernizaci6n en disenos de riego incluyendo tecnologias de punta tales
34



como: riegos de aspersi6n, tuberias de distribuci6n, mecanismos automatizados de compuertas y
estructuras de carga para gastos constantes.
6.6   Con las acciones descritas anteriormente, se desarrollaron m6dulos ejemplares, que serviran de
modelo para implementarse en forma generalizada en el ambito nacional.
VII. ACTUACION DEL PRESTATARIO
7.1   El desempefno de Nacional Financiera fue acertado durante la implantaci6n del proyecto. Se
apreci6 un constante mejoramiento en los controles, registros de licitaciones, desembolsos y apoyo a la
CNA en la aplicaci6n correcta de la normatividad de licitaciones.
7.2   Se reconoce que la recuperaci6n de desembolsos fue tardia debido a dificultades en la
recuperaci6n de documentaci6n soporte para integrarla en las solicitudes. Asimismo otro aspecto
problematico para los desembolsos fue el derivado de la falta del personal de los Estados sobre los
tramites administrativos que ocurrieron con la federalizaci6n y descentralizaci6n del presupuesto.
VII. EVALUACTON DE RESULTADOS
8.1   Los objetivos del Programa han sido cumplidos en los siguientes terminos: los usuarios
organizados estAn participando con financiamiento  en  las inversiones de rehabilitacion y
modernizaci6n de los distritos de riego; el sistema de programaci6n para la asignaci6n de inversiones
en el sector ha sido establecido y este muestra ser una herramienta gerencial efectiva.
8.2   Por lo que se refiere a la transferencia de los distritos de riego a los usuarios para la operaci6n y
mantenimiento, se ha cumplido inclusive superando las metas previstas; por lo que se refiere a la
autosuficiencia financiera para la operaci6n y conservaci6n de los distritos transferidos que fueron
contemplados inicialmente, esta se ha logrado satisfactoriamente.
8.3   Los objetivos del PSRD se alcanzaron satisfactoriamente sobre todo por lo que se refiere a la
organizaci6n de los usuarios mediante la creaci6n de las Sociedades de Responsabilidad Limitada y las
Asociaciones de Usuarios con lo cual se han creado las condiciones para que los propios productores de
una forma organizada administren, operen y conserven la infraestructura hidraulica con mayor
eficiencia y menor costo para los egresos de la Federaci6n.
8.4   Las acciones realizadas en la irrigaci6n y drenaje han favorecido el aumento de la
infraestructura y la rehabilitaci6n de los distritos de riego transferidos incrementando la producci6n y
productividad agricola en beneficio de los usuarios.
8.5   Los trabajos e inversiones realizadas en el proyecto permiten dominar con infraestructura nueva
a 148.6 mil hectareas en el periodo 1991-1999, de las cuales el 31% corresponden a dos grandes
sistemas, como son Cupatitzio Tepalcatepec, en MichoacAn y Elota Piaxtla en Sinaloa.
8.6   Se han realizado acciones complementarias en lo referente a: Estudios y Diseflos, Desarrollo
Institucional y Desarrollo de Areas de Temporal, logrando con ello la modernizaci6n de distritos de
riego, refuerzo de las organizaciones de usuarios y capacidad tecnica, asi como el beneficio de areas
que no estaban contempladas originalmente como los programas de uso eficiente del agua y de energia.
En este rubro se cubrieron situaciones extremas en condiciones de emergencia por sequias, resolviendo
problemas sociales.
35



8.7   Durante el proceso de la transferencia, el Gobierno Federal por conducto de la CNA, apoy6 a
los usuarios mediante inversiones en proyectos de rehabilitaci6n y modernizaci6n, adquisici6n de
equipo y maquinaria para la rehabilitaci6n y conservaci6n de los distritos de riego.
8.8   La inversi6n global prevista al inicio del programa fue de US$1,245 millones para el periodo de
1990-1995; durante este lapso la inversion real ascendi6 al 79% del programa. El periodo de ejecuci6n
contratado fue de 5 anios y el periodo real para ejercer el monto final del prestamo se extendi6 por 5
afos mnas.
8.9   La participaci6n inicial del Banco Mundial en el costo total del programa se previ6 en 32%,
frente al 23% final.
8.10 Es de llamar la atenci6n que de los US$350.0 millones desembolsados, el Gobierno Federal
tuvo un gasto deUS$112.605 millones por concepto de gastos financieros del pr6stamo, es decir el
32.17%.
8.1 1 A pesar de que en el periodo 1990 - 97 el area regada en distritos de riego disminuy6 en una tasa
promedio anual de 1.2%, se observ6 durante el mismo periodo de la transferencia que la productividad
de (a tierra a precios deflactados con el indice implicito de precios del PtB del sector primario de 1993
creci6 a una tasa anual de 1.85% y la productividad del agua a una tasa anual de 2.23%, obteniendose
asi una disminuci6n en las lIminas de riego del orden de 1.02% anual. Lo anterior evidencia que el
proyecto tuvo un resultado positivo en terminos de eficiencia en manejo del recurso. Ver anexo 7.
TX. LECCIONES DEL PROYECTO
En cuanto alprograma
9.1   Con las organizaciones de usuarios se logr6 como una experiencia adquirida junto con el marco
general, un intercambio de tecnologia y experiencias entre los agricultores, donde la CNA fue un
importante facilitador e inductor. En el programa se produjo una sinergia, contando con apoyos de
instituciones que se sumaron, por lo que entre otros se sefialan: El Colegio de Postgraduados, Instituto
Mexicano de Tecnologia del Agua e instituciones de ensenanza superior.
9.2   Con las obras de rehabilitaci6n se propicio la modernizaci6n que conlteva el uso eficiente del
agua, y un mejor manejo en la operaci6n del riego, consiguiendo una cultura del cuidado del agua.
9.3   La descentralizaci6n, con efectos en la politica de egresos de la federaci6n, mediante cambios
en el marco juridico en materia de agua y de bienes federales, permiti6 una mejor administraci6n,
conservaci6n, operaci6n y toma de decisiones de los usuarios.
En cuanto al diseho del proyecto (del prestamo del Banco)
9.4   El diseflo del proyecto de financiamiento de los bancos fue incompleto en virtud de que para
conseguir los objetivos principales no se cont6 con un desagregado para la obra hidroagricola
parcelaria en la totalidad de los distritos y unidades de riego beneficiados por el PSRD. El Banco
Mundial, en el programa de desarrollo parcelario (PRODEP), previ6 en 1994 mediante ei prestamo
3704-ME, el apoyo a 17 distritos de riego del pais para realizar este tipo de obras, entre otras.
Asimnismo, en 1998 se incorpor6 al FIRCO para recibir apoyo financiero.
9.5   Faltaron recursos financieros suficientes para las siguientes acciones. En los documentos del
Staff Appraisal Report del Banco Mundial, se mencionan las actividades necesarias para propiciar que
36



los componentes permitan el logro cabal de los objetivos, sin embargo dichas acciones
complementarias no se incluyeron en los cuadros de costos con apoyo financiero del programa. Un
ejemplo de ello se refiere a la instalaci6n de estructuras para la medici6n volumetrica, la implantaci6n
de tarifas para la recuperaci6n de inversiones y para la autosuficiencia, el extensionismo agricola, la
capacitaci6n para la autogesti6n de las asociaciones de productores y la infraestructura hidroagricola.
Se destaca que la aportaci6n financiera de los usuarios en el ultimo decenio ha sido mayor que los
recursos del prestamo.
9.6    El esquema de time-slice aplicado en el PSRD fue una experiencia novedosa ya que incorpor6
el concepto por primera vez en el sector y asi mismo fue el primero con la coparticipaci6n del Banco
Mundial y del Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo en el sector. La innovaci6n de este programa
consisti6 en el financiamiento de inversiones contempladas en un programa multianual, utilizando una
herramienta moderna de gestion como lo es el Modelo de Programaci6n de Inversiones.
9.7    La utilizaci6n de la herramienta de programaci6n de inversiones ha mostrado resultados
favorables, para la mejor obtenci6n de metas y objetivos de una amplia cartera de proyectos
preparados. Por ello, bajo la estrategia de conseguir una mejor calidad total, sera necesario continuar y
mejorar su utilizaci6n.
9.8    En cuanto a la ingenieria de disefno de los proyectos, fueron particularmente valiosas las
recomendaciones del Banco Mundial en aspectos de estructuras, disenos de canales, redes de
distribuci6n y drenajes.
En cuanto a la implantaci6n delproyecto
9.9    La aplicaci6n mas racional del presupuesto se reflej6 en la terminaci6n y puesta en operaci6n
de proyectos de pequefia irrigaci6n que hasta ese momento se encontraban inconclusos. En cuanto a los
proyectos de grande irrigaci6n, fue posible concluir y poner en marcha seis proyectos, iniciar la
operaci6n en secciones de diecisiete proyectos en proceso y continuar con las inversiones en obras que
se tienen planeadas para su cuhninaci6n. Uno de los mayores factores de acierto es la capacidad tecnica
y administrativa de la CNA para disefiar y ejecutar sus inversiones plurianuales con eficiencia.
9.10   Al implementar la transferencia de distritos de riego, se dot6 de un mejor equipo, abatiendo
costos de mantenimiento. Con lo anterior, se promovio la participacion de los recursos de los usuarios
para la rehabilitaci6n y modernizaci6n de los distritos de riego. Asimismo se ha logrado la
descentralizaci6n, federalizaci6n y participaci6n de los estados y municipios en las inversiones de
infraestructura, por prirnera vez en la historia de pais.
9.11   Antes del proyeeto, la escasa recaudaci6n por tarifas se entregaba a la Tesoreria de la
Federaci6n, y la subsecuente asignaci6p presupuestal para los gastos de dichos distritos no guardaba
vinculaci6n alguna y ademas era extemporanea. Con el proyecto implementado, la recaudaci6n en los
distritos se maneja en dos conceptos, 1a de las AU que estos operan directamente y la de la CNA que
integra a la tesoreria con el concepto de "entero virtual," que consiste basicamente en que los ingresos
se aplican integramente en el mismo distrito de riego para sus requerimientos de inversiones, en forma
mas suficiente y oportuna, lo cual ha sido un incentivo para las aportaciones de los usuarios.
9.12   En el desarrollo del programa se tomaron en cuenta los aspectos ambientales, los cuales se
incorporaron en todas las etapas de la implantaci6n del proyecto, consiguiendose ademas una
concientizaci6n y participaci6n mas efectiva de los usuarios.
37



Ejecutor
9.13   Tanto la CNA como NAFJN operaron el programa acertadamente. Los registros y controles de
la documentaci6n del prestamo se mejoraron, consiguiendose un seguimiento que se sostuvo hasta la
fecha, a pesar de que la informaci6n de los proyectos, subproyectos, inversiones, y estadisticas de
operaci6n y conservaci6n se encontraban dispersas y poco sistematizadas, principalmente en el ambito
de los distritos de riego.
X.  OPERACIONES FUTURAS
En cuanto al diseno delproyecto
10.1   Disehar un nuevo programa que considere: a) impulsar a los distritos que se han visto menos
favorecidos de los programas de apoyo; b) fortalecer a las asociaciones de usuarios existentes con
capacitaciion para la autogesti6n; c) terminar los distritos y unidades de riego que estan en construcci6n;
d) construir nuevas zonas de riego; e) fortalecer a las asociaciones de usuarios de las unidades de riego;
y t) teenificar los distritos y unidades de riego desde la parcefa hasta las obras de cabeza.
10.2   Por la experiencia de la instauraci6n de las Asociaciones Civiles de Usuarios, se aprecia la
necesidad de propiciar una evoluci6n orientada con mayores y suficientes apoyos econ6micos,
especialniente para aquellas organizaciones con menos experiencia; por ello la CNA estableceria un
sistema de monitoreo de indicadores que permita la implantacion de planes de acci6n anuales para
elevar los resultados a niveles mas satisfactorios.
10.3   Por las caracteristicas complejas del esquema de time-slice, los agentes financieros deben
procurar desde el principio la pertinencia de una flexibilizaci6n a priori por parte de los bancos, para la
operaci6n de este tipo de proyectos, ya que por su naturaleza estan sujetos a condiciones cambiantes y
por lo tanto a las adecuaciones del caso.
10.4   Se recomienda tomar acciones para impulsar los trabajos de rehabilitaci6n y modernizaci6n de
proyectos de riego como un medio efectivo para lograr la sustentabilidad agricola. La inversi6n en los
proyectos se efectuaria con participaci6n de las inversiones por parte de los usuarios con criterios de
equidad.
10.5   Se tomarian en cuenta recursos complementarios que incluyan el apoyo financiero vital para
asegurarse que todos los elementos requeridos aseguren la sustentabilidad. Es recomendable propiciar
que paralelamente concurran otras fuentes de financiamiento que complementen los gastos para
asegurar una mayor cobertura de los componentes que se deben integrar a los proyectos.
10.6   Como algunos de los citados 9lementos no son exclusivamente la obra fisica, tambien se
toinarAn en cuenta planes de acci6n espe.cificos derivados de dictamenes multidisciplinarios cuando
existan problemas para que el proyectn legue a ser plenamente operativo al nivel y capacidad del
agricultor. Un elemento fundamental sera la capacitaci6n y adiestramiento para la autogesti6n tecnica y
de creditos a las asociaciones de agricultores.
10.7   Se recomienda elevar la eficiencia de los sistemas de irrigaci6n en Mexico. Para ello se
requiere apoyar tecnicamente y con inversiones sobre la base de demandas para la construcci6n de
obras de conducci6n y drenaje en el ambito terciario y parcelario que estan incompletas. Para ello seria
prioritario el mejoramiento de la competitividad de la producci6n mexicana, focalizando la promoci6n
de la competencia en el sector privado.
38



10.8   En la racionalizaci6n de la inversi6n se dara prioridad a la consolidaci6n integral de proyectos
existentes con impactos de corto plazo en la productividad. Para ello habra de darse un impulso mayor
al desempeno de las asociaciones de usuarios con capacitaci6n de directivos, gestorias de sistemas de
riego, administraci6n y contabilidad; a los operadores de maquinaria; a los usuarios en cuanto a la
tecnificaci6n del riego. Fomento a la creaci6n de empresas prestadoras de servicios que apoyen a los
usuarios con economia campesina y para diferente tipologia de productores.
10.9   Es importante para futuros proyectos la vinculaci6n entre las inversiones de infraestructura y la
promocion de los servicios de creditos a los usuarios, el asesoramiento, la difusi6n de las
investigaciones agricolas y las tecnicas modernas de aplicaci6n de los riegos. La productividad de los
distritos de riego debe madurarse con oportunidad y suficiencia en paralelo con el disefio y realizaci6n
de las obras parcelarias que estan conceptualizadas dentro del rubro de la modernizaci6n de los distritos
de riego.
10.10  Obra intrapredial y capacidad de inversi6n por parte de los beneficiarios. Una de las
dificultades para generar la productividad en las obras hidroagricolas estriba en el hecho de que las
grandes inversiones realizadas en infraestructura principal de riego no llegan a tener un uso pleno.
10.11 La politica actual de inversiones implica la condicionalidad por ley, de que participen los
beneficiarios, mediante convenios, en las inversiones. Ante esta situaci6n habria que establecer
criterios para esta participaci6n, tomando en cuenta las distintas clases de usuarios.
10.12 Se hace necesario efectuar una clasificaci6n por regiones, m6dulos, capacidad y preparaci6n de
usuarios y procurar decisiones de inversi6n con una mayor equidad a fin de proveer a las personas de
las areas rurales un mejor medio de vida, construyendo la infraestructura que les permita la
productividad agricola y con ello los medios de elevar sus ingresos.
10.13 La estructuraci6n de una nueva operaci6n, con enfasis en la ejecuci6n de obras hidraulicas y el
contenido de la Ley de Aguas Nacionales y su Reglamento y otras relacionadas con la materia, ponen
en evidencia que los proyectos, para que terminen siendo productivos, requieren inversiones
complementarias en sistemas parcelarios y trabajos hidroagricolas que deben de ser ejecutados con
recursos de los beneficiarios. Esta situaci6n favorece que los propietarios de miAs altos recursos puedan
ejecutar estas obras parcelarias, beneficiAndose de las obras de infraestructura principal construida por
el gobierno.
10.14 Los propietarios con ingresos limitados y poca capacitaci6n, aunque tengan la misma
disponibilidad de agua, no cuentan con recursos para estas inversiones, por lo que el aprovechamiento
de estas obras es muy limitado. Esta situaci6n genera una inequidad en el uso de las inversiones
publicas y obliga a los beneficiarios de bajos ingresos a mantener practicas tradicionales de cultivo,
cediendo a otros sus derechos de agua o arrendando sus.tierras a los productores de mayores recursos.
XI. CONCLUSIONES Y RECOMENDACIONES
11.1   El resultado del programa y su operaci6n se considera satisfactorio por los logros descritos
anteriormente. Se destacan la modernizaci6n y rehabilitaci6n, consiguiendo sustancialmente la
productividad. Con la organizaci6n de usuarios se fortaleci6 la transferencia de tecnologias; se logr6 un
abatimiento de los costos de operaci6n y mantenimiento; las mejoras en la tecnologia del agua ha traido
como consecuencia ahorros del recurso y actitudes para enfrentar su uso y ampliar nuevas superficies.
Para corroborar lo anterior habra de elaborarse el Informe de Evaluaci6n Final y los T6rmninos de
Referencia para la Evaluaci6n Ex Post.
39



11.2   El Programa, a diferencia de experiencias con contratos de pr6stamos anteriores, adopt6 como
estrategia un enfoque sectorial, politica tarifaria para la inversi6n y priorizaci6n de proyectos de
inversi6n para su financiamiento.
11.3   Se implement6 para ello un sistema de programaci6n de inversiones que, con escenarios de
restricciones presupuestales, se procur6 el maximo del producto a fin de conseguir una equitativa
distribucion del ingreso entre la poblaci6n. La selecci6n de proyectos, con base en ritmo,s se practic6
anualment, asumiendo el criterio de fondos perdidos.
11.4   La implantaci6n tarifaria es un elemento normado a cargo de la CNA, pero debido a la
diversidad y capacidad real de pago existente por regiones, tipo de distrito y m6dulo, su efectividad es
cornpleja. En este sentido en el prestamo no se incorporaron apoyos econ6micos externos especificos
para desarrollo institucional en la implantaci6n tarifaria. Por otra parte, con la transferencia de los
distritos por primera ocasion se dio participaci6n a los usuarios en la administraci6n y recaudaci6n de
los sistemas de riego, mejorando notablemente la autosuficiencia de la operacion y conservacion.
11.5   La conservaci6n diferida, no efectuada por el Gobierno Federal antes de la transferencia, ha
sido absorbida y terminada por las Asociaciones de Usuarios, evitando los errores del pasado; por ello
se requiere no abandonar el esfuerzo de completar dicha conservaci6n diferida en los casos que hace
falta, que son de los distritos menos favorecidos. Se considera conveniente revisar, y en su caso
establecer, tarifas fijas para fondos de contingencia.
11.6   Se implant6 el programa de participacion de usuarios para la rehabilitaci6n, el cual dio apoyo
para los casos de mejor posibilidad econ6mica. Habran de revisarse en forma diferenciada los criterios,
dando mayor apoyo a los distritos menos favorecidos.
11.7   Auin cuando en el SAR se contemplo, en el contrato de prestamo no se previ6 financiar rubros
tan importantes como la seguridad de presas y obras de control de avenidas, infraestructura
hidroagricola parcelaria con participaci6n de inversiones por los usuarios con base en estudios de
capacidad de pago.
11.8   La CNA, ademas de sortear las presiones que enfrent6 con base en realidades de demanda de
obras, con condiciones climatol6gicas y de los constantes ajustes a sus presupuestos, careci6 de
posibilidades de completar la rehabilitaci6n y modernizaci6n cabal de los distritos. Es decir, hubo
distritos transferidos bajo situaciones de mayor ventaja y otros con situaciones mAs precarias.
11.9   El establecimiento de estructuras de medici6n volumetrica aun cuando se inici6, tiene mucho
por efectuar; es de observarse que en esto influye un componente cultural muy importante.
11.10  En cuanto a la operaci6n del fipanciamiento conjunto de ambos Bancos Internacionales, el
monto de este asciende al 30% del monto total erogado, frente al 50% del costo previsto originalmente
y el periodo de ejecuci6n se extendi6 al.doble de lo estimado inicialmente. Lo anterior sucedi6, entre
otras razones, por las politicas operativas y condicionalidades de los Bancos.
11.11 Estrategia.- La estrategia del Banco en el Subsector Riego habrA de continuar racionalizando la
inversi6n en la infraestructura con un enfasis vinculado a la productividad agricola, procurando la
eficiencia en el uso del agua y suelo y promoviendo la autonomfa sostenible a los productores. En la
proxima operacion se deberia dar prioridad a un programa que incluya financiamiento de todas las
acciones necesarias para un incremento efectivo de la productividad.
40



11.1 2 Se requiere continuar y avanzar en el ordenamiento en la politica de inversiones de la CNA
hacia la modernizaci6n integral de los distritos, lo cual permitira la consolidaci6n de las inversiones
realizadas incidiendo en la eficiencia de la operaci6n, en economia y productividad.
11.13  Se recomienda precisar las acciones que deben de realizarse en zonas con ampliaciones de
riego sin terminar; unidades de riego que aun no logran su plena utilizaci6n y cuentan con tierras
ociosas con infraestructura.
11.14  Habra de disefiarse un plan de acciones para implantar las nuevas teenologias de irrigaci6n
disponibles, y la capacitaci6n a ]as Asociaciones de Usuarios de economia campesina es fundamental
para influir en la distribuci6n igualitaria de los beneficiarios.
11. 15 Se requiere que se continue con el mejoramiento de la eficiencia hidraulica y la productividad de
los distritos de riego mediante la implantaci6n de programas especificos, lo cual permitira una mayor
capacidad y solvencia del usuario.
41



