Page  1
September 2, 1998
Mr. Roberto Casillas Medellín 
Director Internacional 
Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. 
Torre IV - Piso 8 
Plaza Inn, 
Insurgentes Sur No. 1971 
01020 México, D.F.
Mr. Carlos García Moreno 
Director General de Crédito Público 
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público 
Insurgentes Sur No. 826 – Piso 9 
03100 México, D.F.
Re:
Loan 3419-ME (Irrigation and Drainage Sector Project)
Amendment to the Loan Agreement
Dear Sirs,
We refer to the Loan Agreement between International Bank of Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank) and Nacional Financiera, S. N. C. (the Borrower), dated 
December 6, 1991 with respect to the above-captioned project.  We are pleased to 
inform you of our agreement to amend said Loan Agreement as follows:
1.
The paragraph in Section II of Schedule 4 is hereby numbered as paragraph 1 and 
amended to read as follows in its entirety: “In order to assist the Borrower or the 
Guarantor in carrying out the Project, the Borrower or the Guarantor shall employ 
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment 
shall be satisfactory to the Bank.  Such consultants shall be selected in accordance 
with principals and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the 
“Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank 
as Executing Agency” published by the Bank in August 1981 (the consultant Guidelines).  
For complex assignments, such contracts shall be based on the standard from of 
contract for consultants’ services issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto 
as shall have been agreed by the Bank.  Where no relevant standard contact documents 
have been issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be 
used.”.
2.
A new paragraph 2 is hereby added immediately after paragraph 1 of section II of 
Schedule 4 and shall read as follows in its entirety: “Notwithstanding the provisions 
of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of the Consultants Guidelines requiring 
prior Bank review or approval of terms of reference, budgets, short lists, selection 
procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports, and contracts shall 
not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each (in the 
case of contracts with consulting firms) or less than $50,000 equivalent each (in the 
case of contracts with individual consultants), up to an aggregate amount which shall 
not exceed $6,425,000 equivalent (said aggregate amount to combine contracts with 
consulting firms as well as contracts with individual consultants).  However, this 
exception to prior Bank review shall not apply to the terms of reference for such 
contracts or to single source selection of firms, to assignments of a critical nature 
as reasonably determined by the Bank or to amendments of contracts raising the 
contracts value to $100,000 equivalent or above (in the case of contracts with 
consulting firms) or $50,000 equivalent or above (in the case of contracts with 
individual consultants).”
Please confirm your aggregate to the foregoing amendments by signing and dating 
the three originals of this letter in the space provided below, and returning one to 
us.  This amendment shall enter into effect as of the date first above written, upon 
receipt by the Bank of one original of this letter signed by you.
Sincerely yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR  
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  2
Richard L. Clifford 
Acting Director 
México Country Department 
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED:
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S. N. C.
UNITED MEXICAN STATE
Roberto Casillas Medellín
Carlos García Moreno
Authorized Representative 
Authorized Representative
Date: September 9, 1998
Date: October 8, 1998
