Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 17506-CHA
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN OF $1 00 MILLION AND
A PROPOSED INTERIM FUND CREDIT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 74.3 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT IN POOR AREAS PROJECT
APRIL 27, 1998
Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 04/01/98)
Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
$1.00 = Y8.30
YI.00 = $0.12
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ABC       - Agricultural Bank of China
ADB       - Agricultural Development Bank of China
CAS       - country assistance strategy
EMP       - environmental management plan
FRDPP    - Forest Resource Development and Protection Project
ICB       - intemational competitive bidding
IDA       - Intemnational Development Association
1IF       - Interim Trust Fund
LGPR      - Leading Group for Poverty Reduction
MFO       - Ministry of Forestry
MIS       - management information system
MOF       - Ministry of Finance
NAP       - National Afforestation Project
NCB       - national competitive bidding
NGO       - non-governmental organization
NLS       - non-lending services
OECD      - Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
OED       - Operations Evaluation Department
PMC       - Project Management Center in SFA
PMO       - Project Management Office
SAR       - Staff Appraisal Report
SFA       - State Forestry Agency
SOE       - Statement of Expenditure
T&E       - training and extension
TVE       - township and village enterprises
Vice President        Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director      Yukon Huang
Sector Manager    :  Geoffrey Fox
Task Team Leader      Richard Scobey



China
Forestry Development in Poor Areas Project
CONTENTS
Paee No.
A. Project Development Objective .............................................................2
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators .................................................2
B. Strategic Context .............................................................2
1. Sector-related  CAS  goal supported by the project .............................................................                            2
2. Main  sector issues and Government strategy .............................................................2
C. Project Description  Summary ..............................................................4
1. Project components .............................................................4
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ...................................................6
3. Benefits and target population .............................................................6
4. Institutional and implementation  arrangements .............................................................6
D. Project Rationale .............................................................9
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ...........................................................9
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ................... 10
3. Lessons learned and reflected  in the project design ............................................................                           11
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ............................................................    12
5. Value added of Bank support in this project ............................................................                                   12
E. Summary Project Analyses .........................                                                                                              13
1. Economic ........................                                                                                                          13
2. Financial ........................                                                                                                         13
3. Technical ........................                                                                                                         13
4. Institutional ........................                                                                                                     14
5. Social ........................                                                                                                             14
6. Environmente  assessment ........................                                                                                          15
7. Participatory approach ........................                                                                                            16
F. Sustainability and Risks ........................                                                                                               16
1. Sustainability ........................                                                                                                    16
2. Critical Risks ........................                                                                                                    17
3. Possible Controversial Aspects ........................                                                                                    17
G. Main Loan Coniditions                                        ........................ 17
1. Effectiveness Conditions ........................                                                                                          17
2. Other ........................                                                                                                              17
H. Readiness for i               mplementation ........................                                                                           20
I. Compliance with Bank Policies ........................                                                                                          20



Annexes
Annex  1.  Project Design Summary                                                          ................................................ 21
Annex 2.  Detailed Project Description ................................................                                              24
Annex 3. Estimated Project Costs ................................................                                                    30
Annex 4.   Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary ................................................                                            31
Annex 5. Financial Summary ................................................                                                         35
Annex 6.  Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements ................................................                                36
Table Al.   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements                                  ........................................ 39
Table A2.   Consultant Selection Arrangements .................................................                                   40
Table B.        Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review .                                 ........................................... 41
Table C.        Allocation of Loan Proceeds .................................................                                     41
Table D.    Estimated Disbursement Profile .................................................                                      42
Annex 7.  Project Processing Budget and Schedule ................................................                                    43
Annex 8. Documents in Project File ................................................                                                  44
Annex 9.  Statement of Loans and Credits ................................................                                           45
Annex 10. Country at a Glance ................................................                                                       48
Map IBRD 29501 (Project Sites)



China
Forestry Development in Poor Areas Project
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
Date: April 21, 1998                                Task Team Leader: Richard Scobey
Country Director: Yukon Huang                       Sector Manager: Geoffrey Fox
Proj. ID: CN-PE-46952   Sector: Agriculture         Prog. Obj. Cat.: Environmentally Sustainable Development
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan        Program of Targeted Intervention:   [XI Yes  [ I No
Project Financing Data                        [X] Loan   [X] Credit    [] Guarantee   [  Other
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): $100 million Loan/SDR 74.3 million equivalent Interim Fund Credit
Proposed terns:                                   []  Multicurrency    [XI Single currency, specify USD
Grace period (years): 7 Loan/10 Credit      [   Standard Variable  [  Fixed    [X]  LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 16 Loan/35 Credit
Commitment fee: 0.25% Loan/0.00% Credit
Service charge: 0.75% Credit
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                           Local             Foreign        Total
Govemment                           164              0               164
IBRD                             78               22              100
IDA                             77                23              100
Total                            319              45              364
Borrower: People's Republic of China
Guarantor: not applicable
Responsible agency(ies): Ministry of Forestry and twelve provinces/autonomous regions (Anhui, Jiangxi, Hunan, Hubei,
Guangxi, Sichuan, Guizhou, Yunnan, Hebei, Shanxi, Henan, and Liaoning).
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):            1999     2000        2001   2002  2003  2004 2005
Annual 21        33         57      51    24      12   2
Cumulative 21       54          111    162   186   198  200
Project implementation period: 6.5 years  Expected effectiveness date: 9/1/98    Expected closing date: 01/01/06
OSD PAD Form: July 30, 1997



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The main project objective is to develop forest resources in poor areas of central and western China on a
sustainable and participatory basis to support poverty reduction, forestry development, and improved
environmental management. Achievement of the poverty reduction objective would be measured by the
increase in household income of project beneficiaries arising from the sale of project production and from
project labor payments (target of 30% by the mid-tern, 60% by closing, and 100% by full impact).
Achievement of the forestry development objective would be measured by the amount of timber and
horticultural production produced under the project (target of 3 million ni3 standing stock by closing and 54
million rn3 standing stock by full impact for timber, and RMB 857 rnillion by closing and RMB 2.3 billion
by full impact for horticultural production). Achievement of the environmental objective would be
measured by the rate of forest coverage in project counties (from a baseline of 45% to 47% by closing and
50% by full impact).
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 16321-CHA   Date of latest CAS discussion: 3/18/97
The project would contribute to two key goals of the CAS: reduction of poverty in rural areas, and
reforestation of denuded upland areas.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The forestry sector plays a critical role in the Chinese economy, providing 40 percent of rural household
energy, almost all of the lumber and panel products for the large construction sector, and raw material for
the large domestic pulp and paper industry. The resource base is small; forest cover amounts to only 0.11
hectares per capita, which is significantly below the world average of 0.77 hectares per capita. Forest land
is divided into two categories: natural forests (about 98 million hectares), which are located in isolated areas
in the northeast and southwest and account for 95 percent of standing wood volume; and plantations (about
33 million hectares), which account for only 5 percent of standing volume, since most are newly
established. China is the third largest consumer of timber in the world and faces a worsening imbalance
between supply and demand for wood products. The present consumption level (about 300 million m3 of
standing stock) exceeds the annual growth increment of the forests and total imports by about 50 million in3
per year. As a result, about 500,000 hectares of natural forest area are lost each year, equivalent to one-half
of one percent of total forest area. This loss is causing increased soil erosion, serious deterioration of the
plant and wildlife habitat, and other environmental degradation, such as declining levels of carbon
sequestration.
The over-reliance and over-exploitation of forest resources is particularly severe among poor households in
the mountainous areas of central and western China, as a result of their limited access to productive land,
low agricultural productivity, limited off-farm employment, and underdeveloped human capital. As
reviewed in the 1992 World Bank report on poverty in China (No. 10409-CHA), a large share of the
absolute poor are located in these remote upland areas where agricultural land is extremely poor and forest
resources are the only significant productive asset at their disposal. Consequently, the development of the
forest sector is a key element in the Bank and Government's strategy to reduce poverty.
The Government is taking a number of steps to expand supply and manage demand throughout the country,
including extensive investment in a wide variety of afforestation programs and promulgation of new
regulations encouraging conservation and substitution. The Ministry of Forestry (MFO), which was
recently reorganized into the State Forestry Agency (SFA) as part of a large-scale government restructuring,
aims to establish about 7 million hectares of intensively managed plantations in 1985-2000, of which about



Page 3
30 percent would likely be financed by the World Bank under this and previous projects. SFA has
announced a long-term program to reclassify all forests according to their public welfare or conmmercial
functions, with a corresponding change in the organizational structure of forestry agencies at the national
and provincial levels. The Government's sectoral development program is supported by a relatively sound
policy framework (including secure land tenure, market-based resource pricing for 90 percent of all timber,
and increased emphasis on private sector activity) and a good institutional framework (SFA has effectively
managed national afforestation programs, including four earlier IDA operations).
At the same time, the Government has launched an ambitious and comprehensive poverty alleviation
program under the National Seven-Year Plan for Poverty Reduction, which is supporting strengthening of
institutions responsible for poverty reduction, establishment of an independent poverty monitoring system,
greater investment in the social sectors to develop human capital, and continued investment in agriculture,
forestry, rural enterprise and rural infrastructure to raise rural incomes. While most of this work has been
led by the State Council's Leading Group for Poverty Reduction, SFA has been involved in pilot poverty
reduction programs in Guangxi and Guizhou since 1986.
The key issues for the development of the forest sector include: (a) elimination of the remaining distortions
in the policy framework, particularly the high level of domestic protection that impedes efficient
international trade, and the very high level of taxation on timber products; (b) more rigorous implementation
of sustainable land use requirements in the legal framework, particularly greater enforcement of rules
related to annual allowable cuts in natural forests; (c) expansion of forestry resources to support continued
growth of construction and agro-processing sectors, with an emphasis on productivity gains through
improvements in silvicultural technologies, particularly planting stock development and silvicultural man-
agement; (d) shifting the focus of afforestation activities from the more developed southern and coastal
provinces to the poorer inland provinces, with appropriate adjustments to silvicultural technologies that
reflect the socio-economic requirements of poor households; (e) developing more participatory approaches
for the design and implementation of large-scale afforestation campaigns to strengthen incentives for
sustainable resource management by local communities; (f) developing comprehensive integrated
mianagement plans for forest resources, particularly for natural forests, that maximize economic and
environmental benefits for local communities; and (g) improving the efficiency of the wood processing
sector through continued reform of the policy framework for state-owned enterprises.
ITe key issues for poverty reduction work include: (a) strengthening of institutions responsible for
implementing poverty ireduction programs; (b) establishment of an independent and objective poverty
monitoring system; (c) improved targeting of interventions to the absolute poor in the poorest counties; (d)
improved access of the poor to employment and income-generating opportunities; (e) greater investment in
the development of human capital, including increased access to rural facilities, improved teacher and health
service worker technical skills, and upgrading of bilingual education in minority areas; and (f) continued
investment in poor area agriculture, rural enterprise, road, and other rural infrastructure requirements.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The key sector issues to be addressed by the project include: (a) shifting the focus of government
afforestation efforts from wealthier to poorer provinces to provide expanded employment and income-
generating opportunities for the poor; (b) introducing new models for social assessment and community
participation into the design and implementation of government afforestation programs; (c) expanding the
supply of forestry products in line with domestic consumption and investment requirements, particularly
the raw material needs of the construction and agro-processing sectors; (d) development and dissemination
of new silvicultural technologies to raise the productivity of forestry resources, particularly on lower quality
and higher elevation sites; and (e) institutional strengthening of SFA in the design and targeting of poverty
reduction programs.
The main strategic choice focuses on the role of the public sector in the project: What market failures



Page 4
preclude the private sector from producing more or less than the socially optimal quantity of forest
products? What sort of government intervention is appropriate? The justification for public sector
provision of capital and technical assistance for afforestation under the project arises from the following
market failures.
* First, poor rural households face limited access to capital as a result of thin and underdeveloped financial
markets, which severely constrain both mobilization and channeling of financial resources in poor areas.
The few financial institutions that are active in project areas (Agricultural Bank of China, Agricultural
Development Bank of China, and rural credit cooperatives) generally do not lend to poverty households, and
for long-term investments such as forestry.
* Second, the opportunity cost of capital is dramatically higher for poor households than for society as a
whole, as they heavily discount future income in pursuit of their short-term consumption and investment
requirements. Thus, they will typically reject investments with long gestation periods such as forestry
unless the government provides technical assistance and support.
* Third, poor households have limited access to information about improved silvicultural technologies,
which impedes adoption of improved planting materials and better designed plantations. The main source
of this information in project areas is the government research and extension system, which requires
institutional strengthening.
- Fourth, the private valuation of forestry project costs and benefits diverge from the overall social
valuation: individuals do not experience the indirect benefits of improved environmental management, such
as reduced soil erosion and preserved biodiversity, and consequently do not plant as many trees as would be
desirable from the country's point of view.
* Fifth, the project has an explicit redistribution goal that is outside the ambit of private sector investment.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost breakdown):
Component                 Category     Cost Incl.    % of   Bank-      % of
Contingencies  Total financin    Bank-
(US$M)                g      financing
(US$M)
Timber Plantation Component: Establish   Physical          121.8    34       66.2        33
about 315,000 hectares of plantations
primarily for construction timber and
secondarily for pulpwood and pit props on
mountainous wasteland.
Economic Forest Crops Component:       Physical            135.2    37       82.5        41
Establish about 230,000 ha of economic
forest crops, including 110,000 ha of new
and rehabilitated bamboo, and 120,000 ha
of fruit, nut, and medicinal trees (including
chestnut, walnut, ginkgo, eucommia, apple,
pear).



Page 5
Component                               Category     Cost Incl.    % of   Bank-      % of
Contingencies  Total financin    Bank-
(US$M)                g      financing
___(US$M)
Technical Support Services Component:                       81.5    22       38.6        19
Strengthen technical support programs for
project afforestation activities in four areas:
(a) the planting stock development program   Physical       43.2    12       21.8        11
would raise the quality of planting materials
through introduction of improved genetic
materials and nursery management
technologies, and support the production of
the 0.8 billion seedlings required under the
project;
(b) the training and extension program  Institution          8.0      2       2.1         1
would disseminate key technical        Building
silvicultural guidelines to project staff and
beneficiaries, through preparation of new
extension materials, domestic and overseas
training programs and study tours,
equipment for grassroots extension workers,
and demonstration plantations;
29.5     8       14.6         7
(c) the rural infrastructure program would    Physical,
support the construction of forest trails,  Credit
limited irrigation facilities, and small
guard/storage sheds, and the provision of
sub-loans for small-scale marketing and
post-harvest treatment of horticultural
production; and
0.8    ..        0.1         .
(d) the monitoring and evaluation program
would support community participation in   Institution
project design, effective supervision of  Building
project activities, and surveys for
achievement of project objectives.
TVE Development Component: Provide    Credit                25.5      7      12.7         7
sub-loans to support the development of
small-scale, labor-intensive, commercially
oriented township and village enterprises
(TVEs) in the forestry sector, such as pine
resin extraction, bamboo processing, wicker
works, edible forest product processing, and
parquet and veneer production.
Total                                     364.0   100       200.0       100



Page 6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
As reviewed in Section B.2, the sectoral policy and institutional framework is generally sound and will
contribute to the overall viability and sustainability of the project. Nonetheless, the Government still needs
to address some policy distortions that contribute to inefficiencies in resource use and a sub-optimal level of
reforestation. With support from the Bank and other NGOs/donors under on-going economic reform studies
and technical assistance programs, the Government is studying these issues and beginning to identify
additional reform steps. In line with the Bank's country assistance strategy, this policy dialogue is not
explicitly linked to specific investment operations but conducted through non-lending services (NLS). The
main institutional reform supported under the project is the introduction of new social assessment and
conmmunity participation techniques into the government's large-scale afforestation program.
3. Benefits and target population:
The project would generate the following benefits: (a) an increase in per capita income for about 2 million
poor people (about 450,000 households) that would raise them above the poverty line by the project closing
date, and about 1 million non-poor people (about 250,000 households), arising from the sale of project
production and the creation of new employment opportunities; (b) an increase in the supply of forest
products that would support the continued growth of the construction and agro-processing sectors, including
41 million m3 of commercial timber, 10 millions tons of bamboo, and fruit, nut, and miscellaneous forest
production, amounting to 2.3 billion yuan at current financial prices at full development; (c) an increase in
value-added processing of forestry products through development of new TVEs, with an estimated gross
output value of RMB 88 million per year at current financial prices at project closing; (d) improved
environmental management of ecologically fragile mountainous watersheds, including reduced soil erosion,
flooding, and river sedimentation, preservation of biodiversity, and reduced greenhouse gas emissions
through increased carbon sequestration; and (e) development and dissemination of improved silvicultural
technologies that would raise the productivity of forest resources on steeper, higher elevation sites.
The target population would be households living below the poverty line in mountainous areas of central
and western China, where the largest concentration of absolute poor reside. The beneficiary group would
include a large share of ethnic minorities and women. The project meets both criteria for inclusion in the
Program of Targeted Interventions: (a) it would support a specific mechanism for targeting the poor; and (b)
the project beneficiary group would have a significantly larger proportion of poor than the country's
population as a whole.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Selection of Project Areas and Beneficiaries: Project areas and beneficiaries were selected in line with the
following socio-economic criteria. First, the proposed areas contain large blocks of barren wasteland with
suitable agronomic and climatic conditions for commercial forestry development. Second, the majority of
the direct project beneficiaries are poor households located in remote mountainous areas. "Poor" has been
defined as below the national poverty line in nationally-designated poverty counties, and below the relevant
provincial poverty line in other counties. The beneficiary assessment process is reviewed in Section E.7 and
the organizational structure for the beneficiary groups is reviewed below. Third, the project management
units -- located in the provincial forestry departments and county forestry bureaus - have sufficient
institutional capacity and managerial expertise to plan and implement project activities. Fourth, the
provincial, prefecture, and county governments have agreed to finance 25-30 percent of project investment
costs as counterpart funds, and have made a general commitment to finance complementary investments in
social and rural services in project areas during the project implementation period. Fifth the beneficiary
groups have agreed to provide 15-20 percent of project investment costs as counterpart funds, primarily in
the form of voluntary labor, and assume the responsibility for debt service. In line with these criteria, 183
counties in 12 provinces have been selected to participate in the project, of which 53 percent are designated



Page 7
as national poverty counties, 27 percent are provincial poverty counties, and 20 percent are not poor
counties but nonetheless have significant pockets of poverty. Of the total 3 million beneficiaries, about 2.0
mnillion, or 65 percent, are classified as below the poverty line.
Project Management: Project management would be based on the successful implementation structure
developed under the four earlier Bank forestry projects: Leading Groups at the central, provincial, and
county levels would continue to establish general policies and procedures and review work programs; the
Project Management Center (PMC) at SFA would continue to have overall responsibility for project design,
execution, and supervision; Project Management Offices (PMOs) at Provincial Forestry Departments and
County Forestry Bureaus would continue to manage the work, mobilize counterpart funding, and provide
technical support; Seedling Production Coordination Groups at the national and provincial levels would
continue to supervise production and distribution of planting materials; Environmental Protection Groups at
the national and provincial levels would continue to be responsible for environmental management issues in
the project; and Provincial Finance Departments and County Finance Bureaus would continue to channel
project funds. The project management structure is in place and a general work plan for the first year of the
project was agreed with the Bank during appraisal. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that: (a) all
PMOs at the national, provincial, and county levels would be established and maintained in forestry
agencies, with staffing, functions, and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank; and (b) an annual work and
financing plan for the project for the next calendar year would be furnished to the Bank for review by
December 31 of each year.
Production Arrangements: All afforestation activities would be organized as follows.  First, all
horticultural crops would be established on land directly under the responsibility and management of
beneficiary households or groups of beneficiary households. Second, the relative priority for land tenure
and organizational arrangements for timber plantations would be: (a) land directly under the responsibility
and management of beneficiary households or groups of beneficiary households; (b) households or groups
of households participating in a shareholding arrangement with another party, such as a village committee,
village/township collective farm, a township extension station, a state farm at the county/prefecture/
provincial level, or a private entrepreneur/company; and (c) village or township collective forest farms.
Unlike the previous Bank forestry projects, state forest farms would not be eligible to participate by
themselves in the project. Third, households and groups of households would receive use rights for a term
of not less than fifty years for land directly under their responsibility and management under the project.
Fourth, production arrangements based on a shareholding structure would ensure that the majority of net
profit (after debt service) from project production would accrue directly to project households, and not to
the share-holding partners. Fifth, as in the previous Bank forestry projects, all afforestation groups would
sign "project implementation agreements" with the relevant administrative village, township or county
governments that specify their respective rights and responsibilities under the project.  Sixth, all
afforestation groups involving different parties (such as cooperative or share-holding farrns) would sign
"joint cooperation contracts" that specify their respective rights and responsibilities within the group. An
assurance was obtained at negotiations that all afforestation activities would be organized in accordance
with guidelines acceptable to the Bank
On-Lending Arrangements: Project funds would be on-lent as follows; an assurance was obtained at
negotiations with respect to these on-lending terms and conditions.
* The Ministry of Finance (MOF) would on-lend the Loan to the provincial finance departments on the
same terms and conditions as received from the Bank (7 years grace and 16 years maturity). MOF would
on-lend the Credit on the same terms and conditions as received from IDA, with the exception that the grace
period would be reduced to 5 years (with the option of two additional years of grace upon the payment of an
additional interest charge), and maturity period to 17 years, in line with MOF's expectation that it will soon
be asked by IDA to accelerate repayments. Foreign exchange risk between the SDR and the local currency
would be borne by the provinces.



Page 8
* The provinces would ensure the following on-lending terms and conditions for the final project
beneficiaries. For afforestation activities: same terms and conditions as received by the provinces, with an
additional exchange rate risk fee of two percent per annum for any loan or credit funds onlent in the
Borrower's currency, and an additional interest rate risk fee of one percent per annum for any loan funds
onlent at a fixed interest rate; interest would be capitalized during the grace period; and these terms may be
modified upon the agreement of the Bank, Borrower, and relevant province. For enterprise and marketing
sub-loans: same terms and conditions as provided by the Agricultural Development Bank of China in
project areas for similar activities.
* The maximum interest rates for final beneficiaries would be about 6.5 percent for afforestation and 10
percent for enterprise and marketing sub-loans (based on the current IBRD rate). The more concessional
terms for afforestation are in line with the Bank practice of allowing a small interest rate subsidy for
environmental investments that generate social benefits that accrue to society as a whole.
* The PMC would manage the portion of funds used for international procurement, consultancy services,
overseas training and study tours, and other central government training and extension activities, although
the provinces would assume the debt responsibility for these services.
Monitoring and Evaluation: The Bank has reviewed and approved a monitoring and evaluation plan that
includes: (a) the roles and responsibility of the central, provincial, and county PMOs in project supervision;
(b) preparation of an annual key performance indicators table to facilitate effective monitoring and
evaluation during implementation; (c) implementation of a sample survey of project households to collect
the socio-economic data necessary to evaluate the achievement of the poverty reduction objective, and
identify problems and lessons learned to improve implementation; and (d) implementation of a survey of
plantation growth at the end of the project to collect the technical data to evaluate the achievement of the
production objective. Annual monitoring will focus on: (a) Development Impact Indicators that measure
the degree to which project objectives have been achieved (such as reduction in poverty levels, increased
silvicultural productivity, improved environmental management); (b) Project Output Indicators that
measure the quantity of goods created or services provided by the project (such as hectares of plantations
established, numbers of TVE enterprises established, numbers of seedlings produced, numbers of
beneficiaries trained); and (c) Project Input Indicators that measure the quantity of resources provided for
project activities (such as Bank funds, counterpart funds, and technical assistance). Assurances were
obtained at negotiations with regard to the implementation of the monitoring and evaluation plan; the
timing and reporting requirements for the household and plantation surveys; and the timing and
implementation of the mid-term review.
Financial Management and Reporting: The Bank reviewed and approved the proposed financial
management system for the project during appraisal, including the adequacy of accounting and auditing
practices, standards, and internal controls. As demonstrated on the previous projects, the provincial and
county forestry and finance staff have strong institutional capacity to ensure adherence to accounting and
auditing standards and reporting formats acceptable to the Bank. All previous projects have been in full
compliance with audit and accounting covenants. One of the four large commercial banks would serve as
the project bank for disbursing and collecting all project funds in the provinces. Each provincial and county
finance office would open a project account at the local branch, which would maintain sub-accounts for the
different loan sources. Provincial audited accounts would be submitted to the World Bank Department in
MOF, with copies to PMC, within four months of the end of the financial year. MOF would submit to the
Bank within six months of the end of the financial year a consolidated audit report by the State Audit
Administration (or another independent auditor acceptable to the Bank) containing a summary of the
findings of the provincial audit reports and a report on the accounts maintained by MOF. An assurance was
obtained at negotiations with respect to these auditing and accounting arrangements.



Page 9
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasonsfor rejection:
The following different design options were considered and rejected.
* First, since afforestation investments only begin generating significant income after five years, the project
team considered including a micro-finance component that would provide sub-loans for short-term income
generating activities, such as agricultural intercropping, aquaculture, livestock, etc. This was rejected
because of institutional complexity and limited implementation experience in China. SFA does not have the
requisite expertise and extension network for agricultural development and micro-credit, and consequently,
the Ministry of Agriculiure and a rural credit institution would need to be brought into the project as joint
implementing agencies. Previous project experience in China has shown that projects managed by more
than one central ministry are often beset by poor coordination, institutional conflict, and ineffective
implementation, which contributes to unsuccessful realization of project development objectives. In
addition, Bank projects have only had limited experience and success with micro-credit programs in China
and further pilot work is required before it would make sense to disseminate a micro-credit program in a
large project of this scale.
* Second,  the project team  reviewed the scope for channeling project funds through a financial
intermediary, instead of through the MOF network. This was rejected as none of the rural banking
institutions are interested in extending long-term loans to poverty households in remote areas for forestry
investments, as they believe the risk and transaction costs are excessively high and not justified by the
moderate returns. This issue is being studied further in the context of on-going NLS work in the area of
rural credit and micro-finance.
* Third, the project tearn reviewed the possibility of concentrating project activities in a smaller number of
provinces (5-7) instead of trying to cover a wide range of provinces. This would allow the project to reach
most of the absolute poor in each of the project counties and facilitate management and supervision of
project activities. This was rejected because (a) county governments would be forced to spend a
disproportionate share of budgetary resources earmarked for poverty reduction work on afforestation
investments, which would limit their ability to finance other critical areas such as agriculture, health, and
education; and (b) one of the important objectives of the project is to strengthen the institutional capacity of
provincial forestry departments in the design and targeting of poverty programs and, consequently, the more
provinces that participate the better.
* Fourth, a component designed to support improved management of natural forests in project areas was
dropped during preparation, in order to simplify implementation, strengthen the focus of the project on
poverty reduction and forestry development, and avoid potentially harmful environmental impacts (it would
be very difficult to ensure and monitor sustainable harvesting of natural forests under the project).
* Fifth, a large number of timber and horticultural species were evaluated on the basis of profitability,
environmental impact, and contribution to the project objective of poverty reduction. The species selected
for inclusion in the project produced the highest net benefits and income impact for poor households. The
rejected species included conifer timber species on long rotations, which would not generate benefits for
households until 25-30 years; certain broadleaf species on short rotations that have flooded the timber
market in recent years, such as paulownia; and several citrus varieties and other horticultural crops, which
are currently over-supplied in the project provinces.



Page 10
2. Major related projectsfinanced by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing and
planned):
Sector issue                  Project          Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Salvage burned timber and establish a    Daxinganling Forest Fire  HS        HS
comprehensive fire protection system in  Rehabilitation Project
Northeast China
Support establishment of 1.38 million    National Afforestation  HS          HS
hectares of improved commercial timber Project (NAP)
plantations in 16 provinces, with
emphasis on development of improved
planting materials, new silvicultural
technologies, and new environmental
management guidelines
Support dissemination of the NAP  Forest Resource              S              S
plantation program to another 620,000   Development and
hectares in 16 provinces and      Protection Project
establishment of improved models for   (FRDPP)
watershed management on 280,000
hectares of protection forests
Promote improved management of    Nature Reserves              S              S
biodiversity resources and natural  Management Project
forests                           (GEF)
Support multi-sectoral approach to  Southwest Poverty          S             HS
poverty reduction in remote upland  Reduction Project
areas, including investment in
horticulture and forestry
Support agricultural development in  Shanxi Poverty            S              S
poor areas of Shanxi, including   Alleviation Project
investment in horticulture and forestry
Disseminate Southwest Poverty Project  Qinba Mountains         S              S
approach to northwest China       Poverty Reduction
Project
Strengthen institutional framework for   Changing Institutional  NR          NR
private sector investment, SFA's  Roles in the Forestry
regulatory role, and public sector  Sector (IDF Grant)
management of environmental forests



Page 1 1
Sector issue                        Project                  Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
Other development agenq ies
Develop improved models for         various projects        NA             NA
household forestry in poor upland areas  (Ford Foundation)
in Yunnan and Sichuan
Strengthen sectoral policy framework,   Forestry Policies and  NA          NA
including land tenure, property rights,   Institutions in a Market
trade, pricing, and taxation        Economy (FAO)
Develop improved timber plantations,    Various projects in  NA            NA
sustainable management of natural   Shanxi, Ningxia, Hebei,
forests, and institutional development of  Anhui, Hubei, Yunnan,
forestry agencies in ten provinces  Shaanxi (GTZ)
Develop improved models for social  Social Forestry Project   NA           NA
forestry in Fujian Province         (New Zealand)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Forestry Development: The main lessons from project work and several Bankwide reports on the forestry
sector (including the 1991 OED review of forestry projects, the 1994 ENV/AGR review of implementation
of the Bank's forestry policy, and the 1998 QAG/AGR review of the forest portfolio) include the following:
(a) the importance of new technology development in raising timber productivity, such as performance-
selected species, improved planting materials, and more efficient planting practices; (b) the need to improve
the links between silvicultural research and afforestation establishment to facilitate technology transfer; (c)
the role of stable and clear tenure and land use rights in ensuring efficient afforestation activity by
households; (d) the importance of integrating management of protected and unprotected natural forest areas
into regional forest management plans; and (e) the importance of redefining the role of the state in forestry,
with less emphasis on direct investment in commercial forestry and more emphasis on regulation and
environmental protection. In response to these lessons, the project would give emphasis to: introduction of
new afforestation technologies, particularly improved silvicultural practices, improved planting materials,
and a wider range of species; the development of standardized production contracts based on fifty-year land-
use rights; institutional strengthening of grassroots extension staff; and increased afforestation activity on
collective and individual forest farms, with no investment on state forest farms.
Poverty Reduction: The 1992 China poverty report, project implementation experience, and several
Bankwide reports on poverty issues (including the 1990 World Development Report, the 1992 Bank Poverty
Reduction Handbook, and the 1997 QAG review of China poverty projects) have highlighted the
importance of the following issues: (a) poverty reduction projects should support activities that both benefit
the poor and have high returns, whether measured explicitly in terms of an economic rate of return or
implicitly through human resource development; (b) the design of poverty reduction projects should
incorporate analysis of the cultural constraints, sociological context, and political dynamics in which
poverty persists; (c) risk analysis is particularly important in project design, in view of the vulnerability of
the poor to downside shocks; (d) poor beneficiaries should participate in project design; (e) economic and



Page 12
sector work is important in project pre-identification, in order to ensure effective selection of project areas,
activities, and beneficiaries; (f) projects need to begin with a behavioral model of the poor as decision-
makers, taking into account their constraints, incentives, risks, needs, and preferences; and (g) an effective
monitoring framework is essential to ensure the project is reaching the intended beneficiaries with the
intended results. In response to these lessons, the project design would give emphasis to: selection of
activities with high economic rates of return; detailed analysis of the socio-economic conditions of
beneficiary households, including preparation of baseline and follow-on surveys; extensive sensitivity
analysis of critical risk factors, particularly yield and price assumptions for project production; preparation
of detailed targeting guidelines for the selection of project areas and beneficiaries, based on the findings and
recommendations of the China poverty report; and development of a comprehensive poverty monitoring
framework
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
As discussed at the last Country Implementation Review, SFA has implemented its portfolio of Bank
projects extremely successfully and has proven to be one of the more serious and effective implementing
agencies in China. It has approached the preparation of this new project with its usual competency and
commitment, as demonstrated by its willingness to allocate significant budgetary resources for internal
preparation work and undertake key implementation steps prior to Board approval of the project (such as
completion of the community forestry assessment work, preparation of detailed technical design of the first
year planting sites, establishment of central nurseries, and training programs for grassroots staff).
S. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Bank involvement in the project would provide three unique contributions.
* First, the project would demonstrate that poor households are bankable for afforesation investments.
While there is no question that SFA and the lower levels are committed to the overall goal of poverty
reduction, they have typically preferred to focus afforestation efforts in more developed areas where the
social, economic, and agronomic conditions are easier for large-scale afforestation. This would be the first
project in which the government supports a large forestry investment targeted to the poor - if successful, the
project would demonstrate the complementarity of the two key national development objectives of
economic growth and poverty reduction within the forestry sector.
* Second, the project has introduced new social assessment and community participation planning
techniques into the design and implementation of the government's afforestation program. While
community forestry work has been piloted in a few areas in China, this project would constitute the first
large-scale roll-out of beneficiary participation in the sector. A summary description this work is included
in Section E.7.
* Third, the project would support the development and dissemination of improved silvicultural practices,
based on the implementation experience of World Bank and private sector investments in other countries
and the findings of international research work. As demonstrated with the NAP and FRDPP projects, the
Chinese silvicultural system has not yet adopted many of the key technical elements of international forestry
production and the Bank projects have proven to be very effective vehicles for this technology transfer. The
main improvements would include lower planting densities to promote shorter production cycles, faster
income generation, and agricultural intercropping; revised fertilizer application rates that reflect the specific
nutrient requirements of the poorer sites; less intensive site preparation, smaller planting holes, and
reduction in tending times to decrease labor requirements and minimize environmental damage on steep
sites; and greater reliance on clonal planting stock and other improved planting materials in order to
promote faster tree growth.



Page 13
E: Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic
Cost-Benefit Analysis : ArPV = US$481 million; ERR = 24%
Economic analysis has been carried out for each species, the income generating components, and the project
as a whole (the analysis is based on direct costs and benefits, and does not reflect any indirect environmental
benefits such as reduced soil erosion or carbon sequestration). The results are summarized below and
presented in detail in Anmex 4, along with detailed assumptions about production levels, markets, prices, and
methodology.
The timber species generate moderate economic returns, ranging from 16 to 19 percent, reflecting their long
gestation period and the moderate price levels for non-specialty timber used in the construction and paper
making industries in China; however, several species generate particularly high returns, including poplar (29
percent) and eucalyptus (34 percent), as a result of their shorter rotations and higher market values. The
overall ERR for the timber component is 20 percent. The ERRs for the economic tree crops are significantly
higher, generally ranging from 20 to 30 percent, and reaching as high 41 percent for sympodial bamboo and
a specialty apricot variety. The overall ERR for the tree crop component is 28 percent. The ERRs for
sample TVE investments range from 26 percent for wicker furniture production to 44 percent for solid wood
floor board, with an average ERR for the component of 38 percent. Sensitivity analysis indicates that these
findings are relatively robust to wide changes in key parameters.
2. Financial: NPV = US$ 267 million; FRR = 20%
The results of the financial analysis are presented in detail in Annexes 4 and 5, along with detailed
assumptions about production levels, markets, prices, and methodology. The FRRs for the timber, tree crop,
and TVE components are 15, 24, and 29 percent, respectively.
The project is expected to have minimal fiscal impact, as beneficiaries would assume full responsibility for
repayment of the World Bank funds, the projected fees and taxes under the project would more than cover
government's counterpart funding contribution, and beneficiaries would be responsible for financing almost
all recurrent operating c:osts during the operational period (county and provincial governments would be
responsible for providing some training and extension related to stand management, forest health, and
harvesting and marketing, amounting to about 7 percent of total recurrent costs in years 8-25 of the
operational period). Project taxes include the special agricultural tax levied by the province (8 percent of
gross revenues for timber and bamboo, and 10-12 percent for horticultural production), the education and
construction surcharge levied by the central government (0.2 percent of gross revenues), and reforestation
and maintenance fees levied by the county (20 percent of gross revenues for timber and bamboo). In
addition, some local governments have imposed a variety of small fees and taxes on an ad hoc basis for
timber and agricultural production, although the central government has recently issued national regulations
designed to stop this practice. In line with the National Seven-Year Plan for Poverty Reduction, the project
incorporates some tax exemptions related to the special agricultural tax and TVE income tax for nationally
and provincially designated poverty counties. Cost recovery analysis indicates that the aggregate project
charges would be sufficient to cover project costs with a recovery index of more than 90 percent discounted
over the life of the project.
3. Technical:
The selection of species, planting sites, and provinces are based on guidelines agreed with the Bank during
project preparation, as follows. The species were selected on the basis of farmer preferences, market
demand, growth potential, climatic and ecological suitability to specific site conditions, technical experience
and acceptance in China, and environmental objectives. The sites were selected on the basis of the poverty



Page 14
status of the local population, soil fertility, rainfall, temperature, erosion hazard, and access to end-use
markets. The provinces were selected on the basis of poverty incidence, land availability, institutional
capacity, financing capacity, and local supply and demand conditions. All project sites have been identified
and detailed technical design plans have already been prepared for about 35 percent of the sites, covering
the first year planting program. The Bank reviewed and approved a random sample of the technical plans
during appraisal. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that the provincial PMOs would complete the
review of all technical design plans for afforestation sites in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the
Bank by June 30, 1999.
PMC has prepared detailed afforestation models for each species, which cover technical silvicultural
prescriptions, growth targets, establishment costs, and financial and economic rates of return. These models
draw on the implementation experience of the NAP and FRDPP projects, and incorporate several changes
to traditional silvicultural management in China that are expected to improve yields and reduce costs. The
Bank reviewed and approved all the afforestation models during preparation and an assurance was obtained
at negotiations that all afforestation sites would be established in accordance with models acceptable to the
Bank. The Bank also reviewed technical standards for forest trails and guard/storage sheds to be
constructed under the project and an assurance was obtained at negotiations that all these facilities would
be established in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank
The project design emphasizes the use of improved genetic materials and improved nursery management
practices. The total project requirement of 800 million seedlings would be grown by existing nurseries
operated by the government, collective forest farms, or specialized households under contract with state
forest fanns or county project management offices. All seedlings would conform to detailed growth
standards for each species, including collar diameter, seedling height, and root system configuration. All
nurseries would follow improved practices with respect to bedding, sowing, fertilizing, pruning,
transplanting, lifting, sampling, culling, and grading techniques. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that (a) all project seedlings would conform to standards acceptable to the Bank; (b) all project nurseries
would operate in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank; and (c) PMC would furnish to the
Bank for review by December 31 of each year an evaluation report for the current year and an annual work
plan for the next calendar yearfor the planting stock development and nursery management program.
4. Institutional:
Project management arrangements are reviewed in Section C.4. PMC and the provincial forestry
departments have demonstrated excellent institutional capacity in the management of four previous Bank
forestry projects over the past decade, reflecting effective governance mechanisms, extremely competent
and committed staff, and well developed rules and procedures for management and supervision of project
activities (PMC has been regularly cited in Country Implementation Reviews as one of the most effective
implementing agencies in China and has been asked to train government staff in other ministries on the
management of Bank projects). However, grassroots forestry staff at the county and township levels,
particularly in poor, remote areas, are less educated and less familiar with Bank operating procedures, and,
consequently will need significant training to support the implementation of afforestation activities. The
project includes a comprehensive training and extension program for project staff and farmers, including
preparation of new extension materials, local and overseas training courses, study tours, demonstration
plantations, technical assistance, and equipment for grassroots extension stations. An assurance was
obtained at negotiations that all training and study tours would be carried out in accordance with an
annual program acceptable to the Bank
5. Social:
Since poverty reduction is a key project objective, the design of the project has paid particular attention to
the following social issues.



Page 15
* First, project activities have been targeted to poor townships in poor counties, using national and
provincial poverty data. While the participation of higher income households in an administrative village is
necessary for demonstration purposes and fairness considerations, the project design has ensured that the
large majority of project benefits accrue directly to households below the poverty line.
* Second, the selection of project sites, activities, and beneficiaries have been based on detailed social
assessment and community participation, as described in Section E.7.
* Third, the project design has incorporated a wide range of forestry investments to ensure that (a) poor
households receive a diversified income stream over the short, medium, and long term, and (b) production
risk is spread across a number of different activities. The integration of these different activities will take
place not merely at the county and township levels (i.e. one township invests in timber while another invests
in bamboo) but at the lowest level possible (i.e. each administrative village invests in different activities), so
that the benefits of shorter-term income generation are widely shared among all the project areas and
beneficiaries, and production/marketing risks are minimized.
* Fourth, the project design has ensured that the selection of activities and sites would not result in any
inadvertent deterioration in household income or living standards, particularly in the short-term. To this
end, close attention has been paid to the current land-use patterns on wasteland proposed for afforestation
and no sites have been selected that are presently used for minimum food consumption requirements,
livestock grazing, or other essential economic activities of poor households.
* Fifth, the project includes a comprehensive sample survey of project beneficiaries (conducted at the start,
mid-term, and close of the project) to ensure systematic monitoring of the socio-economic impact of project
activities on poor households.
6. Environmental assessment:    Environmental Category   [ ] A  [X] B  []C
The project would generate significant environmental benefits, including increased forest cover,
preservation of biodiversity, and reduced soil erosion, flooding and river sedimentation. However, the
project could support some activities with potentially adverse social and environmental impacts: earthworks
such as site preparation, forest trails, small blocks of monoculture, and limited pesticide use in the
afforestation components; and some limited effluent disposal in the TVE development component.
For the afforestation components, the Government carried out a comprehensive assessment of
environmental impacts, mitigation measures, management issues, and monitoring requirements during
project preparation. Based on this assessment, the Government prepared a detailed environmental
management plan (EMP) to strengthen safeguards against problems from insect and disease outbreaks, soil
erosion and fertility loss, fire, and ecological degradation. The EMP draws heavily on the EMP prepared in
1994 during the preparation of FRDPP, the implementation experience of environmental management in
NAP and FRDPP, and the results of the research report on environmental monitoring issues completed
under FRDPP in May 1997. Since the proposed project would focus more on fragile ecological sites and on
horticultural production than NAP and FRDPP, the EMP has been expanded to address environmental
management issues related to higher elevations, shallower soils, steeper slopes, and fruit and nut production.
The Bank reviewed and approved the EMP and related implementation arrangements during appraisal. An
assurance was obtained at negotiations that all project activities would be carried out in accordance with
an EMP acceptable to the Bank.
For the TVE developiment component, individual EAs would be prepared for all sub-projects, carried out in
accordance with OD 4.00. These EAs would identify environmental impacts, mitigation measures,



Page 16
environmental management issues, and environmental monitoring requirements for each sub-project. They
would pay particular attention to effluent disposal and existing land-use issues in order to check if the
development of new enterprises involves any land acquisition. All EAs would be reviewed and approved
by the Environmental Protection Bureau at the relevant level, in line with existing Chinese regulations. In
the unlikely event that any involuntary resettlement is involved, the sub-project would support the
preparation and implementation of a resettlement plan acceptable to the Bank, based on procedures and
principles acceptable to the Bank.
7. Participatory approach:
While previous World Bank forestry projects in China were designed in a fairly "top-down" manner, the
proposed project has involved extensive social assessment and community participation in order to ensure
effective targeting of poor households, the appropriate design of project activities, and strong incentives for
farmers performnance. The project has followed a "community forestry assessment" (CFA) technique
piloted in China by the Chinese Academy of Forestry and the forestry departments of Yunnan and Sichuan,
with technical support from the Ford Foundation, Regional Community Forestry Training Center in
Bangkok, and the Community Forestry Department of FAO. The project CFA work included the following
steps: collection and evaluation of baseline socio-economic data for the selection of project areas;
interviews with local leaders and farm households to assess household preferences for species, identify
potential beneficiaries, and develop a menu of project activities; interviews with grassroots research and
extension staff and experienced farmers to finalize the afforestation models and technical design of planting
sites; and group meetings to reach agreement on organization and production arrangements, including the
structure of the afforestation entity,- nature of land tenure arrangements, allocation of roles and
responsibilities, distribution of benefits, and content of project contracts. The project design provides for
the continued participation of communities in monitoring and evaluation during the project implementation
period, through the rural household survey program reviewed in Section C.4.
Stakeholder Groups             Preparation     Implementation       Operation
Primary beneficiaries/community groups    CON         CON                  CON
Intermediary NGOs                     COL             IS                   IS
Academic institutions                 COL             COL                  COL
Local government                      COL              COL                 COL
Other donors                          IS              IS                   IS
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Institutional sustainability is addressed through a comprehensive program of technical assistance, training,
and study tours to strengthen existing capacity and ensure development of long-term management skills in
PMOs, extension institutions, and beneficiaries. Financial sustainability is addressed through an appropriate
cost recovery program based on project taxes and charges. Project beneficiaries will be responsible for full
repayment of the loan and credit, from income generated by non-project on-farm activities in the early years
of the project and then through the sale of project production in the later years. The level of budgetary
support required after the implementation phase is extremely small and would account for less than one
percent of the annual budgetary allocations of provincial forestry departments. Environmental sustainability
is addressed through the introduction of detailed environmental protection and monitoring guidelines for the
afforestation components, which are designed to strengthen safeguards against problems from insect and
disease outbreaks, soil erosion and fertility loss, fire, and ecological degradation.



Page 17
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                 Risk              Risk Minimization Measure
Rating
Output prices for project production   M  Project will support a high degree of diversification of
would not be maintained in real terms     species and end-products in order to minimize losses
during the life of the project            from price fluctuations
Institutional capacity would not be  N    Project will provide training to strengthen PMC and
sufficient to manage project activities   PMO management capacity
Farmers would not have sufficient  M      Project will provide labor payments for afforestation,
incentives for sustainable management     which can be used for income generating activities to
of forestry crops                         meet immediate income requirements
Farmers would not have adequate   M       Project will provide for marketing studies and
access to marketing information and       development of marketing infrastructure prior to
facilities                                harvesting of project production
Insufficient rainfall in planting season  N  Project will emphasize use of containerized planting
stock in areas prone to erratic rainfall
Key inputs would not be available and N   Project will provide extensive training program for
used correctly (improved seedlings,       farmers on silvicultural techniques
fertilizers, pesticides, equipment)
Pest, pathogen, or fire outbreaks  N      Project will include detailed guidelines related to forest
health in EMP, a comprehensive forest health
monitoring program, and provision of pesticides as
necessary
Counterpart funding not provided on   M   Failure to provide timely funds would result in the
time                                      exclusion of the county, prefecture, or provincial
government from continued involvement in the roect
Overall Risk Rating N
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
Execution of Implementation Arrangements acceptable to the Bank between every project province and the
Ministry of Finance.
2. Other:
(a) All afforestation sites would be established in accordance with afforestation models acceptable to the
Bank; all afforestation activities (including land tenure arrangements, production arrangements, and project
implementation and cooperation arrangements involving afforestation entities) would be carried out in



Page 18
accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank; and provincial PMOs would complete the review of all
technical design plans for afforestation sites in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank by June
30, 1999.
(b) All project seedlings would conform to standards set out in the Planting Material Development Plan
prepared by SFA dated March 1998; all project nurseries would operate in accordance with the Nursery
Management Guidelines prepared by SFA dated March 1998; and PMC would furnish to the Bank for
review by December 31 of each year an evaluation report for the current year and an annual work plan for
the next calendar year for the planting stock development and nursery management program.
(c) All PMOs at the national, provincial, and county levels would be established and maintained in forestry
agencies, with staffing, functions, and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank; and an annual work and
financing plan for the project for the next calendar year would be furnished to the Bank for review by
December 31 of each year.
(d) All forest trails and guard/storage sheds would be established in accordance with technical design
criteria acceptable to the Bank.
(e) All training and study tours would be carried out in accordance with the Training and Extension Plan
prepared by SFA dated March 1998.
(f) All project activities would be carried out in accordance with the Environmental Management Plan
prepared by SFA dated March 1998.
(g) Each county PMO would prepare a study on the specific marketing arrangements for project production
based on terms of reference acceptable to the Bank by December 31, 2002, and PMC would prepare and
furnish to the Bank for its review a summary report of these marketing studies by March 31, 2003.
(h) Sub-loans under the TVE Development Component would be made in accordance with the following
guidelines:
(i) sub-borrowers shall: be a legal entity classified as a township enterprise under the 1996
Township Enterprise Law; be permitted to borrow funds under its own charter, with independent
management, separate financial statements and accounts subject to auditing by an independent
auditor; contribute at least 25% of the total estimated cost of the sub-project in the form of equity;
and be creditworthy, with a sound financial structure and financial performance;
(ii) sub-projects shall: be located within project counties; hire at least one-half of the non-
managerial, full-time work force from households below the national poverty line; generate a
financial rate of return of at least 12 percent; be technically feasible on the basis of a feasibility
study conducted in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank; be environmentally
sustainable on the basis of an environmental assessment conducted in accordance with guidelines
acceptable to the Bank; be labor intensive, with an average total investment cost per worker of
$3,000 or less and a total estimated cost not more than $400,000; and, in the unlikely event that any
involuntary resettlement is involved, support the preparation and implementation of a resettlement
plan acceptable to the Bank, based on procedures and principles acceptable to the Bank.
(iii) sub-loan arrangements shall be as follows: a sub-loan shall not exceed 50% of the total
estimated cost of a sub-project; and the first sub-loan proposed to be made in each project province
shall be subject to Bank approval, in an application form acceptable to the Bank.
(i) Sub-loans for marketing infrastructure under the Technical Support Services Component would be made



Page 19
in accordance with the following guidelines. Sub-projects would be located within project counties and
would market project horticultural production; be financially viable and technically feasible, on the basis of
a feasibility study conducted in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association; have a total
estimated cost of nol: more than $100,000 per investment; have been identified as priority investments in the
county level marketing studies to be prepared under the project; and, in the unlikely event that any
involuntary resettlernent is involved, support the preparation and implementation of a resettlement plan
acceptable to the Bank, based on procedures and principles acceptable to the Bank. A sub-loan would not
exceed 50% of the total estimated cost of a sub-project; and the sub-borrowers would be creditworthy and
contribute at least 25% of the total estimated cost of the sub-project in the form of equity. Bank approval of
the summary report on project marketing arrangements (see "g" above) would be a condition of
disbursement for these sub-loans.
(j) Bank funds would be on-lent as follows:
(i) MOF would on-lend to each of the project provinces the Interim Fund Credit with a maturity
period of 17 years, including a grace period of five years (with the option of two additional years of
grace upon payment of an additional interest charge), and the IBRD Loan with a maturity period of
16 years, including a grace period of seven years, with all other tenns and conditions as received
from the Bank; and
(ii) the project provinces would ensure implementation of the following on-lending terms and
conditions for the final project beneficiaries: For afforestation activities: same terms and
conditions as received by the provinces, with an additional exchange rate risk fee of two percent per
annum for any loan or credit funds onlent in the Borrower's currency, and an additional interest rate
risk fee of one percent per annum for any loan funds onlent at a fixed interest rate; interest would be
capitalized during the grace period. For enterprise and marketing sub-loans: same terms and
conditions as provided by the Agricultural Development Bank of China in project areas for similar
activities.
(k) Consolidated accounts would be maintained for all components for annual auditing by independent
auditors acceptable to Bank, and the consolidated project accounts together with the auditor's report would
be submitted to the Bank within six months of the close of each financial year.
(1) Adequate policies and procedures would be maintained to monitor and evaluate project implementation
and achievement of objectives on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank;
progress reports would be furnished to the Bank for review by September 1 and March 1 of each year,
beginning with September 1, 1998; a mid-term report on the progress of and prospects for implementation
would be furnished to the Bank by June 30, 2001, and a mid-term review would be conducted by August 31,
2001; a survey of plantation growth would be completed by September 30, 2005 and a report summarizing
the results of the survey would be furnished to the Bank for review by December 31, 2005; and a rural
household survey program would be conducted in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, with
summary reports furnished to the Bank for review of the baseline results by June 30, 1999, mid-term results
by June 30, 2001, and project closing results by December 31, 2005.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[X] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. [ ] Not applicable.
[ ] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementation.



Page 20
[X] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[X] The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G): project
implementation arrangements; technical design plans for afforestation sites established after the first year;
and feasibility studies for TVE and marketing sub-projects.
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
X]         This project complies with all applicable Bank policies, including OD 4.36 regarding Bank
Group involvement in the forestry sector. The project objectives fit into the overall sectoral objectives
spelled out in the OD to reduce deforestation, enhance the environmental contribution of forests, promote
afforestation, and encourage economic development. The policy framework in China satisfies the required
conditions for government commitment for sustainable management and conservation-oriented forestry set
out in the OD. As noted in Section C.2, the areas of weakness in the regulatory framework, such as
restrictions on pricing and international trade, are being addressed under on-going NLS work by the Bank
and other donors.
[ ]   [The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval: The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.]
Task Team Leader: Richard Scobey, EASRD
Sector Manager:   Geoffrey Fox, EASRD



Page 21
Annex 1
Forestry Development in Poor Areas Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary         Key Performance Indicators'   Monitoring and   Critical Assumptions and Risks
Supervision
CAS Objective:
Reduction of poverty in rural  Incidence of poverty decreased   PAO data    Stable political transition and
areas                         from 40% in 1996 in project                   maintenance of overall reform
counties to 35% at mid-term,                 program
20% at closing, and 5% at full
impact                                       No large external shocks that
would affect terms of trade,
Reforestation of denuded upland   Rate of forest coverage   SFA data        current account balance, or
areas                         increased in project counties                 foreign exchange rates
from 45% in 1996 to 47% at
closing and 50% at full impact               Government maintains
commitment and budgetary
allocations to poverty reduction
Project Development
Objectives:
Develop forest resources in poor   Per capita income of project  PMC data,  No change in existing policy
areas of central and western  beneficiaries increased by 30%    based on    framework for sustainable
China on a sustainable and    at mid-term, 60% at closing, and  household   forestry use, particularly with
participatory basis to support  100% at full impact         surveys         harvesting and land tenure
poverty reduction, forestry
development, and improved     Project generates 3 million m3    PMC data,   Demand for wood products
environmental management      of standing timber by closing  based on semi-  continues to grow at least 8% per
and 54 million m3 by full    annual PMO      year
impact; and RMB 857 mnillion    progress reports
of horticultural production by               Existing supply and distribution
closing and RMB 2.3 billion by               system is sufficient to absorb
full impact; and RMB 26                      additional production
million in gross TVE output
value by mid-term and RMB 88
rmillion by closing.
Project Outputs
1. Timber and economic tree crop  270,000 ha established by mnid-   PMC data,  Output prices for project
plantations established       term and 540,000 ha established  based on semi-  production will be maintained in
by closing, with 85% classified   annual PMO  real terms during the life of the
as Grade I.                  progress reports  project
2. Provision of technical support  0.4 billion Class I seedlings  PMC data,  Institutional capacity is sufficient
services is improved          produced and 1.5 million farmer  based on semi-  to manage project activities
training times by mid-term, and   annual PMO
0.8 billion Class I seedlings  progress reports  Farmers will have sufficient
produced and 3 million farmer                incentives for sustainable
Baseline and targeted values should be shown, with the latter divided into values expected at mid-term, end of project and full impact.



Page 22
training times by closing                   management of long-tenn forest
crops
1,500 sheds constructed by mid-  PMC data,
term, and 3,000 sheds        based on semi-  Farmners have adequate access to
constructed and RMB 40       annual PMO     marketing information and
million invested in marketing by  progress reports  infrastructure
closing
3. Forestry TVEs are established                           PMC data
60 TVEs and 8,000 jobs created
by closing, with > 70% of
workforce below poverty line
Project Components
1. Forestry Establishment    Implementation in line with  PMC data,       Adequate rainfall in planting
A. Preparation of detailed    targets specified in annual work  based on semi-  season
silvicultural models         plan and financing plan      annual PMO
B. Selection of project                                    progress reports  Key inputs are available and used
beneficiaries and sites                                                   correctly (improved seedlings,
C. Preparation of detailed design                                         fertilizers, pesticides, construction
maps for sites                                                            materials, equipment)
D. Establishment of plantations,
including site preparation,                                               No pest, pathogen, or fire
planting, and tending                                                     outbreaks
2. Technical Support Services                                             Counterpart funding is provided
A. Preparation and execution of  Implementation in line with  PMC data,   on time
improved planting material   targets specified in annual work  based on semi-
development program           plan and financing plan      annual PMO
B. Establishment and improved                              progress reports
management of existing nurseries
C. Preparation and execution of
training classes, study tours, and
demonstration plantations
D. Institutional strengthening of
grassroots extension units
E. Construction of forest trails,
irrigation facilities, and storage
sheds
F. Completion of marketing
studies and identification of
marketing infrastructure sub-
projects
G. Provision of marketing sub-
loans to selected sub-projects, and
execution of sub-projects
H. Implementation of monitoring
and evaluation plan, including
surveys of plantations and
households
3. TVE Development            Implementation in line with  PMC data,



Page 23
A. Preparation of detailed    targets specified in annual work  based on semi-
feasibility studies and EAs   plan and financing plan      annual PMO
B. Provision of sub-loans to                               progress reports
eligible sub-projects
C. Execution of civil works and
procurement of equipment and
materials for establishment and
restructuring of TVEs
4. Project Management         Implementation in line with  PMC data,
A. Establishment of leading   targets specified in annual work  based on semi-
groups and project management   plan and financing plan    annual PMO
offices at national, provincial, and                       progress reports
county levels
B. Establishment of Seedling
Production Coordination Groups,
Research and Extension Support
Panels, and Environmental
Protection Groups at national and
provincial levels
C. Execution of on-lending
agreements, project
implementation agreements, and
afforestation entity contracts
D. Preparation of annual work
and financing plans
E. Manage project MIS,
procurement, financial
management, accounting,
auditing
F. Supervision of project
activities



Page 24
Annex 2
Forestry Development in Poor Areas Project
Project Description
A. Timber Plantation Component - US$121.8 million
This component would finance the establishment of about 315,000 hectares of plantations, primarily for
construction timber and secondarily for pulpwood and pit props, on mountainous wasteland in twelve
provinces, as the third phase of the improved silvicultural management program initiated under NAP.
Conifer species would account for about 75 percent of the total planting area (primarily Chinese fir, masson
pine, slash and loblolly pine, and larch), and broadleaf species would account for about 25 percent (primarily
poplar and eucalyptus).  Details about the silvicultural management, end-products, and marketing
arrangements for each species are given in the project files. The main afforestation entities would be
individual households, groups of households, shareholding cooperative forest farms, and village/township
collective forest farmns, accounting for 19%, 36%, 33%, and 12% of the total planting area, respectively.
Targeting criteria for the selection of beneficiaries and organizational arrangements for the production groups
are given in Section C.4.
Species, planting sites, and provinces have been selected on the basis. of guidelines agreed with the Bank
during project preparation, as follows. The species were selected on the basis of farmer preferences, growth
potential, climatic and ecological suitability to specific site conditions, technical experience and acceptance
in China, environmental objectives, and product marketability. The sites were selected on the basis of soil
fertility, rainfall, temperature, erosion hazard, access to end-use markets, and the poverty status of the local
population. The provinces were selected on the basis of poverty incidence, land availability, institutional
capacity, financing capacity, and local supply and demand conditions. All project sites have been identified
and detailed technical design plans have already been prepared for 35 percent of the plantations.
All plantations would be established in accordance with detailed afforestation models for each species agreed
with the Bank, which cover technical silvicultural prescriptions, growth targets, establishment costs, and
financial and economic rates of return. These models draw on the implementation experience of NAP and
FRDPP, and incorporate several changes to traditional silvicultural management in China that are expected to
improve yields and reduce costs. These include lower planting densities in order to promote shorter
production cycles, faster income generation, and agricultural intercropping; revised fertilizer application rates
that reflect the specific nutrient requirements of the poorer sites; less intensive site preparation, smaller
planting holes, and reduction in tending times, in order to decrease labor requirements and minimize
environmental damage on steep sites; and greater reliance on clonal planting stock and other improved
planting materials in order to promote faster tree growth.
The component would finance the following costs of plantation establishment: (a) all labor requirements for
site preparation and planting in the first year and tending in the first to third years; (b) materials and
equipment, including seedlings, fertilizer, and pesticides; and (c) indirect costs related to survey and design,
project and environmental management, and MIS. Plantation establishment costs in China are among the
lowest in the world as a result of the reliance on labor-intensive technologies and low wage rates. They
average around 3,500 yuan per ha, ranging from 2,600 yuan for black locust to 4,100 yuan for Chinese fir.
Plantation establishment would be phased over four years, with 20 percent completed in the first year, 30
percent in each of the second and third years, and 20 percent in the fourth year.



Page 25
B. Economic Forest (Crops Component - US$135.2 million
This component would establish about 230,000 ha of economic forest crops, including 110,000 ha of new
and rehabilitated bamboo (moso, bush, and wicker bamboo), for a total cost of $48.2 million, and 120,000 ha
of fruit, nut, and medicinal trees (including chestnut, walnut, ginkgo, eucommia, apricot, jujube, apple, pear,
and tung oil), for a total cost of $87.0 million, on mountainous wasteland in twelve provinces. These
activities would be designed to meet the shorter-term income and consumption requirements of poor
households prior to the thinning and harvesting of the timber plantation investments. The main afforestation
entities would be individual households, groups of households, and shareholding cooperative forest farms,
accounting for 64%, 26%, 10% of the total planting area, respectively.
Varieties and planting sites have been selected on the basis of guidelines agreed with the Bank during
project preparation, as follows. The varieties were selected on the basis of farmer preference, market
demand, climatic and ecological suitability to specific site conditions, and technical experience and
acceptance in China. The sites were selected on the basis of soil fertility, rainfall, temperature, erosion
hazard, access to end-use markets, and the poverty status of the local population. All planting sites have been
identified and detailed technical design plans have already been prepared for 35 percent of the tree crop
areas. All tree crops would be established in accordance with detailed horticultural models for each variety
agreed with the Bank, which cover technical silvicultural prescriptions, growth targets, establishment costs,
and financial and economic rates of return. These models draw on best practices from national and
provincial research institutes and the implementation experience of on-going World Bank horticulture
projects in China.
The design of the component includes significant diversification of varieties at the county and township
levels in order to minimize economic and biological risks, particularly in view of the over-supply problems
experienced by earlier Bank horticultural projects in China that developed large-scale plantings of only one
or two varieties. Two steps have been taken to strengthen market analysis in the design and implementation
of the project. First, provincial design institutes completed detailed market studies at the provincial level
during project preparation for every horticultural crop proposed for a large establishment area in the project
(generally in excess of 1,500 ha at the provincial level), which addressed: the level of past, current and
expected future production; the structure of past, current and expected future demand; current price trends
and expected price movements in the future; and the structure of the wholesale and retail marketing system.
Second, each county PMO would prepare a report by December 31, 2002 on the specific marketing
arrangements for project production, prior to the actual harvesting and marketing of project output. This
report would cover: where would project production be sold (on the tree, roadside, township market, etc.);
what handling, storage, and transportation facilities would be required; how adequate is the current marketing
infrastructure; what additional investment is needed under the project? The recommendations of these
reports would form the basis for the selection of marketing infrastructure investments to be financed under
the Rural Infrastructure Sub-Component of the Technical Support Services Component, reviewed below.
The project would finance the following costs: (a) all labor requirements for site preparation and planting in
the first year (and tending in the first to third years); (b) materials and equipment, including seeds and
seedlings (and related containers and potting media), organic and chemical fertilizer, pesticides, and simple
agricultural tools; (c) indirect costs related to survey and design at the start of the project, and project and
environmental management, and MIS during implementation. Establishment costs range from about 3,500
yuan per ha for hazelnuts, bamboo rehabilitation, and tung oil tree rehabilitation, to 6,000 yuan per ha for
new bamboo, jujube, and apricot, to as high as 9,000 yuan per ha for gingko, tea, and anise. Tree crop
establishment would be phased over four years, with 20 percent completed in the first year, 30 percent in
each of the second and third years, and 20 percent in the fourth year.



Page 26
C. Technical Support Services Component - US$81.5 million
This component would strengthen technical support programs for project afforestation activities in four
areas: planting stock development, training and extension, rural infrastructure, and monitoring and
evaluation.
1. Planting Stock Development Program - US$43.1 million
This sub-component would raise the quality of planting materials through introduction of improved genetic
materials and nursery management technologies, and support the production of the 800 million seedlings
required under the project. All imported seeds would be procured through the General Administration of
State Forest Farms, Tree Seeds, and Seedlings in SFA, and all project seeds would be subject to extremely
rigorous provenance criteria. Seeds for Chinese fir, masson pine, larch, poplar, and some of the broadleaf
species would be locally harvested from clonal seed orchards, seed stands, or areas of selected provenance.
Seeds for slash pine, loblolly pine, and several eucalypts would be imported. The total project seedling
requirement would be grown by existing nurseries operated by state forest farms, collective forest farms, or
specialized households under contract with forest farms or county project management offices. Every
participating county would have one central nursery and several smaller nurseries located near planting sites,
in order to minimize transport distance and handling of seedlings prior to planting. No large, mechanized
nurseries would be used under the project, as their cost and quality performance have generally been poor in
other afforestation schemes in China. While most nurseries have adequate infrastructure and working
capital, many require new equipment and vehicles. Three types of seedlings would be produced: bare-root,
containerized (including both seed and clonal materials), and clonal (including grafting), accounting for 67
percent, 12 percent, and 21 percent, respectively, of all plantings. All seedlings would conform to detailed
growth standards for each species, including collar diameter, seedling height, and root system configuration.
To simplify disbursement and accounting procedures, the project would not directly finance the incremental
operating costs of the nurseries but would instead finance the "nursery-gate" production cost of the final
seedlings ($42.2 million), which would be added into the schedule of unit costs for afforestation (Category 2
of the disbursement schedule). In addition to this cost, the sub-component would finance the purchase of
seeds, equipment, and materials ($0.9 million)
2. Training and Extension Program - US$8.0 million
This sub-component would disseminate key research findings and technical silvicultural guidelines to project
staff (at the national, provincial, county, and township levels) and to project beneficiaries. The project would
primarily use the existing forestry and agriculture extension networks at the county and township levels,
under the supervision and coordination of the Extension Advisory Panels that were established under NAP
and FRDPP, and would follow many of the extension messages and techniques developed under NAP and
FRDPP. There are three important changes, however. First, a larger share of project funds would be
allocated to training and extension (T&E), since most of the project households are poorly educated and
unfamiliar with improved silvicultural practices, horticulture requires more T&E than timber production, and
the township extension stations in project areas are relatively poorly equipped. Second, local training
courses would be organized around "functional topics" targeted to farmers needs (i.e. site preparation,
pruning, pest control) and not around the key research results of the NAP/FRDPP research program. Third,
since the extension system is not well developed in many of the remote project areas, the project would also
develop "non-state" extension channels, such as farmers growers associations and local technical experts at
the village level.
The sub-component would support: (a) preparation of new training and extension materials for different
audiences (i.e. detailed Technical Manuals for provincial and county staff, more practical Technical Fact
Sheets for township staff, and very simple Farmer Extension Notes for direct use by farmers), for a total cost



Page 27
of $0.3 million; (b) procurement of motorcycles and other basic equipment for grassroots extension offices,
for a total of $0.8 million; (c) development and implementation of domestic training programs for project
staff and farmers, for a total of $5.4 million; (d) overseas training and study tours for project staff to review
the implementation of similar forestry poverty reduction efforts in other countries, for a total of $0.9 million;
(e) establishment of demonstration plantations, for a total of $0.5 million; and (f) international consultancy
services in a variety of technical areas, for $0.1 million.
A detailed training and extension plan was agreed during project preparation that covers key topics,
messages, providers, target audiences, and timing of the different activities, which is available in the project
files. The main domestic training courses would include: (a) 3,400 person times for provincial staff,
primarily in the areas of project management, supervision and monitoring, social assessment and community
participation, and finEmcial management; (b) 26,000 person times for county staff, primarily in_project
management, silvicultural management, environmental management, improved nursery management,
planting material development, training and extension techniques, and community participation; (c) 60,000
person times for township staff, primarily in silvicultural management, and training and extension; and (d) 3
million person times for project farmers in silvicultural management, particularly site preparation, seedling
handling, tending, fertilizer usage, forest health monitoring and control, pruning, thinning, harvesting,
marketing, and post-harvest handling.
3. Rural Infrastructure Program - $29.5 million
This sub-component would support the infrastructure requirements for afforestation, including (a) the
construction of forest trails ($8.6 million), limited irrigation facilities for some economic tree crops ($2.7
million), and small guard/storage sheds ($12.7 million) by local communities, and (b) the provision of small
sub-loans for post-harvest treatment and marketing of horticultural crops ($5.5 million) to local marketing
groups.
The following technical design criteria were agreed for the first three construction activities: trails would be
dirt paths no wider than one meter, generally constructed along the contour; irrigation facilities would
include construction of small ponds and storage tanks, with low-lift pumping and gravity-fed piped water
systems; sheds would be no larger than 60 square meters, constructed of brick and concrete in line with local
standards for similar construction. To simplify disbursement and accounting procedures, disbursements for
these three activities would be based on an agreed schedule of unit costs; the schedule for the first year of the
project was agreed during appraisal, and thereafter it would be revised yearly on the basis of actual cost
experience recorded in audited statements of expenditure and monitored by supervision missions.
The marketing sub-component would provide sub-loans on commercial terms to finance the procurement of
small-scale equipment and facilities for the grading, packing, cold storage, and transportation of project
horticultural production. It is designed to strengthen the marketing infrastructure at the village and township
levels, where the markceting links are the weakest, and promote the development of a competitive, multi-
channel marketing system that allows local commnunities to capture the economic benefits of faster and
higher quality delivery of production to county and provincial markets. The sub-component would be
implemented in the last two years of the project, when the economic tree plantations begin fruiting and
county PMOs have completed an analysis of project marketing requirements.
The following implementation arrangements were agreed to ensure effective selection of sub-projects and
sound financial management of sub-loans. Sub-projects would: (a) be financially viable, and commercially
and technically feasible, on the basis of a feasibility study conducted in accordance with guidelines
acceptable to the Bank; (b) be identified as priority investments for strengthening grassroots marketing
infrastructure in the marketing studies to be prepared by the county PMOs, under the project; (c) have a total
investment cost of less than $100,000; (d) include an equity contribution from the sub-borrower equivalent to
at least 25% of the total estimated cost of the sub-project; (e) in the unlikely event that any involuntary



Page 28
resettlement is involved, support the preparation and implementation of a resettlement plan acceptable to the
Bank, based on procedures and principles acceptable to the Bank; and (f) be appraised by the county PMO
and approved by the provincial PMO, under the supervision of PMC. Sub-loans would: (a) finance no more
than 50 percent of the total investment cost of each investment; (b) be made on terms and conditions similar
to Agricultural Development Bank loans in project areas for similar investments; and (c) be administered by
the country finance bureau, under the supervision of the provincial finance department.
PMC would prepare and furnish to the Bank by March 31, 2003, a report summarizing marketing issues and
arrangements for project horticultural production, including a list of proposed sub-borrowers and sub-
projects, based on the individual marketing reports to be prepared by the county PMOs. Bank acceptance of
this summary report would be a condition of disbursement for the marketing sub-loans.
4. Monitoring and Evaluation Program - $0.8 million
This sub-component would support the implementation of a comprehensive monitoring and evaluation
framework designed to: (a) ensure effective participation of local communities in the design and
implementation of project activities, and (b) monitor project performance and achievement of project
objectives. It includes: (a) the collection of baseline socio-economic data on project beneficiaries and areas
under the community forestry assessment program reviewed in Section E.7 ($600,000); (b) implementation
of a sample survey of project households at the project mid-term and closing, in order to collect the socio-
economic data necessary to evaluate the achievement of the poverty reduction objective of the project, and
identify problems and lessons learned to improve implementation ($100,000); (c) implementation of a survey
of plantation growth at the end of the project to collect the technical data necessary to evaluate the
achievement of the production objective of the project ($75,000); and (d) preparation of the annual key
performance indicators table to facilitate effective monitoring and evaluation during implementation
($25,000). All of these activities would be funded by counterpart funding, except $25,000 of Bank funding
would be used for technical assistance in the design and management of the household survey program.
D. TVE Development Component - US$25.5 million
This component would provide sub-loans to support the development and expansion of small-scale, labor-
intensive, commercially-oriented township and village enterprises (TVEs) in the forestry sector. Typical
investments would include pine resin extraction, bamboo processing, wicker works, edible forest product
processing, particleboard manufacturing, parquet and veneer production, and marketing and post-harvest
facilities (such as grading, packing, cold storage, and transportation). This component is designed to
generate employment for unskilled surplus labor, allow local communities to capture the economic benefits
of added-value to local production, and deepen local markets for production in project areas. Sub-loans
would finance a portion of civil works construction; domestic and foreign procurement of machinery,
equipment, and consultant services; and the incremental working capital required for commencement or
expansion of operations financed by the sub-loan. Sub-projects would be appraised by the provincial PMO,
and reviewed and approved by the PMC, based on procedures summarized below. Sub-loans would be
administered by the country finance bureau, under the supervision of the provincial finance department,
based on termns and conditions summarized below. Since the amount of sub-loans in any one province would
be small (about 6 sub-loans amounting to about $1.5 million over four years), it would not be efficient or
cost-effective to use a rural credit financial intermediary for on-lending.
In order to ensure that the selection and design of enterprises remains consistent with the overall project
objective of poverty reduction, the following eligibility criteria have been agreed: (a) investments would be
labor intensive and not capital-intensive, with an average total investment cost per worker of $3,000 or less
and a total investment cost of $400,000 or less per enterprise; (b) investments would have strong backward
linkages to poor households: they would be located within project counties and close to project production
areas, would process forest products produced under the project, and would hire at least one-half of the non-



Page 29
managerial, full-time work force from households below the national poverty line; (c) investments would be
financially profitable, with a financial rate of return of at least 12 percent; (d) investments would comply
with national environmental, health, and safety regulations and the provisions of the new Township
Enterprise Law; (e) and, in the unlikely event that any involuntary resettlement is involved, support the
preparation and implementation of a resettlement plan acceptable to the Bank, based on procedures and
principles acceptable to the Bank; (f) investments would be based on sustainable use of forest resources; and
(g) all enterprises would be TVEs with a demonstrated commitment to enterprise reform: they would be legal
entities, be permitted to borrow funds under their charters, be managed on an independent basis, and have
separate financial statements and accounts subject to auditing by an independent auditor and following the
new accounting standards introduced in 1993. No state-owned enterprises at the county level or above and
no government departments at the county level or above would qualify for investment under the project,
although they could participate as minority shareholders in TVE enterprises.
In order to ensure the sound commercial operation of sub-projects, the following financial arrangements have
been agreed: (a) World Bank sub-loans would finance no more than 50 percent of total investment costs for a
sub-project; (b) the enterprise would provide at least 25 percent of total investment costs in the form of
equity; and (c) World Bank sub-loans would be on-lent to the sub-project on terms and conditions similar to
the Agricultural Development Bank loans in project areas.



Page 30
Annex 3
Forestry Development in Poor Areas Project
Estimated Project Costs
Pro3ect Component                                     Local |         Foreign        Total
----------------------US $million------------------
A. Timber Plantation                                  103.4                7.7       111.1
B. Economic Tree Crops                                105.8               14.7       120.4
Fruits and Nuts                                 53.2               7.7         60.9
Bamboo                                          41.1               2.9         43.9
Other                                           11.5               4.1         15.6
C. Technical Support Services                          67.8                7.1        74.9
Planting Stock Development                      39.3               0.6         39.9
Training and Extension                           5.2               2.2          7.4
Rural Infrastructure                            22.6               4.3         26.8
Monitoring and Evaluation                        0.7               0.1          0.8
D. TVE Development          -                           14.6               9.7        24.3
Total Baseline Cost                                   291.5               39.2        330.7
Physical Contingencies                                1.6               2.3          3.9
Price Contingencies                                  26.0               3.4        29.3
Total Project Cost                                    319.1               44.9        364.0
Notes:
Timber and economic tree crop plantation cost estimates are based on quantities derived from the agreed
species models and average unit prices currently prevailing in project areas.
Price contingencies for costs expressed in yuan are based on annual domestic inflation rates of 4.8 percent
for 1998, 5.0 percent for 1999 and 5.5 percent for 2000-2005. Price contingencies for costs expressed in US
dollars are based on annual international inflation rates of 2.5 percent for 1998, 3.1 percent for 1999, 2.9
percent for 2000, 2.8 percent for 2001, 2.7 percent for 2002, and 2.6 percent for 2003-2005.
Physical contingencies are based on an average rate of 10 percent for goods.



Page 31
Annex 4
Forestry Development in Poor Areas Project
Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
Financial   Financial   Economic   Economic    Switching Value
Species          IRR         NPV         IRR          NPV             @ 12%
(%)       (Yuan)        (%)         (Yuan)      Benefits Costs
Timber Production           14.7   363,708,400      20.1    1,290,338,520      18.3  19.1
1 Masson Pine (14)         13.1           630      18.3            4,364      17.2  18.4
2 Masson Pine (16F)        13.4           767      18.6            4,417      17.4  18.6
3 MassonPine(16P)          14.6          1,647     19.1            5,585      18.1  19.1
4 Slash Pine (16)          15.3         2,254      19.5            6,329      18.5  19.5
5 Slash Pine (14)          15.2         1,976      19.9            6,090      18.7  19.6
6 Slash Pine (12)          14.8          1,537     20.2            5,619      18.7  19.8
7 Loblolly Pine (14)       15.5         2,222      20.2            6,423      18.9  19.8
8 Loblolly Pine (12)       14.8         1,748      19.2            5,668      18.2  19.2
9 Chinese Fir              16.0         3,286      20.5            8,295      19.2  20.2
10 Japanese Larch (16)     12.1            42       16.6           3,145      15.4  16.7
11 Chinese White Pop]lar   17.3          3,292     21.6            7,185      19.6  21.5
12 Populus Simonii         16.0           982      21.9            2,756      18.2  20.6
13 Italian Poplar          20.7          2,551     29.3            5,854      22.5  27.1
14 Eucalyptus              24.6          2,527     34.0            4,864      25.0  31.7
15 Black Locust            13.0           302       18.7           2,514      17.0  18.5
16 Broad-leaf Trees        12.1            72       16.2           2,565      15.0  16.2
Economic Tree Crops         24.2  1,736,838,500     27.9    2,402,270,790      22.8  26.0
1 Moso Bamboo - new        13.4           672      18.8            3,665      16.2  18.3
2 Moso Barnboo - relhab.   17.6         2,290      23.6            5,468      19.8  22.4
3 Arundinaria              32.2         10,909     32.5           10,019      24.2  29.3
4 Dendrocalamus            34.2         9,768      40.8           12,687      28.5  35.9
5 Walnut                   21.1         7,551      26.6           14,013      22.8  25.7
6 Chestnut                 24.1         11,711     26.3           14,358      22.2  24.9
7 Eucommia                 15.6         2,182      19.4            5,006      17.1  18.8
8 Gingko                   31.9        20,982      34.5           24,397      24.3  29.2
9 Jujube                   19.1         4,420      24.9            8,768      19.8  23.1
10 Pear                    32.2         20,451     33.4           20,712      25.2  30.0
11 Tea                     21.9          8,003     25.0           11,365      19.2  22.5
12 Anise                   31.3         24,004     33.8           30,942      25.8  30.5
13 Orange                  33.6         32,411     35.7           35,705      28.2  33.1
14 Oil Tea- rehab.         23.9          7,495     28.4           11,382      23.7  26.7
15 Hazelnut - rehab.       26.0          2,586     34.6            4,212      23.7  30.5
16 Apricot                 38.4         33,281     41.2           37,320      31.4  37.8
17 Tung Tree               18.6          1,883     25.0            3,849      19.1  22.7
18 Longan                  33.6         19,362     36.3           21,628      27.0  32.2
TVE Development             28.7   212,129,200      37.9      413,307,760      12.2  13.7
1 Solid Wood Floor Eloard    28.7    5,115,611     44.4       11,488,164      14.4  16.6
2 Ply-Barnboo Formwork     27.7      2,813,968     42.2        6,694,993       9.7  11.1
3 Fine Wood Board          32.2      3,919,054     41.0        7,392,646      13.4  14.8
4 Rosin and Turpentine     19.5      2,090,634     32.2        7,335,396       7.9   8.4
5 Fruit Cold Storage       22.3      1,851,862     27.8        3,734,645      13.7  15.4
6 Wicker-work              32.4      2,425,869     26.4         1,811,950     12.2  13.7
Total Project               19.8  2,214,588,900     24.4    3,990,174,000      19.0  21.2



Page 32
Notes:
Production
The yield levels for species are summarized below and presented in detail in the silvicultural models
contained in the project working papers.
Species that are grown for construction timber (Chinese fir and slash pine) will typically be thinned twice,
around years 10 and 14, prior to final harvest; the wood extracted during thinnings tends to be small in size
and used primarily for building poles and fuelwood. The total production volume at the time of final harvest
varies greatly by species, site quality, and management program. For example, Chinese fir grown for small-
diameter timber in 20-year rotations will produce 164 m3/ha, while slash pine grown for medium-diameter
timber in 22-year rotations will produce 248 m3/ha. About 90 percent of the final harvest constitutes standard
timber, with the balance consisting of bark, branches, and unusable wood that is consumed as fuelwood. The
total timber yield is further disaggregated into large dimension logs (above 20 cm in diameter), medium
dimension logs (around 12-20 cm in diameter), small dimension logs (around 8-12 cm), and cull timber
(below 8 cm in diameter).
Species that are grown for pit props (masson pine, black locust, slash pine, and loblolly pine) will also
typically be thinned twice, around years 10 and 14, prior to final harvest around year 20. Again, production
volumes are low at the thinning and the total production amounts at final harvest will vary widely, ranging
from 64 rn3/ha for black locust to 183.0 m3/ha for loblolly pine.
Species that are grown for pulpwood (masson pine, slash pine, and larch) will generally be thinned once, in
year 10, and harvested around year 18, with production amounts ranging from 106 m3/ha for larch to 142
m3/ha for slash pine. Eucalyptus and poplar, however, are grown in shorter rotations and are therefore not
thinned; the former produces 77 m3/ha in a 7-year rotation and the latter 94 m3/ha in a 10-year rotation.
Production levels for the main economic tree crops vary widely, as follows. Bamboo grown on higher
productive sites primarily for timber will annually produce per ha 4.3 tons in years 7-10, 5.7 tons in years 11-
14, and 8.5 tons in years 15-20. . Bamboo grown on higher productive sites primarily for shoots will
annually produce 1.5 kg in years 3-4, 4.0 kg in years 5-6, and 4.5 kg in years 7-20. Chinese chestnut will
produce an annual average yield per ha of 0.4 tons in years 5-8, 2.0 tons in years 9-15, and 3.0 tons per year
thereafter. Walnut will produce an annual average yield per ha of 0.4 tons in years 4-9, 1.9 tons in years 10-
15, and 3.0 tons per year thereafter. Apple will produce an annual average yield per ha of 2.6 tons in years 4-
5, 13 tons in years 6-7, 22.5 tons in years 8-15, and 30 tons per year thereafter. Orange will produce an
annual average yield per ha of 1.5 tons in years 4-9, 22.5 tons in years 10-15, and 15 tons per year thereafter.
Eucommia will produce 120 kg/ha of bark during the first peeling in year 10, 160 kg/ha during the second
peeling in year 15, and 373 kg/ha during the final peeling in year 20.
Markets
At the national level, consumption of timber products currently exceeds sustainable yields in China, and,
consequently, mature natural forests are being over-harvested at the rate of 500,000 hectares per year. The
large consumption of timber primarily reflects three factors: the huge growth in rural and urban construction
over the past decade, the increased demand for paper products as a result of rising incomes, and the steady
demand for wood products by the mining and railway sectors. The recent Country Economic Memorandum
(China 2020) projects continued strong growth in the economy over the next decade, which will lead to
increased demand for timber, pulpwood, and other forest products. Gross domestic production is expected to
grow per annum by 8.4 percent in 1996-2000, 6.9 percent in 2001-2010, and 5.5 percent in 2011-2020, fueled
by an average annual increase in gross domestic investment of 5-7 percent. Consequently, the market
prospects for project timber are favorable and there is very little risk that aggregate demand conditions would



Page 33
change significantly over the life of the project. However, it is likely that relative price movements among
small and medium diameter timber, pulpwood, and pit props would lead to changes in the mix and
composition of the final timber products produced under the project. All timber products are expected to be
consumed within project provinces.
The market prospects for project tree crop production are also favorable, for the following reasons. First,
domestic demand for bamboo, fruit, nuts, and medicinal products is increasing as a result of increasing per
capita incomes and increasing population. Fruit has one of the highest income elasticities of demand for food
in China (2.0 for urban and 2.5 for rural consumers), followed by poultry, dairy products, and fish (all of
which have elasticities greater than 1.5). Second, continued policy liberalization in the external trade regime
has provided new opportunities and incentives for increased agricultural exports, particularly the. expansion
of enterprises with trading rights and reduction in export controls. Third, since the project is producing a
large range of tree crops across a widely dispersed geographic area, total incremental production of any one
crop is extremely small and accounts for a fraction of total county and provincial production.
Local demand within the project provinces is expected to absorb the majority of horticultural production,
with a small portion exported to other parts of China or the East Asia region. Incremental fruit production
under the project is extremely small, amounting to less than 2 percent of the total current production in the
project provinces, and is expected to follow the general marketing trend for fruit in the area: 95 percent
would be sold domestically for fresh fruit consumption, largely outside of project areas; 4 percent would be
processed for juice and canned fruits; and 1 percent would be exported, mainly to Hong Kong, Macau,
Canada, and Russia. Most nut production would be sold on the domestic market for processing, though a
small share will be exported. Almost all ginkgo nuts would be sold on the domestic market for fresh
consumption and processing. Ginkgo leaves and eucommia bark would be sold on the domestic market for
medicinal compound extractions, which would in turn be sold in both domestic and export markets. The
demand for bamboo remains extremely high, with the poles used as fiber for the growing pulpwood and
plywood industries, as scaffolding in the construction sector, and as raw material for furniture, crafts, and
other consumer goods; and the shoots are consumed fresh in local markets and canned for export to other
parts of China and the world.
Since several earlier Bank horticultural projects have experienced over-supply problems, close attention has
been paid to integrating market analysis into the design and implementation of the project. As reviewed in
Annex 2, provincial design institutes completed detailed market studies at the provincial level for every
horticultural crop proposed for a large establishment area in the project; and each county PMO will prepare a
report on the specific marketing arrangements for project production during implementation, prior to the
actual harvesting and marketing of project output.
Prices
All project output would be sold in the free market, subject to no price controls or marketing controls. The
pricing and marketing of horticultural production was largely deregulated in the early-1980's, during the first
wave of rural reforms. Timber prices have increased dramatically since the mid-1990's, as a result of the
phased elimination of fixed and "guidance" prices and other macroeconomic reformns. Domestic prices for
medium diameter timber, and horticultural production, are generally in line with border price equivalents. As
long as the Government maintains its current macroeconomic reform program, it is extremely unlikely that
supply and demand conditions would lead to any significant change in prices from present levels. All inputs
used in the project, such as fertilizer, seedlings, and agrochemicals, would be sold at free market prices.
The input and output prices used in the project financial and economic analysis are summarized below and
presented in detail in the project working papers. The financial prices of fertilizers, seeds, and vehicles are
based on actual impoit prices from recent FRDPP procurement. The financial price of labor is a weighted
average of the various daily wage rates currently prevailing in project areas, which amounts to 15 yuan per



Page 34
day. The financial output prices are prevailing average roadside prices for timber (which incorporate the
costs of logging and skidding) and average market prices for tree crop production (which incorporate the
costs of harvesting and marketing). For economic analysis, the farmgate values of fertilizers were calculated
on the basis of World Bank commodity price projections, with adjustment for transport and handling costs.
The economic values of other inputs were considered equivalent to the financial prices, except for labor,
where a shadow wage rate of 12 yuan per day was used since there is a surplus of agricultural workers with
little alternative employment opportunity in project areas, leading to a marginal value product of labor below
market wages. The economic output prices are actual border prices for comparable imported timber and
horticultural products, adjusted for processing costs and inland transport as required.
Methodological Assumptions
The cost-benefit analysis is based on: (a) one rotation for all timber species, so that none of the costs and
benefits of replanting a site have been considered; (b) a 25-year time period, which captures the full rotation
of all timber species and the full maturity of all horticultural production; (c) complete production and
harvesting costs, including the costs of extraction trails, logging, and skidding to the roadside for timber, and
harvesting and distribution costs to local markets for horticultural production; and (d) complete investment
costs, including physical contingencies.
The rates of return for individual species include costs related to project supervision and management,
environmental monitoring, and information management; but they do not reflect any costs related to the
project's nursery program, training and extension program, or rural infrastructure program. However, the
analysis of the components and the project as a whole includes all these costs.
Cost-benefit analysis was performed for six indicative TVE sub-projects and their weighted averages were
used to determine the cost-benefit analysis for the component as a whole.
The economic analysis does not incorporate any valuation of indirect environmental benefits, such as
reduced soil erosion, carbon sequestration, or enhanced biodiversity conservation.



Page 35
Annex 5
Forestry Development in Poor Areas Project
Financial Summary
($ million)
Implementation Period                  Operational Period
Sources        Year  Year  Year Year Year Year Year Total % of  Total    % of
Years
1      2     3      4     5     6    7          Total  8-25     Total
Project Costs
Investment Costs   58.1  81.8  65.2  49.8   7.8   3.0  1.2 266.9   73    22.1             0
Recurrent Costs     6.2  17.0  25.2  25.6  16.0  5.9  1.2  97.0   27 27,669.7           100
Total             64.3  98.7  90.4  75.4  23.8   8.9  2.5 364.0  100 27,691.7         100
Financing Sources
Bank               34.8  54.5  48.1  40.5  14.4  5.9  1.8 200.0   55            -         -
Provincial          9.9  14.8  14.1  11.7  3.2   1.0  0.2  54.8   15   553.8              2
Government
Prefecture/County   7.9  11.8  11.3   9.3   2.5   0.8  0.2  43.7   12  1,384.6            5
Government
Beneficiaries       11.8  17.7  16.9  13.9  3.8   1.2  0.2  65.5   18 25,753.3           93
Total             64.3  98.7  90.4  75.4  23.8   8.9  2.5 364.0  100 27,691.7         1



Page 36
Annex 6
Forestry Development in Poor Areas Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Procurement methods (Table A)
General
All procurement of goods and works would be carried out in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits," published in January 1995, and revised in January and
September 1996, and September 1997. Model Bidding Documents, as agreed between MOF and the Bank,
would be used for all international competitive bidding (ICB) and national competitive bidding (NCB) for
works and goods. Where no model document exists, project procurement would be based on the relevant
Bank Standard Document.
A margin of preference equal to 15 percent of the c.i.f. price of imported goods or the actual customs duties
and import taxes, whichever is less, would be allowed to domestic manufacturers bidding under ICB
procedures.
Civil Works
Plantation establishment, amounting to 76 percent of total project costs, would not be suitable for
competitive contract bidding, as the works are small, widely scattered, and scheduled according to the time of
the year and availability of seedlings. This work would be executed by afforestation groups either on force
account and through community participation, with the Bank's prior agreement, or through hiring of casual
labor paid on a piece-work basis. The Bank reviewed these procedures during preparation and found them
acceptable.
The civil works related to construction under the TVE Development Component and the Rural Infrastructure
Sub-Component of the Technical Support Services Component (small-scale irrigation facilities, sheds, trails,
and marketing infrastructure) would be carried out primarily by project beneficiaries on force account or
through community participation, with the Bank's prior agreement, in view of the small size of the civil
works (on average less than $150,000 per investment) and their scattered and remote location in poor
townships. Any larger works, above $150,000, would be procured on the basis of NCB.
The aggregate amount of works procured on the basis of force account or community participation would not
exceed $145 million.
Goods
Goods would be procured on the basis of ICB (for items or groups of items estimated to cost $250,000 or
more), NCB (for items or groups of items estimated to cost less than $250,000 and more than $75,000), and
international shopping (for items or groups of items estimated to cost $75,000 or less, and no more than $5.5
million in aggregate), with the following two exceptions: (a) pesticides would be procured on the basis of
limited international bidding, since small quantities of specific agro-chemical formulations would be required
that are manufactured and distributed by a handful of international suppliers; and (b) seeds would be
procured through direct contracting, with the Bank's prior agreement, since their genetic suitability is the
only criteria for choice. Three quotations from two different countries would be required for international
shopping, which would include informnation about the description and quantity of the goods, and the expected



Page 37
delivery time and place.
Consultant Services
Consultant services would be procured on the basis of the Bank's "Guidelines for the Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers," published in January 1997 and revised in
September 1997. Consultant services would include a total of $486,000 for individual consultants, to support
the preparation of extension materials ($319,000), the design and management of the household survey
program ($27,000), and the technical implementation of the afforestation program ($140,000), who would be
selected by the Ministry of Forestry on the basis of individual consultant selection procedures (Section 5 of
the Guidelines); and $1.3 million for engineering firms, who would be selected by sub-borrowers to prepare
feasibility studies for sub-projects under the TVE Development Component, based on consultants
qualifications (Section 3.7 of the Guidelines). Consultant services related to the implementation of the
community forestry assessment work ($0.6 million) and establishment of demonstration plantations ($0.5
million) would be financed by local counterpart funds.
Other Services
Overseas training and study tours ($0.9 million) would be procured in line with the training and extension
plan agreed during appraisal and in accordance with guidelines reviewed and approved during appraisal.
Domestic training ($5.4 million) would be financed by local counterpart funds.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Prior review of goods and works would cover: (a) all Bank-financed procurement of goods and works above
the threshold of $250,000; and (b) the first contract for goods and for works to be awarded by each project
province on the basis of NCB. This would cover about 85 percent of the total value of Bank-financed goods,
and virtually none of the works, which are primarily procured through force account or community
participation.
All contracts for consultants' services above the threshold of $100,000 for engagement of firms and $50,000
for engagement of individuals would also be subject to prior review. This would cover about 20 percent of
the total value of Bank-financed contracts.
Overseas training and study tours would not be subject to prior review. This is considered appropriate in
view of PMC staff's excellent management of procurement in the three previous projects and their
participation in Bank sponsored courses on national and international procurement.
Selective post review of awarded contracts below the threshold levels would be carried out on about 1 in 8
goods, works, and consultant contracts. Bank supervision missions would supervise compliance with agreed
procurement procedures for civil works on force account and community participation, overseas training, and
study tours.
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C) and Use of statements of expenses (SOEs):
Disbursements for afforestation would cover three items: plantation establishment, irrigation civil works, and
guard/storage shed civil works. Plantation establishment would include: (a) all labor requirements for site
clearing, preparation, planting, and tending; (b) seedlings; (c) constmction of forest trails; and (d) indirect
costs related to survey and design, project and environmental management, and MIS. Irrigation civil works
would include all labor, rnaterials, and survey and design costs, but no equipment. Guard/storage shed civil



Page 38
works would include all labor and materials costs. Disbursements for each of the three items would be based
on an agreed schedule of unit costs. The schedule for the first year of the project was agreed during
appraisal, and thereafter it would be revised yearly on the basis of actual cost experience recorded in audited
statements of expenditure and monitored by supervision missions. Disbursements for afforestation would be
made after county PMOs have inspected afforestation sites and certified that all work complied with the
social, technical and environmental guidelines agreed with the Bank.
Disbursements would be made against statements of expenditure (SOEs) for expenditures relating to: (a)
afforestation, (b) sub-loans for TVEs and marketing; (c) overseas training and study tours, (d) contracts for
goods and works not exceeding $250,000 equivalent (except for the first contract for goods and for works to
be procured on the basis of NCB in each project province); and (e) contracts for individual consultants not
exceeding $50,000 equivalent and for consultants' services with firms not exceeding $100,000 equivalent.
The supporting documents for SOEs would be retained by the provincial project management offices, and
the central project management office in PMC would retrieve them as required for on-site supervision by
Bank staff and inspection by auditors, whose terms of reference for procurement audits would be
acceptable to the Bank. In the case of contracts for goods and services above these thresholds, disbursements
would be made against the full documentation with the contracts themselves and other supporting documents.
Retroactive financing of up to $3 million would be provided against eligible expenditures made between July
1, 1997 and the date of signing of the loan and credit agreements, for survey and design work, seeds,
seedlings, fertilizer, and site preparation for the first year of planting.
Special account:
In order to disburse the credit and loan proceeds efficiently, a special account would be opened by the
Ministry of Finance in US dollars in a bank acceptable to the Bank with an authorized allocation of $13
nillion, equivalent to the credit and loan's financing of average expenditures for four months. Applications
for replenishment of this account would be submitted monthly, or whenever the account is drawn down by 50
percent, whichever comes first.
Disbursement Profile (Table D):
The project disbursement schedule is consistent with the general disbursement profile for forestry investment
loans in China.



Page 39
Annex 6, Table Al: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                        Procurement Method
ICB     NCB   Other /a  NBF /b  Total /c
1. Works                                               1.1   290.0               291.1
(0.6)  (143.5)            (144.1)
Plantation Establishment                                   278.0              278.0
(137.6)           (137.6)
Civil Works                                         1.1      12.0              13.1
(0.6)    (6.0)              (6.5)
2. Goods                                    39.3       8.6     14.4               62.3
(39.3)    (4.7)    (9.2)             (53.3)
Equipment                                  1.8      8.1      10.5              20.3
(1.8)    (4.2)    (5.3)             (11.3)
Vehicles                                  11.8                                  11.8
(11.8)                               (11.8)
Silvicultural Inputs                      25.7      0.5      4.0               30.2
(25.7)    (0.5)    (4.0)             (30.2)
3. Services                                                     4.1       6.5     10.6
(2.6)    (0.0)    (2.6)
Training and Study Tours                                     0.9       5.4      6.2
(0.9)    (0.0)    (0.9)
Consultant Services                                          3.2       1.1      4.4
(1.8)    (0.0)    (1.8)
Total                                     39.3      9.7    308.5       6.5    364.0
(39.3)    (5.3)  (155.4)     (0.0)  (200.0)
/a Other procurement methods include: force account and community participation for plantation
establishment, some rural infrastructure civil works (trails, sheds, irrigation facilities, and
marketing infrastructure); and some TVE civil works; direct contracting for seeds; limited
international bidding for pesticides; international shopping for some equipment; and training and
consultant services.
/b NBF denotes non-Bank financing.
/c Total cost includes contingencies.
Note: Figures in parentheses represent the amounts to be financed by the Bank.



Page 40
Annex 6, Table A2: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(in US$million equivalent)
Selection Method /a                      Total Cost
Consultant Services                                                                  (including
Expenditure Category                                                                contingencies)
QCBS   QBS       SFB       LCS      CQ     Other   N.B.F.
A. Firms                                                       2.55             1.12         3.67
(1.28)          (0.00)       (1.28)
B. Individuals                                                          0.68                 0.68
(0.49)               0.49)
Total                                     2.55     0.68    1.12         4.35
(1.28)   (0.49)  (0.00)      (1.77)
\a QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection, QBS = Quality-based Selection, SFB = Selection under a
Fixed Budget, LCS = Least-Cost Selection, CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications, Other =
Selection of individual consultants, Commercial Practices, etc.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank.



Page 41
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure          Contract Value         Procurement       Contracts Subject to
Category             (Threshold)           Method /a           Prior Review
_______ __  ($ thousands)                          ($ millions)
1. Works                                                               0.6
<150                           FA, CP                 0.0
> 150                         NCB                    0.6
2. Goods                                                               45.4
>250                  ICB                   39.3
< 250 > 75 (except seeds)      NCB                    2.5
<75                            IS                     0.0
NA                             DC                     0.0
NA                             LIB                    3.6
3. Services                                                             0.3
>100 for firms, > 50 for       CG                     0.3
individualsI
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: 46.3
/a FA = Force Account, CP = Community Participation, NCB = National Competitive Bidding, ICB =
Intemational Competitive Bidding, IS = International Shopping, DC = Direct Contracting, CG = Consultant
Guidelines
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Amount in              Financing Percentage
US$million
(1)   Goods                           44.3      100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory cost), and 75% of local
expenditures for other items procured locally
(2)   Afforestation                   138.9     50%
(3)   Consultants' services, and        1.3     100%
training and study tours
(4)   TVE Sub-loans                    12.8     100% of sub-loan amounts
(5)   Marketing Infrastructure          2.7     100% of sub-loan amounts
Sub-Loans
Total   200.0



Page 42
Annex 6, Table D: Estimated Disbursement Schedule
IBRD                            Disbursement               Disbursement Profile /a
Fiscal Year/           Semestral  Cumulative  Cumulative      Year/    Cumulative
Semester                    ($ Million)         (%)        Semester       (%)
1999                                                                 Year 1
First (July-Dec. 1998)        10.0       10.0          5       First            0
Second (Jan-June, 1999)       10.9       20.9          10       Second         30
2000                                                                 Year 2
First (July-Dec. 1999)        13.9       34.8          17       First          38
Second (Jan-June, 2000)       19.1       53.9         27        Second         46
2001                                                                 Year 3
First (July-Dec. 2000)        27.2       81.1         41        First           54
Second (Jan-June, 2001)       29.8      110.9         55        Second          66
2002                                                                 Year 4
First (July-Dec. 2001)        26.5       137.4        69        First           74
Second (Jan-June, 2002)       24.3      161.7         81        Second          82
2003                                                                 Year 5
First (July-Dec. 2002)        16.2       177.9        89        First           90
Second (Jan-June, 2003)        7.9      185.8         93        Second          94
2004                                                                 Year 6
First (July-Dec. 2003)         6.5       192.3        96        First           98
Second (Jan-June, 2004)        5.9      198.2         99        Second         100
2005                                                                 Year 7
First (July-Dec. 2004)         1.8      200.0        100        First          100
/a Disbursement profile for agricultural sector in China compiled by OPRPG, June 30, 1995.
Completion date: January 1, 2005
Closing Date: January 1, 2006



Page 43
Annex 7
Forestry Development in Poor Areas Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                       Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Bank Budget                                        137                  100
Trust Funds                                       375                   375
TOTAL                                            512                   475
B. Project Schedule                              Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)  CR to APR: 42 cw     CR to APR: 56 cw
APR to Board: 25 cw   APR to Board: 13 cw
Identification Mission                          10/28/1996           10/28/1996
Appraisal Mission Departure                     11/15/1997           02/21/1998
Negotiations                                    03/12/1998           04/06/1998
Board Presentation                              05/12/1998           05/21/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   08/15/1998           09/01/1998
Prepared by: World Bank Loan Project Management Center in Ministry of Forestry, headed by Qu
Shuye, Sun Shujin, and Jiang Xingyong, with support from Chinese Academy of Forestry;
Academy of Forestry Inventory, Planning and Design; Forestry Economic Development and
Research Center; General Administration of State Forest Farms, Tree Seeds and Seedlings
Preparation assistance: Japanese PHRD Fund, Ford Foundation, Community Forestry Deparment
of FAO, Regional Community Forestry Training Center in Bangkok
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Specialty
Richard Scobey                               Economist
Susan Shen                                   Ecologist
Zhengxuan Zhu                               Institutional Development
Norman Jones                                 Forester
Zhou Weiguo                                  Project Costs
Philip Daltrop/Niki DeWitt                   Legal
Hyung Kim/Yi-Ling Liu                        Disbursement
Saraswathi Sundaranm/Kathryn Cherrie         Task Assistance
Jim Douglas/Horst Wagner                     Reviewers
Martin Ravaillion/Alan Piazza                Reviewers
Jim Harkness                                 Reviewer (Ford Foundation)



Page 44
Annex 8
Forestry Development in Poor Areas Project
Documents in the Project File
A. Government Reports Related to Project
1. Project Implementation Plan, dated March 1998
2. Implementation Manual for Community Forestry Assessment, dated November 1997
3. Environmental Protection and Guidelines and Implementation Plan, dated March 1998
4. Afforestation Models and Benefit Analysis for Timber Forests, dated April 1997 and March 1998
5. Afforestation Models and Benefit Analysis for Economic Tree Crops, dated April 1997 and March 1998
6. Bamboo Grove Afforestation and Rehabilitation Model and Benefit Analysis, dated March 1997 and
March 1998
7. Training and Extension Plan, dated March 198
8. Planting Material Development Plan (including Planting Stock Development Program, Guidelines for
Nursery Management, Seedling Criteria for Major Planting Species, Listing of Sources of Planting
Materials), dated March 1998
9. Monitoring and Evaluation Plan (including Key Indicators Table), dated March 1998
10. Sample TVE feasibility studies
11. Sample provincial marketing studies
12. Sample township community forestry assessments
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1. Back-to-Office-Report of Identification Mission, dated November 1996
2. Project Concept Document, Peer Reviewer Comments, and Minutes of Review Meeting, dated January
1997
3. Back-to-Office Report of Preparation Mission, dated May 1997
4. Back-to-Office Report of Pre-Appraisal Mission, dated October 1997
5. Draft Project Appraisal Document, Peer Reviewer Comments, and Minutes of Review Meeting, dated
February 1998
6. Back-to-Office Report of Appraisal Mission, dated March 1998
7. Appraisal Completion Note, dated March 1998
C. Consultant Reports Related to Project
1. Norman Jones reports on planting material development and silvicultural management
2. Cor Veer and Kadi Warner reports on commnunity forestry assessments
3. Claude Saint-Pierre reports on social assessment and poverty issues
4. Zhou Weiguo reports on project cost calculations, economic and financial analysis
5. John Wilkie and Jin Aixian reports on marketing
6. James French reports on training and extension
7. Liu Shouying reports on land tenure



Page 45
Annex 9
Forestry Development in Poor Areas Project
Statement of World Bank Loans and Credits as of January 31, 1998
Orginal Anount in USS Milions
Loan or      Fiscal
Project ID     Credit No.     Year       Borrower                    Pupose
IBRD           IDA          Canceled          Undisbursed
Nuiber of Closed Loanstcredits: 207
Active Loans
CN-PE-40185      MBRD42370        1998    P'RC            SHANDONG ENVIRONMENT                          95.00          0.00             0.00                95.00
CN-PE-34081      IBRD42000        1997    F'RC            XIAOLANGDI MULTI. 11                         230.00          0.00             0.00               230.00
CN-PE-34081      IBRD42001        1997    P'RC            XIAOLANGDI MULTI. l                          200.00          0.00             0.00               191.84
CN-PE-3590       IBRD41870        1997    PRC             QINBAMTS. POVTY RED                           30.00          000              0.00                30.00
CN-PE-3590       IDAN0280         1997    E'RC            QINBAMTS. POVTY RED                            000         150.00             0.00               141.67
CN-PE-3635       IBRD4063A        1997    F'RC            VOC. ED. REFORM PROJ                          1000           0.00             0.00                10.00
CN-PE-3635       ID)A289S0        1997    PRC             VOC. ED. REFORM PROI                           0.00         20.00             000                 16.67
CN-PE-3637       IDAN0270         1997    PRC             NATL RUR WATER IQ 000                                       70.00             0.00                69.48
CN-PE-36405     1MRD41790         1997    PRC             WANJIAZHAI WATER TRA                         400.00          0.00             0.00               372.17
CN-PE-3643       EBRD40990        1997    PRC             XINJIANG HIGHWAYS 11                         300.00          000              0.00               268.81
CN-PE-3650       MBRD41720        1997    GOC             TUOKErUO POWER/INNER                         400.00          0.00             0.00               400.00
CN-PE-3654       MBRD41240        1997    PRC             HUNAN/GUANG HWY2-NH2                         400.00          0.00             0.00               400.00
CN-PE-36952      IDA29540         1997    PRC             BASIC ED. TV                                   0.00         85.00             0.00                79.12
CN-PE-38988      MBRD41610        1997    PRC             HEILONGlIANGADP                              120.00          0.00             0.00               117.00
CN-PE944485      D3RD41970        1997                    SHANGHAIWAIGAOQIAO                           400.00          0.00             0.00               400.00
CN-PE-34618      1BRD3967A        1996    PRC             LABOR MARKET DEV.                             10.00          0.00             0.00                10.00
CN-PE-34618      IDA28000         1996    PRC             LABOR MARKET DEV.                              0.00         20.00             0.00                15.65
CN-PE-3507       D3RD3933A        1996    GOC             ERTAN HYDRO n                                177.68          0.00             000                 51.64
CN-PE-3507       D3RD3933B        1996    GOC             ERTAN HYDRO E                                 88.84          0.00             000                  9.80
CN-PE-3563       MBRD40010        1996    PRC             ANIMAL FEED                                  150.00          0.00             0.00               150.00
CN-PE-3569       MBRD39290        1996    P.R.C.          SHANGHAI-ZFEIIANG HI                         260.00          0.00             7.75               155.78
CN-PE-3589       IDA27940         1996    PRC             DISEASE PREVENTION                             0.00        100.00             0.00                81.01
CN-PE-3594       IDA28700         1996    PRC             GANSU HEXI CORRIDOR                            0.00         90.00             0.00                70.73
CN-PE-3594       IBRD40280        1996    PRC             GANSU HEXI CORRIDOR                           60.00          0.00             000                 60.00
CN-PE-3599       MBRD40550        1996    YUNNAN          YUNNAN ENVIRONMENT                           125.00          0.00             000                125.00
PROV. GOV.
CN-PE-3599       IDA28920         1996    YUNNAN          YUNNAN ENVIRONMENT                             0.00         25.00             0.00                16.59
PROV. GOV.
CN-PE-3602       IDA27990         1996    PRC             HUBEI URBAN ENV. PRO                           0.00         25.00             0.00                15.38
CN-PE-3602        IBRD39660       1996    PRC             HUBEI URBAN ENV. PRO                         125.00          0.00             Q00                125.00
CN-PE-3638       IBRD40440        1996    PRC             SEEDS SECTOR COMMER.                          80.00          000              000                 80.00
CN-PE-3638       IDA28860         1996    PRC             SEEDS SECTOR COMMER.                           0.00         20.00             0.00                10.08
CN-PE-3646       IBRD40450        1996    PRC             CHONGQING IND POL CT                         170.00          000               0.00              170.00
CN-PE-3648       EBRD39870        1996    SHANGHAI    SECOND SHANGHAI SEWE                             250.00          0.00             0.00               219.29
MUN. GOVT
CN-PE-3649       IDA28340         1996    CHINA           SHANXI POVERTY ALLEV                           000         100.00             0.00                49.36
CN-PE-3652       IBRD39860        1996    PRC             2ND SHAANXI PROV HWY                         210.00          0.00             0.00               183.98
CN-PE-36950      IDA28310         1996    PRC             BASIC ED. POOR Im                              000         100.00             0.00                43.29
CN-PE-40513      MBRD40270        1996    PRC             2NDHENANPROVHWY                              210000          000               000               198.00
CN-PE-3493       1BRD39106        1995    PRC             INLAND WATERWAYS                             21000           000               000               155.82
CN-PE-3571       1BRD38976        1995    PRC             RAILWAYS VII                                 400.00          000              0.00               392.00
CN-PE-3585       MBRD37880        1995    GOC             SHENYANG IND. REFORM                         175.00          000              0.00               129.12
CN-PE-3596       D3RD3874A        1995    PRC             YANGTZE BASIN WATER                           97.26          000              0.00                73.10
CN-PE-3596       IDA27100         1995    PRC             YANGTZE BASIN WATER                            000         110.00             0.00                 9.48
CN-PE-3598       MBRD37810        1995                    LIAONING ENVIRONMENT                         110.00          000              0.00                79.53
CN-PE-3600       MBRD3847A        1995    PRC             TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPME                         194.99          000              0.00               181.87
CN-PE-3603       IBRD3773A        1995    PRC             ENT. HOUSING SOC. SE                         262.51          000              0.00               240.11
CN-PE-3603       IDA26420         1995    PRC             ENT. HOUSING SOC. SE                           0.00         75.00              0.00                6.22
CN-PE-36041      MBRD38736        1995    MOF             FISCAL & TAX REF &                            25.00          0.00             0.00                25.00
CN-PE-36041      EDA27090         1995    MOF             FISCAL & TAX REF. &                            0.00         25.00              0.00               17.79
CN-PE-3612       lBRD37870        1995    PRC             XINJIANGHIGHWAYI                             150.00          0.00             0.00                95.75
CN-PE-3634       IDA26550         1995    PRC             MATERNAL CHLD HEALT                            0.00         90.00              0.00               33.54
CN-PE-3636       IDA26510         1995    PRC             BASIC EDUC IN POOR &                           0.00        100.00              0.00               21.56
CN-PE-3639       MBRD39066        1995    PRC             SOUTHWEST POV. REDUC                          47.50          0.00              0.00               35.89
CN-PE-3639       IDA27440         1995    PRC             SOUTHWEST POV. REDUC                           0.00        200.00              0.00              105.95
CN-PE-3642       MBRD3846A        1995    PRC             ZHEIJIANG POWER DEVT                         154.15          0.00              0.00              125.34
CN-PE-3642       MBRD3846B        1995    PRC             ZHEJIANG POWER DEVT                          215.67          000               000               187.82
CN-PE-3647       IDA26540         1995    PRC             ECONOMIC LAW REFORM                            000          1000               Q00                 6.03
CN-PE-36947      MBRD3848A        1995    GOC             SICHUANTRANSMISSION                          27000           0.00              0.00              209.73
CN-PE-37156      IDA27560         1995    PRC             IODINE DEF. DISORDER                           000          20.00              .00                11.40
CN-PE-37156      IBRD3914A        1995    P:RC            IODINE DEF. DISORDER                           7.00          0.00              0.00                7.00
CN-PE-3502       IDA25390         1994    MOH             RUR HEALTH MANPOWER                            0.00        110.00              0.00               44.89



Page 46
Original Amount in US$ Miliions
Loan  or     Fhscal__                                                          _   _  _  _  _   _  _  _   _  _  _  _    _   _  _  _  _   _
Project ID     Credit No.    Year       Borrower                    Purpose
IBRD           IDA          Canceled         Undisbursed
CN-PE-3504       IBRD37480       1994    PRC             HEBEI/HENAN NATIONAL HWAYS                  380.00         0.00              000               115.10
CN-PE-3540       IDA26160        1994    PRC             LOESS PLATEAU                                 0.00        150.00             0.00               48.19
CN-PE-3557       IDA26230        1994    PRC             FOREST RESOURCE DEV                           0.00       200.00              0.00              102.31
CN-PE-3562       EBRD37270       1994    PRC             XIAOLANGDI MULTIPURPOSE                     460.00         0.00              0.00               30.91
CN-PE-3586       EBRD3711S       1994    PRC             SHANGHAI ENVIRONMENT                        160.00         0.00              000                83.93
CN-PE-3593       IDA25710        1994    PRC             SONGLIAO PLAIN ADP                            0.00       205.00              0.00               59.78
CN-PE-3595       IDA25630        1994    PRC             RED SOISII DEVELOP                            0.00        150.00             000                49.04
CN-PE-3609       IBRD3716A       1994    GOC             SICHUAN       GAS       DEV       &         175.45         0.00              0.00              161.52
CONSERVATION
CN-PE-3622       DBRD3652S       1994    SHANGHAI    SHANGHAI MTPII                                  150.00         0.00              0.00               10.39
MUNICIPAL
GOVT
CN-PE-3626       IBRD3681A       1994    GOC             FUJIAN PROV HIGHWAY                          80.33         0.00              0.00               65.32
CN-PE-3633       IBRD3687A       1994    PRC             TELECOMMUNICATIONS                          13Z76           0.00             0.00              101.49
CN-PE-3641       IBRD3718A       1994    PRC             YANGZHOUTHERMALPOWER                        248.16         0.00              0.00               94.85
CN-PE-3644       IDA26050        1994    PRC             XIAOLANGDI RESETTLEMENT                       0.00        110.00             0.00               44.33
CN-PE-3473       IDA24750        1993    P.R.C.          ZHElIANGMULTICITIES                           0.00        110.00             0.00               47.43
CN-PE-3509       IDA24570        1993    PRC             CHANGCHUN WAT SUPP &                          0.00        120.00            27.55               27.04
CN-PE-3512       IBRD3552S       1993    PRC             SHANGHAIPORTREST.                           124.26         0.00              000                 5.11
CN-PE-3518       IBRD3530S       1993    PRC             GUANGDONG PROV. TRANSPORT                   240.00         0.00              0.00               21.43
CN-PE-3526       IBRD3515A       1993    GOC             SHUIKOU 11                                   43.86         0.00              0.00               18.40
CN-PE-3533       DBRD3572A       1993    PRC             TIANJIN IND. 11                              82.68         0.00              0.00               56.09
CN-PE-3559       IDA24620        1993    PRC             AGRIC. SUPPORT SERVI                          0.00        115.00             000                10.46
CN-PE-3561      IDA24110         1993    PRC             SICHUAN ADP                                   0.00        147.00             0.00               22.67
CN-PE-3567       IDA24710        1993    PRC             EFFECTIVE TEACHING SERVICES                   0.00        100.00             0.00               48.39
CN-PE-3570       IBRD35810       1993    PRC             RAILWAY VI                                  420.00         0.00              0.00              136.54
CN-PE-3580       IBRD35820       1993    PRC             SOJIANGSU ENVIRON. PROTECT.                 250.00         0.00              000                29.16
CN-PE-3581       IBRD35310       1993    PRC             HENAN PROV. TRANSPORT                       120.00         0.00              0.00               16.15
CN-PE-3592       IDA24470        1993    PRC             REF. INSTL& PREINVEST(CRISP)                  000          50.00             0.00               21.64
CN-PE-3597       IBRD3560A       1993    PRC             TAIHU BASIN FLOOD CONTROL                    88.65          0.00             0.00               64.71
CN-PE-3597       IDA24630        1993    PRC             TAIHU BASIN FLOOD CONTROL                     000         100.00             000                 4.93
CN-PE-3616       IBRD3606A       1993    PRC             TIANHUANGPING HYDRO                         196.60          0.00             0.00              102.89
CN-PE-3623       IDA24230        1993    PRC             FINANCIALSECTORT.A                            0.00         60.00             0.00               35.57
CN-PE-3627       IBRD3624A       1993    PRC             GRAIN DISTRIBUTION P                        325.00          000              0.00              325.00
CN-PE-3627       IDA25180        1993    PRC             GRAIN DISTRIBUTION P                          000         165.00             0.00               59.76
CN-PE-3632       IDA25220        1993    ROC             ENVIRONMENT TECH ASS                          0.00         50.00             0.00               15.22
CN-PE-3486       IBRD3406A       1992                    RAILWAYS V                                   33.73          000              0.00               29.05
CN-PE-3492       EBRD3412S       1992    GOC             DAGUANGBA-HAINAN                             28.88          0.00             0.00                283
CN-PE-3492       IDA23050        1992    GOC             DAGUANGBA-HAINAN                              0.00         37.00             0.00                 .42
CN-PE-3503       IBRD3462A       1992                    ZOUXIAN THERMAL POWE                         26.78          0.00             0.00               14.02
CN-PE-3534       IBRD3471A       1992    PRC             ZHElIANGPROVTRANSP                           70.13          0.00             0.00               26.59
CN-PE-3544       IDA23390        1992    PRC             EDUC DEV IN POOR PRO                          0.00        130.00             0.00                4.07
CN-PE-3555       IDA2307D        1992    PRC             GUANGDONG AG. DEVT.                           0.00        162.00             0.00               11.71
CN-PE-3564       IBRD3415A       1992    BEUING          BEIJING ENVIRONMENT                          32.90          0.00             0.00               29.32
MUNICIPALIT
y
CN-PE-3564       IDA23120        1992    BEIJINGTY       BEDING ENVIRONMENT                            0.00         80.00             0.00                3.70
CN-PE-3565       IDA22960        1992                    SHANGHAI METRO TRANS                          0.00         60.00             000                 3.76
CN-PE-3568       IDA23870        1992    R.O.C.          TIANJIN URB DEV & EN                          0.00        100.00             0.00               32.43
CN-PE-3587       IDA23360        1992    PRC             RURAL WAT SUPP & SAN                          0.00        110.00             000                 1.80
CN-PE-3624       IDA23170        1992    MIN.       OF  NFECTIOUS DISEASES                             0.00        129.60             000                54.86
PUBLHEALT
H
CN-PE-3478       IDA22100        1991    PRC             KEY STUDIES DEVELOPM                          0.00        131.20             0.00                 .83
CN-PE-3560       IDA22420        1991    PRC             HENAN AGRIC. DEVT.                            0.00        110.00             0.00                3.23
CN-PE-3582       IBRD3337T       1991    PRC             IRRIG. AGRIC. INTENS                         45.05          0.00             0.00                2.37
CN-PE-3472       IBRD2968S       1988    PRC             RAILWAY IV                                  171.30          0.00             0.00                2.04
Total                                                                                              10,907.12     4,426.80            35.30             9,116.06
Active Loans             Closed Loans              Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):            6,154.89                  12,595.50               18,750.39
of which has been repaid:               13.52                     2,084.82                2,098.34
Toal now held by BRD and IDA:              15,285.09                  10,154.73              25,439.82
Amournt sold                              0.00                       0.00                    0.00
Of which repaid   :                      0.00                       0.00                   0.00
TotalUndisbursed     :                     9,116.06                  2.06                    9,118.12
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



Page 47
Statement of IFC's Committed and Disbursed Portfolio as of January 31, 1998
(In US$ Millions)
Commifted                               Disbursed
IFC                                     IFC
FY Approval                  Company             Loan     Equity    Quasi    Partic      Loan      Equity    Quasi    Partic
1987/92t94                 China Bicycles                 8.50      3.39      0.00      0.00       8.50      3.39     0.00      0.00
1993                       Shenzhen PCCP                  3.76       .99      0.00      0.00       3.76       .99     0.00      0.00
1993                       Yantai Cement                 15.60       1.95     0.00      8.33      15.60      1.95     0.00      8.33
1994                       China Walden N                 0.00      6.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       3.53     0.00       0.00
1994                       China Walden Mgt               0.00       .01      0.00      0.00      0.00        .01     0.00      0.00
1994                       Dalian Glass                  20.50      2.40      0.00     40.50      20.50      2.40     0.00     40.50
1994                       Dynamric Fund                  0.00      12.35     0.00      0.00      0.00       9.46     0.00      0.00
1994                       Plant. Timber                 10.00       1.00     0.00     20.00      10.00      1.00      0.00     20.00
1995                        Dupont Suzhou                24.92      4.15      0.00     52.00      19.34     4.15      0.00     30.66
1995                       Newbridge Inv.                 0.00      10.00     0.00      0.00       0.00      6.70     0.00      0.00
1995                        Suzhoau PVC                  22.00      2.48      0.00      22.20      0.00      2.48      0.00      0.00
1996                        Beijing Hormel                5.00       .50      0.00       5.50      4.64       .50     0.00       5.11
1996                       Fauyoung Ports                 0.00      4.98      0.00      0.00       0.00      4.98     0.00       0.00
1996                       Jingyang                      40.00       0.00      0.00    100.00     34.29      0.00      0.00     85.71
1996                        Nanjing Kumho                 16.00      3.81      0.00     45.50     13.63      3.81      0.00     38.75
1996                        TianjinKumbo                  11.17     0.00      0.00      33.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
1996                        Weihai Weidongri              4.29      0.00       0.00      0.00      4.29      0.00      0.00      0.00
1997                        Orient Finance                10.00      0.00      0.00     20.00      3.33      0.00      0.00      6.67
1997                        FTP Lbshan                    4.20      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
1997                        Rabobank PTPC                 2.40       0.00     0.00       2.40      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
1998                        Rabobank SHFC                 2.75      0.00      0.00       2.75      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
Total Portfolio:                           201.09     54.01      0.00    352.18    137.88     45.35      0.00    235.73
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan     Eauitv    Ouasi    Partic
1996                        CALTLX OCEAN                 31.33      0.00      0.00     66.00
1998                        CHENGXIN-IBCA                 0.00        .36      0.00      0.00
1997                        CHINEFARGE                    12.80      0.00      0.00     20.00
1998                        EURECA                        0.00       3.00      0.00      0.00
1997                        LIAOCHENGJIAMIN               18.00      0.00     0.00      18.00
1996                        NANJING HUINING               4.00       0.00      0.00      0.00
1997                        NINGBO                        0.00       2.00      0.00      0.00
1997                        NISSAN/DONGFENG              20.20       0.00      0.00     27.00
1997                        PT? HOLDINGS                  0.00       1.50      0.00      0.00
1997                        PT? HUBEI                     13.00     0.00       0.00     25.00
1998                        PTP HtlBEI BLINC              0.00       0.00      0.00      1.50
1998                        SCANALESHAN                   6.10       1.35      000       0.00
1996                        SHANIDONGSAND                 17.00      0.00     0.00      25.00
1998                        SHANGHAICOLINE                13.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
1997                        SMC                           14.00      0.00      0.00     14.00
1997                        SUZHOU PVC ADD.               7.90       000       0.00      6.40
1996                        TIANJIN                       9.10       0.00      0.00      9.10
1996                        XIAMEN XIAN                   10.00     0.00       0.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:                  176.43      8.21      0.00    212.00



Page 48
Annex 10
Forestry Development in Poor Areas Project
China at a Glance
1129198
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                   East    Low-
China       Asia  income         Development diamond'
Population mid-1996 (millions)                          1,215.4     1,726    3,229
GNP per capita 1996 (US$)                                  750        890       S00                  Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (billions US$)                                  906.1      1,542     1,601
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population (%)                                             1.1         1.3      1.7      GNP                                 Gross
Labor force (%)                                            1.1         1.3      17       per       p<mary
Most recent estImate (latestyearavailable since 1989)                                    capita                         enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% of population)                   9          .         .
Urban population (% of total population)                    31         31        29
Life expectancy at birth (years)                            70         68        63
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                    33         40        69                Access to sate water
Child malnutrition (% of children.under5)                   16
Access to safe water (% of population)                      90         49        53
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                        19         17        34                 China
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)      118        117       105                 Lwinc
Male                                                     119        120       112                 Low-insome group
Female                                                   117        116       98
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     1985        1995     1996
Economic ratios'
GDP (billions US$)                             160.3    378.1       755.9    916.4
Gross domestic investmenVGDP                    30.3      37.8       40.5      42.4               Openness of econom
Exports of goods and services/GDP                 5.2      9.9       21.0      18.5                                  Y
Gross domestic savings/GDP                      30.6      33.7       42.0      43.9
Gross national savings/GDP                      30.6      34.0       40.5      43.1
Current account balance/GDP                      -0.2     -3.9        0.2       0.4
Interest payments/GDP                              ..      0.2        0.7       0.6      Savings                        Investment
Total debtGDP                                      ..      5.5        16.9     15.8
Total debt service/exports                         ..      8.4         9.9      9.8
Present value of debt/GDP                          ..       ..          ..     14.3
Present value of debt/exports                      ..       ,,          ..     72.3                    Indebtedness
1975-85  1986-96      1995       1996  1997-06
(average annual growth)                                                                         -China
GOP                                     8.3       9.9     1 0.6       9.7       8.5           __
GNP per capita                          7.5       8.4      7.9        8.8       7.6                 Low-income group
Exports of goods and services          17.2     13.4       9.6        7.4       8.6
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(% of GDP)                                      1975      1985       1995     1996       Growth rates of output and investment(%)
Agriculture                                     32.0      28.4       20.6      20.0      25
Industry                                        42.8      43.1       48.4      48.9      20
Manufacturing                                  31.6     35.4        37.6     38.9      *o
Services                                        25.2      28.5       31.1      31.1       s
Private consumption                             61.9      53.1       45.7      44.9              D1    92    93    94    95    96
General government consumption                   7.6      13.2       12.2      11.2                       GDI   -     DP
Imports of goods and services                    5.0      14.0       19.4      17.0
1975-85  1986-96       1995      1996
(average annual growth)                                                                  Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
Agriculture                                       5.4      4.3         5.0      5.1       40
Industry                                        10.4      13.5       14.1      12.3
Manutacturing                                  13.0     12.7        13.3     12.3       20
Services                                          9.8      8.9        7.9       7.9
Private consumption                               8.2      8.6         6.3      3.3      0o     ,
General government consumption                   9.0      10.2          ..     11.4              91    92    93    94    95    96
Gross domestic investment                        9.8      10.1       19.1      16.6      .20
Imports of goods and services                   22.1      11.1         5.0      8.6                 -Exports  -Imports
Gross national product                            9.0      9.8         9.0      9.9     _
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.
* The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Page 49
China
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1985      1995     1 996
Domestic prices                                                                   Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                        30
Consumer prices                                ..      9.2      17.1      8.3
Implicit GDP deflator                        -0.9    10.1       13.1      6.1    2D
Government finance                                                                 nane
(% of GDP)                                                                         0'
Current revenue                                ..    25.5       11.2     11.4            91   92   93   94   95   93
Current budget balance                         ..      6.7       0.5      0.6                    GDP del.  CO'CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                        *-    -0.5       -1.7    -1.5
TRADE
1975     1985      1995     1996
(millions US$)                                                                     Export and Import levels (mill. US$)
Total exports (fob)                            ..  27,350   148,770  151,073      200,000
Food                                               3,803      9,954   10,232
Fuel                                         ,,   7,132       5,335    5,929     190,000
Manufactures                                  ..  13,522   127,283  129,141
Total imports (cif).   42,252   132,078  138,828                                  100,000ii       r v V        F F
Food                                         ..    1,881      9,126    7,866
Fuel and energy                               ..     172      5,127    6,877     50OD
Capital goods                                     18,694    57,431   63,901      _,_co i i       ___i _____ l  _      i
Export price index (1987=100)                  ..      92        133      132            90  91  92  93  94  95  96
Import prce index (1987=100)                   ..      78        132      131                   0 Exports    m Imports
Termsof trade (1987=100)                       ..    118         101      100
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1985      1995     1998
(millions US$)                                                                    Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services               7,828   28,163   147,240  153,740     4
Imports of goods and services               8,097   41,149   135,284  141,340     4
Resource balance                            -269  -12,986    11,956   12,400
Net income                                     0      932   -11,774  -10,370
Net cufrent transfers                          0      171      1.400    1,580
Current account balance,                                                              90  91   92   9      94   gs   96
before official capital transfers          -269  -11,883      1,582    3,610    -2
Financing items (net)                          ..   9,443    20,887   28,030
Changes in net reserves                        ..   2,440   -22,469  -31,640    -4
Memo:
Reserves induding gold (mill. US$)             *-  16,853    80,312  111,690
Conversion rate (iocal'US$)                   1.9      2.9       8.4      8.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985      1995     1996
(millions US$)                                                                    Composition of total debt, 1996 (mill. US$)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           ..  16,696   118,090  128,817
IBRD                                         ..    498       7,209    7,616                         A    8
IDA                                                 431      7,038    7,79               G7       7616  7579
Total debt service                             ..   2,478    15,066   15,756                                  2501
IBRD                                                 26        810     840
IDA                                                   4         63       73                                     E
Composition of net resource flows                                                                               21737
Official grants                              ..     117        328      248
Official creditors                           ..   1,117      7,902    4,359
Private creditors                            ..   2,867      5,013    6,454
Foreign direct investment                    ..   1,659    35,849   40,180
Portfolio equity                             *-       0      2,807    3,466                  F
163977
World Bank program                                                               |
Commitments                                  *.   1,092      2,850    1,900      A - 1BRD                    E- Bilateral
Disbursements                                .-    565       2,269    2,097      8 - ICA    0- Other multlateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                          .       0        364      364      C- IMF                      G- Short-temm
Net flows                                    ..    565       1,905    1,734   1
Interest payments                            ..      29        509      549
Net transfers                                ..    536       1,396    1,185
Development Economics                                                                                               1/29/98
Note: The dollar estimates for China's GNP per capita, GNP and GDP are preliminary figures based on an on-going World Bank study of
China's GDP. They were calculated to facilitate inter-country comparisons. Official statistics are used as the basis for all other economic
analysis contained in this document.



IBRD 29501
71*  3Akmola                                        3                                                                                                   0
RUSSIAN                                        ''
FEDERATION                                       j               .
(\       \s                                                                                 i                 <3       ,,
KAZAKHSTAN                            .                *                                                                                                   >  
U,oonbaatar                                                      Hb j
*_   >                UiO6111b6]Ot6Dr                   t.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' ~H6rbin  
UZBEKISTAN
g.>   YRGYZ              jSrml                                   \                                                                .'t6.. 
7UBLIC  _{  -1\  /            . . '  Sheroyong .S;)                              JAPAN
TAJIKISTAN                                                                                                                                            LIAON        /'
5                                                                                       /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ DEM. PEOPLE'S
H.hhot                                         REP OF KOREA
./s. ._    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ei 9ing,idji                                                                            Pyongy6an5.1
^'        *i 6'  6NJNt!
YmnchLugiT                    hizzun                                    REP OF
KOREA
tftrfgU:1/-     HA 5iNXI        in
7he- f,O du    Thr,es. W-l denomo io- s                               ;;L-h-^ . i l f             Sei
Thld on Te.ifrm1-n hwo
T ,  id -k G,  3d3-              ~Los                                                 rZh-gooqig                     Toyoo          hoeII:* 
'         -                   6Nffif~~~~~~~~l; S ~~~ '~Sh.ngh.i
SHANGHAI
C s  Lha-gd . 3Che         n gd no
NEPAL                 7 wi                             i         grHU   t            j;'p9(tOkqFI;                N-nh.ngZHAN
\ p ;t; X:: : ~Chqngq,n 'g
CHINA                                                           i                         H;Nt                   i
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT IN                                                                                                              FjANiyog'
POOR AREAS PROJECT                                                           K-ing
K~~~coo 09 ~~~~~TA4jWAN
PROJECT AREAS                                                                                          G V AU  N G O Df)-N  ^
3    PROVINCE CAPITALS                                 t                   A                      XI       gzoo 
NATIONAL CAPITALS                                                                                                HONoccicg   ,ONG KONG
2z    Lo {e \  .,. VIETNAM         _                          MACAO (PORT)                              .  00 .  .0    300 .
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                             Ha .i  H                                                           onoion  0     o(o   cc 300     so5
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                         -          L                   Hanoi
'o.r ) LAO PEOPLE'S~.                    THoikoc
T A DEM. REP                        -                                     PHILIPPINES
.___THAILANDj__________^_________f_______________  THAILAND)                       f                                    1200                                      cr
APRIL 1998



