Report No. PIC4905
Project Name                     China-Forestry Development in (+)
Poor Areas Project
Region                           East Asia and Pacific Region
Sector                           Forestry
Project ID                       CN-PE-46952
Borrower and                     Ministry of Forestry (MFO)
Implementing Agency              18 East Street, Hepingli
Beijing, China 100714
Tel: 86-10-6422-9944 (Ext. 3216)
Fax: 86-10-6421-7796
Contact: Sun Shujin,
Dir., Project Mgmt. Center
Environmental Category           B
PID Date                         January 6, 1997
Appraisal Date                   November 1997
Board Date                       May 1998
1.      Background: The forestry sector plays a
critical role in the Chinese economy, providing 40 percent of rural
household energy, almost all of the lumber and panel products for
the large construction sector, and raw material for the large
domestic pulp and paper industry. The resource base is small and
the forest cover amounts to only 0.11 hectares per capita, which is
significantly below the world average of 0.77 hectares per capita.
Forest land is divided into two categories: natural forests, which
are located in isolated areas in the northeast and southwest and
account for 95 percent of standing wood volume; and plantations,
which account for 25 percent of forest area but only 5 percent of
standing volume, since most are newly established. China is the
third largest consumer of timber in the world and faces a worsening
imbalance between supply and demand for wood products. The present
consumption level exceeds the annual growth increment of the
forests and total imports by about 50 million m3 per year. As a
result, about 500,000 hectares of forest area are lost each year,
equivalent to one-half of one percent of total forest area, leading
to increased soil erosion, loss of plant and wildlife habitat, and
other environmental degradation.
2.      The over-reliance and over-exploitation of forest resources
is particularly severe among poor households in the mountainous
areas of central and western China, as a result of their limited
access to productive land, low agricultural productivity, limited
off-farm employment, and underdeveloped human capital. As reviewed
in the World Bank report on poverty in China (No. 10409-CHA), a
large share of the absolute poor are located in these remote upland
areas where agricultural land is extremely poor and forest
resources are the only significant productive asset at their
disposal. Consequently, the development of the forest sector is a
key element in the Bank and Government's strategy to reduce poverty



in China.
3.      The Government is taking a number of steps to expand supply
and manage demand throughout the country, including extensive
investment in a wide variety of afforestation programs and
promulgation of new regulations encouraging conservation and
substitution. The Government's sectoral development program is sup-
ported by a relatively sound policy framework (including secure
land tenure, market-based resource pricing for 90 percent of all
timber, and increased emphasis on private sector activity) and a
good institutional framework (MFO has effectively managed national
afforestation programs, including four earlier IDA operations). At
the same time, the Government has launched an ambitious and
comprehensive poverty alleviation program under the National Seven-
Year Plan for Poverty Reduction, which is supporting strengthening
of institutions responsible for poverty reduction, establishment of
an independent poverty monitoring system, greater investment in the
social sectors to develop human capital, and continued investment
in agriculture, forestry, rural enterprise and rural infrastructure
to raise rural incomes.
4.      Project Objectives. The main project objective is to reduce
poverty in central and western provinces through an increase in
rural incomes arising from the expansion, improved utilization, and
sustainable management of forest resources. Achievement of this
objective would be measured by an increase in project household
income through sale of project production and an increase in the
gross value of industrial output of township enterprises in project
counties. A secondary project objective is improved environmental
management of watersheds in ecologically fragile mountainous areas.
This would be measured by an increase in the forest coverage rate
in project areas.
5.      Value Added of Bank Support. Bank involvement in the project
would provide two unique contributions. First, the project would
demonstrate to MFO and the provincial forestry departments that
poor households are bankable for afforesation investments. While
there is no question that MFO and the lower levels are committed to
the overall goal of poverty reduction, they have always preferred
to focus afforestation efforts in more developed areas where the
social, economic, and agronomic conditions are easier for large-
scale afforestation. This would be the first project in which the
government supports a large forestry investment targeted to the
absolute poor -- if implementation is successful, the project would
demonstrate the complementarity of the two key national development
objectives of economic growth and poverty reduction within the
forestry sector. Second, the project would support the development
and dissemination of improved silvicultural practices, based on the
implementation experience of World Bank and private sector
investments in other countries and the findings of international
research work. As demonstrated with NAP and FRDPP, the Chinese
silvicultural system has not yet adopted many of the key technical
elements of international forestry production and the Bank projects
have proven to be very effective vehicles for this technology
transfer. The main improvements are likely to include lower
- 2-



planting densities in order to promote shorter production cycles,
faster income generation, and agricultural intercropping; revised
fertilizer application rates that reflect the specific nutrient
requirements of the poorer sites; less intensive site preparation,
smaller planting holes, and reduction in tending times, in order to
decrease labor requirements and minimize environmental damage on
steep sites; and greater reliance on clonal planting stock and
other improved planting materials in order to promote faster tree
growth.
6.      Selection of Project Areas. The following selection criteria
would be adopted to ensure effective targeting of project
activities to the poorest households. First, the project would
focus on the mountainous areas of central and western China, where
the largest concentration of absolute poor reside. However, since
significant pockets of poverty exist elsewhere in China, up to 20
percent of project funds could be used to support poverty reduction
work in northeast and southern China. It is expected that 10-14
provinces would participate. Second, the project would focus,
first, on nationally designated poor counties and, second, on
provincially designated poor counties. Since the list of officially
designated poor counties does not capture the pockets of rural poor
in otherwise well-off counties, up to 10 percent of project funds
could be targeted to non-designated counties with large, isolated
poor populations. The project would avoid counties already
participating in other Bank poverty reduction projects, in order to
maximize the range and impact of the Bank's poverty reduction
program. Third, within the selected counties, all project
activities (except for TVE development) would be focused in
districts and townships that have been officially categorized by
county governments as "extremely poor."
7.      Project Design Principles. The project design would differ
significantly from the FY90 National Afforestation Project (NAP)
and the FY94 Forest Resource Development and Protection Project
(FRDPP), which primarily focused on silvicultural technology
improvements in more developed areas. The key design principles for
the project follow. First, the large majority of project benefits
would accrue to the poorest households in project areas. Second,
the project design would incorporate a wider range of forestry
activities in order to ensure that poor households receive a
diversified income stream over the short, medium, and long term.
Third, the scale of investment in a project area would be
determined by the minimum investment amount required to raise
project beneficiaries to a target per capita net income of 600 yuan
(in 1995 prices), after accounting for repayment of project loans.
Fourth, the project design would ensure that the selection of
activities and sites would not result in any inadvertent
deterioration in household income or living standards, such as the
loss of land presently used for minimum food consumption
requirements, livestock grazing, or other essential economic
activities. Fifth, the project design would follow a "bottom-up"
approach, in which the selection of beneficiaries, activities and
sites would be determined by a detailed analysis of socio-economic
and agronomic conditions at the household and village levels. As a
- 3 -



result, project preparation will involve more consultation with
stakeholders, social analysis (including gender issues), and
participatory rural appraisal than in NAP and FRDPP.
8.      Project Description. The project would comprise the following
five components.
-- The Timber Plantation Component would establish about 250,000
hectares of plantations on mountainous wasteland, primarily for
timber and secondarily for pulpwood and pit props. The main conifer
species would include Chinese fir, masson pine, loblolly pine, and
larch, and the main broadleaf species would include poplar,
eucalypt, and black locust. These plantations would provide a
sustainable, long-term source of income generation and building
materials for poor households.
-- The Economic Forest Crops Component would establish about 220,000
ha of economic forest crops, including 100,000 ha of new and
rehabilitated bamboo (moso, bush, and wicker bamboo), 100,000 ha of
fruit, nut, and medicinal trees (including chestnut, walnut,
ginkgo, eucommia, sumac, apple, pear), and 20,000 ha of
miscellaneous forest products (including medicine and herb plants,
fungus, roots, and other edible products). These activities would
be designed to meet the shorter-term income and consumption
requirements of poor households prior to the thinning and
harvesting of the timber plantation investments.
-- The Natural Forest Management Component would support preparation
of new management plans and introduction of new thinning,
harvesting, and regeneration programs for secondary growth natural
forests in project areas. This would promote improved management of
environmentally significant forests, and support short-term income
generation for local communities through sustainable harvesting of
mature timber and development of non-consumptive uses of natural
forest resources, such as increased tapping of pines for resin and
production of edible forest products.
-- The Technical Support Services Component would strengthen the
implementation framework for project afforestation activities in
three areas. The planting stock development program would raise the
quality of planting materials through introduction of improved
genetic materials and nursery management technologies, and support
the production of the 1 billion seedlings required under the
project. The training and extension program would disseminate key
research findings and technical silvicultural guidelines to project
staff and beneficiaries. The rural infrastructure program would
support the construction of village and forest trails, limited
irrigation facilities for some economic tree crops, and small
guard/storage sheds.
-- The TVE Development Component would provide sub-loans to support
the development of small-scale, labor-intensive, commercially
oriented TVEs in the forestry sector. Typical investments would
include pine resin extraction, bamboo processing, wicker works,
edible forest product processing, parquet and veneer production,
- 4 -



etc. This component would be designed to generate employment for
unskilled surplus labor, allow local communities to capture the
economic benefits of added-value to local production, and deepen
local markets for project production.
9.      Project Costs and Financing. The total project cost is
estimated at $364 million, with the timber plantation component
accounting for about 30 percent, the economic tree crop component
about 35 percent, the natural forest management component about 5
percent, the technical support services component about 15 percent,
and the TVE development component about 15 percent of total costs.
The project would be financed by a proposed IBRD loan of $120
million and IDA credit equivalent to $80 million (55 percent), and
local counterpart funding equivalent to $164 million (45 percent).
10.     Project Management Structure. Project management would be
based on the successful implementation structure developed for NAP
and FRDPP: Leading Groups at the central, provincial, and county
levels would continue to establish general policies and procedures
and review work programs; the PMC at MFO would continue to have
overall responsibility for project design, execution, and
supervision; Project Management Offices at Provincial Forestry
Departments and County Forestry Bureaus would continue to manage
the work, mobilize counterpart funding, and provide technical
support; Seedling Production Coordination Groups at the national
and provincial levels would continue to supervise production and
distribution of planting materials; and Environmental Protection
Groups at the national and provincial levels would continue to be
responsible for environmental management issues in the project.
11.     Production Arrangements. The following general implementation
arrangements for afforestation investments would be adopted under
the project to ensure that the majority of project benefits accrue
directly to poor households. First, priority will be given to
production arrangements that place land use and management directly
under the responsibility of beneficiary households or groups of
beneficiary households. The relative priority of tenure
arrangements follows: households planting trees on their own land;
households planting trees under the contract responsibility system;
groups of households planting trees under a shareholding
arrangement; households or groups of households participating in a
shareholding arrangement with a collective forest farm; a
collective forest farm planting trees on its own land; and
households or groups of households participating in a shareholding
arrangement with a state forest farm. Unlike NAP and FRDPP, state
forest farms would not be eligible to participate by themselves in
the project. Second, all production arrangements involving
different parties (such as groups of households, households and
state/collective forest farms, households and
companies/businessmen, etc.) will be based on contracts in form and
substance acceptable to MFO and the World Bank. The provincial
project management office will be responsible for reviewing all
production contracts to ensure that they comply with the project
guidelines and the fundamental principle that all benefits are
- 5 -



shared equitably among the parties. Third, households will receive
use rights for a term of not less than fifty years for land
directly under their management under the project.
12.     Lessons Learned. The main lessons from project work and
several Bankwide reports on the forestry sector (including the 1991
OED review of forestry projects, the 1991 Board paper on forestry,
and the 1994 ENV/AGR review of implementation of the Bank's
forestry policy) include the following: (a) the importance of new
technology development in raising timber productivity, such as
performance-selected species, improved planting materials, and more
efficient planting practices; (b) the need to improve the links
between silvicultural research and afforestation establishment to
facilitate technology transfer; (c) the role of stable and clear
tenure and land use rights in ensuring efficient afforestation
activity by households; (d) the importance of integrating
management of protected and unprotected natural forest areas into
regional forest management plans; and (e) the importance of
redefining the role of the state in forestry, with less emphasis on
direct investment in commercial forestry and more emphasis on
regulation and environmental protection. In response to these
lessons, the project would give emphasis to: introduction of new
afforestation technologies, particularly improved silvicultural
practices, improved planting materials, and a wider range of
species; the development of standardized production contracts based
on fifty-year land-use rights; institutional strengthening of
grassroots extension staff; integration of natural forests into
regional land-use plans; and increased afforestation activity on
collective and individual forest farms, with no investment on state
forest farms.
13.     Environmental and Social Aspects. The project would generate
significant environmental benefits, including increased forest
cover, preservation of biodiversity, and reduced soil erosion,
flooding and river sedimentation. However, the project could
support some activities with potentially adverse social and
environmental impacts: earthworks in plantations, construction of
small roads and trails, small blocks of monoculture, and limited
pesticide use in the afforestation components; and some limited
effluent disposal and, possibly, land acquisition in the TVE
development component. Consequently, the project has been rated in
Category B.
14.     The following social and environmental assessment program has
been agreed with Government. For the afforestation components, the
Government will carry out a comprehensive assessment of
environmental impacts, mitigation measures, management issues, and
monitoring requirements during project preparation. Based on this
assessment, the Government will prepare a detailed environmental
management plan (EMP) to strengthen safeguards against problems
from insect and disease outbreaks, soil erosion and fertility loss,
fire, and ecological degradation. The EMP will draw heavily on the
EMP prepared in 1994 during the preparation of FRDPP, the
implementation experience of environmental management in NAP and
FRDPP, and the results of the research report on environmental
- 6 -



monitoring issues to be completed under FRDPP by May 31, 1997.
Since the proposed project will focus on more fragile ecological
sites than in NAP and FRDPP, the EMP will be expanded to address
environmental management issues related to higher elevations,
shallower soils, and steeper slopes. The Bank will review the EMP
and related implementation arrangements during appraisal. An
assurance will be sought during negotiations that all project
activities would be carried out in accordance with an EMP
acceptable to the Bank. For the TVE development component,
individual EAs would be prepared for all sub-projects, carried out
in accordance with OD 4.00. These EAs would identify environmental
impacts, mitigation measures, environmental management issues, and
environmental monitoring requirements for each sub-project. They
would pay particular attention to effluent disposal and existing
land-use issues in order to check if the development of new
enterprises involves any land acquisition. All EAs would be
reviewed and approved by the Environmental Protection Bureau (EPB)
at the relevant level, in line with existing Chinese regulations.
Certification of EPB approval would be a condition of disbursement
for these sub-projects. In addition, in the unlikely event that the
development of any sub-project involves involuntary resettlement or
relocation, individual resettlement plans, carried out in
accordance with OD 4.30, would be prepared. Bank approval of these
plans would be a condition of disbursement for these sub-projects.
15.     Sustainability. Institutional sustainability is addressed
through a comprehensive program of technical assistance, training,
and study tours to strengthen existing capacity and ensure
development of long-term management skills in PMOs, research and
extension institutions, and project beneficiaries. Financial
sustainability is addressed through an appropriate cost recovery
program based on project taxes and charges. Project beneficiaries
will be responsible for full repayment of the loan and credit, with
income generated through the sale of project production. The level
of budgetary support required after the implementation phase is
small and would account for less than one percent of the annual
budgetary allocations of provincial forestry departments. Environ-
mental sustainability is addressed through the introduction of
detailed environmental protection and monitoring guidelines for the
plantation and protection forest components, which are designed to
strengthen safeguards against problems from insect and disease
outbreaks, soil erosion and fertility loss, fire, and ecological
degradation
16.     Benefits. The project would generate the following benefits:
(a) an increase in per capita income for [2] million poor
households that would raise them above the poverty line by the
project closing date, arising from the sale of project production
and the creation of new employment opportunities; (b) an increase
in the supply of forest products that would support the continued
growth of the construction and agro-processing sectors; (c) an
increase in value-added processing of forestry products through
development of new TVEs; (d) improved environmental management of
ecologically fragile mountainous watersheds, including reduced soil
erosion, flooding, and river sedimentation, preservation of
- 7 -



biodiversity, and reduced greenhouse gas emissions through
increased carbon sequestration; and (e) development and
dissemination of improved silvicultural technologies that would
raise the productivity of forest resources on steeper, higher
elevation sites.
17.     Risks. The main risks include: (a) output prices for project
production would not be maintained in real terms during the life of
the project; in response the project will support a high degree of
diversification of species and end-products in order to minimize
losses from price fluctuations; (b) institutional capacity would
not be sufficient to manage project activities; in response, the
project will provide training to strengthen PMC and PMO management
capacity; (c) farmers would not have sufficient incentives for
sustainable management of long-term forestry crops; in response,
the project will provide short and medium-term income generating
activities to meet immediate income requirements; (d) insufficient
rainfall in planting season; in response, the project will
emphasize use of containerized planting stock in areas prone to
erratic rainfall; (e) key inputs would not be available and used
correctly (improved seedlings, fertilizers, pesticides,
construction materials, equipment); in response, the project will
provide extensive training program for farmers on silvicultural
techniques; (f) pest, pathogen, or fire outbreaks; in response, the
project will include detailed guidelines related to forest health
in EMP, a comprehensive forest health monitoring program, and
provision of pesticides as necessary; and (g) counterpart funding
is not provided on time; in response, the project Implementation
Rules will specify that failure to provide funds on a timely basis
would result in the exclusion of the afforestation entity, county,
or provincial government in continued involvement in the project.
Based on the individual risk ratings, the overall level of project
risk is rated as modest.
Contact Point            Rick Scobey, Task Manager
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 458-5454
Fax No.: (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending April 4, 1997.
ANNEX ENVIRONMENTAL
Major Environmental Issues
The project would generate significant environmental benefits,
including increased forest cover, preservation of biodiversity, and
reduced soil erosion, flooding and river sedimentation. However,
the project could support some activities with potentially adverse
- 8 -



social and environmental impacts: earthworks in plantations, small
blocks of monoculture, and limited pesticide use in the
afforestation components; and some limited effluent disposal and,
possibly, land acquisition in the TVE development component.
Consequently, the project has been rated in Category B.
Several of the project areas will include large populations of
ethnic minorities. A few of the project areas may contain
important historical or religious sites.
Proposed Actions
For the afforestation components, the Government will carry
out a comprehensive assessment of environmental impacts, mitigation
measures, management issues, and monitoring requirements during
project preparation. Based on this assessment, the Government will
prepare a detailed environmental management plan (EMP) to
strengthen safeguards against problems from insect and disease
outbreaks, soil erosion and fertility loss, fire, and ecological
degradation. The EMP will draw heavily on the EMP prepared in 1994
during the preparation of FRDPP, the implementation experience of
environmental management in NAP and FRDPP, and the results of the
research report on environmental monitoring issues to be completed
under FRDPP by May 31, 1997. Since the proposed project will focus
on more fragile ecological sites than in NAP and FRDPP, the EMP
will be expanded to address environmental management issues related
to higher elevations, shallower soils, and steeper slopes. The
Bank will review the EMP and related implementation arrangements
during appraisal. An assurance will be sought during negotiations
that all project activities would be carried out in accordance with
an EMP acceptable to IDA.
For the TVE development component, individual EAs would be
prepared for all sub-projects, carried out in accordance with OD
4.00. These EAs would identify environmental impacts, mitigation
measures, environmental management issues, and environmental
monitoring requirements for each sub-project. They would pay
particular attention to effluent disposal and existing land-use
issues in order to check if the development of new enterprises
involves any land acquisition. All EAs would be reviewed and
approved by the Environmental Protection Bureau (EPB) at the
relevant level, in line with existing Chinese regulations.
Certification of EPB approval would be a condition of disbursement
for these sub-projects. In addition, in the unlikely event that
the development of any sub-project involves involuntary
resettlement or relocation, individual resettlement plans, carried
out in accordance with OD 4.30, would be prepared. Bank approval
of these plans would be a condition of disbursement for these sub-
projects.
Justification/Rationale for Environmental Category
The project's potentially adverse environmental impacts are
not as sensitive, numerous, or diverse as Category A impacts. Few
if any of these impacts are irreversible.
-9-



Reporting Schedule
Ministry of Forestry (MFO) will send the EA and EMP for the
afforestation components to the Bank by October 15, 1997, for
discussion during the appraisal mission. Since most of the TVE
investment proposals will be identified during project
implementation and not during preparation, it will not be possible
to prepare all of the individual EAs for this component prior to
appraisal. Instead, EAs for each sub-project will be completed and
reviewed by the EPB prior to the submission of the sub-project
investment proposal to the World Bank for disbursement.
Certification of EPB approval would be a condition of disbursement
for these sub-projects.
- 10 -



