                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 36399

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                    (IF-N0390 SCL-43250 TF-27155)

                                              ON A LOAN




                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$100 MILLION

                                            AND A CREDIT

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 73 MILLION
                                  (US$100 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                 TO THE

                                   PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                                 FOR A

                      FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT IN POOR AREAS PROJECT




                                             JUNE 27, 2006




Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2005)

                               Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
                                      Y 1.00 = US$ 0.12
                                   US$ 1.00 = Y 8.07

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1 -  December 31

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CFA     Community Forestry Assessment
ERR     Economic Rate of Return
FDPA    Forestry Development in Poor Areas Project
FRDPP   Forestry Resource Development and Protection Project
FRR     Financial Rate of Return
GoC     Government of China
IDA     International Development Association
MOF     Ministry of Finance
NAP     National Afforestation Project
NDRC    National Development and Reform Commission
NFPP    Natural Forest Protection Program
NPV     Net Present Value
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PMC     Project Management Center
PMO     Project Management Office
PRA     Participatory Rural Approach
SDR     Special Drawing Right
SFA     State Forestry Administration
TEATO   Technical Extension and Training Office
TVE     Township and Village Enterprise




                             Vice President:   Jeffrey S. Gutman, EAPVP (Acting)
                           Country Director    David R. Dollar, EACCF
                            Sector Manager     Mark D. Wilson, EASRD
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:        Liu Jin, EASRD

                                            CHINA
               FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT IN POOR AREAS PROJECT
                     IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            11
6. Sustainability                                                                13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 14
8. Lessons Learned                                                               16
9. Partner Comments                                                              17
10. Additional Information                                                       17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             23
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            26
Annex 8. Borrower's ICR                                                          27

Project ID: P046952                                                  Project Name: Forestry Development In Poor Areas
Team Leader: Jin Liu                                                 TL Unit: EASRD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 27, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: Forestry Development In Poor Areas                       L/C/TF Number: IF-N0390; SCL-43250;
                                                                                                     TF-27155
   Country/Department: CHINA                                                              Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Forestry (86%); Micro- and SME finance (7%); Agricultural marketing and trade (4%);
                            Irrigation and drainage (3%)
                  Theme: Land administration and management (P); Rural markets (P); Small and medium enterprise
                            support (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 01/24/1997                                     Effective: 12/16/1998                12/16/1998
     Appraisal: 02/19/1998                                         MTR: 10/13/2001                  10/13/2001
      Approval: 05/21/1998                                      Closing: 12/31/2005                 12/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          The People's Republic of China /The Ministry of Forestry
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jeffrey Gutman (acting)                        Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:               David R. Dollar                                Yukon Huang
Sector Manager:                 Mark D. Wilson                                 Geoffrey B. Fox
Team Leader at ICR:             Liu Jin                                        Richard Scobey
ICR Primary Author:             Albert Nyberg; Weiguo Zhou;
                                Zong-cheng Lin


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

   The Forestry Development in Poor Areas Project (FDPA) was designed to develop forest
   resources in poor areas of central and western China on a sustainable and participatory basis
   to support poverty reduction, forestry development and improved environmental management.

   China long has been a forest-poor country. The increasing gap between timber supply and
   demand is a key constraint to sustainable forestry development which in turn has led to a
   significant threat to biodiversity and natural forest protection. While the launch by the
   Government of China (GoC) of the Natural Forest Protection Program (NFPP) in 1998 was
   environmentally beneficial to China, it further widened the gap between timber supply and
   demand by imposing a nation-wide logging ban. The increase of forest resources is a priority in
   China's development strategy. Most poor areas are in the remote mountainous areas of central
   and western China, where agricultural land is extremely poor and forest resources are the most
   important production asset available, shifting the focus of afforestation activities from the
   more developed southern and coastal provinces to the poorer inland regions would not only
   contribute to the forestry development, but also support farmers' income generation,
   particularly for poor households, to contribute to poverty alleviation in these areas. The
   project objective reflected the government's development priorities and was highly consistent
   with the Bank's County Assistance Strategy (CAS) for China, which fits well within its goals
   of: (a) "Improving efficiency and sustainability of the use of natural resources" and (b)
   "reducing growing disparities and improve income in disadvantaged sectors and regions in
   China".

   The project objectives were clear and well understood by the participating provinces and
   county implementation agencies.

3.2 Revised Objective:

    The objectives remained unchanged throughout the project period.

3.3 Original Components:

   The primary focus of the project was timber and economic tree crop expansion, supported by
   strong technical services to develop new genetic materials, training for participants to extend
   new technologies and management experience on effective forest establishment and
   management, and the development of physical infrastructure. Additionally, credit for the
   development of small scale forestry product enterprises was provided. The project components
   are summarized below. The appraisal cost estimates included physical and price contingency
   provisions.

   (1) Timber Plantation (US$121.8 million, 33.5 percent of total project cost at appraisal).
   Although afforestation has continued for many years and nationwide forest coverage has
   increased, it remains low at about 18 percent. Deforestation and barren fragile lands have



                                               - 2 -

contributed to major flooding and erosion problems and many of these lands are not
sufficiently productive to generate adequate income for the resident population. The primary
objective of the project was to develop forestry resources to support poverty reduction and
forestry development in the mountainous areas of twelve provinces in central and western
China, where most of the designated poverty counties are located. This component financed
the establishment of about 315,000 ha of timber plantation. The forestry resources were
intended primarily to provide to construction timber and secondarily to provide pulpwood and
mine pit-props. The main afforestation entities were to be individual households, groups of
households, shareholding cooperative forest farms and village/township collective forest farms.
The improved silvicultural management program initiated in the Forest Resource Development
and Protection Project (FRDPP) were to be continued and the new research results were to be
extended to the project planting activities.

(2) Economic Forest Crops (US$135.2 million, 37.1 percent of total project cost at
appraisal). This project component was designed to generate income for poor households in a
shorter time period than would be generated from timber investments. It was designed to
finance the establishment of about 230,000 ha of economic forest crops, comprising 110,000
ha of new/rehabilitated bamboo and 120,000 ha of fruit, nut and medicinal tree crops. The
varieties/species selected were to be based on farmers' preferences ­ influenced by local
market conditions and the climatic/ecological suitability of trees to site conditions. Site
selection was based on soil fertility, rainfall, temperature, erosion potential, access to markets
and poverty status of the local populace. The afforestation entities were to be individual
households, groups of households and shareholding cooperative forest farms.

(3) Technical Support Services (US$ 81.5 million, 22.4 percent of total project costs at
appraisal). This component was designed to strengthen technical support in planting stock
development, training and extension, rural infrastructure, and monitoring and evaluation. Over
50 present of the funds in this component were allocated to improve the quality of planting
materials and introduce improved genetic materials and nursery/production management
technologies. Existing agricultural and forestry extension networks were used to
disseminate/train project beneficiaries. An additional US$8.0 million project funding was
allocated for training and extension - given project beneficiaries' relatively low education levels
and unfamiliarity with silvicultural practices. Some infrastructure ­ forest trails, limited
irrigation facilities for some economic tree crops, small storage sheds, etc. ­ was perceived as
necessary to implement the project effectively.

(4) Township and Village Enterprise (TVE) Development (US$25.5 million 7.0 percent of
total project costs at appraisal). This component provided on-lending support to develop and
expand small-scale, labor intensive, commercially-oriented TVEs engaged in forest product
processing and manufacturing. This component was expected to generate employment for
unskilled surplus labor, allow local communities to capture the economic benefits of
added-value to local production, and to expand the local market.




                                              - 3 -

3.4 Revised Components:

   The original components remained unchanged throughout the project implementation period.
   However, the scale and financing of the various components were adjusted to reflect the
   altered conditions. In particular, the activities of TVE Component were substantially reduced
   following the project mid-term review. Following the logging ban in 1998, several forest
   product enterprises, located in counties containing forests covered by the NFPP, were unable
   to obtain sufficient raw material. Moreover, some proposed TVEs faced rapidly changing
   markets and management risks. Consequently, interest in borrowing funds to establish or
   expand forest product enterprises was greatly reduced. Meanwhile, instead of developing
   TVEs many communities requested more tree plantings as increasing planting would cover
   more households, particularly the poor households, and forest products have a more stable
   market. At the mid-term review it was agreed to reduce the TVE establishment target from 64
   to 14 enterprises. The cost of TVE activities was reduced from 7 percent to 1.6 percent of the
   total project cost. The funds saved by reducing the TVE establishment number were
   reallocated to plantation activities. The logging ban also caused some counties to reconsider
   their level of participation because some sites were no longer available for timber production
   and harvesting. Subsequently, the number of project counties was expanded from 183 to 216
   to ensure that the development targets would be met and the funds spent.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

   A Quality at Entry review was not carried out by QAG for this project. However, timely and
   successful project implementation, with only modest revision, proved that the Quality at Entry
   of the project was satisfactory. The project objective was consistent with the CAS and
   government priorities in poverty alleviation and sustainable nature resource management. The
   project concept, albeit unique, was well developed and incorporated lessons learned from
   previous forestry and poverty alleviation projects, Quality Assurance Group/Operations
   Evaluation Department reviews of forestry and poverty alleviation projects, and sector studies
   on forestry and poverty. Considerable liaison was required between technical forestry staff and
   local poverty alleviation offices/staff to ensure appropriate selection of high-return tree species
   and identification of poor farmer participants. A large training component was included,
   primarily on economic tree management for both forestry bureau staff and farmers, and
   complemented existing institutional capacity in timber management.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

   The achievement of the project objective is rated as satisfactory. The project was managed by
   the     State     Forestry     Administration (SFA),       Forestry     Departments       in    12
   Provinces/Autonomous Regions and 216 county Forestry Bureaus as well as township
   Forestry Station staff.    It was implemented        by   individual   households,    groups     of
   households,     shareholding cooperative forest farms and village/township collective forest
   farms, accounting for 43.2, 28.1, 14.5, and 14.2 percent of the total planting areas,
   respectively. The project objective was achieved and the project outcome is rated as


                                                  - 4 -

satisfactory with very favorable impacts on poverty alleviation, environmental improvement,
and increased timber and economic tree crop production. The project demonstrates that the
afforestation effort in poor areas could not only contribute to forestry development but also
greatly assist in poverty reduction, which is quite different from other forestry development
projects that focused mainly on forest resource increases. The main outcomes and
achievements were as follows:

(1) Poverty Alleviation: A primary goal of the project was to develop forestry resources to
support poverty reduction in the mountainous areas of central and western China where most
of the designated poverty counties are located. Within the 216 project counties, 162 counties
are national and provincial poverty counties, accounting for 75 percent of the total. About
891,700 households participated in the project's activities of which approximately two-thirds
were designated as poor households. Results of household surveys conducted in villages of all
12 Project Provinces indicate significant poverty reduction impacts have been produced by the
project. Average annual per capita incomes of project participants increased from Y670 in
1998 to Y1653 in 2004 ­ an increase of approximately 150 percent. Products from economic
trees, such as Jujube, Tea, Bamboo and Pear planted under project auspices, contributed Y573
of that increase ­ an 85 percent increase over the 1998 baseline and substantially over the 60
percent target. The balance of the increased income was primarily due to off-farm employment;
the proportion of households with per capita annual incomes of Y1,500 or more increased
from 7.5 percent to 47 percent and the proportion of very poor households earning less than
Y500/ per year decreased from 41 percent to 2 percent between 1998 and 2004. The overall
poverty rate in the project counties declined from 40 percent in 1998 to 17.5 percent at project
closing in 2005, which exceeded the project target of 20 percent. Equally important was the
training farmers received, which improved their production and management skills, increased
their self-confidence and stimulated additional plantings external to the project. In addition, the
project planting activities also created about 110 million man-days of employment for the local
farmers.

(2) Forestry Development. An element of all forestry projects is their contribution to the
national forest resources. A total of 375,080 ha of timber plantations was established under the
FDPA, accounting for 119.1 percent of the target in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD).
Most of the plantations have reached the anticipated quality standards. Though project planted
timber trees are too immature to be harvested, estimates of the standing timber volume indicate
that the project closing target of 3 million m3 was exceeded by about 25 percent as the result of
a more rapid growth rate than appraisal estimates and an increase in the planted area of timber
trees. Similarly, the `end of cycle' volume of standing timber is estimated to exceed the full
impact target by 20-25 percent.

(3) Environment Improvement. The third goal was to improve the environment through
increased forest coverage, thereby improving water conservation and reducing soil erosion.
This objective was also realized. A close examination of historical county-level data indicates
that the actual forest coverage in project counties in 1997 was 39.1 percent rather than the 45
percent recorded in the PAD. The total forest coverage in the project counties was 45.8
percent in 2005 - an increase of 6.7 percentage points over the 1997 base and far above the


                                              - 5 -

   target of around 2 percent. Among the total forest cover increase, tree plantings under project
   auspices increased forests by 1.2 percent on average in the project counties. The impact of
   forest coverage, including economic tree plantings, on water conservation and soil erosion was
   evaluated in cooperation with the Bureau of Water Conservancy under specific conditions
   (degree of slope, amount of rainfall, etc.). Although these conditions are highly variable,
   applying the derived coefficients to the project area implies that project tree planting reduced
   water run-off (increased water conservation) and soil erosion very substantially - by 67 to 75
   percent compared with the bare sites.

4.2 Outputs by components:


   (1) Timber Plantation. A total of 375,080 ha of timber plantations was established. About
   one-third of the area was planted to conifer species and two-thirds were planted to
   broad-leaved species. There were nominal targets for individual species but farmers and
   communities were permitted to select those which they concluded, after consultation with local
   forestry stations, were better suited to the local environment and which faced better market
   prospects. The area planted to timber species exceeded the PAD target by about 19.1 percent.
   The project's Environmental Protection Guidelines were applied correctly to both timber
   plantations and economic tree crops, which effectively mitigated any negative environmental
   impacts by proper planting practices and enhanced the sustainability of the forest resource
   management.

   An inventory carried out by forest design institutions at project completion indicates that the
   growth of most plantations (94.4%) exceeds or is close to the designed growth target, and the
   growth rate of a few plantations is below the project standards. This under-target statistic is
   due in part to natural disasters including fire, drought and flood; an estimated 70 percent of the
   lower growth plantations are attributable to natural disasters. The balance is due to
   inappropriate species selection for the local environment and production mismanagement ­ the
   most common being insufficient use of fertilizer. Action plans to improve the plantation quality
   and to provide the necessary financing have been developed by relevant county Project
   Management Offices (PMOs) and planting entities.

   (2) Economic Forest Crops. Plantings of economic trees (fruits, nuts, tea, and medicinal/
   industrial oils) totaled 156,980 ha and 132,440 ha of bamboo were established or rehabilitated.
   These plantings exceeded their PAD targets by 30.8 percent and 20.4 percent, respectively.
   Plantings of virtually all economic tree species exceeded their targets; ginkgo was the notable
   exception. The project design incorporated, as much as possible, a wide range of tree species
   to ensure that poor households would receive a diversified income over both the short and long
   terms.

   The quality inventory classified 95.8 percent of bamboo plantations up to the growth target.
   Other economic tree crops had a somewhat lower proportion of 93.2 percent above or within
   the satisfactory category. Longan, tea, chestnut and hazelnut were among the better quality
   plantations ­ ginkgo and tung were the lowest. An important reason for the lower proportions
   of the economic crops is the decline in prices for a few of these economic tree products,



                                                 - 6 -

which reduced farmers' enthusiasm and discouraged their use of fertilizers and other cash
inputs. It is noteworthy that while the proportions of plantations that met the growth standards
were relatively lower during the initial years of the project, between 90 percent to 95 percent,
the proportion improved noticeably and exceeded 97 percent, during the final two years of
planting.

(3) Technical Support Services. The technical support services component comprised four
sub-components:

    (a) The planting stock development program focused on the provision of superior seeds
    and seedlings. Two-thirds of seed was collected from mother trees and seed orchards and
    one-fourth of seedling was clonal planting stock. About 460 superior provenance, families
    and clones of timber species and 260 new varieties of economic species were introduced
    to the project areas. About 1.5 billion Grade 1 seedlings were produced to meet the
    project demand of 1.1 billion ­ some 400 million seedlings in excess of the project needs,
    which were then made available to non-project households. Improved nursery technology
    (including tissue culture) and management experience were adopted. All Grade 2 seedlings
    were removed, ensuring that the project used only Grade 1 seedlings.

     (b) The technical extension and training program provided technical and management
    training to a large number of farmers and staff of project implementation agencies in tree
    production and management. Project training achievements exceeded targets. Senior
    managers participated in international study tours/training in 12 different countries
    involving about 3,000 person-days; approximately 49,000 person-days of management and
    technical training were held for Provincial and County staff by Central-and
    Provincial-level PMOs; and almost 300,000 person-days of training were held at the
    County level for township forest station staff and farmer leaders ­ about 400 percent more
    than the 60,480 target. More than 121,000 farmer leaders were trained to provide
    on-the-spot routine technical information. In addition, about 3.3 million farmer training
    days were completed ­ or seven percent more than the original target of 3.1 million. An
    important element of the training program were demonstration forests which were
    established on 29,520 ha (about 300 percent greater than the 5,815 ha target) in 161
    project counties and covering all of the important plantation species, including several
    minor broad-leaf and economic tree species. Managerial and technical material, exceeding
    470,000 volumes, were printed at the Central and Provincial levels for project staff and
    over 2.5 million leaflets, booklets and handbooks were printed at the county level (all 216
    counties) for distribution to farmers. In addition, numerous audio-visual aids were
    produced to train staff in superior cultivation and management techniques.

    Since project areas are largely located in the remote poor counties, and most of the project
    households were poorly educated and unfamiliar with improved silvicultural practices, the
    training and extension program was extremely important to improve farmers' capacity in
    planting technologies, production and management. Interviews with field technicians and
    farmers confirmed that they received significant technical training and other technical
    services including market information, and adopted a series of modern techniques for



                                             - 7 -

     plantation establishment and management. The project introduced and institutionalized
     plantation management skills would benefit poor farmers through increased income
     generation and contribute to sustainable forest management.

       (c)   Rural marketing infrastructure (transportation, cold storage facilities, etc. for
     economic tree crops) expected to be constructed during the final two years of project
     implementation was reviewed by Provincial officials and was largely considered
     unnecessary as the private sector has responded quickly to the market needs in this area to
     generate short-term income by such investment. Only Shanxi Province utilized project
     funds for infrastructure investment and the unutilized funds were reallocated to alternative
     uses following the review. This sub-component should have received a more thorough
     analysis at appraisal.

     (d)   The monitoring and evaluation program was successfully undertaken. A simple
     project monitoring and evaluation system was established to monitor project performance
     in achieving its development objectives and regularly assess the project's environmental
     and socioeconomic impacts. Also, various data bases were maintained. The effective
     monitoring contributed to improving the project implementation quality; it also provided
     timely feedback to project implementation agencies enabling them to improve or adjust
     implementation as issues arose. In addition: (a) household surveys were undertaken to
     provide baseline, mid-term and project closing information and data; (b) an income survey
     was conducted at project closing to determine the project's impact on poverty alleviation;
     and (c) a plantation growth survey was carried out at the end of the project to collect the
     technical data necessary to evaluate achievement of the project's production objective.
     These surveys and data bases facilitated the effectiveness of the monitoring and evaluation
     program.

     Plantation establishment and environmental protection monitoring was effectively
     conducted throughout project implementation. However, inadequate attention was
     accorded the community participation process at the early stage of the project. The
     monitoring of farmer participation and project beneficiary selection was improved
     following the Bank's recommendation, thus ensuring that the participatory process would
     be maintained during project implementation and that the majority of project benefits
     would accrue to the poor counties, communities and households.

(4)   Township and Village Enterprise Development. During the mid-term review, the TVE
target number was reduced from 64 to 14. Accordingly, a total of Credit funds of SDR 2.48
million and Loan balance of US$ 6.10 million of the TVE component finances were
reallocated to plantation establishment. The implementation of the component was poorer
than expected and it is rated as unsatisfactory. Of the 14 TVEs included in project financing,
nine remain in operation and five have failed. Several reasons have been identified for reduced
interest in borrowing for timber product TVE development and the poor performance of some
TVEs. First, the launched NFPP (enacted in 1998) banned logging in natural forests, thereby
limiting the supply of raw material for many proposed TVEs. Second, the lack of professional
staff in the provincial and county PMOs and the complex review and approval process caused



                                             - 8 -

   design and approval delays. Third, during this elapsed time market demand for several
   products changed substantially. Fourth, the enterprises were small-scale requiring relatively
   low quantities of technical inputs but intensive labor inputs, thus making them scale inefficient
   and less competitive.


   It is noted that great attention was paid by both client and the Bank task team to improve the
   management of the TVEs during the project implementation and timber processing specialists
   were hired to provide technical and management assistance to the project TVEs. With great
   effort, the operational efficiency of some TVEs was strengthened and the market
   competitiveness was improved.           Several enterprises performed very well. However, the
   performance record of individual TVEs was mixed. Clearly, more thought and analyses should
   have been directed toward this component during preparation and appraisal.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

   The major quantifiable benefits of the project are derived from the incremental value of timber,
   horticultural products and TVE outputs. Other significant non-quantifiable benefits were
   derived from: (a) environmental benefits such as reduced soil erosion and carbon sequestration;
   (b) improved technical support services; and (c) capacity building. Economic analysis was
   carried out for each of the 32 species models, each individual TVE, the Timber Production
   Component, the Economic Forest Crops Component, the TVE Development Component and
   the project as a whole. Compared to the PAD projections, the analysis showed an overall
   improved economic rate of return (ERR) at 26.2 percent for the project. The improved ERR
   for the Timber Production Component is due mainly to higher economic value of timber, the
   slightly lower ERR for Economic Forest Crops Component was due mainly to higher labor
   cost, and the substantially reduced ERR of the TVE Development Component was due mainly
   to the reduced numbers of TVEs and ineffective management of some TVEs. The Net Present
   Value (NPV) of the project was re-estimated at 5,419 million Yuan ($655 million equivalent)
   with the opportunity cost of capital at 12 percent and calculated over a 27-year period. This
   result is very robust to wide changes in key variables. Annex 3 provides more details.

                                                            ERR Estimate (%)

                                              Appraisal Estimate            Latest Estimate
              Component
   Timber Production                                20.1                         24.4

   Economic Forest Crops                            27.9                         27.5

   TVE Development                                  37.9                         14.7

   Total Project                                    24.4                         26.2




                                                  - 9 -

4.4 Financial rate of return:

   Financial analysis, using a cost and benefit analysis approach, was carried out for each species
   model, each individual TVE, the Timber Production Component, the Economic Forest Crops
   Component, the TVE Development Component and the project as a whole. For consistency
   and compatibility, the analysis followed the methodological assumptions observed at project
   appraisal: (a) one rotation for all timber species; (b) a 25-year time period; (c) complete
   production and harvesting costs; and (d) complete actual investment costs.           Benefits are
   derived from timber, horticultural products and by-products (such as fuel wood and resin) but
   neither investment for, nor revenue from, inter-cropping is considered. Financial prices are in
   2005 current prices. Actual import prices or the market prices paid were used for inputs.
   Weighted average roadside prices and average market prices collected from all project
   provinces were used for timber products and economic forest crop products, respectively. An
   average daily rate for labor was used in labor valuation, which was increased by about 20
   percent from the appraisal estimate. All these prices have been converted to 1998 constant
   prices based on the official inflation indices during the period. Financial rates of return (FRR)
   are estimated at 23 percent, 18.3 percent, 25.9 percent and 19.4 percent, respectively, for the
   project as a whole, the Timber Production Component, the Economic Forest Crops
   Component and the TVE Development Component. These FRRs are all significantly higher
   than those at project appraisal, except that for TVE Development Component. This overall
   improved project FRR was attributable mainly to: (a) the increase in the plantation area; (b)
   more favorable market prices for many project products; and (c) reduced or exempted tax
   obligations. The FRRs for individual species models range between 12.1 percent and 59.5
   percent. The estimated FRRs are generally sensitive to market prices, assumptions about the
   stand's age at final harvest and tree productivity. The detailed calculations for FRRs are
   available in the project file. The future fiscal impact of the project for the government
   budget will be for the support service expenditures for staff and facilities and adequate
   budget provision has been firmly committed by various levels of government. Commercial
   operations such as TVEs have positive impacts by generating tax revenues.


                                                       FRR Estimate (%)

        Component                 Appraisal Estimate                   Latest Estimate

 Timber Production                       14.7                               18.3

 Economic Forest Crops                   24.2                               25.9

 TVE Development                         28.7                               19.4

 Total Project                           19.8                                 23




                                                - 10 -

4.5 Institutional development impact:

   The project had a substantial institutional development impact. The project enhanced and
   expanded the effective administrative system developed under prior projects ­ including
   technical standards, regulations and guidelines ­ leading to improved extension effectiveness.
   The broad theoretical knowledge and practical skills of senior forestry academics and
   practitioners were captured by forming a national technical consultancy team (211 experts).
   This team of experts assisted in developing and promoting advanced forestry management and
   cultivation technologies that the Forestry Station staff introduced to farmers, greatly improving
   farm-level efficiency and productivity. The project's training component provided extensive
   administrative and intensive technical training which introduced new management and technical
   skills at all levels in the forestry sector. The technical skills of Forestry Station personnel, who
   interact with farmers, were upgraded and expanded to include economic tree cultivation and
   management. All of the project expertise has been retained by integrating project activities into
   routine forestry activities; furthermore, staff turnover was limited to retirement. Lastly, skilled
   farmer leaders were trained to provide a stable line of communication from Forestry
   Stations to other village farmers. The institutional development success is demonstrated by the
   large areas of timber and economic tree establishment, using the improved technologies that
   has occurred outside the project.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

   Several external factors affected project implementation, both positively and negatively. On the
   positive side, the increased prices for products of most timber species increased farmers'
   interest in participation and improved the financial/economic benefits of the project.
   Economic tree product prices fluctuated, but the average prices and net incomes appear to
   have been relatively stable. However, other factors negatively affected project implementation
   and success. Firstly, the changes in the US$ exchange rate with respect to the SDR during
   implementation reduced the US$ value of the IDA Credit by an estimated US$1.57 million.
   This is a small impact as an undisbursed Loan balance remained at Project closing. Secondly,
   several localized natural disasters affected tree survival and quality. For example, droughts in
   three provinces (Henan, Shanxi and Hebei) in 2002 contributed to some plantations' failure to
   reach growth standards, and fires affected an estimated 0.8 percent of the plantings in Hunan
   Province.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

   Factors which were subject to government control also had both positive and negative
   impacts on project implementation. Positive factors include: (a) the government's decision to
   eliminate the eight percent Agricultural Tax which had the effect of improving the net income
   of farmers and foresters and stimulated interest in increasing agriculture and forestry
   production; and (b) the very favorable macroeconomic climate of strong economic
   growth and reform contributed to increased labor movement and improved ability to earn


                                                     - 11 -

   off-farm income and reduce poverty. The transfer of surplus labor out of the poverty areas
   increased farmer labor wages and reduced interest in labor-intensive agricultural production.
   As a result of the smaller labor requirement for forest crops, this transfer had a positive
   impact on project implementation.

   Unfavorable implementation factors included: (a) the National NFPP that prohibited logging in
   selected areas of Sichuan, Guizhou and Yunnan. Some project areas identified for initial
   afforestation were in these protected zones and were no longer available for timber plantation
   establishment. The plantation tasks and funding were then reallocated to other project
   provinces and counties; (b) the logging ban, coupled with market changes in a liberalized
   market environment, impacted negatively on raw material supply to forestry TVEs and the
   market for processed timber products, causing some to downsize or discontinue operations;
   and (c) the logging ban also reduced financial revenues in counties located in the Program
   areas, which reduced the availability of counterpart funds. In addition, the selection of project
   counties focused on poverty counties which are inherently budget constrained and limited the
   capacity to meet counterpart commitments. Government counterpart funds provided were
   below commitment levels, and the shortage was largely compensated by increased investment
   by farmers and planting entities.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

   The project management system and structure was very strong and indispensable to
   successful    implementation       and    sustainability. Skilled, high-level advisory groups were
   established at the Central level which further improved management and technical skills. The
   pyramidal management structure, from the Central level down to township Forestry Station
   level was well coordinated, staff were knowledgeable and capable, and staff turnover was
   minimal and favorably facilitated project implementation, training and information flows.

   The project developed a delivery mechanism for extension capable of reaching individual
   households and providing detailed information on appropriate tree species for specific
   locations that, combined with a participatory implementation approach, enabled farmers to
   plant tree species of their own selection and ensured strong farmer participation interest.

   Successful implementation was further supported by research and training (involving new
   technologies, demonstration plots, plantation management, etc.). Community                 Forestry
   Assessment       (CFA)        was    first    introduced     into    China's  large-scale plantation
   development by the FDPA, and became a distinct factor enabling the project to involve large
   numbers of farm households, especially the poorer ones. Based on a participatory rural
   approach (PRA) , CFA was the mechanism linking project planning and farmers' demands and
   aspirations, and facilitated local communities' participation in the entire project process. CFA
   oriented the project design and implementation toward poor households, on the basis of their
   needs. As a result, the project widely benefited poor households.




                                                    - 12 -

   Early in project implementation, management perceived the difficulties of implementing the
   TVE component under the altered Forest Policy environment and appropriately requested
   downsizing that component, along with the marketing infrastructure sub-component, and
   reallocated the released funds to afforestation activities.

5.4 Costs and financing:

   Total project costs are estimated at US$370.3 million, about 2 percent over the appraisal
   estimate of $364.0 million. The project cost among components was adjusted during project
   implementation to support an increased number of both timber plantation and economic forest
   crops. While financing sources remain unchanged from the appraisal plan, both absolute and
   relative contributions by each source changed. Contributions from all sources were reduced
   except for the beneficiaries' contribution. Of the total financing required, about 52 percent was
   funded by the Bank, 3 percent lower than the appraisal estimate. The aggregated financial
   contributions of all government entities were reduced to 17 percent from the appraisal estimate
   of 27 percent. The beneficiaries' contribution increased from 18 percent at appraisal to 31
   percent, mostly in the form of labor, organic manure and a limited amount of cash. An
   undisbursed balance of about US$5.5 million was cancelled from the Loan Account. Project
   costs and financing are outlined in Annex 2.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

   A complex set of factors are combined to rate the sustainability of the project's development
   impact as highly likely. The physical project activities were largely completed and it is highly
   likely that the plantations will survive and grow as anticipated, which will generate
   economic and financial returns and environmental benefits as forecast. Administrative and
   technical support for timber and economic tree production is well established ­ from the
   central SFAs down to township Forestry Stations ­ and is well respected by farmers/foresters.
   The prices of many timber and economic tree species have increased, increasing tree crop
   profitability. The participatory approach initiated under the project was welcomed by farmers
   and they remain enthusiastic. Farmer training in new technologies and management
   techniques led to productivity gains greater than anticipated at appraisal, in both timber and
   economic tree crops, leading not only to higher household incomes but improving human
   capital and farmer self-confidence. Many farmers have further developed and expanded tree
   crop areas outside the project, utilizing their own resources for expansion. Tree plantings
   under project auspices increased the forested area in project counties; in addition, non-project
   planting increased the forested area by more than 5 percent in the project counties during the
   project implementation period, indicating both interest and capability.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

   The institutional arrangement for regularizing post-project activities is well-developed,
   understood and effective. The forestry management, organization and structure facilitate the
   merging of project activities including pest management, fire prevention and control,
   technical assistance to farmers and planting entities, as well as other plantation maintenance


                                                  - 13 -

   functions into their operational routine and this has been largely achieved. The Bank ICR
   mission emphasized that because the plantations have a long gestation period before delivering
   their final economic benefits, and the appropriate post-project management arrangements are
   essential to ensure that the expected project benefits are achieved. Many project entities have
   developed post-project action plans to ensure continuity and others have committed to
   prepare post-project plantation management action plans. The funds for post-project plantation
   management will be largely derived from selling economic tree products, harvest of existing
   plantations and using other short-term income. Though some of the poorest farmers might
   have difficulty in meeting their initial loan repayments, particularly if they selected timber
   species, local County governments are committed to supporting the poor and have promised
   repayment assistance if necessary. In addition, the provincial and county PMOs have
   committed to strengthen information service to the farmers and planting entities to improve the
   linkages between plantation production and markets needs.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

   The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation and appraisal of the project is rated
   as satisfactory. The project's objectives and scope were consistent with the government's
   strategy for sustainably increasing forestry stocks/supplies, improving the environment, and
   reducing poverty. The project also reflected the Bank's CAS priorities in these areas. The
   Bank team appropriately appraised government's commitment and the Forestry agencies'
   capacity to implement the project. The project incorporated experiences and lessons learned
   from previous forestry and poverty alleviation projects.

   No major identification/preparation shortcomings have been identified. However, greater
   in-depth evaluation of the marketing infrastructure at the preparation stage could have
   determined that demand for such infrastructure was relatively weak. The TVE component was
   weakly implemented, which was largely because the preparation team could not have foreseen
   the policy change that affected the viability of forestry TVEs. In addition, the small-scale and
   labor-intensive TVE design reduced the competitive capacity of the enterprises.

7.2 Supervision:

   The Bank's supervision performance in implementing the project is rated as satisfactory. A
   stable task team including a forestry specialist and a social development specialist was
   maintained throughout the implementation period.        Supervision teams retained continuity,
   made flexible but timely visits and included appropriate combinations of skills to address issues
   as they became relevant. This continuity fostered a mutually trusting working relationship with
   the implementing agencies and facilitated superior supervision; implementation problems and
   issues, such as a revised     disbursement rate and adjusted TVE activities, were promptly
   addressed.




                                               - 14 -

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

   The overall Bank performance during project identification, preparation and supervision is
   rated as satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

   The borrower's performance in project preparation is rated as satisfactory. Adequate resources
   were committed to project preparation; all levels of government and project implementation
   agencies strongly supported the project objective and goals and made the political and financial
   commitments necessary for successful implementation. Appropriate lessons learned from
   previous forestry and poverty projects were incorporated into the project design ­ including
   sufficient extension staff and farmer training to ensure that new technologies and management
   practices were thoroughly understood and incorporated into farm-level production. During
   project preparation, numerous meetings were held at township and village levels to identify
   potential village and farmer participation. Government officials and implementing agency staff
   worked closely and continuously with the Bank's preparation staff. SFA's strong
   organizational structure for project preparation and implementation ensured all relevant
   agencies were appropriately involved and issues requiring resolution were effectively and
   promptly resolved. The only preparation weakness was insufficient attention to, and analysis
   of, the issues that affected on-lending for TVE development and expansion.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

   The government's implementation performance is rated as satisfactory. Poverty reduction and
   environmental protection are high priorities and the government maintained strong interest in
   the project throughout implementation. When changes in implementation became necessary,
   the government promptly responded with appropriate requests and comments, and the
   government-Bank cooperation remained strong throughout implementation.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

   The performance of the implementing agencies, from the central PMC through all levels down
   to township Forestry Stations, is rated as satisfactory. The project employed a participatory
   approach not before utilized in forestry projects, which was highly successfully and
   enthusiastically supported by farmer participants. There was full compliance with the legal
   covenants in the Credit and Loan Agreements; the quality of physical implementation was
   consistently high and outputs exceeded targets. Problems with fertilizer procurement were
   addressed, although not fully resolved until a number of necessary fertilizers were purchased
   locally and Organic manure was largely applied.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:


   The overall performance of the borrower is rated satisfactory.



                                                - 15 -

8. Lessons Learned

   The successful implementation of the project provided the following lessons which will be
   useful in designing future forestry projects in poor areas:

       (a)   Farmer participation and empowerment through CFA was an appropriate project
       innovation that helped to ensure that social objectives were achieved. Although staff
       intensive, the CFA model was effective and instrumental in poor farmer participation, and
       farmers keenly supported the concept. This process should be replicated in future forestry
       development and poverty alleviation projects.

       (b)     A strong research-extension-training linkage was fundamental to transferring new
       production techniques/technologies and management to farmers/foresters. A highly
       qualified    senior     consultancy     group     and   researchers    provided   advice and
       information and was effectively linked through the project structure with farmers. This
       strong linkage also provided superior planting materials and facilitated timber and
       economic tree productivity gains that exceeded targets.

       (c)     The development of a fertilizer market implies that farmers can obtain fertilizer
       more efficiently than through central procurement and distribution. Future projects should
       include fertilizer costs in farmers' loan packages.

       (d)     The participatory approach is effective in ensuring farmers/foresters feel a sense of
       `ownership', but very poor farmers/foresters must be cautioned that planting timber
       species could result in loan repayment difficulties as maturity and harvest are long term.
       They should be encouraged to plant early-bearing economic tree crops or to
       diversify planting species to include both short term and long term species. Long rotation
       timber species might be appropriate if farmers have other short-term income
       generating activities that meet their livelihood needs before timber can be harvested.

       (e)    Intensive and detailed TVE analyses are necessary for projects with TVE on-lending
       components. Manufacturing enterprises are more susceptible to market shifts than
       producers of raw materials and therefore requires critical evaluation. If TVE components
       are included in future projects, project preparation and implementation agencies must
       have staff qualified to appraise enterprises to ensure; (a) commercial viability in
       both input and output markets; (b) scale efficiencies are achievable; (c) there is
       sufficient flexibility to adjust to policies that may limit input or output markets; and (d)
       inventory and cash flow management are realistic and consistent with borrowing and
       repayment capacity.




                                                 - 16 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

    Thanks to the concerted efforts and sound cooperation between us and the World Bank over
    the past seven years, the implementation of FDPA well achieved the designated targets. We
    regard that the ICR has objectively reflected the project performance.

(b) Cofinanciers:

    No cofinancing was involved in the project.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

    No other partners were involved in the project.

10. Additional Information




                                                - 17 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

                                                                                                      Actual as %
                             Indicators                                Projected in   Actual/latest   of appraisal
                                                                          PAD            estimate     estimate
A. Poverty Reduction
   1. Number of participating household                                    700,000           891,695           127
   2. % of poor household                                                        70              67             96
   3. % of minority household                                                    18              19            106
   4. Per capita income of project beneficiaries increased by %                  60              85            142
   5. Incidence of poverty decreased from 40% in 1996 to                         20              18            114
B. Forest Resource Development
   1. Incremental standing volume of timber (million m3)                         54             64.9           120
   2. Incremental horticultural production value (RMB million)               2,300             3,060           133
C. Environmenal management
   1. Rate of forest coverage increased, %                                       39              46            117
D. Capacity Building (person-day)
   1. Overseas Study Tours/Training                                          3,675             3,060            83
   2. Training at national level                                             3,410             3,840           113
   3. Training at provincial level                                          26,730            45,181           169
   4. Training at county level                                              60,480           296,143           490
   5. Training at township level                                         3,112,085        3,298,804            106
   6. International consultants                                                120                66            55
   7. National and local consultants                                                         105,400


Output Indicators:
                                                                                                      Actual as %
                             Indicators                                Projected in   Actual/latest
                                                                                                      of appraisal
                                                                          PAD            estimate
                                                                                                      estimate
A. Tree Plantation
   Total plantation area (ha.)                                             545,000           664,497           122
   Grade I plantation, %                                                         85              95            112
   Class I seedlings produced (billion pieces)                                  1.1              1.5           136
   % of clone planting stock                                                     20              25            125
   Number of sheds constructed (shed)                                        3,000             1,576            53
   Value of marketing investments ( RMB million)                                 40                1              3
B. Township and Village Enterprises
   Number of TVEs established                                                    64               14            22
   Number of jobs created                                                    8,320             1,500            18
      of which, % poverty farmers                                                70              60             86
   Gross TVE output (RMB million)                                              212              87.5            41


   Notes:
   a. All the indicators are valued at the project close except B1 incremental standing volume and
      B2 horticultural production value, which are the estimated values at full impact of the project.
   b. Per capita income increase of project beneficiaries includes the income of the householders
      who have planted economic tree crops.




                                                       - 18 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

                                                                                        Actual/Latest Actual/        Actual/
                                         Appraisal Estimate MTR adjusted                Estimate          Appraisal MTR
component                                US$ million                US$ million         US$ million       %          %

A. Timber Plantation                                      121.80              131.50               128.6      106          98
B. Economic Forest Crops                                  135.20              145.20               149.8      111        103
C. Technical Support Services                               81.50               81.50               86.3      106        106
D. TVE Development                                          25.50                 5.80                5.6       22         97

                  Total                                   364.00              364.00               370.3                 102




Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (in US$ million equivalent)

     Expenditure Category                                        Procurement Method                             Total Cost /c
                                             ICB                 NCB            Other /a           NBF /b
1. Works                                                          1.1             290.0                             291.1
                                                                 (0.6)           (143.5)                            (144.1)
     Plantation Establishment                                                     278.0                             278.0
                                                                                 (137.6)                            (137.6)
     Civil Works                                                  1.1              12.0                              13.1
                                                                 (0.6)            (6.0)                              (6.5)
2. Goods                                     39.3                 8.6              14.4                              62.3
                                            (39.3)               (4.7)            (9.2)                             (53.3)
     Equipment                                1.8                 8.1              10.5                              20.3
                                             (1.8)               (4.2)            (5.3)                             (11.3)
     Vehicles                                11.8                                                                    11.8
                                            (11.8)                                                                  (11.8)
     Silviculture Inputs                     25.7                 0.5              4.0                               30.2
                                            (25.7)               (0.5)            (4.0)                             (30.2)
3. Services                                                                        4.1                6.5            10.6
                                                                                  (2.6)                -             (2.6)
     Training and Study Tours                                                      0.9                5.4            6.2
                                                                                  (0.9)                -             (0.9)
     Consultant Services                                                           3.2                1.1            4.4
                                                                                  (1.8)                -             (1.8)
Total                                        39.3                 9.7             308.5               6.5           364.0
                                            (39.3)               (5.3)           (155.4)             (0.0)          (200.0)
Note:     Figures in parenthesis represent the amount financed by the Bank.
/a Other procurement methods include force account and community participation for plantation establishment, some rural
infrastructure civil works (trails, sheds, irrigation facilities, and marketing infrastructure); and some TVE civil works; direct
contracting for seeds; limited international bidding for pesticides; international shopping for some equipment; and training and
consultant services.
/b NBF means non-Bank financing.
/c Total cost includes contingencies.




                                                                 - 19 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (in US$ million equivalent)

     Expenditure Category                              Procurement Method                             Total Cost
                                        ICB             NCB             Other /a        NBF /b
1. Works                                                                 326.0                          326.0
                                                                        (173.5)                        (173.5)
     Plantation Establishment                                            314.7                          314.7
                                                                        (167.7)                        (167.7)
     Civil Works                                                          11.4                           11.4
                                                                          (5.9)                          (5.9)
2. Goods                                12.4             0.8              5.7             17.0           35.9
                                       (12.4)           (0.8)             (5.1)             -           (18.3)
     Equipment                          0.4              0.5              0.3                             1.2
                                        (0.4)           (0.5)             (0.2)                          (1.2)
     Vehicles                           9.0                                                               9.0
                                        (9.0)                                                            (9.0)
     Silviculture Inputs                3.0              0.3              5.4             17.0           25.7
                                        (3.0)           (0.3)             (4.9)             -            (8.1)
3. Services                                                               2.4             6.1             8.4
                                                                          (1.1)             -            (1.1)
     Training and Study Tours                                             0.8             2.7             3.5
                                                                          (0.8)             -            (0.8)
     Consultant Services                                                  1.6             3.4             5.0
                                                                          (0.3)             -            (0.3)
Total                                   12.4             0.8             334.1            23.1          370.3
                                       (12.4)           (0.8)           (179.7)          (0.0)         (192.9)
Note:
/a Other procurement methods include force account for plantation establishment, all civil works; direct
contracting for seeds; limited international bidding for pesticides; international shopping for some equipment; and
training and consultant services.
/b NBF means non-Bank financing.
Figures in parenthesis represent the amount financed by the Bank.




                                                       - 20 -

Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
              Component                                 Appraisal Estimate
                                         Bank         Government      Beneficiaries  Total

A. Timber Plantation                                                                       121.80
B. Economic Forest Crops                                                                   135.20
C. Technical Support Services                                                              81.50
D. TVE Development                                                                         25.50
Total Project Cost                                200            98.5            65.5      364.00


              Component                                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                         Bank         Government      Beneficiaries  Total

A. Timber Plantation                             76.8            22.7            29.2       128.6
B. Economic Forest Crops                         74.4            23.7            51.6       149.8
C. Technical Support Services                    39.1            15.2             32         86.3
D. TVE Development                                 2.6            0.7             2.3         5.6
Total Project Cost                             192.90           62.30         115.10       370.30


              Component                                 Percentage of Appraisal
                                         Bank         Government      Beneficiaries  Total

A. Timber Plantation                                                                       106.0
B. Economic Forest Crops                                                                   111.0
C. Technical Support Services                                                              106.0
D. TVE Development                                                                          22.0
Total Project Cost                              96.5            63.0          176.0        102.0


Note:
/a No breakdown of financing by component was made at project appraisal.
/b Total may not tally due to rounding.




                                              - 21 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

                                                      Economic Analysis                           Financial Analysis
                                           Appraisal Estimate       Latest Estimte      Appraisal Estimate      Latest Estimte
                  Species

                                        ERR %      NPV (yuan)     ERR % NPV (yuan) FRR % NPV (yuan) FRR % NPV (yuan)
Timber Production                           20.1      1,290,339      24.4   2,097,079     14.7     363,708      18.3      848,582
  1  Masson Pine (14)                       18.3          4,364      17.2       4,117     13.1          630     12.9          555
  2  Masson Pine (16F)                      18.6          4,417      17.4       4,118     13.4          767     13.1          660
  3  Masson Pine (16P)                      19.1          5,585      18.3       5,735     14.6        1,647     14.3        1,580
  4  Slash Pine (16)                        19.5          6,329      18.9       6,874     15.3        2,254     15.4        2,496
  5  Slash Pine (14)                        19.9          6,090      19.2       6,480     15.2        1,976     15.2        2,204
  6  Slash Pine (12)                        20.2          5,619      19.2       5,651     14.8        1,537     15.0        1,781
  7  Loblolly Pine (14)                     20.2          6,423      19.3       6,693     15.5        2,222     15.2        2,183
  8  Loblolly Pine (12) /b                  19.2          5,668                           14.8        1,748
  9  Chinese Fir                            20.5          8,295      19.1       8,060     16.0        3,286     14.9        2,475
 10 Japanese Larch (16)                     16.6          3,145      16.1       3,366     12.1           42     12.1           62
 11 Chinese White Poplar                    21.6          7,185      22.7       9,612     17.3        3,292     17.6        3,703
 12 Populus Simonii /b                      21.9          2,756                           16.0          982
 13 Italian Poplar                          29.3          5,854      38.0      12,450     20.7        2,551     29.7        6,926
 14 Eucalyptus                              34.0          4,864      42.2       9,163     24.6        2,527     32.3        5,101
 15 Black Locust                            18.7          2,514      19.1       3,280     13.0          302     13.1          379
 16 Broad-leaf Trees                        16.2          2,565      15.6       2,581     12.1           72     12.0           20
Economic Tree Crops                         27.9      2,402,271      27.5   3,314,319     24.2   1,736,839      25.9    2,835,182
  1  Moso Bamboo - new                      18.8          3,665      22.6       7,674     13.4          672     20.0        5,373
  2  Moso Bamboo - rehab.                   23.6          5,468      28.2      10,601     17.6        2,290     25.6        8,050
  3  Arundinaria                            32.5         10,019      27.9       8,402     32.2      10,909      23.2        5,484
  4  Dendrocalamus                          40.8         12,687      43.7      16,689     34.2        9,768     37.2       12,402
  5  Walnut                                 26.6         14,013      26.3      15,940     21.1        7,551     28.5       20,041
  6  Chestnut                               26.3         14,358      26.5      17,611     24.1      11,711      22.0       10,642
  7  Eucommia                               19.4          5,006      19.7       5,599     15.6        2,182     17.8        3,915
  8  Gingko                                 34.5         24,397      18.8       5,678     31.9      20,982      14.7        2,066
  9  Jujube                                 24.9          8,768      31.6      18,598     19.1        4,420     27.8       13,649
 10 Pear                                    33.4         20,712      28.6      17,015     32.2      20,451      36.1       29,992
 11 Tea                                     25.0         11,365      36.4      28,771     21.9        8,003     34.4       25,383
 12 Anise                                   33.8         30,942      19.3       6,115     31.3      24,004      17.3        3,974
 13 Orange                                  35.7         35,705      25.3      16,991     33.6      32,411      35.4       40,349
 14 Oil Tea - rehab.                        28.4         11,382      24.9      10,906     23.9        7,495     23.4        9,052
 15 Hazelnut - rehab.                       34.6          4,212      74.8      18,395     26.0        2,586     59.5       12,528
 16 Apricot                                 41.2         37,320      39.9      37,720     38.4      33,281      31.1       20,810
 17 Tung Tree                               25.0          3,849      15.4         935     18.6        1,883     12.4          101
 18 Longan                                  36.3         21,628      24.5      11,005     33.6      19,362      20.5        6,809
TVE Development                             37.9        413,308      14.7       7,309     28.7      212,129     19.4       14,942
  1  Solid Wood Floor Board                 44.4     11,488,164                           28.7    5,115,611
  2  Ply-Bamboo Concrete Formwork           42.2      6,694,993                           27.7    2,813,968
  3  Fine Wood Board                        41.0      7,392,646                           32.2    3,919,054
  4  Rosin $ Turpentine                     32.2      7,335,396                           19.5    2,090,634
  5  Fruit Cold Storage                     27.8      3,734,645                           22.3    1,851,862
  6  Wicker-work                            26.4      1,811,950                           32.4    2,425,869
Total Project                               24.4      3,990,174      26.2   5,418,622     19.8    2,214,589     23.0    3,698,632
Notes:
a. Based on 12% discount rate.
b. Loblolly Pine (12) and Populus Simonii were dropped during project implementation.
c. NPV for the individual components and the total project is in '000 yuan.
d. Analytical results for individual TVEs actually supported under the project are not shown due to their irrelevance to the TVE
groups at appraisal.




                                                             - 22 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                        No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                            (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year     Count              Specialty                           Progress      Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               11/1996                         4    TL, ECO, PM, SD
               04/1997                         7    TL, ECO, ID, PM, SD, S, H

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               10/1997                         6    TL, PM, SD, H, LM, M
               03/1998                         8    TL, ECO, PM, SD, E, FS, LM,
                                                    M

 Supervision
               11/1998                          5   TL, D, E, PM, S                          S              S
               06/1999                          4   TL, D, PM, S                             S              S
               12/1999                          4   TL, D, PM, S                             S              S
               04/2000                          6   TL, D, ET, PM, S, TP                     S              S
               10/2000                          8   TL, D, AE, SD, S, H, TP, PM              S              S
               05/2001                          5   TL, H, TP, SD, D                         S              S
               10/2001                          7   TL, D, AE, SD, S, H, TP                  S              S
               06/2002                          3   TL, S, H                                 S              S
               11/2002                          6   TL, DS, SD, S, H                         S              S
               09/2003                          5   TL, FM, SD, S, H                         S              S
               05/2004                          4   TL, FM, SD, E                            S              S
               03/2005                          4   TL, FM, SD, E                            S              S

 ICR
               04/2006                         4     TL, E, AE, SD                           S              S


    AE     = Agricultural Economist                    D      = Disbursement Specialist
    E      = Economist                                 ECO = Ecologist
    ET     = Economic Tree Crop Specialist             FM     = Financial Management Specialist
    FS     = Forestry Specialist                       H      = Horticulturist
    ID     = Institutional Development Specialist      LM     = Land Management Specialist
    M      = Marketing Specialist                      PM     = Plant Materials Specialist
    S      = Silviculturalist                          SD     = Social Development Specialist
    TL     = Team Leader                               TP     = Timber Processing Specialist

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                         Actual/Latest Estimate
                                         No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                     14.6                          55.01.
  Appraisal/Negotiation                          30.3                         115.53
  Supervision                                   150.9                         363.21
  ICR                                            11.2                           33.52
  Total                                         207.0                         567.27




                                                     - 23 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


  1. China FDPA ICR by PMC, SFA, March 2006.
  2. China FDPA Technical Extension and Training Summary Report, March 2006.
  3.  FDPA Third Household Survey Report, March 2006.
  4.  FDPA Community Forestry Assessment Summary Report, March 2006.
  5.  FDPA Young Plantation Quality Inventory Report, March 2006.
  6.  FDPA Environmental Monitoring Analysis Report, March 2006.
  7.  FDPA Performance Indicator Monitoring Table, March 2006.
  8.  Henan Province FDPA ICR, April 2006.
  9.  Anhui Province FDPA ICR Brief, April 2006.
  10. Aide-Memoire for FDPA ICR Mission, April 2006.




                                        - 26 -

Additional Annex 8. [Borrower's ICR]

                    Implementation Completion Report

                     World Bank Loan Project Management Center, SFA, China

                                           March 2006
  Executive Summary

   Project name: Forestry Development In Poor Areas Project (FDPA) (N039/4325-CHA).

   Execution period: From December 16, 1998 to December 31, 2005, seven years in total.

  Project objective: Establish 545,000 ha of timber plantation, economic tree crops, and
  bamboo forests, based on sustainable and local participatory principles, in 12 project
  provinces (regions) of central and western China, to add forest resources and speed up
  forestry development, alleviate local poverty and improve the environment.

  The borrowers: The project borrowers are of 4 levels. The first level is the Ministry of
  Finance, P. R. China (on behalf of the Chinese government); The second level is the people's
  governments of the 12 provinces (regions) of Hebei, Shanxi, Liaoning, Anhui, Jiangxi, Henan,
  Hubei, Hunan, Guangxi, Sichuan, Guizhou and Yunnan; The third level is the people's
  governments of the 216 counties (cites) of the above 12 provinces (region); The fourth level
  is the 470,000 entities (households, household groups, shareholding forest farms or collective
  forest farms) of the above 216 project counties (cites).

  Total investment: The planned total project investment is RMB3.02 billion Yuan (equivalent
  to 364 million USD in 1998), including World Bank borrowing of 200 million USD (IBRD
  100 million USD, and IDA interim fund credit 74.3 million SDRs equivalent to 100 million
  USD) or RMB1.66 billion Yuan, and national counterpart fund RMB 1.361 billion Yuan (
  equivalent to 164 million USD). By December 31, 2005 the total accomplished project
  investment is 370.3 million USD (equivalent to RMB3.066 billion Yuan), including World
  Bank borrowing 193 million USD (IBRD loan 94.477 million USD, IDA credit 98.430 million
  USD), and the actual national investment of counterpart funds is RMB1.469 billion Yuan.

  Output/impacts: (1) Established 664,500 hectares of high standard and highly diverse tree
  species and intensively managed plantations, which made a significant addition to the local
  forest resource reserve. The established timber/bamboo forest totaled 510,000 hectares have
  been taken as the demonstration forest of the China National Fast-growing and High-yielding
  Timber Production in Key Areas Program. (2) The implementation of the project has
  accelerated the pace of poverty reduction in the poor population in the mountainous areas of
  central and western parts of the country, a positive contribution to the realization of the
  central government's target of Eighty Million Population Out-of-Poverty Within Seven Years
  Program; (3) The project is a beneficial and successful exploration of poverty alleviation by


                                             - 27 -

China's forestry sector, especially by using international financial resources to solve the
survival and development problems of the poor households in mountainous areas; and (4) For
the first time in China, a large project employed a participatory method on a wide scale to
prepare, implement and monitor afforestation, thereby raising the capability of local forestry
department to adopt social instruments to manage forestry projects.

Main benefits: It has been estimated that, at maturity, the project will produce forest
standing volume of 64,924,700 cubic meters, firewood - 4,064,600 tons, rosin - 111,325,000
kg, bamboo timber and bamboo shoots - 11.77 billion kg, fruit (plus leaf, bark) - 8.169 billion
kg, and the Eucommia tree can produce 350,000 cubic meters of timber. The total value of
these products would result in total project income of 53.9 billion Yuan, an after-tax financial
NPV 3.699 billion Yuan, and an after-tax financial internal rate of return 23%. Project
implementation benefited approximately 3,830,000 people including 2,610,000 members of
poor households, whose recent income has substantially increased, living conditions and
standards have improved, and a foundation for long-term development firmly established. The
town and village enterprises the project supported played a role in using local forest
by-products as raw materials, employ poor farmers and generate additional income. Forest
coverage in the project areas increased by approximately 2 percent and sequestered 0.4 billion
tons of carbon. The implementation of the project provided local employment of about 0.11
billion person days.

 General Information

 1.1 Project Background

       1.1.1 Forests are the main part for forestry development, ecological improvement and
 environmental protection, but China long has been a forest resource deficit country.

       1.1.2 The World Bank funded forestry projects such as the National Afforestation
 Project (NAP), Forest Resource Development and Protection Project (FRDPP), have
 facilitated speedy forest growth in China since mid-1980s and became a chief driving force
 for the reformation and opening-up to the outside world of China's forestry sector and
 for the development of its intensively managed forest plantations program.

       1.1.3   Poverty-alleviation is a principal developmental strategy for the Chinese
 government as well as the World Bank. To further enrich the forest resources, improve the
 environment, and improve the livelihood of the local people, State Forestry Administration
 (SFA, formerly the Ministry of Forestry) lodged an application to the National Development
 and Reform Commission (NDRC, formerly the State Planning Commission) and the
 Ministry of Finance (MOF) for World Bank loan Phase III afforestation project, which
 was formally listed for financing for 1998 fiscal year, following the negotiation between
 Chinese government and World Bank for the 1997-1999 pipeline program in May 1996.




                                            - 28 -

1. 2 Project formation

     1.2.1 Project proposal, identification and pre-appraisal. From October to
     November 1996, a project identification mission of the World Bank headed by Mr. R.
     Scobey, visited China to verify the project. In January 1997, the NDRC approved the
     project proposal. In April through May 1997, World Bank working team had further
     discussion with SFA, NDRC and MOF and named the project "Forestry Development
     in Poor Areas Project". In Oct.-Nov. of the same year, the World Bank pre-appraised
     the project.

     1.2.2 Appraisal, negotiations and effectiveness. On the basis of thorough
     preparatory work at the provincial level, from February to March 1998, the World Bank
     appraised the project and in April the Feasibility Studies were approved by NDRC.
     From April 6th through 10th 1998, an in-depth negotiation was held in World Bank
     headquarter Washington D. C., USA regarding the provision of an IBRD loan of
     USD100 million and a interim fund credit of 74.3 million SDR (1SDR=USD1.34731,
     approximately USD100 million), and the Project Credit Agreement, Loan Agreement
     and the Minutes of Negotiation signed. On December 16, 1998, World Bank
     EASRD notified Chinese government that the above two Agreements should take
     effect as of that date, indicating the conclusion of the 2-year-long project preparation,
     and the formal kick-off for the implementation.

1.3 Goals, components and locations of the Project

      1.3.1 The project was designed to develop forest resources in poor areas of central and
western China on a sustainable and participatory basis to support poverty-alleviation,
forestry development and environmental improvement. The World Bank Project
Appraisal Document stipulated specific development indicators for poverty-alleviation,
forestry development and environment improvement.

      1.3.2 The project activities include: (1) Timber plantations of 315,000 ha, mainly
broadleaf trees such as pine, poplar, and Chinese fir; (2) Economic tree crops of 230,000 ha,
including 110,000 ha of new or rehabilitated bamboo forest; (3) Technical supporting
services, including the development of planting materials, technology dissemination and
training, rural infrastructure and project monitoring; (4) Development of village and
township enterprises: by using the local forest products/by-products as raw materials to
attain added values.

      1.3.3 Twelve provinces with suitable forestry development conditions were selected for
the project. The 12 provinces fall within the economically underdeveloped area of the
country.

1.4 Identification of beneficiary groups. Selection of the project counties considered the
project objectives, natural conditions, and existent technological capacity of the counties; the



                                            - 29 -

 project counties were adjusted during the implementation period in accordance with of the
 project objectives (Table 1). Detailed arrangements including project investment scale,
 management method, tree species and benefiting townships/villages and households selection
 were made by using Community Forestry Assessment (CFA) procedure.

      Table 1: FDPA Participation Counties
            Total       State-level Poor Counties   Provincial-level Poor  Non-poverty Counties
Year        county                                       Counties
           number
                                Number                   Number                 Number
1999-        216                   101                      61                    54
-2005



 1.5 Project implementation results. FDPA was launched in early 1999 and closed in the
 end-2005. With the guidance and help of the World Bank and arduous efforts of the project
 localities over the 7 years; the Loan/credit Agreements, the PAD, the on-lending agreements
 of concerned domestic parties at various levels, along with the managerial/technical
 regulations were strictly implemented. Consequently, the expected targets for the four key
 designated activities of the project were achieved.

 Project Execution

 2.1 Project implementation by component

      2.1.1 Forest establishment

      (1) Afforestation accomplishment. Under the afforestation program of the project from
1999 to end 2005, according to the results of project inspection and acceptance checking, a
total of 664,500 hectares forest was established. The designated target of 545,000 hectares in
the Project Credit Agreement and Project Loan Agreement, was exceeded by about 119,500
ha. and the established area represents 121.9% of the project target. Furthermore, the revised
target of 630,000 ha. established during the project's mid-term review, was exceeded by
34,497 ha. representing 105.5% of the revised afforestation plan. The area of timber
plantation is 375,078 hectare or 101.8% of the adjusted planned 368,388 hectares; bamboo
forest - 132,440 hectares or 109.4% of the adjusted planned 121,070 hectares; and the
economic tree crops - 156,979 hectares or 112% or the adjusted planned 140,035 hectares.
For the specific tree species, all species except the Masson pine, Exotic pines, Chinese white
poplar, Eucommia, etc. exceed the planned targets.

      There are two main reasons for over-fulfilling the planting targets. Firstly, with World
 Bank support and modification of the Credit/Loan Agreements, surplus funds from other
 categories totaling 13,710,000 SDR and 23,400,000 USD was reallocated to the
 afforestation category to add 85,000 hectares of plantations. Secondly, with the
 implementation of the National Natural Forest Protection Program, the timber market
 prospered and the project bamboo forest and economic tree crops had better short-term


                                              - 30 -

benefits than expected, therefore, farmers' enthusiasm in participating in afforestation
increased.

     There are two reasons for not meeting the planting targets of some tree species. The
changing markets affected the planting decisions of farmer households. Based on the
applications and suggestions of the project provinces, MPC made some flexible adjustments
when arranging the afforestation plans.

      (2) The quality of the established forest. Acceptance checking in the twelve project
provinces determined that the average planting area verification rate to be 99%, the average
planting survival rate 93%, the average forest increment compliance rate 105%. For the
seven indicators reflecting the quality of afforestation, i.e. superior seeds use rate, Grade I
seedlings use rate, planting area verification rate, the survival/maintenance rate, forest
incremental compliance rate, increment tree compliance rate, environmental protection
compliance rate all reached or exceeded the national ministerial standards. During the second
half of 2005 a quality inventory was conducted of young FDPA forests. According to the
results of the inventory, by project completion, the combined acreage of Class I and Class II
plantations accounted for 94.4% of the total project afforestation area, indicating that
the quality of afforestation remained high.

    (3) Young plantation tending. Tending (thinning, pruning, etc.) of the 664,500 ha. was
in accordance with the technical models of the project tree species. Tending-hectares totaled
1,485,000 - indicating that, on average, each of the 664,500 plantation hectares was tended
more than twice - implying primary completion of the tending task of the established forest.

    (4) Supplemental works. According to the local actual needs and the operational design
of the project, the project financed the construction of 1,576 guard and storage sheds, and a
considerable amount of economic tree crop origination facilities, forest roads, tree nurseries
equipment/facilities, as well as forest firebreaks.

     2.1.2 Planting stock development program

     In close consideration of the actual local needs and the characteristics of project, and by
adopting the successful practices of the Planting Stock Improvement and Breeding Plan of
NAP and FRDPP, the FDPA Planting Stock Development Plan was formulated. The FDPA
plan stressed selection of high quality planting materials and application of related new
technologies to provide sufficient quantity of high quality planting stock for the project.
Following the implementation of the FDPA Planting Stock Development Plan, for the past 7
years, all designed development targets of the plan were realized, with the general
completion condition as follows.

     (1) Prioritization of superior seed source and provenance. During project
implementation, the timber plantation provenance zonation was defined and it was clarified
that the economic tree crops afforestation should adopt popular, special, superior, new
and/or rare species or varieties. According to the genetic requirements of the project planting



                                            - 31 -

species, the existing condition of the seed production bases of the country, and in compliance
with the national forest tree seed zones and standards, the FDPA Recommended Provenance
List of Key Tree Planting Species was formulated and implemented throughout the project
areas. During project implementation, 1,343,270 kg seed was used; including 37,307 kg of
seed orchard seed, 897,184 kg of mother tree stands seed, 404,845 kg of high quality
provenance seeds, and 3,934 kg of imported seed. The superior quality seed adoption rate of
project afforestation reached 99%.

      (2)   Expanded use of clonal seedlings and root trained seedlings. During project
implementation the total planting stock reached 1,452,290,000, of which the bare-root
seedlings were 1,159,840,000, root trainer seedlings were 22,510,000, and polybag seedlings
were 269,940,000. Classified according to the method of propagation, the project produced
1,088,130,000 seedlings comprising 75% of the total and clonal planting stock of
364,150,000 sets constitution 25% of total production. The production of planting stock
exceeded project targets.

      (3) Nursery management technologies improved. Targeted at the problems existent in
the former project tree nurseries, FDPA adopted further improved technical measures such
as reduced seed application rate, prompt seedling culling, adequate root undercutting, higher
organic matter content of seedling cultivation containers. By the FDPA Key Tree Species
Seedling Standards, the previously allowed Grade II seedlings were removed and only Grade
I seedlings were permitted for project afforestation, the ratio between the seedling height and
the collar diameter was reduced, and the planting stock standards of the major species for
bamboo forest and economic tree crops were added. The FDPA Tree Nurseries Technical
Management Guidelines, specified that nursery management data be maintained. The above
measures indicate that the management level of the nurseries was improved.

      (4) Strengthened extension and application of new technologies, new research
achievements of planting stock development and seedling production. With the FDPA
Technical Extension and Training Program, including Internet technologies, training and
distribution of technical publications, the development of planting stock was a focal
component. Consequently, related technologies were adopted by the project nurseries,
farmer households and planting entities. In total, 37 seedling production technologies such
as seedling container organic matter prescription, bud sprout transplanting, rooting powders
(ABT, GGR), tissue culture (Eucalyptus) nursery, moisture and land fertility management
etc. were adopted, and the extended technologies covered all project planting species.
According to the project planting plan and afforestation models, the county level central and
key nurseries played the dominant role in supplying quality planting stock for project
planting. The goal to use only Grade I seedlings was realized basically. According to
statistics, the project demand of Grade I seedlings was 1,097,740,000 while the actual
production reached 1,452,270,000 or 132.3% of the plan.

     2.1.3 Execution of the technical extension and training plan

     Technical extension and training was an important part of the project, organizational



                                           - 32 -

development and various extension and training forms during project implementation played
a promotional and supporting role in ensuring the application of technical standards and
guidelines, raised the overall technical level of project         management, upgraded the
technological capability of the project staff at different administration levels, and improved
farmer households' competence in forestry knowledge and forestry production skills.

     (1) The organizational development. FDPA established at the central level the Technical
Extension and Training Supporting Leading Group, the technical consultancy expert
database, and the FDPA Office of Technical Extension and Training Office (TEATO) in the
Chinese Academy of Forestry. And, in each project province and county corresponding
organizations were established while at the township level, the responsible staff were
arranged for technical extension and training. Meanwhile implementation plans for technical
extension and training plans were formulated at the central, provincial and county levels.

      (2) Managerial and technical training. During project implementation the PMC, in joint
effort with TEATO, conducted 39 central level technical training courses comprising 3,840
person-days of staff from the 12 project provinces (regions) and key project counties,
exceeding the planned target of 3,410 person days by 12.6%. Meanwhile, the World Bank
Management Offices (PMOs) of the 12 project provinces conducted 257 training courses
covering the topics of financial management, goods procurement, quality management,
environmental protection, CFA, household survey and specific technical topics such as
the prevention and control of pests and diseases, totaling 45,181 person-days at the county
level, exceeding the planned target by 69%. The project counties conducted 4,599 technical
training courses for project township technicians and staff, village administrators and leading
farmers totaling 296,143 person-days, which is 3.89 times greater than the planned 60,480
person-days. Additionally, the township level conducted 55,758 technical training
courses   or   field demonstrations with farmer participation of 3,298,804 person-days,
exceeding the plan by 5.99%.

     (3) Preparation and dissemination of technical information. TEATO, of the Chinese
Academy of Forestry, organized more than 20 forestry experts to compile and publish the
book, World Bank Loan Forestry Project Technical Series that contained 25 booklets. In
May 19999, 300,000 sets of the book were printed and distributed to different levels of the
townships, counties, and leading household farmers of the 12 project provinces; this was
greatly welcomed, especially by the grass-roots technical people and project farmers
Additionally, TEATO selected audio-video materials of 19 key economic tree crop species
with related high-yield and high-quality cultivation technologies and made and distributed
800 sets of video tapes them to the PMO of every project county in May 2000 - allocating 4
-5 tapes (and types) to each county. Every year during project implementation 4 editions of
the Project Bulletin of World Bank Project Technology were compiled and circulated to
report progress and achievements. The Bulletin also played a role in having the project
people exchanging information and experiences regarding technical extension and training,
and strengthening the communication of different organization levels. In 2001, TEATO
opened its website (WWW.CAFWB.net) serving FDPA technical extension that includes 9
columns. The website raised efficiency and the speed of technical extension. Meanwhile the



                                          - 33 -

12 project provinces distributed their own reading materials, videotapes or VCDs to
disseminate needed project technologies.

       (4) Demonstration forests are important carriers of learning and technical training.
During the implementation period the 12 provinces constructed 29,521 ha. of demonstration
forest, 4.1 times the planned target of 5,815 ha. The demonstration forests were in 161
project counties, or 74.5% of all project counties, and covered almost all the project's tree
species.

       (5) In 1999, the central level technical consultancy experts were organized to establish
in Yangxin County of Hubei Province and Xixian County in Shanxi Province, two central
level integrated technical demonstration zones and 35 demonstration gardens (forest
stands, nurseries), where 75 farmer household technical demonstration were located. This
activity trained numerous county and town level technical people.

       (6) Overseas study tours and training. To improve the project staff's management
expertise PMC organized international study tours/training for 170 staff to enable them to
learn about advanced forestry technical practices and experiences. The study tours and
training covered 12 countries; Australia, New Zealand, America, England, Canada, Finland,
Germany, Italy, Japan, Chile, Brazil and South Africa. The study tours totaled 1,207
person-days and training totaled 1,853 person-days, making up 83% of the plan. The
study tours and training centered around afforestation practices and forest resource
management specifically seedling production and nursery management, planting site
preparation, planting methods, plantation tending and thinning, pest and insect management,
wood felling, and timber processing. Part of the training also aimed at raising the level of
English language skills.

        (7) Expert technical consultancy. During project execution, four international
consultants namely Mr. Neville Freeman, Wang Yuzhu, Jakob-Hinrich FEINDT, and Liu
Qizhi were recruited to offer technical consulting services on fruit marketing/economic tree
crops, and plantation pests/diseases. These experts toured the project areas and offered
advice. Their consultancies comprised 63 person-days. In addition, national and local experts
have provided around 105,400 person-days consultancy services.

       2.1.4 Goods procurement

      (1) International bidding, national bidding and shopping, procured 59,263 tons of chemical
fertilizers (urea, calcium super-phosphate, etc.) - comprising 38% of the total chemical fertilizer used
(156,428 tons). In addition, the farmers procured 97,165 tons of chemical fertilizer, or 62% of the
total. Project farmers applied organic fertilizers to meet a portion of the fertilizer demand of project
plantations. Around 19,840 kg of seeds of Slash pine, Loblolly pine and Walnut were also procured.
Procured equipment include 268 forest protection/forest firefighting command vehicles, 115 pickup
trucks, 9 field motorcycles, 608 sets of office equipment such as computers and printers, and 97 sets
of irrigation/plastic sheet greenhouse/nursery equipment. Goods procured utilized 17,602,600 USD of
World Bank funds.




                                               - 34 -

     (2) Project goods procurement was executed strictly as planned. To raise the
procurement efficiency of chemical fertilizer and meet actual needs of the project forest
farmers and the established plantations, the World Bank approved the proposal to
change the international bidding method of chemical fertilizer to the shopping method of
procurement by the PMOs of the provinces or counties. To adapt to this shift, PMC
developed the project document, FDPA Domestic Shopping Procurement Management
Methods of Chemical Fertilizer, conducted shopping procurement training courses for
project provinces and counties, and sent staff to the provinces and counties for guidance and
supervision to ensure the procurement shift was implemented. Use of chemical fertilizer
totaled 156,428 tons (excluding the organic fertilizer the forest farmers used), or 93.8% of
the planned target of 166,707 tons. Other procurement work was completed basically in line
with the targets.

     2.1.5 Environmental management

     The FDPA project established and implemented Environmental Protection Guidelines to
ensure adequate environmental management. The guidelines built on well executed, good
practices developed in past World Bank afforestation projects. The average environmental
protection compliance rate of the project afforestation reached 97%.

     (1) Planting land selection accorded afforestation priority to suitable mountainous
barren wasteland, bush land, sparse wood land (canopy closure below 0.2), and low
productivity, artificial forestland (annual increment less than 3 m3/ha). By this priority/
procedure ecological conservation was practiced and local biodiversity protected.

     (2) By considering the characteristics of FDPA and the lessons of previous World Bank
forestry project environmental protection guidelines, improved measures were adopted,
including specifying "one tree one pond (the moisture retention pit)" measure as an upland
planting site preparation method for economic tree crops. For the economic tree crops and
bamboo forests, possible environmental problems were considered and adjustments made,
including replacing tending work with intercropping, hole-type, or strip-type site preparation
methods at slopes more than 16 degrees, maintenance of the existent vegetation at the top,
ridge and foot of the hills. For bamboo shoot harvesting, attention was devoted to soil and
water erosion prevention. Adapting to actual conditions in provinces such as Shanxi and
Jiangxi included measures directed toward plateau platform land and red soil environments ­
with good results.

     (3) Reinforced pest and disease management for the plantations. In February 2001 the
Planted Forest Pests and Diseases Prevention Plan was issued and executed throughout
FDPA provinces. The project carried out planting stock quarantine measures, reinforced
inspection and management, and took prompt environment-friendly measures to pest and
disease incidence. Due to the integrated adopted measures of prevention and control, there
were no significant pest and disease outbreaks during project implementation.

     (4) Project plantation environmental monitoring. Although all of China's forestry



                                          - 35 -

projects pay attention to environmental monitoring, FDPA gave it higher significance
because it included improved environment as a project goal. From 1991 to 1995, the NAP
carried out detailed environmental monitoring for timber plantations. To understand the
impact of planting program implementation, the FDPA Environmental Monitoring
Implementation Plan, formulated by TEATO, designated 35 monitoring locations in 8 project
provinces to monitor the condition of pests and diseases, soil fertility, and soil and water
erosion of economic tree crop and bamboo forests. By end 2005, the 11 soil and water
erosion monitoring spots, 10 soil fertility monitoring spots and 14 pest/disease monitoring
spots completed their monitoring tasks and required data was collected.

       (5) Environmental impact assessments were made before the construction of the small
enterprises of FDPA. And after their establishment, the enterprises were supervised
following the national and local environmental protection stipulations, and health and safety
regulations, such as the discharge of pollutants.

      2.1.6 Town and village enterprises (TVEs)

      TVE development was designed to support the small-scale, labor intensive,
commercially operating town/village level enterprises using local forest raw materials, to
provide the surplus non-technical laborers with employment/income opportunities and to
deepen the project product market. According to project design, 12,800,000 USD sub-loan
should be used to build 64 small processing/marketing or post-harvesting treatment
enterprises. Following the launch and implementation of the China National Natural Forest
Protect Project, in some project areas the supply of raw materials became insufficient and the
market demands changed significantly, so some project provinces proposed to adjust TVE
investment. Based on China's application, in May 2001 the World Bank supervision team
agreed to downsize the 64 TVEs target to 14.

      In line with the TVE approval procedures, PMC issued FDPA TVE Provisional
Stipulations   Regarding    Relevant    Issues,   and  Feasibility   Study   Standards    and
Requirements of TVEs according to which no enterprises should commence construction
without county, province (region) and central project approval of the feasibility study
reports. With related stipulations 14 TVEs were approved in Anhui, Guizhou, Jiangxi,
Sichuan and Yunnan. The approved TVEs, five newly established and nine upgraded TVEs,
following capital construction procedures, started and finished construction smoothly and
timely with a construction period of about one year, and related equipment was purchased
according to the approved procurement list and World Bank procurement guidelines. By
April 2003, all the 14 verified and approved enterprises became operational. The total
investment for the 14 enterprises was RMB 46,394,000 Yuan, of which, the World Bank
loan provided the equivalent to 22,457,000 Yuan. The sub-component created about 1,500
full-time jobs either through direct enterprise employment or through supplying raw
materials for the enterprises. More than 60% of the employees were below the poverty line.
TVE employment increased household income by around 1,000 Yuan annually. From the
initial production to end-2005, the 14 enterprises cumulative tax revenues totaled 8,761,300
Yuan. While producing fair economic and social benefits to the locality, the project



                                           - 36 -

supported TVE enterprises also left some lessons for thought and future consideration.

      2.1.7 Marketing facility development

      The marketing infrastructure under FDPA, according to project design, should be built
during the last two project implementation years to improve the towns (townships) and
village level marketing performance by financing product packaging,              cold storage,
fresh-keeping equipment and facilities, etc. of economic tree products to ensure increased
income for project farmer participants. In May 2002, each project province conducted
marketing infrastructure investigations. Based on the provincial investigation results and the
suggestions of the project international consultants, PMC submitted to World Bank in
January 2003 the FDPA Marketing Facilities Survey Report, indicating that as the private
enterprises have established a number of marketing facilities in many of the project areas
during the project period, 11 provinces planned to use the existing marketing channels and
facilities for the project economic tree crop products and didn't intend to build new
marketing facilities, while Shanxi province alone proposed a marketing facility construction
plan.

     The World Bank approved the marketing facility construction plan of Shanxi Province
which included the construction of one air-conditioned fruit storehouse, 60 sets of fruit airing
sheds, and 100 farm vehicles. World Bank loan funds equivalent to RMB 960,000 Yuan was
to be used. With construction efforts for two years, two of the above three approved
activities were executed - the airing sheds were not executed because the households decided
later to use available yard space and roofs to do the fruit airing. The storehouse and the
vehicles used World Bank loan equivalent to RMB 899,600 Yuan, or 93.3% of the plan. The
fruit storehouse in Xixian County has functioned satisfactorily by smoothing out seasonal
price fluctuations, particularly during harvest season and in mobilizing the local fruit
processing industry. The 66 farm vehicles procured for villagers in Hunyuan County solved
the local farmer's problem of transporting fruit to market, accelerated fruit distribution, and
added value to the fruit.

2.2 Accomplishment of the investment

     By December 31, 2005, FDPA completed a total investment of 370.3 million USD
(3.066 billion Yuan equivalent) which is 101.74% of original project budget of 364 million
USD (RMB 3.021 Yuan equivalent). Of the total investment, the World bank loan comprised
193 million USD (RMB 1.597 million Yuan equivalent the exchange rate 1 USD = 8.28
RMB during project implementation) accounting for 52.1% of the total investment; The
domestic funds used was 1.469 billion Yuan in form of counterpart fund making up 47.9% of
the total.




                                          - 37 -

      2.2.1 Use of the World Bank fund

     (1) Credit fund. The project used credit funds totaling 74,049,300 SDR, or 99.7% of
74.3 million SDR stipulated in the Project Credit Agreement. The breakdown of the used
credit is as follows: Category I (goods) ­ 9,018,500 SDR; Category II (afforestation) ­
62,513,100 SDR; Category III (consulting services, etc.) ­ 450,000 SDR; Category IV (TVE)
­ 2,027,300 SDR; Category V (marketing facility) ­ 40,300 SDR.

     (2) Loan fund. The project used loan funds totaling 94,476,800 USD taking 94.5% of
the 100 million USD stipulated in the Project Loan agreement. The breakdown of the used
loan is as follows: Category I (goods) ­ 6,662,900 USD; Category II (afforestation ­
87,243,800 USD; Category III (consulting services, etc.) - 521,900 USD; Category V
(marketing facility) ­ 48,300 USD.

     2.2.2 National counterpart fund.         The project's domestic counterpart fund totaled
RMB 1,469.17 million Yuan, of which the provincial-level contribution was 281,092,200
Yuan, the prefecture (city) level contributed 56,222,500 Yuan, the county level provided
178,490,000 Yuan, and the afforestation entities contributed 953,362,200 Yuan (including
labor value of RMB 734,697,800 Yuan).

     2.2.3    Project investment and scale adjustment.            Two investment and scale
modifications to the Project Credit Agreement and Project Loan Agreement in 2002 and 2003
were made, with due consideration to: (1) unchanged project objectives, beneficiaries, and
development areas; (2) the changes in macroeconomic and local market situation which
created new problems requiring resolution; and (3) actual requirements of the project areas
and wishes of farmer households.       These investment and scale adjustments include the
following: (1) The unit price of economic tree crops planting. Because of the rise of the
seedling price, the World Bank approved an increased in economic tree crop afforestation unit
costs from May 2000; (2) World Bank fund financing rate. To solve the problem of county
level counterpart fund shortages and ensure project planting quality, from January 2002 the
World Bank reimbursement rate for afforestation was raised from 50% to 60%; and (3) the
adjustment of the funds among the categories. In May 2003 the World Bank approved a
request to reallocate World Bank funds from Category I (goods), Category III (TVE),
Category V (marketing facility), as well as Category VI (unallocated) to Category II
(afforestation, increasing the planned afforestation area from 545,00 ha. to 630,000 ha.

 Quality Ensuring Measures of Project Implementation

      FDPA developed measures in addition to those applied in previous World Bank forestry
 projects to ensure successful implementation quality. While adopting the successful quality
 management organizational framework of previous afforestation projects, the participatory
 method adopted in FDPA gave full participation decisions to the project target group - the
 poor household farmers. The participatory method and related monitoring and evaluation



                                            - 38 -

work assisted in ensuring high quality project preparation and implementation, offered
reliable assurance for a favorable project outcome, and facilitated timely adjustment of
activities to achieve the beneficiaries' wishes and realize project targets and objectives.

3.1 The systematic and efficient management system

     The organizational system of FDPA contained two main two parts. One part was
project implementation agencies including the PMC at the central level and the PMOs
at the provincial and county levels with specific project implementation and management
responsibility. The other part was the fund management agencies for project fund on-lending,
withdrawal, reimbursement and debt obligation management, etc. , which include the
International Department of MOF along with financial departments (bureaus) of the
project provinces and counties. The two parts of government agencies with clearly defined
responsibilities cooperated closely to form the project organization system and ensure
efficient and smooth project implementation.

     To achieve the high standard and high quality requirements of afforestation design, the
organization structure of the project embodied a set of functionary organs covering planning
management, financial accounting, planting stock development, technical extension, planting
technical management, quality inspection, environmental protection, monitoring and
evaluation etc, with separate management methods, standards and guidelines. In planning
management, for instance, the compulsory document of FDPA Planning Management
Methods was formulated. And when finalizing the annual afforestation plans for the project
areas, the method of "bottom-up plus top-down" was adopted. In other words, at the
beginning of every project year, indicative plans were issued to localities according to the
project planting targets, after which PMOs at different project levels would follow the
indicative plans to prepare detailed plans for counterpart funds, planting land, working labor,
seedling requirements, etc. Based on the actual situation the PMOs of different levels
proposed adjustment options to the indicative plan. With confirmed preparation acceptance,
the formal afforestation plans were finalized and issued. After the insurance of the formal
plan, the plan became the implementation guideline and could not be changed at will.

3.2 The pioneering Community Forestry Assessment (CFA)

      FDPA covered numerous provinces, counties and townships, villages and millions of
poor farmer households as the primary beneficiaries and participants, making it distinct from
former World Bank afforestation projects. To adapt to this difference and meet project
objectives, significant changes were made in information collection. During project
preparation, and with reference to the Participatory Land Use Planning demonstration in
Sichuan and Yunnan in 1980s, the World Bank and Chinese officials agreed to adopt the
CFA participatory method by soliciting advice and listening to the farmer to develop project
implementation plans.

      Project implementation achievements and household survey information confirmed the
significant contribution CFA made to FDPA. Firstly, CFA makes the project farm-level



                                            - 39 -

design conform to the actual situation and wishes of the farmers which assured the quality of
project feasibility studies. Secondly the approaches and procedures adopted aroused the
sense of responsibility and the enthusiasm of the farmers contributing to the realization of
project targets. Thirdly, the abundance of ongoing information, such as household
participation, farmers' preference in species selection and production arrangements, and
benefits to the farmers, would be collected, which have provided the bases in project
decision-making and adjustments. The CFA method reflected, to a large extent, the wishes of
the beneficiary groups, maximized the number of project beneficiaries, particularly for poor
households, minimized the project economic risk, and protected poor household benefits, so
represents the future of forestry development. This was the first time to adopt the CFA
process in preparing and implementing a large forestry loan project in China.

3.3 The strict, scientific typical household surveys

     FDPA carried out successive surveys of household/shareholding forest farms to monitor
and evaluate the project. According to the World Bank mission aide-memoire of February
1998, the data for project household income condition should come from typical sample
surveys of the households. Based on World Bank requirements, and with the assistance of
the Chinese Academy of Forestry and the Economic Development and Research Center of
State Forestry Administration, the FDPA Action Plan for Household Survey was worked out
in 1998.

      Three surveys were conducted. The first survey (1999) collected project baseline data.
The second survey (2001) supported the mid-term evaluation and project adjustment; In
March 2005 as per the World Bank's request, PMC organized the 12 project provinces to
carry out the third household survey during the second half of this year to provide
information for project completion. Each province has identified independent provincial-level
socioeconomic institutions to conduct the survey and provide the necessary training to
enumerators. The field survey was conducted strictly and the survey result reflected the
project's income improvement accomplishment. The systematic, stage-based household
surveys undertaken in FDPA, adopted consistent uniform survey standards and comparable
analysis, making the analysis results highly reliable.


3.4 The strict project quality control

     Quality-assurance relied heavily on the strict inspection and checking acceptance system
established. Firstly, the Four-level Inspection and Checking Acceptance System required
actions from the planting entities, the county, the province and the central level. The
field checking was conducted by successive working procedures of site preparation, planting,
tending etc. and the procedural steps must be acceptable before proceeding to the step.
Secondly, high attention was paid to the verification and review of the statement of
expenditures. To achieve this at the central level, the fund claim documentation were
crosschecked by integrated responsible reviewers from the planning division, financial
division and planting management division. Any claim that failed to meet the required
standards were not accepted. Thirdly, the proven "reimbursement system" was employed.


                                           - 40 -

The systematic, standard reimbursement verification procedure was an effective fund flow
mechanism to provide funds for completed work that reached the required quality standards.
Fourthly, strict fund management and fund use auditing was practiced. Based on the
requirement of the World Bank, every year the National Audit Office sent staff to the project
to check and supervise the financial accounting and fund use. The auditing offices of the
grassroots levels, the planting entities, the State and the World Bank, responsibly performed
their respective duties. The management at different levels reacted promptly to follow up the
auditing comments on raising fund use efficiency and promoting implementation quality.

3.5 Indicator to monitor the implementation progress

     To monitor the progress of project implementation and project goal realization, the
FDPA Indicator Monitoring Table was developed to reflect implementation of project
activities by using input and output performance indicators. The Table was consolidated and
submitted to the World Bank on a half-year basis, and proved to be very useful tool for
monitoring project progress. In a word, FDPA adopted appropriate and effective
quality-assuring measures, and      these measures contributed to raising project operational
efficiency, assuring quality implementation progress.

The Implementation Achievements

     Due to the adoption of the proven practices of the previous World Bank financed
forestry projects, international and national advances in technical and management concepts,
project implementation processed smoothly towards the project targets and objective. The
project has produced positive economic and social benefits, environmental benefits, and
technical management benefits that will become more notable over time.

4.1 Economic benefit

     4.1.1 The 664,500 hectares forest, established in accordance with proven afforestation
models, will produce the expected economic benefits. Based on the calculation of increment
standing volume, the established 375,000 ha. timber plantation will reach 64,924,700 cubic
meters, plus 4,064,600 tons of firewood and 111,325,000 kg of rosin. The 132,400 ha. of
bamboo forest can produce bamboo timber and 11.77 billion kg. bamboo shoot, and the
157,000 ha. economic tree crops can produce 8.169 billion kg of fruit, leaf and bark, the
Eucommia trees can produce 350,000 cubic meters of timber.

     4.1.2 The total afforestation income from the project plantations should reach 53.9
billion Yuan. The financial NPV after tax is 3.7 billion Yuan and the dynamic cost recovery
period after tax is 11.3 years, the financial internal rate of return after tax is 23%, which is
3.2% higher than the project appraisal target. The above financial and economic analysis
results indicate that the economic benefit of FDPA will be very notable.

       4.1.3 The income level and assets of project households increased. The third household
survey indicated the household income benefits. The survey determined that 82 households



                                            - 41 -

had a net income greater than 1,500 Yuan in 2005, while in 1999 only 13 households had
such an income level. This indicates that the number of households with this income level in
2005 was 6.3 times as many households as in 1999. For the lower income group, the number
of households with net income below 500 Yuan decreased from 71 in 1999 to 4 in 2005,
representing 41.0% of the total surveyed households in 1999, but only 2.3% in 2005.
Household total income rose substantially during project implementation. For the 173
comparable households in the three surveys, the average annual household income was
13,749.37 Yuan in 2005, representing an incremental income increase of 5,112.12 Yuan over
2001 and an increase of 8473.54 Yuan over 1999. The household surveys also showed that
farmer living conditions improved substantially and included improved housing and drinking
water; and more farming equipment, electronic appliances, etc., were purchased by the
households.

      A parallel sample survey was carried out along with the third household survey in 19
village communities of the 12 project provinces to understand the early income generation
conditions resulting from FDPA. The results indicate that to the incremental revenues
derived from the FDPA project increased per capita incomes of farmers in 2004 by 572.6
Yuan - 85.4% above the baseline income level of 670.5 Yuan before the project.


4.2 Social benefit

     The successful implementation of FDPA is illustrated by its obvious social benefits,
especially the poverty reduction benefit. Throughout the project implementation period, poor
farmers remained the major participants and beneficiaries of the project, and the related
completion indicators exceeded the designed targets.

     4.2.1 The poor household is the major project target group, and the project
beneficiary coverage is immense. The updated 2005 CFA report showed that during FDPA
implementation the benefiting townships numbered 1,630 with a benefiting rate of 39%, or 9
percentage points higher than that in 1998. The number of benefited villages is 9,910 with
the village benefiting rate 29%, or 4 percentage points higher than that in 1998. A total of
973,578 households (including farmers who directly manage the plantations and those who
share the benefits from collective forest farms) benefited from the project including 645,185
poor households ­ representing 66% of the benefiting households. Some 3,834,111 people
benefited from the project, of which the poor population was 2,614,381 ­ representing
68.2% of the total. These figures indicate that the poor households comprised the main
portion of the project, and the poor population was the main beneficiary.

     By project closing, 891,695 households directly participated in the project, an increase
of 211,807 household or 23.8% over the appraised target of 679,888 households. Of the
891,695 households, poor households numbered 598,187 ­ an increase of 88,128 households
or 17.3% over the appraisal target of 510,059 households. By project completion, 474,299
entities participated in the project, an increase of 72,916 or 18.2% over the appraisal target
of 401,383. Of the 474,299 entities, 444,844 are individual households with a land
management area of 287,210 hectares. The number of household groups totaled 23,000,



                                           - 42 -

managing an area of 186,847 hectares, shareholding farms managing 96,232 hectares
numbered 3,586,. Collective forest farms numbered 2,869 and managed 94,208 hectares.
Individual households and household groups planted the largest land areas while the
shareholding forest farms and collective forest farms were of lesser importance.

      4.2.2 The general situation of the poor households including the development
capability improved. The household survey analyses showed that the educational level of
the project labor force was raised substantially. Additionally, more than 95% of the
households attended technical training courses and learned practical forestry technologies,
improved their market economic awareness, and increased their scientific/technological
knowledge level. Project activities improved poor households' access to outside information
and technical knowledge, which broadening their vision and spurred the communication
activities. With added income from the project activities, the poor households' long-term
development capacity was enhanced.

      4.2.3 FDPA promoted surplus labor employment and social development of the
poor areas. Compared with past World Bank projects, afforestation under FDPA offered
substantial employment opportunities, alleviating the pressure of the re-employment of the
surplus rural labor, through site preparation, planting, and young forest tending of timber
plantations; but more particularly by the more labor intensive economic tree crops
subcomponent which requires labor for pruning, canopy forming, fertilizer/pesticide
application, fruit harvesting, etc. It was estimated that the project created about 110 million
person-days of local employment, including about 60 million person days from the
economic tree crops and bamboo forest subcomponents of the project. Also, under the
TVE sub-component numerous poor farmers were employed or benefited directly from the
established enterprises.    Additionally,    FDPA's poor and minority household selection
criteria, the fair, open and just operational measures of CFA work, contributed greatly to the
social security and the harmonious development of the project areas.

4.3 Environmental Benefit

     4.3.1 Addition of forest resources of project areas. The 664,500 hectares. of high
quality plantation, developed consistent with environmental protection guidelines, which
increased the local forest coverage and optimized the local forest structure and species
structure in the project areas. In addition, with the maturing of the forest, the severe
imbalance between timber supply and demand in the project area will be partially alleviated,
and will contribute to natural forest resource conservation.

     4.3.2 Environmental improvement with reduced soil and water erosion, and
protection of local biodiversity. By strict adherence to the Environmental Protection
Guidelines the established plantations reduced local soil and water erosion substantially while
promoting water retention capacity. At the same time, the measures of strict selection of
planting land, the afforestation models, the high diversity of tree species, site
vegetation maintenance for wildlife habitat, integrated pest/disease           management by
protecting the pest predators and mitigating chemical pesticide application, etc, contributed



                                            - 43 -

to biodiversity conservation and ecological environment improvement in project area.

     4.3.3 Carbon sink benefit. Global warming is a problem affecting the survival and
development of humankind. Greenhouse effect has proven to be a very important
accelerating factor for global warming, though the unusual global climatic changes cannot yet
scientifically explained. Trees that absorb atmospheric carbon dioxide and store it through
photosynthesis reduces the greenhouse effect. The carbon sink impact of FDPA afforestation
was calculated by experts of Chinese Academy of Forestry. The carbon sink of the timber
plantation increases with the increase of the standing volume, the carbon sink of the
economic tree crops obviously increases for the first five years after afforestation, and for the
bamboo forest, the carbon sink capacity increases in the first six years following the planting
or rehabilitation as the bamboo grows more dense and increases in diameter. The 664,500
hectares of FDPA plantation within its in entire growth period, can store about 407,354,931
tons of carbon, equivalent to carbon emission of burning 581 million tons standard coal.

4.4 Technological progress

     Compared with former World Bank loan forestry projects, the technological progress in
FDPA is obvious, as shown below.

     (1) Learning from previous projects, a series of technical and management standards and
guidelines were designed and executed. Additional afforestation models were explored and
extended. Afforestation site preparation methods were improved, the planting density was
reduced, species diversity increased, etc, all of which laid a good foundation for high
standard, scientific management.

     (2) More superior varieties/species and advanced forestry technologies were applied.
Seedling production technologies were extended and improved planting/forest management
technologies such as fruit tree pruning and forming, etc. strengthened technical afforestation.

     (3) The FDPA intellectual development impacts are notable. In the course of project
 implementation, the domestic and international study tours and training, expert consultancy,
 as well as management practices combined to produce a number of highly competent
 forestry technicians and managers at provinces, counties, and townships and a great number
 of project beneficiaries, especially the poor, learnt how to manage forests.

Project Implementation Lessons and Suggestions

     FDPA is a large-scale forestry project, government implemented with World Bank
financial assistance in the underdeveloped central and western Provinces of China. The
project implementation period was seven years, during which time experience was
accumulated in forestry development aspects that should be considered in future projects
using international donor funds.




                                            - 44 -

5.1 Lessons from FDPA implementation

     5.1.1 Learning from the past World Bank projects with a spirit of
innovation established a solid foundation for the smooth execution of FDPA

     The World Bank financed NAP and FRDPP were successful with notable impacts, and
provided a good foundation for FDPA implementation. However, FDPA contained various
innovations and new developments, including bamboo forests, economic tree crops, and
town and village enterprises development. In terms of the implementation entities, the project
concentrated to the individual households especially the poor households; The CFA
methodology was adopted for the selection of beneficiary groups, and FDPA focused its
technical development efforts on dissemination of advanced, practical technologies
improving the farmer capacity and land productivity. The training program focused on these
new developments and innovations and represented an important new direction for World
Bank financed Chinese forestry projects; a move toward higher standards and innovative
development.

     FDPA adopted CFA, an open, transparent procedure to carry out project feasibility and
design according to farmers' wishes. The three systematic socioeconomic surveys on
households' survey across the 12 provinces, as well as other M & E measures, helped
monitor the project implementation moving towards the project objectives, which produced
notable results. The added economic tree crops and bamboo forest components allowed
farmers to generate income benefits within a few years of project implementation. On
technical management, the training and extension work provided the project with needed
high quality provenance, the increased application of clonal stock, etc. ensured the
realization of high planting quality and more rapid income, thereby contributing to poverty
reduction and improved living conditions of farmers. FDPA made major progress in adding
other objectives to its afforestation objective (Table 4).

     Table 2: FDPA vs. NAP and FRDPP in afforestation
       Project                NAP                        FRDPP                           FDPA
  Objective       Fast-growing and              Expanded forest resources to Afforestation to add
                  high-yielding timber          reduce natural forest cutting forest resources, reduces
                  plantation to solve the timberpressure and protect the      poverty, and improves
                  supply problem                environment                   the environment.
  Scale           985,000 ha                    900,000 ha                    545,000 ha
  Types           Timber plantation             Timber plantation,            Timber plantation,
                                                protection forest             bamboo forest, economic
                                                                              tree crops
  Species         20 afforestation models       29 afforestation models       34 afforestation models,
                                                                              tree species highly
                                                                              diverse
  Entities        State/collective forest farms Collective forest farms       Households
                  13,000 entities               104,000 entities              470,000 entities
  Beneficiaries   State/collective forest farms Collective forest farms       68% are poor households
  CFA             No                            No                            Yes



                                               - 45 -

      5.1.2 Improved organization and strengthened technical management built up
firm institutional and quality-assuring basis for a successful project

      FDPA had a complicated design with multiple objectives covering 12 provinces. Thanks
to government leader's high attention to the project at all levels, cooperation and
collaboration among different departments and sectors were close and efficient, so that
necessary human, financial and physical resources were mobilized to serve project operations.

      In the aspect of organizational structure, FDPA extended the NAP/FRDPP
institutional framework. At the central level, the FDPA Leading Group was set up with the
SFA administrator as the group leader, and heads of related departments as the leading
group members (such as Afforestation Department, Chinese Academy of Forestry, the
Forestry Planning and Design Institute, the general Station of Forest Farms and Tree
Nurseries, PMC, etc.). The central-level leading group took the responsibility for establishing
project principles and strategies and solving significant problems, and the routine project
implementation management work was conducted by PMC. Similarly, project leading groups
were set up in the provinces and counties with the key government leaders of the same level
as the group leader and the group members including, planning commission, finance,
forestry, etc. and PMOs who would be responsible for the project implementation were of
the same administrative level. Each of the functionary components, including planning
management, financial accounting, planting stock development, technical extension, planting
technical management, etc. of project management was provided with staff and specific
duties, making a responsibility-clear, efficient, and integrated project management structure.

      To improve implementation management, PMC formulated a set of technical guidelines,
management regulations and standards, and accordingly the provincial PMOs established
implementation schemes or supplementary guidelines based on their particular situation for
standardized and consolidated project implementation. PMC formulated 21 standards,
management methods and technical guidelines, which were well implemented across the
project provinces.

      5.1.3 Compliance with the requirement of market economic laws and the wishes of
beneficiary groups, created a favorable condition to realize project targets

      FDPA was a large-scale forestry loan project. To realize the project targets it was
necessary to follow market economy principles to maximize the resource use benefits by
treating the households as primary stakeholders. In practice, the production scale, species
selection and management arrangements were determined based on the costs and profit
analysis and market survey to ensure efficient and optimal fund was used by the households.
In addition, The CFA process reflected the wishes of farmers and ensured their participation
in both the design and implementation of the project, which are undoubtedly requisites of
project target realization.




                                           - 46 -

     5.1.4 Technical extension as important component to raise the project forest
land productivity and reduce poverty

     Science and technology combined with technical extension and training improved
farmer productivity, reduced poverty, and met afforestation targets. FDPA technical
development concentrated technical extension and training on households and planting
entities. (1) The 4-level technical extension and training system of central, provincial, county
and town levels were established; (2) Multi-level, multi-disciplinary well-targeted technical
training was conducted with notable effect; (3) The research technologies promoted
increased growth, productivity/production, and quality. Statistics show that during FDPA
implementation, 121,066 leading farmers participated in the township level technical
extension and training groups, implying that there were 74 leading or key farmers in every
project township or 12 key farmers in every project village. This also means one key farmer
who has been well trained and grasps modern planting management technology is available
for every 30 farmer beneficiaries. This is a farmer-based, large forestry project with good
potential to benefit poor households in long term due to the technical and knowledge
upgrading of the households. This level-by-level training practice, extension/training topic
selection based on project demands, and establishment of demonstration households targeted
at the poor, were both effective technical extension mechanisms for the Chinese situation and
an indispensable mechanism to raise land productivity in rural forestry projects, thereby
improving the welfare of poverty-stricken farmers.

     5.1.5 Reinforced development of planting stock is a crucial measure of
the implementation of high-standard and high-quality afforestation projects

     "Superior seeds and vigorous seedlings" was the first and basic linkage for successful
afforestation. All the World Bank financed forestry projects in China prioritized Planting
Stock Development Plan in project implementation. This project built on past Planting Stock
Development Plans by greater use of new technologies and improved standards. The decision
to emphasize superior planting stock selection and improved technology extension
strengthened nursery management and facilitated higher quality afforestation; (1) The project
established at the central, provincial and county levels the "FDPA planting stock leading
group" comprised of specialized technical staff of the departments of research, technical
extension and seed/seedling production; (2) By focusing on the "central nurseries", the
planting stock production technologies were improved dramatically with special attention to
the technologies used for initial planting stock production procedures; (3) Strengthened
extension and application of practical technologies and research improved all-around quality
of project afforestation planting stock. Project practice proves that the "three fixations (fixed
supplier of seeds, fixed place for seedling production, fixed high quality supply of planting
stock)", "two certificates" (quality seed use certificate, Grade I seedling certificate),
improved nursery management/technologies, and increased use of clonal planting stock, were
all consistent with project demands. It is these measures that led to achieving superior
planting stock development performance indicators ­ such as high quality seed use rate 99%,
Grade I seedlings rate 95%, clonal planting stock rate 25% all of which helped raise project



                                           - 47 -

afforestation quality.

     5.1.6 Adjustment to the plans at appropriate time and to appropriate extent based
on project practical needs is a prerequisite of project smooth implementation

     In the implementation and preparation of FDPA, adjustments were made
regarding the project activities, financing categories, financing ratio, unit planting costs,
chemical fertilizer procurement method, etc. These project implementation adjustments were
timely and accurately reflected the objective requirements of the project and market changes.
Consequently, these adjustments optimized the structure and efficiency of the project's
financial resources and played a very important role in improving project operational
efficiency. In 2001, adjusting the method of chemical fertilizer procurement from PMC based
unified bidding to provincial/county shopping, was not only economical, but also promoted
timely fertilizer use. According to the application of the provinces, based on the requirement
of project households, two major financing category adjustments were made in 2002 and
2003 to reflect macro changes in project operation and the fundamental interests of project
beneficiaries. The seven-year-long implementation period of FDPA proved that timely and
appropriate plan adjustments were feasible, while continuing to focus on the original project
objectives and still achieve smooth project implementation and realization of expected
targets.

5.2 Lessons and suggestions

     FDPA despite its successful implementation and good practice had some lessons
requiring further attention in the future similar projects.

     5.2.1 More efforts can be adopted to resolve the contradiction between artificial
forest long income generation period and the short-term project loan repayment
requirement.

     The FDPA afforestation implementation shows that tree species such as Masson's pine,
Loblolly pine, Slash pine, etc. with longer rotation period (15-20 year) were rarely sought by
the project planting entities and so target achievements were lower. With a seven-year loan
repayment grace period, these types of trees are incapable of producing any profit by the
initial repayment time. FDPA entities are mainly farmers located in the mountainous areas,
where transportation, production and living infrastructure, and general economic conditions
are poor, and make this contradiction even more severe. To substantially solve this problem,
apart from integrated design to combine short-term,          medium-term     and     long-term
benefit-generating species and activities, other measures should be adopted including more
preferential polices and assistance by different levels of government to build up a steady
income mechanism for participating poor households, or adding diverse rural short-term
production project activities, etc.




                                            - 48 -

     5.2.2 There is potential to further improve the procurement method of
chemical fertilizers.
     Though the project chemical fertilizer procurement process has been improved by
decentralizing the procurement from central project implementation agency to the lower
level, however it was found that the procurement process was not as satisfactory enough as
expected.   The related investigation discovered the following reasons:        (1)  The small
procurement quantity made the manufacturers unwilling to offer bid quotations, slowing
down the procurement progress; and (2) The small local manufacturer usually doubts the
required "provide goods, followed by payment" project practice so they request partial
payment for the goods. Therefore, a number of necessary fertilizers under the project have
been purchased by the county PMOs using counterpart funds and by farmers using their own
funding. In addition, organic manure has been largely applied. In view of these factors, it is
suggested more flexibility be allowed for project procurement of chemical fertilizer, for
example, by using counterpart fund for the procurement, or incorporating the fertilizer
(chemical and organic) requirement into the unit cost of the afforestation for reimbursement.

     5.2.3 Improvement of the performance of the township and village enterprises
needs more cautious operations

     Judging from the present outcome and the implementation of the TVEs, the general
design of the TVE subcomponent was correct ­ and the execution, management of the
subcomponent were strict.       Nevertheless, in comparison with project design and the
expectations, the operating conditions of some of the 14 enterprises financed were not
satisfactory. Investigation revealed the following reasons: (1) The macro policy adjustment
following the National Natural Forest Protection. The logging ban policy, etc. led to raw
material supply shortages of some of the enterprises that then could not produce normally;
(2) Some of the TVEs were part of the production lines of the other enterprises whose
breakdown led to production stoppages of the project enterprises; (3) The small scale, weak
competitive strength and market risks, and the poverty reduction responsibility (by
employment), etc. made enterprise survival difficult or less       profitable; and (4)   The
enterprise project preparation time with the examination/approval procedures was long and
complicated, making some enterprises miss the best market opportunities. Therefore, it is
suggested that in the future a more cautious attitude be adopted regarding TVE investment.

World Bank Participation

     The successful implementation and accomplishment of FDPA is the result of concerted
efforts of World Bank and Chinese government officials. Executives and working teams of
the World Bank exerted great efforts over the seven years of FDPA implementation by
dispatching 12 missions to China for site inspection and supervision. These missions not only
helped the Chinese team solve problems and difficulties encountered during project
implementation, but also offered constructive suggestions and proposals for project
management improvement. In a word, the distinguished performance of World Bank in
guiding and monitoring the project laid a firm foundation for the project success.



                                          - 49 -

6.1 Adherence to scientific approaches for assessment

      One feature of FDPA is the adoption of a participatory methodology, mainly through
CFA, for project preparation and implementation, a methodology not employed by the
previous World Bank forestry projects in China. For a forestry development project
involving tens of thousands of poor households, the World Bank working teams and the
international consultants were of great help in familiarizing the staff of PMC and PMOs with
this approach. The success of FDPA indicates that the participatory method (CFA approach)
is a scientific and feasible project preparation and implementation methodology for
maximizing the project beneficiaries.

6.2 Flexibility and operational practicality

      FDPA is a complex project involving numerous factors subject to changes in policies
and market demands, and affect afforestation, TVE, and marketing infrastructure, and
therefore making implementation complex. In recognition of this complexity the World Bank
demonstrated timeliness and flexibility by accepting and approving China's suggestions for
project modification, which in turn, contributed to the smooth completion of the activities.
One example is the modification in the selection of project sites at the initial stage of FDPA
when China's National Natural Forest Protection Program was launched. Taking into
consideration the difficulties that poverty-ridden counties have in providing the counterpart
funds, World Bank agreed to raise the financing rate for afforestation from 50% to 60%
providing needed help to these counties.

6.3 Rigorous inspection and effective guidance

      Over the 10 years from FDPA preparation to its conclusion, the World Bank sent a total
of 16 missions (4 during project preparation) to China, involving more than 70 professional
staff. World Bank officials Mr. Rick Scobey, Madam Liu Jin served as FDPA project
managers successively. With other officials and international/domestic consultants, the World
Bank task team visited project sites for inspection and provided guidance. Their effective
work improved project quality and their devotion inspired their Chinese counterparts and
enhanced the local farmers' confidence in attaining project objectives.        Following each
supervision, the mission completed a detailed memorandum, and the higher-level World
Bank executives wrote separately to the MOF, SPC, SFA of China commenting on
achievements as well as on key problems identified. World Bank's code of conduct,
highlighted by discussion, to solve the problems encountered and strict compliance to agreed
problem-solving measures, wins widespread affirmation of Chinese colleagues and
individuals regardless of whether or not they were involved in project implementation.

6.4 Friendly cooperation

      The success of FDPA provides one more testimony for the satisfactory cooperative
relationship between the Chinese government and World Bank. For instance, in the World



                                          - 50 -

Bank working teams' visits to the grass-root level of project sites, they patiently listened to
the Chinese technicians and rural population to hear and understand the particular situations
and local concerns which greatly facilitated project implementation. Meanwhile the
specialists and officers of procurement, payment and finance, social management of World
Bank Office in China, readily and efficiently addressed the problems raised by their Chinese
counterparts. This friendly cooperation and working relations provided the foundation for a
successful project.

The Post-Management Plan

7.1 General requirement

     After the completion of FDPA, the protection and management of the young forests
become important tasks. In the years from 2006 through 2021, operational priorities would
be given to appropriately maintaining and improving the management of the plantation
established under the project. The follow-up management plan by integrating technical
measures with policy and administrative measures are developing by the provincial and
county PMOs and the Governments of project counties have committed to provide the
support in terms of project management and necessary finance support to the poor farmers.

7.2 Actions to be taken

     7.2.1   An    institutional    capacity    corresponding    with    the   demands      of
post-management would be maintained

     After project completion, the project implementing agencies will continue to provide
the support to the project management. However, the main responsibilities would shift from
organizing plantation establishment to plantation management. Consequently, capacity
development to enable the staff to meet the demands of post managerial operations becomes
an imperative task of the administration. Under the guidance of the provincial PMOs, the
county PMOs are expected to maintain a relatively stable work team, with each member
given specific responsibilities to ensure that effective and timely guidance/assistance be
provided to the project afforestation entities and farmers.

     7.2.2 Forest classified management to be worked out in accordance with quality of
the forests at present

     The young plantation quality inventory survey in 2005 revealed that the quality of
majority of project plantations have reached or exceeded the project growth standards and a
few portion of plantations growth still need to be further improvement. The post
management Plan would specify the technical and management measures to all types of the
plantation to ensure that the post plantation management or maintenance will be guided
appropriately.




                                           - 51 -

    7.2.3 Preventive measures are to be taken to guard the healthy growth of the
forests

    It is committed by the project provincial and county forestry agencies that the preventive
measures,    namely     protecting  the    forests   from    fire,  disease/pest  injuries,  and
man/animal-induced damage, will be incorporated into the routine work of the local
government and its forestry authorities. Arrangements in such aspects as staffing, funding and
regulations would be in place to ensure that the young forests are not subject to natural or
man-induced damages. Firstly, these measures will take full advantages of the existing
capacity for predicting and fighting fire, pest and disease. Secondly, by the implementation of
the principle "active prevention and complete elimination", related work would be carried
out including publicity and education efforts to enhance the local people's awareness for
forest protection. Thirdly, incentive measures would be taken to mobilize grass-root
governments and village committees to arrange for routine surveillance and patrolling of the
forests to ensure their healthy development.

    7.2.4 Technical and information aid would be made readily accessible to the
farmer households

    Technical training and demonstration programs for forest tending and thinning
practices would be made available to the forest entities by the forestry administration at each
level ­ with the coordination of the provincial PMOs. Providing technical services to the
households and planting entities would rely on the existing agriculture and forestry extension
system by using the public funding, which have been committed by the government. Market
information concerning the demands and supplies of forest products such as timber, fruits,
etc   would    be   made     readily  accessible    to  the    farmers   through   the   forestry
administrative/extension departments of each level. The farmers would also be encouraged
to set up corresponding associations to strengthen their independent marketing capacities.

      7.2.5 Clarified debt relations to ensure the World Bank loan is repaid on secured
and timely basis

      Clarification of the debt rights and obligations is essential for repaying the World Bank
loan and the resources of repayment have been identified. A mechanism and arrangement will
be established to ensure the borrower at each administrative level is firmly responsible, in
accordance with corresponding on-lending agreements, and the fund for annual repayment is
arranged in advance to guarantee that the project repayment is made on a secure, timely
basis.




                                            - 52 -

- 53 -

