Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N039 CHA
Interim Fund
Development Credit Agreement
(Forestry Development in Poor Areas Project)
between
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION as Administrator of the interim 
trust fund established with funds contributed by certain members of 
International Development Association pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184  
of the Board of Governors of International Development Association
Dated July 31, 1998
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N039 CHA
INTERIM FUND DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT July 31, 1998, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) as administrator (the 
Administrator) of the interim trust fund (Interim Fund) established with funds 
contributed by certain members of the Association pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184 
(the Interim Fund Resolution) of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on 
June 26, 1996, and amended as of December 31, 1997.
WHEREAS: (A) by the Interim Fund Resolution the Interim Fund has been 
established, constituted of the funds contributed by certain members of the 
Association and administered by the Association acting as Administrator of the Interim 
Fund, in accordance with the provisions of the Interim Fund Resolution;
(B)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Administrator to assist in the financing of the Project through the provision of 
resources from the Interim Fund, and the Administrator has determined that such 
assistance would be in accordance with the provisions of the Interim Fund Resolution;
(C)
the Borrower has also requested the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the Bank) to provide additional assistance towards the financing of 
the Project and by an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the 
Bank (the Loan Agreement), the Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an 
aggregate principal amount equal to one hundred million dollars ($100,000,000) (the 
Loan); and
(D)
the Borrower and the Administrator intend, to the extent practicable, 
that the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit provided for in this Agreement be 
disbursed on account of expenditures in respect of the Project before disbursements of 
Page  2
the proceeds of the Loan provided for in the Loan Agreement are made; and
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Interim Fund Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement; 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The term “Association”, wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the International Development Association acting as Administrator of the Interim Fund 
referred to in the Preamble to the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement.
(b)
The terms “Development Credit Agreement”, “Credit” and “Credit Account”, 
wherever used in the General Conditions, are amended to read “Interim Fund Development 
Credit Agreement”, "Interim Fund Credit” and “Interim Fund Credit Account”, 
respectively.
(c)
In Sections 6.02 and 7.01 of the General Conditions, the term 
“Association” shall also mean the International Development Association acting in its 
own capacity.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) 
“Environmental Management Plan” means the environmental management plan 
for the Project dated March 1998 prepared by MFO for the Project, which sets out 
environmental protection measures as well as administrative and monitoring 
arrangements to ensure the implementation of said measures.
(b)
“Implementation Arrangement” means, in respect of each Project Province, 
the arrangement referred to in Part A.4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement between the 
Borrower and said Project Province for the implementation of the Project within such 
Project Province.
(c)
“Loan Agreement” means the agreement of even date herewith between the 
Borrower and the Bank for the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to 
time; and such term includes the “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997), as applied to such agreement, and all schedules and 
agreements supplemental to the Loan Agreement.
(d)
“Marketing Infrastructure Sub-loan” means a loan made or proposed to be 
made by a Project Province to a Rural Marketing Group out of  the proceeds of the Loan 
or the Interim Fund Credit for a Marketing Sub-project.
(e)
“Marketing Sub-project” means a specific investment project to be carried 
out by a Rural Marketing Group under Part C.4 of the Project for the development or 
expansion of marketing infrastructure for economic tree crops.
(f)
“MFO” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Forestry, and any successor 
thereto. 
(g)
“MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance, and any successor 
thereto.
(h)
“Project Counties” means those counties within the Project  Provinces in 
which afforestation activities are to be carried out under Part A or Part B of the 
Project.
Page  3
(i)
“Project Provinces” means Anhui Province, Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous 
Region, Guizhou Province, Hebei Province, Henan Province, Hubei Province, Hunan 
Province, Jiangxi Province, Liaoning Province, Shanxi Province, Sichuan Province and 
Yunnan Province, and “Project Province” means any of the Project Provinces.
(j)
“Rural Marketing Group” means an individual, group of individuals or 
enterprise possessing legal person status.
(k)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement.
(l)
“Sub-borrower” means, as the context requires, a Rural Marketing Group or 
a TVE.
(m)
“SFA” means the Borrower’s State Forestry Administration, and any 
successor thereto.
(n)
“Sub-loan” means, as the context requires, a Marketing  Infrastructure 
Sub-loan or a TVE Sub-loan.
(o)
“Sub-project” means, as the context requires, a Marketing Sub-project or 
a TVE Sub-project.
(p)
“Township Enterprise Law” means the Township Enterprise Law of the 
Borrower adopted at the Twenty Second Session of the Standing Committee of the Eighth 
National People’s Congress on October 29, 1996.
(q)
“TVE” means a township and village enterprise, as such term is defined in 
the Township Enterprise Law. 
(r)
“TVE Sub-loan” means a loan made or proposed to be made by a Project 
Province to a TVE out of the proceeds of the Loan or the Interim Fund Credit for a TVE 
Sub-project.
(s)
“TVE Sub-project” means a specific investment project to be carried out 
by a TVE utilizing the proceeds of a TVE Sub-loan under Part D of the Project.
ARTICLE II
The Interim Fund Credit
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement, 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to seventy-four million three hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 74,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Interim Fund Credit may be withdrawn from 
the Interim Fund Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for:
 (i)
expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be 
made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement (other than Part C.4 and Part D of 
the Project) 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund 
Credit;
(ii)
amounts paid (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be paid) 
on account 
of withdrawals made by TVEs under TVE Sub-loans to 
meet the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for 
the TVE Sub-project in respect of which 
withdrawal 
from the Interim Fund Credit Account is requested; and
(iii)
amounts paid (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be paid) 
on account 
of withdrawals made by Rural Marketing Groups under 
Marketing Infrastructure 
Sub-loans to meet the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the 
Marketing Sub-project in 
Page  4
respect of which withdrawal from the Interim Fund 
Credit 
Account is requested.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Administrator, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be January 1, 2006, or such later date as 
the Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the 
Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit not withdrawn from time to time at 
a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the 
rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: 
(i)
from the date sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the 
accrual date) 
to the respective dates on which amounts shall 
be withdrawn by the Borrower 
from the Interim Fund Credit 
Account or canceled; and
(ii)
at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the 
accrual date and 
at such other rates as may be set from time to 
time thereafter pursuant to 
paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied 
from the next 
date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid:
(i)
at such places as the Association shall reasonably request;
(ii)
without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory 
of, the 
Borrower; and
(iii)
in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of 
Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible 
currency or currencies as 
may from time to time be designated or 
selected pursuant to the provisions of 
that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Interim Fund Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit in semiannual installments 
payable on each April 15 and October 15 commencing October 15, 2008 and ending April 
15, 2033.  Each installment to and including the installment payable on April 15, 2018 
shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each 
installment thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal 
amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Administrator may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by the Administrator of the development of the Borrower's economy, 
modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the 
Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the 
Page  5
principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring 
the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit 
as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six 
months or more after the date on which the Administrator notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there 
shall be a grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Administrator may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Administrator on the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the 
Administrator, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Administrator may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through its SFA and the Project Provinces with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial, forestry, environmental 
protection and management practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall make available to each of the Project 
Provinces the portion of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit corresponding to the 
cost of goods, works and services required for its activities under the Project and to 
be financed out of the Interim Fund Credit, on the following terms and conditions:
(i) 
repayment over a period of  17 years;
(ii)
at the option of the Project Province, either: (a) a period of 
five years of 
grace; or (b) a period of seven years of 
grace, together with provision for 
the addition of an 
interest charge during the last two years of grace;
(iii)
payment by the Project Province of service charges and commitment 
charges on 
terms equivalent to those payable by the Borrower 
pursuant to Article II of 
this Agreement; and
(iv)
foreign exchange risk between Special Drawing Rights and the 
Borrower’s 
currency over the repayment period to be borne 
by such Project Province.
 (b)   The Borrower shall cause each of the Project Provinces to further onlend 
the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit in accordance with the provisions of Part D of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Page  6
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Administrator, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Administrator a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Administrator;
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator, as soon as available, but in any 
case not later 
than six months after the end of each such 
year, the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Administrator shall 
have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning 
such records 
and accounts and the audit thereof, as the 
Administrator shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Interim 
Fund Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Administrator has 
received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Interim Fund 
Credit Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Administrator’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that 
the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Page  7
Remedies of the Association and the Administrator
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is  specified, namely, that any of the Project Provinces 
shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under its respective 
Implementation Arrangement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is  specified, namely that the event specified in Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days 
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Administrator to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of 
Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
an Implementation Arrangement has been executed between the Borrower and 
each Project Province; and
(b)
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement, 
other than the effectiveness of the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement, have 
been fulfilled.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Administrator, namely, that the Implementation 
Arrangement with each Project Province has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Borrower and said Project Province and is legally binding upon the parties in 
accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04.  In the event that the Executive Directors of the Association 
decide to terminate the functions of the Association as administrator of the Interim 
Fund pursuant to Section 7 of the Interim Fund Resolution, all of the rights and 
obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement shall be assumed by the 
Association in accordance with the Interim Fund Resolution and such decision of said 
Executive Directors, as of a date to be notified by the Administrator to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as the 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People’s Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
Page  8
For the Association and the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Liu Xiaoming
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the interim trust fund established with 
funds 
contributed by certain members of International 
Development 
Association pursuant to Resolution No. 
IDA 184
of the Board of Governors of
International Development Association
By /s/ Jane Loos
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit and of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit and of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of 
the Interim Fund Credit and of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
       Interim Fund
Amount of the
 
Credit Allocated 
Loan Allocated
     % of
 (Expressed in
 (Expressed in 
 
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
    Dollars)       
to be 
Financed
(1)  Goods (other 
  15,590,000
  21,000,000
100% of 
foreign
     than those included
expenditures, 
100%
Page  9
     in Category (2) below
of local 
expenditures
(ex-factory 
cost) and
75% of local 
expen-
ditures for 
other
items 
procured locally
(2)  Afforestation 
  48,990,000
  66,000,000
50%
(3)
Consultants’ services,   450,000
     600,000
100%
training and study tours
(4)
TVE Sub-loans 
  4,530,000
   6,100,000
100% of TVE 
Sub-
loans
(5)  Marketing Infrastructure  970,000
   1,300,000
100% of 
Marketing  
     Sub-loans
Infrastructure
Sub-loans
(6)
Unallocated
 3,770,000
   5,000,000
TOTAL
74,300,000
 $100,000,000
==========   
============
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; provided, however, that 
expenditures in the currency of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the 
People’s Republic of China for goods and services supplied from such region shall be 
deemed to be “foreign expenditures”;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “Afforestation” means  plantation establishment, irrigation 
civil works, and guard/storage shed civil works.  For this purpose:
(i) 
“plantation establishment” means: (A) site clearing, preparation, 
planting, 
and tending; (B) seedlings;
(C) construction of 
forest trails; and (D)  surveys 
and designs, supervision, and 
environmental management; all as required for 
the establishment of 
timber plantations and economic forest crops, and the 
costs of which are determined on a per hectare basis in accordance with a 
schedule of costs for each species acceptable to the 
Administrator;
(ii)
“irrigation civil works” means works, materials, and surveys and 
designs, the 
costs of which are determined on a per meter basis in 
accordance with a 
schedule of costs acceptable to the 
Administrator; and
(iii) “guard/storage shed civil works” means works and materials, as 
determined on a 
per unit basis in accordance with a schedule 
of costs acceptable to the 
Administrator.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made:
Page  10
(a)
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of SDR 2,200,000 equivalent, may be made in respect of Category (2) on 
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after July 1, 1997; and 
(b) 
under Category (5), until a review of marketing studies, acceptable to 
the Administrator, shall have been furnished to the Administrator by the Borrower in 
accordance with paragraph 4 (b) of Part C  of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
4.
The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account 
to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures:
(a)
for goods and works under contracts costing less than $250,000 
equivalent, except for the contracts referred to in paragraphs 2 (b) and 2 (c) of Part 
D of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
(b)
for consultants’ services provided by individual consultants under 
contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent and for consultants’ services provided 
by firms under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent;
(c) 
for Afforestation, training and study tours; 
(d)
for Marketing Infrastructure Sub-loans under Part C.4 of the Project; and 
(e)
for TVE Sub-loans under Part D of the Project; 
all under such terms and conditions as the Administrator shall specify by notice to 
the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to develop forest resources in poor areas of 
central and western China on a sustainable and participatory basis, to support poverty 
reduction, forestry development and improved environmental management.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Administrator may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objective:
Part A: 
Timber Plantation Component
Establishment and initial operation of about 315,000 hectares of plantations on 
mountainous wasteland in the Project Provinces, of conifer species such as Chinese 
fir, masson pine, slash pine, loblolly pine and larch, and of broadleaf species such 
as poplar and eucalyptus, primarily for timber and secondarily for pulpwood and pit 
props,  including site clearing and preparation, planting, tending, extension, 
supervision, environmental management, the provision of management information 
systems, and the provision of seedlings, materials and equipment, fertilizers and 
pesticides.
Part B:
Economic Forest Crops Component
Establishment and initial operation of about 230,000 hectares of economic forest 
crop plantations on mountainous wasteland in the Project Provinces, comprising about 
110,000 hectares of new and rehabilitated bamboo and about 120,000 hectares of fruit, 
nut and medicinal trees (such as chestnut, walnut, gingko, eucommia, apricot, jujube, 
apple, pear and tung oil), including site clearing and preparation, planting, tending, 
extension, supervision, environmental management, the provision of management 
information systems, and the provision of seedlings, materials and equipment, 
fertilizers and pesticides.
Part C:
Technical Support Services Component
Page  11
1.
Raising the quality of planting materials through introduction of improved 
genetic materials and nursery management technologies, thereby supporting the 
production of about 800,000,000 seedlings required for the Project.
2.
Dissemination of key silvicultural research findings and technical silvicultural 
guidelines to Project staff and Project beneficiaries through:
(a)
preparation and dissemination of new training and extension materials;
(b)
procurement of motorcycles and other basic equipment for county and 
township forest stations;
(c)
development and implementation of domestic training programs;
(d)
provision of training courses and study tours in the areas of forestry, 
poverty reduction, project management and silvicultural management; and
(e)
establishment of demonstration plantations.
3.
Provision of supporting infrastructure for afforestation under Part A and Part B 
of the Project, including construction of forest trails, limited irrigation facilities 
for some economic tree crops and small guard/storage sheds.
4.
Financing, through the provision of sub-loans, of specific investment projects 
to develop and expand small-scale marketing infrastructure for post-harvest treatment 
and marketing of economic tree crop production. 
Part D:
Township and Village Enterprise Development Component
Financing, through the provision of sub-loans, of specific investment projects 
to  develop and expand small-scale, labor-intensive, commercially oriented township 
and village enterprises in the forestry sector.
*      *      *      *      *     *     *
The Project is expected to be completed by July 1, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost $250,000 or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
Page  12
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower (except for 
the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region) and works to be carried out by domestic 
contractors (except for works carried out by contractors from the Hong Kong Special 
Administrative Region).
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Goods
(a)
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $5,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)  
Limited International Bidding 
Pesticides, which the Administrator agrees can only be purchased from a limited 
number of suppliers, regardless of the cost thereof, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.
(c)
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $75,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $5,500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
(d)
Direct Contracting
Seeds which must be procured by means of direct contracting from a particular 
supplier in order to ensure genetic suitability and costing $500,000 equivalent or 
less in the aggregate, may, with the Administrator's prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
2.
Works
(a)
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $2,500,000 per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $2,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Force Account and Community Participation
Works costing less than $150,000 per assignment, which meet the requirements of 
paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed  $150,000,000 
equivalent, may, with the Administrator's prior agreement, be carried out by force 
account in accordance with the provisions of said paragraph of the Guidelines, or by 
the use of community members hired in accordance with procedures acceptable to the 
Administrator.
Part D:
Review by the Administrator of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Administrator for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Administrator, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (a) each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $250,000 or more; (b) the first contract for goods to be awarded by each 
Page  13
Project Province under Part C.1 (a) of this Section I; and (c) the first contract for 
works to be awarded by each Project Province under Part C.2 (a) of this Section I, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997, and 
revised in September 1997, (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of 
Section II of this Schedule.
Part B: 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 applicable to quality- and 
cost-based  selection of consultants. 
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Services Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services to assist TVEs to carry out TVE Sub-projects under Part D of the 
Project and estimated to cost less than $75,000 equivalent may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for forestry and silvicultural assignments that meet the requirements 
set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Administrator of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Administrator for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Administrator, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Administrator for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall 
be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
Page  14
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
Part A: 
Project Management and Implementation
1.
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project Management Center in SFA, the 
provincial level project management office in the forestry department of each Project 
Province and the county level project management office in each county forestry bureau 
responsible for implementation of a portion of the Project shall be maintained 
throughout the period of Project implementation with functions and responsibilities 
acceptable to the Administrator, with competent staff in adequate numbers.
2.
The Borrower shall ensure that, by December 31 in each year, an annual work plan 
and annual financing plan for Project activities for the next calendar year shall be 
prepared under terms of reference acceptable to the Administrator and furnished by SFA 
to the Administrator for review, and that such plans shall thereafter be implemented, 
taking account of the Administrator’s comments thereon.
3.
The Borrower shall ensure that all project activities, including afforestation 
under Parts A and B of the Project, planting material development under Part C of the 
Project, and TVE development under Part D of the Project, shall  be carried out in 
accordance with the Environmental Management Plan.
4.
(a)
The Borrower shall enter into an Implementation Arrangement with each 
Project Province, obligating such Project Province to carry out its responsibilities 
with respect to the Project in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and to 
take such additional  actions applicable to it as are specified in this Schedule 4, in 
accordance with the provisions thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
cause each Project Province to perform, in accordance with the 
provisions of 
the Implementation Arrangement to which said 
Project Province is a party, all 
of the obligations of said 
Project Province therein set forth;
(ii)
take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of 
funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, 
necessary or appropriate to enable 
said Project Province to 
perform such obligations; and
(iii)
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or 
interfere 
with such performance.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each Implementation 
Arrangement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Administrator and to accomplish the purposes of the Interim Fund Credit and of the 
Loan, and except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, not assign, amend, 
abrogate, or waive any Implementation Arrangement or any provision thereof.   
Part B:
Afforestation
1.
Under Parts A and B of the Project, the Borrower shall ensure that :
(a)
all afforestation sites shall be established in accordance with models, 
for each species, acceptable to the Administrator; 
(b)
all afforestation activities, including land tenure arrangements, 
production arrangements, and project implementation and cooperation arrangements 
Page  15
involving afforestation entities, shall be carried out in accordance with guidelines 
acceptable to the Administrator; and
(c)
each provincial level project management office shall finalize all 
technical design plans for afforestation sites, in accordance with guidelines 
acceptable to the Administrator, by June 30, 1999, and shall thereafter carry out 
afforestation activities in accordance with such finalized plans.
Part C:
Technical Support Services
1.
The Borrower shall ensure that:
(a)
all seedlings utilized in the Project shall conform to standards 
specified in the Planting Management Development Plan dated March 1998 prepared by MFO 
for the Project;
(b)
all nurseries utilized in the Project shall operate in accordance with 
guidelines specified in the Nursery Management Guidelines dated March 1998 prepared by 
MFO for the Project; and 
(c)
SFA shall prepare on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Administrator and, by December 31 of each year, furnish to the Administrator for 
review, an evaluation report for such year and a work plan for the next calendar year, 
in each case with respect to planting stock development and nursery management, and 
thereafter carry out said work plan during said calendar years taking into account the 
Administrator’s views on the matter.
2.
The Borrower shall cause the Project Provinces to adopt the following technical 
design criteria for supporting infrastructure for afforestation under Part C of the 
Project:
(a) 
forest trails shall be dirt paths no wider than one meter; and
 
(b)
each guard/storage shed shall be no larger than 60 square meters and 
shall be constructed of brick and concrete in line with local standards for similar 
construction.
3.
The Borrower shall ensure that local and overseas training and study tours under 
Part C of the Project shall be carried out in accordance with the Training and 
Extension Program dated March 1998 prepared by MFO for the Project. 
4. 
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
cause the Project Provinces to ensure that each county level project 
management office shall, not later than December 31, 2002, prepare a study, in 
accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Administrator, on the specific 
marketing arrangements for Project production under Part B of the Project in the 
relevant county; and
(b)
through SFA, prepare and furnish to the Administrator, not later than 
March 31, 2003, a summary review of such marketing studies, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Administrator shall reasonably request.
Part D: 
Onlending Arrangements
1.
The Borrower shall cause each of the Project Provinces to ensure that the 
proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit used to finance goods and services made available 
to final beneficiaries, with the exception of such proceeds corresponding to Part C.4 
and Part D of the Project, shall be onlent to the final beneficiaries on the following 
terms and conditions:
(i)
the repayment period and grace period, and provision for payment 
of interest, 
service charges and commitment charges, shall be on 
the terms and conditions 
set out in Section 3.02 (a) (i), (ii) 
and (iii) of the Interim Fund Credit 
Agreement, provided 
that the relevant Project Province, the Borrower and the 
Administrator may agree upon alternative arrangements with respect to 
onlending for specified purposes, based on the requirements of specific 
Page  16
Project activities under Part A or Part B of the Project;   
(ii)
based on an evaluation of the capacity of such beneficiaries to 
bear such 
risk, an exchange rate risk fee not to exceed 
two percent per annum may be 
charged by such Project 
Province for any funds so onlent in the Borrower’s 
currency; and
(iii)  the final beneficiaries shall not pay interest accrued during the 
Project 
implementation period, but an amount 
corresponding to such accrued interest 
shall be added to the 
principal amount repayable by the final beneficiaries.
2.
The Borrower shall cause each of the Project Provinces to ensure that the 
proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit corresponding to Part C.4 and Part D of the 
Project shall be onlent to the final beneficiaries on the same terms and conditions 
with respect to interest rates, maturity periods and grace periods as those applicable 
to  loans for similar goods and works made by the Agricultural Development Bank of 
China for similar purposes in the relevant locations.
Part E:  Sub-loans
1.
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project Provinces shall make Sub-loans in 
accordance with procedures, and on terms and conditions, satisfactory to the 
Administrator, which shall include those set forth in this Part E.
Marketing Infrastructure Sub-loans
2.
Marketing Infrastructure Sub-loans shall: 
(a)
be made exclusively for Marketing Sub-projects which:
(i)
are located within Project Counties and have been designed to 
market economic 
tree crop production under Part B of the 
Project;
(ii)
have been identified as priority investments in the county level 
marketing 
study to be prepared in accordance with 
Section 4(a) of Part C of Schedule 4, 
and have been determined 
to be financially viable and technically feasible, on 
the 
basis of a feasibility study conducted in accordance with guidelines 
acceptable to the Administrator; and
(iii)
are estimated to cost not more than $100,000 equivalent each; and
(b)
be made exclusively to Rural Marketing Groups which shall:
(i)    have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the 
relevant Project 
Province, on the basis of guidelines 
satisfactory to the Administrator, that 
they are 
creditworthy and have the capacity to implement the relevant 
Marketing Sub-project; and
(ii) 
have committed to contribute, by way of equity, not less than 25% 
of the total 
estimated cost of the Marketing Sub-project for which 
a Marketing 
Infrastructure Sub-loan is to be made.
TVE Sub-loans
3.
A TVE Sub-loan shall :
(a)
be made exclusively to a legal entity that:
(i)
is classified as a township enterprise under the Township 
Enterprise Law;
(ii)
is permitted to borrow funds under its charter or other 
Page  17
constituent document;
(iii)
has independent management, separate financial statements and 
accounts subject 
to auditing by an independent auditor and 
following the national  accounting 
standards introduced in 
China in 1993 or other accounting standards acceptable 
to the 
Administrator; 
(iv)
is in a position to, and has undertaken to contribute, by way of 
equity, not 
less than 25% of the total estimated cost of the TVE 
Sub-project for which a 
TVE Sub-loan is to be made to it; and
(b)
be made exclusively for TVE Sub-projects which shall be located within 
Project Counties, and which shall each:
(i)
be designed to create additional employment such that at least 50 
percent of 
the estimated total non-managerial full-time 
workforce engaged on the TVE 
Sub-project shall be 
constituted by members of households below the national 
or 
provincial poverty line;
(ii)
generate a financial rate of return of at least 12 percent, 
calculated in 
accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Administrator;
(iii)
have been determined to be technically feasible on the basis of a 
feasibility 
study conducted in accordance with guidelines 
acceptable to the Administrator;
(iv)
have been determined to be environmentally sustainable on the 
basis of an 
environmental assessment conducted in 
accordance with the Environmental 
Management Plan; and
(v)
be labor-intensive, with an average total investment cost per 
worker of $3,000 
equivalent or less and a total estimated cost 
of not more than $400,000 
equivalent. 
4.
The Borrower shall cause the Project Provinces to ensure that proposals for the 
first TVE Sub-loan to be made in each Project Province shall be submitted to the 
Administrator for approval, utilizing for the purpose of an application in such form 
and containing such information as the Administrator shall require, and subsequent 
requests for authorization to make withdrawals in respect of TVE Sub-loans shall 
include a summary description of the TVE Sub-project, the proposed Sub-borrower and 
the terms and conditions of the proposed TVE Sub-loan.
General Provisions for Sub-loans
5.
The Borrower shall cause the Project Provinces to ensure that the aggregate 
amount of all Sub-loans for a Sub-project shall not exceed 50% of the total estimated 
costs of such Sub-project. 
6.
The Borrower shall cause each Project Province to exercise its rights in 
relation to each Sub-project in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Administrator and such Project Province and achieve the purposes of the Project. 
7.
Sub-loans shall be made on terms whereby the Project Province shall obtain, by 
written contract with the Sub-borrower to which the Sub-loan is made or by other 
appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Administrator 
and the Borrower, including the right to:
(i)
require the Sub-borrower to carry out and operate the  Sub-project 
with due 
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound 
technical, financial and 
managerial standards and to maintain 
adequate records;
(ii)
require that:
Page  18
(A)
the goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the 
Interim Fund Credit shall be procured in 
accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement; and
(B)
such goods and services shall be used exclusively in the 
carrying out 
of the Sub-project;
(iii)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the 
Administrator, if 
the Administrator shall so request, such goods 
and the sites, works, plants 
and construction included in the 
Sub-project, the operation thereof, and any 
relevant records and 
documents;
(iv)
require that the Sub-borrower shall take out and maintain such 
insurance 
against such risks and in such amounts, as 
shall be consistent with sound 
business practice;
(v)
obtain all such information as the Administrator or the relevant 
Project 
Province shall reasonably request relating to 
the foregoing and to the 
administration, operations and 
financial condition of the entity and to the 
benefits to be 
derived from the Sub-project; and
(vi)
suspend or terminate the right of the Sub-borrower to the use of 
the proceeds 
of the Interim Fund Credit upon failure by such 
Sub-Borrower to perform its 
obligations under its contract 
with the relevant Project Province; and
8. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Provinces to ensure that, in the event that 
involuntary resettlement of persons arising from a Sub-project cannot practically be 
avoided, such Sub-project shall include a resettlement plan for all said persons to be 
implemented by the relevant Project Province, which shall have been approved by the 
Administrator and shall provide that such resettlement shall be minimized and that 
affected persons shall:
(A)
be compensated for their losses at full replacement cost 
prior to the 
actual move;
(B)
be assisted with the move and supported during the 
transition period in 
the resettlement site;
(C)
be assisted in their efforts to improve, or at least 
restore, their 
former living standards, income 
earning capacity and production levels; 
and
(D)
be fully involved in the process of planning and 
implementation of 
resettlement.
Part F:
Monitoring and Evaluation
1.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators specified in the 
Monitoring and Evaluation Plan dated March 1998 prepared by MFO for the Project (the 
Monitoring and Evaluation Plan), the carrying out of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof; 
(b)
ensure that SFA shall prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the 
Administrator and furnish to the Administrator, semi-annual reports, not later than 
March 1 and September 1 in each year, beginning in March 1, 1999, integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities carried out  pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the dates of such reports and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such dates;
Page  19
(c)
ensure that SFA shall prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Administrator, and furnish to the Administrator, on or about June 30, 2001, a 
mid-term review integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the 
carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such 
date;
(d)
review with the Administrator, by August 31, 2001, or such later date as 
the Administrator shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (c) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Administrator’s views on 
the matter.
(e)
ensure that SFA shall complete, by September 30, 2005, a survey of timber 
plantation growth under Part A of the Project and economic tree crop production under 
Part B of the Project, based on terms of reference acceptable to the Administrator; 
and furnish to the Administrator for review by December 31, 2005, a report summarizing 
the results of the survey and the achievement of the project production targets; and
(f)
conduct a rural household survey program in all Project Provinces in 
accordance with the guidelines set out in the Monitoring and Evaluation Plan; and, 
through SFA, prepare and furnish to the Administrator for review a summary report of 
the rural household survey program baseline results by June 30, 1999, mid-term results 
by June 30, 2001, and project closing results by December 31, 2005.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and 
(5)  set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for  the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit or the Loan allocated from time to time to 
the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$13,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Interim Fund Credit Account or the Loan Account 
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, 
provided, however, that unless the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Authorized 
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $9,000,000 until the aggregate 
amount of withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account and the Loan Account plus 
the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of SDR18,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Administrator a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Administrator shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Interim Fund Credit Account or the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
Page  20
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Administrator requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals 
as the Administrator shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Administrator the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for 
the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Administrator shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Interim Fund 
Credit Account or the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such 
amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall 
have been shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid out of the Special Account 
for eligible expenditures. All 
such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Administrator 
from the Interim Fund Credit Account or the Loan Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, 
as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Interim Fund Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement or from the Loan Account in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement and Article V of the General 
Conditions applicable thereto;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Administrator, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Administrator pursuant to said Section, 
or to the Bank pursuant to Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement, in respect of the audit 
of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have notified the Borrower of 
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account or the Loan Account pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 6.02 of the respective General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Interim Fund Credit and the Loan 
allocated to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions with respect to  the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice 
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Interim Fund Credit Account and the Loan Account of 
the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Interim Fund Credit and the Loan allocated to 
the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Administrator shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after 
and to the extent that the Administrator shall have been satisfied that all such 
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will 
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account:
(i)
was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 
2 of this Schedule; or
Page  21
(ii)
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Administrator, 
the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator:
(A)
provide such additional evidence as the Administrator may 
request; or
(B)
deposit into the  Special Account (or, if the Administrator 
shall so 
request, refund to the Administrator or the 
Bank) an amount equal to 
the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. Unless 
the Administrator shall otherwise agree, no further 
deposit by the Administrator into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit 
or 
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Administrator, refund to the Administrator or the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator or the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special 
Account. \0c
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator or the Bank made pursuant to 
paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Interim Fund 
Credit Account or the Loan Account, as the case may be, for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement or the 
Loan Agreement, including the General Conditions applicable thereto.
