Report No. PID8360
Project name                     Benin-National Parks Conservation (*)
and Management Program
Region                           Africa Region
Sector                           Environment
Project ID                       BJPE37580
Borrower(s)                      Government of Benin
Implementing agency              CENAGREF
Environment category             B
Date PID Prepared                November 5, 1999
Projected Appraisal Date         June-July 1998
Projected Board Date             November 23, 1999
1- Country and sector background
The Program zone in Benin covers approximately 1.2 million hectares of
protected areas, hunting reserves and buffer zones. This forms a significant
part of a three country, transboundary wildlife management area which covers
2.5 million hectares in the north of Benin, in South West Niger and in South
East Burkina Faso. Program activities will focus on: (i) the two main
National Parks in the north of Benin, the Pendjari (266,040 ha, with a
Biosphere Reserve created in 1986) and the "W" (563,280 ha), (ii) the
wildlife management/hunting blocks adjacent to the parks: Djona (115,000 ha),
Atakora (125,000 ha) and Pendjari Hunting areas (175,000 ha), (iii) the Siri
Reserve, and (iv) the communities - villages and transhumant pastoralists
living in the surrounding area.
The area is an important and extensive example of African Sudanian Savanna
habitat and species diversity. Detailed and long-term ecological and
biological surveys are yet to be completed. There is, however, little doubt
that the transboundary ecosystem represents the single most important example
of this habitat and biodiversity in the region. In addition to important
plant, invertebrate and small vertebrate species, the area holds significant
populations of large herbivores and their predators. Important threatened or
endangered large mammal species include the cheetah, leopard, the korrigum
antelope and spotted hyena. Hunting dogs once inhabited the area, but none
have been seen in Benin since 1980. They do, however, still occur within the
transboundary ecosystem. Over 270 species of birds have been recorded in the
area.
The area is under threat from a range of problems, most of which are caused
by anthropic factors. Population growth and the expansion of human activity
into the area seriously affect the overall integrity of the ecosystem as well
as the population of specific animal species. While it has not yet been
possible to allocate priorities to each of the threats, their importance
varies with both time and area. The chief concerns include: (i) the clearing
of natural vegetation for cultivation, especially cotton; (ii) competition
for pasture and water due to increased transhumant pastoralism following the
Sahelian droughts of the 1970s and 1980s. There is also increasing threat due



to recent El Nino activity and drought that has already started in Niger;
(iii) increased, uncontrolled use of bush-fires for land clearing, pasture
regeneration and poaching, (iv) an increase in commercial poaching and the
use of automatic weapons; and (v) the degradation of village lands, a
reduction of soil fertility and an increase of soil erosion due to the use of
unsustainable agricultural practices.
These threats are exacerbated by a lack of trained human resources, available
finance and suitable equipment to address them. Without a concerted, broad
based multi-sectoral approach there is little doubt that these protected
areas, the natural habitats and the plant and animal species will rapidly
decline and a crucial part of Africa's unique biodiversity resource will
disappear. The Government of Benin, working in coordination with Niger and
Burkina Faso, has launched the National Parks Conservation and Management
Program (NPCMP). It is intended to tackle these problems and reverse the
current decline. Support will be given to local communities as the
improvement of the management of the protected areas is addressed. This will
ensure that the communities will be able to be more actively involved in
protected area and buffer zone management and be able to manage their
agricultural lands, pastures and woodlands in a productive and sustainable
manner.
Government strategy
The strategy of the government concerning protected areas management is
presented in a "letter of policy" that provides the guidelines for any
actions to be undertaken in the context of the NPCMP. This strategy is based
on experiences of the last few years within the context of the PGRN, in the
border areas of both parks and protected forests. The aim is to promote
conservation and sustainable use of natural resources through participatory
involvement of communities surrounding protected areas. This approach will
ensure the commitment and involvement of the population to the conservation
objectives of the program and allow for the sharing of the benefits related
to parks activities between the local population, the State and the private
sector. This requires the organization of the local populations into
associations for which the institutional framework has already been defined.
For instance, the Hunting Village Association (AVC) has been reorganized as
the Wildlife Reserves Management Village Association (AVIGREF). Some of these
associations already exist in a number of villages and have functioned
satisfactorily within the context of the PGRN. The main problems arise in the
areas where human pressure is so intense that some populations have already
settled within the limits of the protected areas. These populations were
often present even before the delimitation of the protected areas. In these
cases, the strategy would be to combine incentives to resettle outside the
area with agreement on limited activities in the protected areas.
A law regulating wildlife conservation in Benin has been drafted and adopted
by Government and is expected be passed within the coming months. It will
provide the legal framework for the management of protected areas. This law
provides: a) a legal definition of the buffer zones to clarify where local
populations are entitled to settle, b) a context to ensure that local
populations will benefit from help of social and agricultural programs, and
c) a framework articulating restricted activities so as to help preserve the
conservation in the areas.
2- Objectives
-2-



The operational objectives of the national program are: (i) to increase the
technical and managerial capacity of the local population, the Wildlife
Reserves Management Center (CENAGREF) and other partners in protected area
and wildlife management; (ii) to enable the local populations to play a more
active and profitable role in park and wildlife management; (iii) to support
locally identified rural development activities in the areas surrounding the
park and wildlife management areas in order to improve the quality of life
for the local population and diminish pressure on the parks; (iv) to
encourage sustainable systems of natural resource conservation, management
and use; (v) the improve the flow of information and the level of education
on biodiversity conservation at both local and national levels; (v) to
establish sustainable ecological monitoring systems, and support ecological
research related to management; (vi) to improve basic infrastructure within
the parks; (vii) to identify and prepare the steps for the establishment of
an International Trust Fund to help finance future wildlife management
biodiversity conservation operations; (vii) to provide support for effective
donor coordination, and (ix) to ensure effective program management,
monitoring and evaluation.
3- Rationale for Bank involvement
World Bank support has been helpful in the development of the national
protected areas conservation program and the proposed GEF project in a number
of ways. First, through working with the Ministry of Rural Development and
partners in the donor community on the development of the Agricultural Sector
Investment Program it has been possible to ensure that the principle of
biodiversity conservation, the related policy issues and a coordinated
investment program become mainstreamed into the national strategy for rural
development. Second, through financing, pilot operations of PGRN at the
community level the Bank has contributed to the development of a growing
national capacity in the methodology and management of gestion des terroirs
operations. Third, by monitoring closely - but not intervening independently
- during the hiatus of 1996 the Bank has helped reinforce the importance of
national ownership and leadership in the field. This helped ensure that
temporarily, weak national leadership was not replaced by external and
unsustainable interference. Fourth, the Bank has been able to facilitate the
exchange of operational information between Benin and other countries in the
sub-region working on similar projects. This has both provided an exchange on
new ways of tackling, certain problems and reinforced locally developed
solutions.
Rationale for GEF support
The project will finance both the incremental costs of biodiversity
conservation and improved land management of fragile semi-arid ecosystems
susceptible to degradation and desertification.
Benin is launching an ambitious and timely national program to improve the
management of its national parks (including a Biosphere Reserve), to protect
natural habitats and species, to conserve biodiversity and to involve the
local population in as many of these activities as possible or prudent.
Different donors will support certain site-specific activities within clearly
defined zones. On their own, however, these investments will neither be
sufficient to resolve local problems within a particular wildlife area, nor
be effective at ensuring a sustainable response to the challenges currently
- 3 -



facing Benin's biodiversity. At the same time, the sustainability of any
conservation effort will depend on institutional and human capacity, building
and the rationalization of policies and legislation. Additional,
complementary support is therefore required to enable a sustainable and
comprehensive national program to be implemented and maintained. This is the
only way in which the conservation of this complex and globally important
ecosystem and its overall biodiversity can be assured.
GEF financing will be essential to ensure that international and national
priorities, highlighted by the NEAP and the National Conservation Strategy,
become operational realities. The project will produce significant global
benefits from enhanced conservation of seriously threatened and globally
significant ecosystems, habitats and species. On the other hand, the national
benefits arising from the project in the short term will be relatively
limited and focused particularly on benefits to local populations, improved
natural resource management and rural infrastructure - which are unlikely to
be financed by the government without the focus on biodiversity conservation.
Furthermore, the interest of GEF in supporting the national program has
encouraged the participation of other donors and acted as a catalyst in
attracting supplementary finance.
By financing the incremental costs of this national Program, GEF's
contribution would strengthen long term sustainability of effective
management of the resource, reinforce the local capacity necessary to
implement the task and secure the support of local populations for the
sustainable conservation of biodiversity. Furthermore, the participation of
GEF in the national program would provide essential, non-partisan support for
CENAGREF's leadership and coordination responsibilities.
4- Description
Components                       Sub-components
Common actions at                a Program Management (planning and monitoring)
the national                     a Support actions (on legal aspects, regional
level                            cooperation, training, communication, and
ecological monitoring)
Pendjari complex                 a Park and cynegetic areas management
a Sustainable tourism and hunting
a Actions with villagers :
a Sustainable development of Siri area
a Actions on Tanguieta-Porga and Tanguieta-
Batia axes
"W" complex                      a Park and cynegetic areas management
a Tourism and hunting
a Actions with villagers
5- Financing
Government Financing             US$ 3,5 million
CENAGREF                         US$ 0,6 million
GEF                              US$ 6,8 million
European Union                   US$ 4,75 million
- 4 -



Germany                          US$ 5,7 million
The Netherlands                  US$ 2,15 million
French GEF                       US$ 0,6 million
AFD                              US$ 1,5 million
ARDET                            US$ 0,3 million
Total project cost               US$ 25.9 million
6- Implementation
Overall responsibility for the planning, implementation and monitoring of the
program lies with CENAGREF, the National Center for Wildlife Management
created in 1997 which is based in Cotonou. CENAGREF is an autonomous body
linked to the Ministry of Rural Development. Management of the sub-programs
of NPCMP will be decentralized to units based at Kandi ("W" complex) and
Natitingou (Pendjari Complex) with secondary posts at Tanguieta (Pendjari
complex) and at Banikoara and Karimama ("W" complex) and outposts at Batia,
Porga, Arly and Bondjagou (Pendjari complex) and at Konkombri, Koabagou,
Keremou, Sampeto, Karimama, Monsey, Gorge de la Mekrou and Alfakoara ("W"
complex).
To the extent possible, execution of specific tasks will be contracted to
local consultants, NGOs, community and professional groups and other private
sector operators. CENAGREF's main role will be in planning and coordination
of financial management and accounting, monitoring, evaluation and reporting.
CENAGREF would also retain overall responsibility for anti-poaching
activities and controlling access to protected areas in accordance with the
current legal texts. While local communities would be actively involved in
supporting this task, the legal responsibility rests with CENAGREF.
Some of the activities directly related to tourism development (e.g.
promotion, lodging, roads, watchtowers) would be funded under a tourism
development project (French financing) implemented by ARDET, the Regional
Association for the Development of Tourism in North-Benin. CENAGREF would
delegate responsibility to ARDET for the implementation of those such
activities that fall under CENAGREF's mandate, through an appropriate written
agreement (Convention).
7- Sustainability
Financial sustainability will be achieved primarily through the establishment
during the first two years of program implementation of an International
Trust Fund for the Conservation of Biodiversity in Benin. Initial design work
has already started, and the process would continue as part of program
implementation. Once the legal framework, fiduciary responsibilities and
financial regulations of the Trust Fund has been developed and agreed upon by
Benin and the donor community, capital contributions would be sought from
both public (including GEF) and private, and traditional and non-tradition
sources. The revenue generated by the fund would be used, as and when needed
to meet both recurrent and capital costs of biodiversity conservation
operations in Benin. The establishment of this fund would assure the
sustainable financial support for biodiversity conservation and ensure that
CENAGREF would be able maintain a significant level of financial and
operational autonomy.
8- Lessons learned from past operations in the country / sector
- 5 -



The four most important lessons to be drawn from past experience are: (i) the
need to have clear and supportive national policies, (ii) the need to change
the role of public institutions and to greatly increase the participation of
local communities, local professional organizations, NGOs and local
consultants (iii) the importance of directly involving the population in the
preparation of the projects (several communities in the proposed program area
have had too much "participation" and now insist on seeing results on the
ground, and (iv) the importance of ensuring that participating populations
obtain tangible benefits directly, and obviously, linked to program
activities. These lessons have been incorporated into program design and will
also constitute an important part of the policy and implementation discussion
for the development of other agricultural sector investments (PERC).
9- Environment aspects
Environmental issues: Key issues include (a) the possible negative
environmental impact due to incorrectly planned tourist infrastructure, and
(b) the failure or lack of support of the national program and the consequent
destruction of globally important ecosystems and biodiversity.
Environmental category: B
Justification/Rationale for category rating: The primary objective of the
proposed program is to improve environmental management in the north of
Benin. Therefore the program is expected to have some positive environmental
impacts; however, there are some environmental risks, albeit relatively
minor. First, investment in access to paths and water points in and around
the protected areas has potentially negative environmental impact. It will
therefore be necessary to undertake an activity-specific EIA for each of
these types of investments. Second is the control and management of
commercial and traditional hunting. Vigilance will be required to ensure that
the quotas and guidelines are respected.
Status of Category B assessment: An Environmental Impact Assessment was
prepared by an IUCN team and has been reviewed by CENAGREF and the Agence
Beninoise pour l'Environnement (ABE), the latter being the legally
responsible agency for all EIA review in the country. The Assessment
emphasizes the impact the program will have on populations in the border of
the parks. The participatory approach which is recommended by the program is
expected to limit any negative impacts on local populations. Potential
negative impacts on ecosystems of the parks, due to tourism development, will
be managed through the elaboration of a Development Plan at the onset of the
program, to be followed by the formulation of full Park Management Plans as
part of program implementation. All new infrastructure within the protected
areas will have to follow the regulations formulated by the ABE. Moreover, it
is planned that an ecological monitoring system will help to ensure that the
conservation objectives of the programs are achieved.
10- Contact points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
- 6 -



Task manager
Michel Simeon
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington DC 20 433
Telephone: (202) 473 5513
Fax :       (202) 473 8185
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending November 19, 1999.
- 7 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it
is prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01,
Environmental Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public
Information Document (PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.
-8-



