Document of
The World Bank
Report No.:   19723 BEN
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
GRANT FROM THE
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 5 MILLION
(US$ 6.8 MILLION EQUIVALENT) iO THE
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
FOR A
NATIONAL PARKS CONSERVATION AND MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
February 24, 2000
AFTE I AFC 13
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Average Exchange Rate Effective in June 1998)
Currency Unit = FCFA
LC = US$0.00167
US$ = CFAF 600
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ABE:                   Agence B&ninoise pour l'Environnement
(Benin Environment Agency)
AFD:                   Agence FranVaise de Developpement
(French Development Agency)
ARDET-Atacora:         Agence Regionale de Developpement du Tourisme de l'Atacora
(Regional Agency for Development of tourism in Atacora)
ASIP:                  Agriculture Sector Investment Program
AVIGREF:               Association Killageoise de Gestion des Reserves de Faune
(Wildlife Reserves Management Village Association)
CAS:                   Country Assistance Strategy
CENAGREF:              Centre National de Gestion des Reserves de Faune
(Wildlife Reserves Management Center)
FFEM:                  French Global Environment Facility
GEF:                   Global Environment Facility
NEAP:                  National Environment Action Plan
NPCMP:                 National Parks Conservation and Management Program
PGE:                   Projet de Gestion de l'Environnement
Environment Management Project
Vice President: Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Manager/Director: Theodore Ahlers
Sector Manager/Director: Hans Binswanger
Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Michel Sinieon



BENIN NATIONAL PARKS CONSERVATION AND MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PROcRIv.I SUlMMAR   ...................................................................... S
CHAPTER   1: CONTEXT  OF THE PROGRAM  .....................................................................                                     I
A- TiHE PROGRAM ARIA ...................................................................... I
CHAPTER   2: PROGRAM   DEVELOPMENT  OBJECTIVE .....................................................................   3
A- TiIE PROGRAM  DEVEILOPMENT OBJECIIVES: .......................................................................  3
CHAPTER  3: STRATEGIC  CONTEXT .....................................................................                                            5
A- CAS O.3,J1ICTIIV'ES Sl II'PORTED BY T1-IlE PROGRAm VS REPORT No. P-6303-BEN. MAY  11  19 94 ...........                       .................... S
B- MAIN SLC-I-)R ISSR I     S ANI) GOVEIRNNEIINT STRATEGY: .                ..................................................................... 5
C- SEIORl 551 ES TOI ........T. BE A DDI)REISSEI) 1B  IlIE PROGRAM AND STRATEGIC CHOICES:.                                                      6
CHAPTER 4: PROGRAM DESCRIPTION SUMMARY .............................................                                                            7
A- Ti-ii.l   iAGiC.L IR      woI\RK..                                                                                 ............            . 7
B- THE CONIPON.NTSS:.   ......................                                                         .......              ............. 7
C- KEY POLICY AND INSTIT_T I IONAL REFORMS SUPPORTED BY THE PROGRAM ........................................................   9
D- GLOBAI. AND NATIIONAL BENEFITI'S A.ND                                  I ARGET POPULATION .9
E- INSTIT T.lIONAL AND IMPLE,MENTATIrON ARRANGEMENTS: ...................................                      .................................. I(
CHAPTER  5: PROGRAM   RATIONALE .....................................................................                                         12
A- PRO(GRAM  Al.:l ILRNAX1LV1_S CONSS1)ERE1L) AND REASONS FOR REJECTION . ............................................................... 1 2
B- MAJOR REL.AFID PROJEICTS FINANCIED BY TIHIE BANK (COMPLETED, ONGOING AND PLANNED) ............................... 1 2
C- LESSONS LElARNED AND REFLECIED IN PROPOSED PROGRAM  DESIGN: .................................................................. 1 2
D- NI) AV'ONS 01: BORROWER C0M                   I.NI'NAND OWNERSHIP! ................. ............................................................ N1.
E- VA-lU.UAD)DED) O1F BANK St IPP'ORT .............................................  1.,
F- R\IrIONAL..I  iFoR GEF St ilPOT I: .............................................                                                            1 .3
G- GEF OPERATI ONAL STRATEGY AND PROGRAM OBJECTIVES ADDRESSED BY TIHE PROJECT: .................. I ..............  14
CHAPTER  6: SUMMARY  PROGRAM   ANALYSIS ...................................................................                                   15
A- ECoNONMIC ANAISIS .15................................................................... I S
B- FINANCIAL ...................................................................1                                                               7
C- TE.cIINIC.I.                                                                       ................................................................... 17
D- INSTIT      IONAl ................................................................................................................................. ............... 17
E- SoCIA......18
F- RLSI:'.IEN.18 i...........     1 8
G- ENVIRONMEINTAL. ASSEISSNMEI .................................................. 18
H- PARITICII',IrORIy AI'PRo i\CL ....9.............................................  l 9
CHAPTER 7: SUSTAINABILITY AND RISKS .................................................                                                         20
A- SUSTAINABILITY ................................................... 20
B- CRITICAL RISKS ................................................. 21
C- POSSIBLIE CONTROVERSIAL ASPECTS .................................................                                                          22
CHAPTER 8: PROGRAM COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN .................................................                                                 23
A -  PRO ,RANI  COS  I.S                                                                             ................................................. 23
CHAPTER 9: MAIN GRANT CONDITIONS .................................................                                                            26
CHAPTER 10: COMPLIANCE WITH BANK POLICIES .................................................                                                   27



ANNEX I - PROJECT DESIGN SUMMARY AND PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ................................. 28
ANNEX 2 - PROJECT DESCRIPTION .................................................................... 30
ANNEX 3 - ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS .................................................................... 34
ANNEX 4 - INCREMENTAL COST ANALYSIS ....................................................................   35
A- BROADDEVELOPMENI GOALS ..                                                                               35
B- BASELINE.35
C- GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT OBJECTIVES .35
D- GEF ALIEIRNATIVE.36
E- INCREMENTAL COSs .                                                                                      36
F- INCRENIENTAI. COST MATRIX FOR GEF FUNDING .37
ANNEX 5 - FINANCIAL SUMMARY ............................................................                   38
ANNEX 6 - PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS ................................................ 39
A- PROCUIRMIN          ..;..NI                                       ..                                    39
B- DISBI IRSE IEXN   I    ...........................................................................   .............................    4()
ANNEX 7 - PROJECT PROCESSING BUDGET AND SCHEDULE ........................................................... 42
ANNEX 10 - POLICY STATEMENT ...........................................................                    47
ANNEX 11 - SOCIAL ANALYSIS AND PARTICIPATORY APPROACH .................................................... 52
A- SOCIAL /AALYSIS .52
B- LOCAL GROUPS AND         CN NGOS CONSi ILTED                                                            52
C- PATI CIPAT       ORY APPROAC..                                                                          53
LIST OF TABLES
TABLE I - COMPONENTS OFTI-'1 PROGRAM.                                                                        7
TABLI 2 - ORGANIZATION CIIAR1r oi1 CENAGREF.                                                               I(
TAB3LE 3 - MAJOR RELATEID PLROJECTS.                                                                        1 2
TABLE 4 - SI T UIATION OF ECOTOURISMI IN TIHIE PENDJARI AND "W"PARKS (ROUNDED ESTIMATIES) .                 16
TABLE 5 - RISKS OF T.IE PROGRAM.                                                                           2 1
T-13u.E 6 - PROGC;RAMNI COST STISUMAI . .23
TA,BLE 7 - PROGRAM BUDGET BY SOLIRCE (US$ '000) .24
TABLE I  - CO-FINANCING OFTHE PROGRAMI                                                                     25
TA.BL I 9 - FINANCING Pl FN O  E Il-ll COMOl'NENIS. (AMOuNTS IN US$)                                        32
TABL E 10 - ES IAIMAll D COSTS OlS -ll lPlw.OJECT .4
TAI3LE I - INCR\I1.MNIAI. COSTS ANALYSIS MAT IRIX                                                          37
TAkBL.E 12 - FINANCIAL SUMMARY.Y                                                                           38
TABI.L 13 - PR<)OCl RTNI ARRANGEMENS (US$ -000) .39
TABl1E 14 - DISBUlRSEM ENT oF GEF GRANT,. BY CATEGORIES (US$ MILLION)                                      40
TABEI 15 - ES1IMA IT.l) GEF DlSBURSEMlENT I(US$ '000) .4 1



BENIN NATIONAL PARKS CONSERVATION AND MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
Program Summary
Executing Agc\ic:          CENAGREF (Parks management organization)
Program cost:              US$ 24.2 million
Proposed IDA Credit:       None
Proposed GEF Grant:        US$ 6.8 million
GEF focal Area:            Biodiversity
GEF Country eligibility:   Convenitioni ratified as of June 30. 1994
GEF Implementing Agency:   World Bank
GEF Prcparation cost:      PRIF Grant US$244.000
Governiment Financing:     US$ 3 5 million
Finanicinig Plan:          Contributionis agreed during negotiations GEF. Europeani Union. Francce
Germanv, the Netherlands
CENAGREF                US$ 0.6 million
EuLropean Unionl        US$ 4.75 million (Convention signed in June 1999)
Germrany                US$ 5.7 million (Convention with GTZ signed in September 1999.
Convenition with KfW approved in June 1999 and to bc signed earl) 2000)
The Netherlanlds        US$ 2.15 million (effectiveness scheduled for I" quarter of 2000)
FranLce                 US$ 2.12 million (Formal appraisal scheduled in March 200() and board
presentation to French GEF in June 2000)
Program appraisal date:    June - July 1998 (multi-donor)
Negotiationi Date:         October 1998
Estimating starting datc:  June 2000
Program Duration:          5 years
Environmenit Categorv:     B
Program description:       The grant would help finance the cost of:
(i) improving national capacity for the managemenlt of national parks.
includinig plaining and monitoring, legal aspects, regional cooperation.
training, communication, and ecological monitoring:
(iH) strenagtlhening the management of the Pendjari and W National Parks
and cynegetic areas by improving infrastructure: supplying transport and
other cquipmenit: deploying staff: and promoting ecotourisll.:
(iMi) promoting village participation in parks conservationi and managemclnt.






CHAPTER 1: Context of the program
A- The Program Area
The Program zone in Benin covers approximately 1.2 million hectares of protected areas, hullting reserves
and buffer zones. This forms a significant part of a three country. transboundary wildlife maniagement area
which covers 2.5 million hectares in the north of Benin, in South West Niger and in Soutlh East Burkinia
Faso. Program activities will focus on: (i) the two main National Parks in the north of Bcnini. the Pelndjari
(266.040 ha. with a Biosphere Reserve created in 1986) and the "W" (563.280 ha) (ui) the wildlife
managemenit/hunting blocks adjacent to the parks: Djona (115.000 ha), Atakora ( 125.000 ha) and Pendjari
Hunlting areas (175.000 ha), (iii) the Sirn Reserve, and (iv) the communities - villages and transhumllanit
pastoralists living In the surrounding area.
The area is an important and extensive example of African Sudanian Savamia habitat and species diversity.
Detailed and long-termii ecological and biological surveys are yet to be completed. There is. howcver, little
doubt that thc transbouLndarv ecosystem represents the single most important example of this habitat and
biodiversity in the region. In addition to important plant, invertebrate and small vertebrate species, the area
holds significanit populations of large herbivores and their predators. Important threatenied or cndanigered
large mammal species include the cheetah, leopard, the korrigum antelope and spotted hyena. Hunting dogs
once ilhabited the area, but nonie have been seen in Benin since 1980. They do, however, still occur within
the transboundarv ecosystem. Over 270 species of birds have been recorded in the area.
The area is under threat from a range of problems, most of which are caused by anthropic factors.
Population growth and the expansioni of huLtman activity into the area seriously affect the overall Integrity of
the ecosystem as well as the population of specific animal species. While it has not vet beeni possiblc to
allocatc priorities to each of the threats, their importance varies with both time and area. The chief
conccrnis includc: (i) the clearinig of natural vegetation for cultivation, especially cotton. (ii) compctitioni for
pastLre and wvater due to increased transhumant pastoralism following the Sahelian droughlts of thc l 970s
and 1980Os. Therc is also increasing threat due to recent El Niho activity and drought that has already
started in Niger: (iii) increased, unconitrolled use of bush-fires for land clearing, pasture rcgencerationi and
poachilng. (iv) an increase in commlcrcial poaching and the use of automatic weapons: and (v) the
degr-adationi of village lands, a reductioni of soil fertility and an increase of soil ce-osiol duc to the usc of
unsustainable agricultural practices.
Thesc threats are exacerbated by a lack of trained human resources, available finanice and suitable
cquipment to address themii. Without a concerted, broad based multi-sectoral approach therc is little doubt
that thcsc protected areas. the natural habitats and the plant and animal species wvill rapidly dccline and a
crucial part of Africa's unique biodiversity resource will disappear. The Govermllent of Beninl. working in
coordination with Niger and Burkina Faso, has launched the National Parks Conservation and Managemenlt
Program (NPCMP). It is intended to tackle these problems and reverse the current decline. Support wvill be
given to local communities as the improvement of the management of the protected areas is addressed.
This will ensure that the communities will be able to be more actively involved in protectcd area and buffer
zone managemiient and be able to manage their agricultural lands, pastures and woodlanids in a productive
and sustainable manniier.
There is already a number of related development programs underway in the area, or on a national basis
\vitlh an influence onl the area. The National Natural Resource Management Project (PGRN) has for a
number of vears. been financing pilot community-based wildlife and natural resource managemeint
operations in the communities adjacent to the protected areas. This has provided an imiportanit base for the
preparation of the proposed program. A proposed Program for the Management of Forests and Adjacent
Lands is uLnder preparation that would capitalize on PGRN experience in forest managemiienlt. The Agence
&lninoise po/r I IEnvironneivent. anothier IDA-supported operation. has a range of comlponcnits whiicih %xill



2
support the planniiig. executioni and monitoring of the protected areas programu. The Goverinmiient is also
seeking donor support for its fist Public Expenditure Review Credit, which is a wide ranging program
which will eventually cover a number of sectors. including all aspects of rural development in Benin. The
proposed NPCMP is an important step towards "mainstreaming" biodiversity conservation in Benin and in
facilitating a coordinated response to key questions of land use and sustainable land management.



3
CHAPTER 2: Program Development Objective
A- The Program Development Objectives:
The overall obicctive of the National Parks Conservation and Management Program (NPCMP) is to ensure
the sustainable maniagement and conservation of regionally and globally important biodiversity, and
globally important fragile ecosystems in northem Benin. Failure to take decisive and coordinated action in
the ncar future will result in the irreversible loss of globally important biodiversit}; resources.
The specific objective of the NPCMP is to establish sustainable wildlife management and biodiversity
conservation capacity at the local and national levels. The program would develop sustainable wildlife
management and conservation systems within the protected areas and wildlife management zones. At the
same timc. through developing an effective partnership with local communities, the program would enhance
local access to the benefits of protected area and wildlife zone management and encourage ecologically
sound and economically viable land use and production practices in the surroundilg areas. Thc
empowermcnt and humiian resource capacity increase of local populations is a crucial objective of the
program.
The .lobal cnvironmeiicnital obiective of the program is to ensure the long-termii conservationi of Benini's
biodiversitv in the face of competing economic pressures. Specific areas of concern include: (i) increasing
the ecological sccurity of regionally importanit species, including a number of endemics, through improved
managemiienlt of protected areas and associated zones, (ii) providing sustainable management of habitats and
ccosystemns which ar e of regional and global importance. and which are coming unlder increased threat from
a range of anthropic factors: (iii) in situ preservation of genetic diversity, which includes species of
ecological. cultural and ecoinomic importance in their natural habitat and within their natural range; (iv)
supporting the involvemcnct of local conmmunities in the management of natural resources and the
conservationi of biodiversity. (v) supportilg a coordinated response to the managemenit of the tri-nationial
transboundarv ecosystem,i. and (vi) encouraging the sustainable management of fragile semi-arid ecosystems
in a zonle susceptiblc to desertificationi. Project design is consequently consistent with guidance from the
Biodiversitv Convcntion Conference of the Parties.
The operational objectives of the national program are: (i) to increase the teclnical and managerial capacity
of the local population. the Wildlife Reserves Management Center (CENAGREF) and other partners in
protected area and wildlife maniagemiient: (ii) to enable the local populations to play a morc active and
profitable role in park and wildlife management; (iii) to support locally identified rural developmiienit
activities in the areas surrounding the park and wildlife management areas in order to improve the quality
of life for the local population and diminislh pressure on the parks; (iv) to encourage sustainable sVstClems of
natural resource conservation, management and use; (v) to improve the flow of information and the level of
education on biodiversity conservation at both local and national levels; (v) to establish sustainable
ecological moniitorinig systems. and support ecological research related to managemenit: (vi) to imiprove
basic infrastructurc vwithini the parks: (vii) to identify and prepare the steps for the establishment of an
Interniationlal Trust Fund to help finance future wildlife management biodiversity conservationi operations:
(vii) to provide support for effective donor coordination; and (ix) to ensure effective program managemiienit.
monitorinig and cvaluation.
The operationial objcctives for which GEF support is requested are: (i) to provide institUtional support and
capacity buildinig to nationial institutionis responsible for biodiversity conservation: (ii) to support training
of staff working for partner agencies and to support improved communications: (iii) to support the studies
and field trips neccssary to improve scientific understanding of the ecosystems and identify and describe
habitats. ecosystems and species of global importance; (iv) to design a financial meclhanismii capable of
providing sustainable financial support to the conservation of biodiversity in Benin: (v) to support



4
transboundary cooperation for the conservation of biodiversity in the region; (v) to support the review and
updating of legislation relating, to National Park and Reserve Management, village and commercial
hunting, the development of local institutions for the management of natural resources.



5
CHAPTER 3: Strategic context
A- CAS objectives supported by the program: Report No. P-6303-BEN, May 11, 1994
The current Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) is defined in the Memorandum and Recommendation of
the President on a Proposed Credit for a Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project. The importance of
preserving Benin's natural resources and environment is identified as one of the four objectives of the rural
development strategy. However, no specific mention is made of biodiversity or improved national park
management. More recently, the Bank has supported the development of a National Environmental Action
Plan (NEAP), and the subsequent establishment of a National Environmental Agency (Agence Beninoise
pour I 'Environnement) to monitor the implementation of the NEAP. The management of national parks
and the conservation of biodiversity is an important part of the NEAP so these activities can, for
operational purposes, be considered to be part of the Bank's current strategy of support to Benin, even if
not mentioned in the 1994 document. In addition, a component of the IDA funded National Natural
Resource Management Project (PGRN) has been targeted at testing, commnunity-based participatory
wildlife and terroir management systems.
The Benin Country Team is having new series of discussions with the Government on updating the Country
Assistance Strategy. It is expected that a new version of the Benin CAS will be finalized by April, 2000. It
is clear that the Public Expenditure Review Credit (PERC) for which preparatory work is well advanced.
will provide the focus for discussions of the strategy for the rural areas. The Ministry of Environment and
Urban Development and the Ministry for Rural Development are to be included in the PERC. and it can
therefore be assumed that the managemenit of environmental concerns, and in particular natural resources.
are being given high priority, and that the overall CAS will indicate biodiversity conservation and improved
national park management as a component of the strategy.
B- Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Key issues in the sector are: (i) limited and poorly mobilized national technical capacity in park and
wildlife managenieiit and limited national awareness of the importance of biodiversity conservation; (ii)
widespread anitagonism between local communities and the forest guards in and around the protected areas,
(iii) currently weak national institutions and insufficient technical and managerial capacity in the
sub-sector: (iv) inadequate scientific infonmation on natural habitats, animal populations, endangered and
endemic species, population numbers and ecological trends; (v) conflicting land use policies and practices
in buffer zones - especially expansion of the area sown to cotton; (vi) inadequate control and management
of transhumant pastoralism; (vii) poor control of transboundary poaching; (viii) a lack of rationalization of
legislation and rules pertaining to park and wildlife management, and a lack of a hanmonized national
strategy for community-based land management. After several years of inattention, the Government has
once again started to provide support for the conservation of biodiversity in Benin. CENAGREF has been
created and is gradually being allocated staff and equipment. A National Conservation Strategy and Action
Plans have been drafted with the help of IUCN, and will provide the main vehicle for ensuring effective
donor coordination and priority setting.
These documnents are based on a stratified approach to management which involves : (i) total protection in
national parks- (ii) partial protection in reserves, hunting areas and wildlife management zonIes and (iii)
community management of natural resources in the agricultural and ranige areas which form the buffer
zones around the wildlife areas. The sustainable exploitation of the wildlife resource is encouraged through
conmmercial and traditional hunting.
The strategy of the government concerning protected areas management is presented in a "letter of policy"
(anuex 10) that provides the guidelines for any actions to be undertaken in the context of the NPCMP.



6
This strategy is based on experiences of the last few years within the context of the PGRN, in the border
areas of both parks and protected forests. The aim is to promote conservation and sustainable use of
natural resources through participatory involvement of communities surrounding protected areas. This
approach will ensure the commitment and involvement of the population to the conservation objectives of
the program and allow for the sharing of the benefits related to parks activities between the local
population, the State and the private sector. This requires the organization of the local populations into
associations for which the institutional framework has already been defined. For instance, the Hunting
Village Association (AVC) has been reorganized as the Wildlife Reserves Management Village Association
(AVIGREF). Some of these associations already exist in a number of villages and have functioned
satisfactorily within the context of the PGRN. The main problems arise in the areas where humiian pressure
is so intense that some populations have already settled within the limits of the protected areas. These
populations were often present even before the delimitation of the protected areas. In these cases, the
strategy would be to combine incentives to resettle outside the area with agreement on limited activities in
the protected areas.
A law regulating wildlife conservation in Benin has been drafted and adopted by Govermilent and is
expected be passed within the coming months. It will provide the legal framework for the management of
protected areas.  This law provides: i) a legal definition of the buffer zones to clarify where local
populations are entitled to settle, ii) a context to ensure that local populations will benefit from help of
social and agricultural programs, and iii) a framework articulating restricted activities so as to hclp
preserve the conservation in the areas. The law has not been passed yet.
C- Sector issues to be addressed by the program and strategic choices:
The NPCMP constitutes the catalytic phase of a long term program to improve biodiversity conservation
anud the quality of rural life in rural Benin. The program area includes a Biosphere Reserve, cxamples of
near pristine Sudanian habitats, and an unknown number of endangered vertebrate, invertebrate and plant
species.
Through a multifaceted, decentralized approach, the program will bring together a range of complementary
activities which are aimed to tackle the basic issues and problems in this sector. These issues include: (i)
wveak institutional and legal capacity of CENAGREF anid its partners to manage protected areas: (ii)
insufficient authority. responsibility and capacity of local communities to become more effectively involved
in biodiversitv conservation, wildlife maniagement and local development. (iii) lack of investment in
improved infrastructure in national park, wildlife management zones and community areas: (iv) weak
national awareness and interniational cooperation in biodiversity conservation; (v) the conflicting legal texts
and regulations related to wildlife management, (vi) lack of sustainable financial support for biodiversity
conservation. and (vi) insufficient scientific and ecological monitoring capacity.
The use of a ranige of strategies in different geographical areas will enable a flexible. but focused response
to key issues. This approach will facilitate total protection in the parks, rational use of wildlife in the
wildlife management zones, support for communuity-based rural development in the village areas and the
mobilization of local human resources to support the implementation of activities at all levels.
Through the program, biodiversity conservation and wildlife management will be 'mainstreamiied" into the
country's overall rural development portfolio. It will also provide a focus for key land use issues.



7
CHAPTER 4: Program description summary
A- The logical framework:
The objective of the program is the conservation of natural resources within the Pendjari and W of Niger
National Parks. The success of this objective will be based on the following six results: (i) completion and
implementation of a strategy for conservation and sustainable management of natural resources in protected
areas and their border areas; (ii) reduction in the human pressure of the populations on the Parks: (iii) eco-
tourism developed within the protected areas; (iv) satisfactory performance of CENAGREF; (v)
participation of local populations in the management of the Parks; (vi) biodiversity knowledge is
strengthened is available and the Management Information System operationalized.
B- The Components:
The content of the NPCMP consists of 3 components and various sub-componients as follows:
Componenits       Sub-components                          Indicative costs  GEF financing
US$ million     US$ million
Common  actions  *  Program  Maniagement (planning and  1.13               0.8()
at the national      monitorilng)
level             *  Support actions  (on  legal aspects, 2.41             2.05
regional    cooperation,    training,
communication.    and    ecological
monitoring)
Pendjari complex   *  Park and cynegetic areas management    6.16           1.05
*  Sustainable tourism and hunting      1.68             0
*  Actions with villagers :             3.12             0.02
*   Sustainable development of Siri
area
*   Actions on Tanguieta - Porga and
Tanguieta - Batia axes
"W" complex       *  Park and cynegetic areas management    7.26            1.9
*  Tourismii and hunting                0.99             0
*  Actions witlh villagers              1.48             0.9'1
Total:                                                    24.24            6.76
Table I - Components of the program



8
Promram Manaaement. The establishment of CENAGREF as an effective, operational organization
capable of supervising the implementation of the national program will require additional office space,
equipmenit. vehicles and material, and support for key operating costs. The program will support the
establishmient and operation of a Monitoring and Evaluation System which would track the program s
execution and determilne the impact of the different components.
Support actions. This sub-component consists of the following support actions: (i) consultant services and
studies for the design and implementation of a trust-fund that would ensure the program sustainability; (ii)
training for CENAGREF staff in other African countries and scholarships to strengthen the capacity of
national staff, (iii) ensuring regional cooperation through coordination, organization of regional workshops
and consultant services for providing decision-makers with relevant infornation and recommendations: (iv)
enhancing Information, Education and Communication (IEC) activities through the organization of
workshops for increasing awareness of biodiversity issues, use of rural radios for disseminating
informiiation, development of cultural activities in border villages and use of didactic materials for
community level education efforts: (v) institutional support for revising legal documents relevant to
protected areas management, ensuring decentralized action of CENAGREF and developing participatory
approach as at the local level: (vi) setting-up a management information system for managing the parks
with particular attention paid to the geographical aspects of the information (GIS capabilities), (vii)
ecological monitoring for the implementation of an adapted environrment information system  (EIS),
organizing surveys and studies for collection of ecological information and training the national staff.
Pendiari complex. Park and cvnes-etic areas mananement. This sub-component will focus on providing
the decentralized unit in Tanguieta with the required equipment and staff Each of the 2 sections consists of
one chief.  6 officers from  CENAGREF and 9 villagers. Each section will need to have access to
appropriate vehicles (motorbvkes and bicycles) and equipment (GPS and radios). At the managemenit level.
the staff will consist In a director for the whole complex, 3 associates, 2 international experts and 2 national
experts, and the appropriate support staff. The sub-component will also provide the unit with required
office space. Eventually, the construction, repair and maintenance of paths will be financed throughl this
sub-componient.
Pendiari complex. Sustainable Tourism and hunting. This sub-component will be divided as follows: (i)
hotel infrastructure with the construction and restoration of rooms; (ii) tourist infrastructure with the
construction of watchtowers for wildlife observation and paths for tourism purposes, the installation of
siglls for tourist orientation; (iii) organization and promotion of a commercial campaign throughl the
fonmulation of a strategy.
Pendiari complex. Actions with villa2ers. Actions will be implemented in two different areas: (i) in the
Sirn area, the sub-component will finance staff to work with villagers by supporting the unit in its operating
costs (needed equipment for didactic purposes). It will eventually support the organization of workshops:
(ii) in the Pendjari area, the sub-component will finance socio-economic studies, traininig seminars for
villagers, support institutional organization in associations, and funding of social micro-projects.
"W" complex. Park and cvne2etic areas mana2ement. This sub-component will focus on providing the
decentralized unit in Banikoara with the required equipment and staff. The staff is organized in 4 sections
each with one chief, 6 officers from CENAGREF and 9 villagers. Each section will have to be equiped with
the appropriate vehicles (motos and bicycles) and equipment (GPS and radios). At the manaagemiienit level
the staff will consist of a director for the whole complex, 3 associates, 2 intemational experts and the
appropriate support staff. The sub-component will also provide the unit with required office space.
Eventually. the construction, repair and maintenance of paths will be financed throughl this sub-comiipollellt.
"W" complex. Sustainable tourism and hunting. This sub-component will be divided as follows: (i)
hotel infrastructuLe with the constructioni and restoration of rooms. (ii) tourist intf-astructure witlh the
constrmction of watclhtowers for wildlife observation and paths for tourism purposes. the installationi of



9
signs for tourist orientation; (iii) organization and promotion of a commercial campaign through the
formulationi of a strategy.
"W" complex. Actions with villa2ers. In the W area the sub-component will finance socio-economic
studies, traininig seminars for villagers, production and dissemination of didactic materials, and the
development of a social fund for demand-driveni micro-projects.
More details are available in Annex 2 - Project description.
C- Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the program
The actions unidertakeni in the context of the program will follow the guidelines provided by the "letter of
policy" that has been formally endorsed by the Government (see aunex 10). This letter will ensure
governmiient commllitment to conservation and sustainable use of natural resources through participatory
involvemenlt of populations living in communities adjacent to protected areas. Implementation of this policy
will cencour-age surrounding communities to organize themselves in associations. Specifically, the letter of
policy provides ftor the sharing of benefits from tourism (a growing percentage of entrance fees to parks and
huLntinig fecs Would be shared with villagers, as shown by the corresponding performance indicator in anllcx
I) as wcll as increased employmenlt opportunities for villagers relating to park maniagemiienit activities.
As suggested in the policy statemncjt (annex 10) a particular attention will be paid to the harmiionizationi of
legislation with the two neighborinig countries (Niger and Burkina Faso) concerned by the parks. This will
be facilitated by the regional approach developed by the European Union in the context of the program.
The NPCMP also supports the institutional reform of the administration in charge of National Parks
Management. The CENAGREF is set to be autonomous from the government and its action would be
decentralized. The local directors of the two parks will be at the same level as the technical director
working in Cotonou.
D- Global and National benefits and target population
The program will make a significant global contribution to the conservation and sustainable management of
2.5 million hectarcs of threatened, but still relatively intact, African Sudanian ecosystem and the habitats
and biodiversity. The three-countr, transborder ecosystem represents the largest contiguous area of this
type of habitat in Africa.
On a nationial Ivel, the programii will result in a significant contribution to the short and long term
objectivcs of thc National Programii for the Conservation and Management of Protected Areas in Benini. It
will specifically resuit in improved management and conservation of 1.2 million ha of protected areas.
wildlife mancagemiienit areas and buffer zones, and will ensure the conservation of important plant and
animllal species. somiec of which are e idcndic and would be conserved within their native habitats.
The capacity of nationial tcchnicianis, local populations and local organizations will increase as they acquire
skills and knowledge to enable them to manage the natural resources of the area in a sustainable manner.
The general population of the country will become more aware of the importance of wildlife and
biodiversity protection. This will be an important contribution to the implementation of the National
Environmental Action Plan.
The local population will become more involved, both financially and personally through greater
involvement in park maniagemenit. They will also receive more direct and indirect benefits from the parks
and the wildlife management zones through employment and revenue from conunercial hunting. Their
quality of life will be improved through the implementation of community-based rural developmncit
activities. which Would include socioeconomiiic investments as well as activities designed to improvc natural
rcsourcc manaagemeicnit to cnsure a stable base for agricultural production.



I ()
Current estimilates suggest that in the eight "sous-pre4ctures" around the wildlife areas there are
approximiately 250,000 people. and of these about 140,000 people inhabit the 27 villages imumiediately
adjacent to the protected areas and wildlife management zones.
While a small number of hunters will have a temporary reduction in income throLIgl the improved control
of poaching. alternative sources of income will more than compensate for these losses: these sources of
income are derived from the revenues from commercial hunting in the cynegetic zonles, employment of
villagers for controlling the parks with the sections of CENAGREF, sharing of revenues generated by the
tourism, and social investment in the buffer zones (training for agricultural intensification).
E- Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Overall responsibility for the planning, implementation and monitoring of the program  lies with
CENAGREF. the National Center for Wildlife Management created in 1997 which is based in Cotonou.
CENAGREF is an autonomous body linked to the Ministry of Rural Development. Management of the
sub-programs of NPCMP will be decentralized to units based at Banikoara ("W" complex) and Tanguieta
(Pendjari Complex) with a secondary post at Karimama ('W" complex) and outposts at Batia- Porga- Arly
and Bond iagoL (Penldjari complex) and at Konkombri, Koabagou, Keremou. Sampeto. Karimamia. Monseyv
Gorge de la Mekrou and Alfakoara (-'W' complex).
The organizationi chart of the CENAGREF is as follows
TMinistrv for nlrae2 Boargzon CENAGRE
General Director      |
|Adm-inistrative  |      | Technical   |              endjari National ||W" National|
and financial               director                Park director              Park director
D'irector
Table 2 - Organization chart of CENAGREF
The importanit characteristic of the above chart is that it ensures the decentralizationi of the responsibility to
a more operationlal level. The local directors of the National Parks will be giveni the same level of
responsibility as the directors in Cotonou. More precisely, the directors of the National Parks will bc in
charge of the annual planning and the monitoring of the activities in their Parks. A bank accounit dedicated
to the financing of operating costs will be under their direct responsibility. A national consolidation of the
annual plannling and of the monitoring and evaluation data will be ensured by the technical direction in
Cotonou.
The selection and recritment of staff of CENAGREF will be based on an open competitive process.
Satisfactory procedures have been agreed upon and incorporated into a ministerial decisioni (-corr&le") and
into the operating manual. In addition, there is agreement with Government that the positions of Director
General and Directors of CENAGREF will be kept filled with employees with expericnce and qualifications
satisfactorv to all participating donors.
To the extent possible. executioni of specific tasks will be contracted to local consultants. NGOs.
community and professional groups and other private sector operators. In particular. village level



I1
developmcnt activities to be carried out in areas surrounding the parks will be managed by autonomouLs
units and not by CENAGREF's regular services. CENAGREF's main role will be in planning and
coordination of financial management and accounting, monitoring, evaluation and reporting. CENAGREF
would also retain overall responsibility for anti-poaching activities and controlling access to protected areas
in accordance with the current legal texts. While local communities would be actively involved in
supporting this task, the legal responsibility rests with CENAGREF.
Some of the activities directly related to tourism development (e.g. promotion, lodging, roads. watchtowers)
would be funded under a tourismii development project (French financing) implemented by ARDET, the
Regional Association for the Development of Tourism in North-Benin. CENAGREF would delegate
responsibility to ARDET for the implementation of those such activities that fall under CENAGREF's
mandate, through an appropriate written agreement (Convention).
The coordination function of CENAGREF will be important, as there are a number of donors and other
agencies becoming involved in biodiversity conservation in the north of Benin. Strong leadership and
effective coordination by CENAGREF must continue to avoid duplication and the dissipation of effort and
resources. Implementation of the program will be overseen by a National Technical Coordination
Committee.
The Europeani Union funded Regional Cooperation Program will be managed by a Tripartite Commission.
based in Ouagadougou. This commission has had experience with transboundary cooperation betNveen
Niger, Burkina Faso and Benin through a former program financed by the European Union. A number of
meetings have been held between high level officials to discuss the details of how they would like Regional
Cooperation Program to work. The new programn will be primarily supported by the Europeani Unioin.
National Coordination Centres will be established in both Benin and Niger.



12
CHAPTER 5: Program rationale
A- Program alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
There are currently no proven altemative strategies for sustainable biodiversity conservation in sub-
Saharan Africa. Translocation of endangered species to zoos or better protected areas have not been
successful. Thev have only superficially addressed the problem for a few of the larger. more important -
and usually more charismatic species. Ex situ conservation is not a valid solution for habitats, ecosystems
and landscapes. Past attempts to manage protected areas in West Africa by enforcement and the repression
of local comununities settled around the protected areas, have generally been unsatisfactory and
unsustainable. These alternatives have been expensive, difficult to implement over such vast areas and
depend on substantial budgetary support from central governrnent.
B- Major related projects financed by the Bank (completed, ongoing and planned).
Sector issue                                      Bank-financed pro*ects
National Environmenital Policy                    Environmental Managemenlt Project
(PGE)
General environmental information, education and  Environmental Management Project
communication                                     (PGE)
Land Use Policy                                   PGE, PGRN, PNSA
Community-based  rural development and  natural Natural  Resource   Management  Project
resource management capacity and investment      (PGRN) and Agricultural Services Project
(PNSA)
Community involvemenit in forestry, soil and water  PGRTN
conservation, hunting, control anid park management
Conmnunity-based wildlife and natural resource    A series of Projects financed by IDA
managemenit in other parts of Africa              and GEF including, Cote d'lvoire.
Niger, Mall, Burkina Faso and Kenya
Labor intensive rural infrastructure              AGETUR
Table 3 - Major related projects
C- Lessons learned Ind reflected in proposed program design:
The four most important lessons to be drawn from past experience are: (i) the need to have clear and
supportive national policies, (ii) the need to change the role of public institutions and to greatly increase the
participation of local communities, local professional organizations, NGOs and local consultants (iii) the
importance of directly involving the population in the preparation of the projects (several communities in
the proposed program area have had too much "participation" and now insist on seeing rcsults on the
ground, and (iv) the importance of ensuring that participating populations obtain tangible benefits directly.
and obviously, linked to program activities. These lessons have been incorporated into program design and



13
wviii also constitute an important part of the policy and implementation discussion for the development of
other agricultural sector investments (PERC).
D- Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
During 1994 and early 1995 there was significant progress with project preparation. However, during parts
of 1995 and 1996 there was little evidence of significant borrower commitment and ownership of either the
overall national program or the proposed GEF-funded project. Limited, but technically important, pilot
operations on community-based natural resource management were conducted in the project areas under the
IDA-financed natural resource management project (PGRN). During this period, however, there was little
progress xvith the establishment of the new national wildlife management institution, CENAGREF.
More recently there has been substantial progress. Following the publication of Decret No 96- 73 of April
2, 1996, CENAGREF has started to play an active and increasingly stronger role in the development of a
national program and donor coordination. The Arr6te No 024/mdr/dc/cc/cp of 31st January, 1997
established the operational rules for CENAGREF. In August 1997 CENAGREF circulated a draft
proposal for the National Program for Protected Area Conservation and Management. An action plan for
the final preparation of the National Program has been prepared which includes national discussion on key
policy issues such as land use In the buffer zones, bush-fire maniagement. harmionizationi of
comurnity-based rural development strategy and the participation of local communllities in the conservation
of biodiversitv.
Interest in the wider issues of sustainable environmental management emerged in Benini at a nationial level
following the drafting of an initial National Environmental Action Plan in 1993. This was followed by the
creation of the Agence Beninoise pour I'Environment 1995.  A National Parks Conservationi and
Managemcnit Action Plan was prepared in 1997 as well as a review of the current legislation.
E- Value added of Bank support:
World Bank support has been helpful in the development of the national protected areas conservation
program and the proposed GEF project in a number of ways. First, through working with the Ministry of
Rural Development and partners in the donor commnunity on the development of the Agricultural Sector
Investment Program it has been possible to ensure that the principle of biodiversity conlservation. the
related policy issues and a coordinated investment program become mainstreamed into the national strategy
for rural development. Second, through financing, pilot operations of PGRN at the community level the
Bank has contributed to the development of a growing national capacity in the methodology and
management of gestion des terroirs operations. Third, by monitoring closely - but not interveninlg
independently - during the hiatus of 1996 the Bank has helped reinforce the importance of national
ownership and leadership in the field. This helped ensure that temporarily, weak national leadership was
not replaced by external and unsustainable interference. Fourth, the Bank has been able to facilitate the
exchange of operational information between Benin and other countries in the sub-region working on
similar projects. This has both provided an exchange on new ways of tackling. certain problems and
reinforced locallv developed solutions.
F- Rationale for GEF support:
The project will finance both the incremental costs of biodiversity conservation and improved land
management of fragile semi-arid ecosystems susceptible to degradation and desertification.
Benin is launching an ambitious and timely national program to improve the management of its national
parks (including a Biosphere Reserve), to protect natural habitats and species, to conserve biodiversity and
to involve the local population in as many of these activities as possible or prudent. Different donors will
support certain site-specific activities within clearly defined zones. On their own, however. these



14
investments will neither be sufficient to resolve local problems within a particular wildlifc area, nor be
effective at ensuring a sustainable response to the challenges currently facing Benin's biodiversitv. At the
same time, the sustainability of any conservation effort will depend on institutional and human capacity,
building and the rationalization of policies and legislation. Additional, complementary support is therefore
required to enable a sustainable and comprehensive national program to be implemented and maintained.
This is the only way in which the conservation of this complex and globally important ecosystem and its
overall biodiversity can be assured.
GEF financilg will be essential to ensure that international and national priorities, highlighted by the NEAP
and the National Conservation Strategy, become operational realities. The project will produce significant
global benefits from enhanced conservation of seriously threatened and globally significant ecosystems,
habitats and species. On the other hand, the national benefits arising from the project in the short term will
be relatively limited and focused particularly on benefits to local populations, improved natural resource
management and rural infrastructure - which are unlikely to be financed by the government without the
focus on biodiversity conservation. Furthernore, the interest of GEF in supporting the national program
has encouraged the participation of other donors and acted as a catalyst in attracting supplementary
finance.
By financing the incremental costs of this national Program, GEF's contribution would strengthen long term
sustainability of effective maniagement of the resource, reinforce the local capacity necessary to implement
the task and secure the support of local populations for the sustainable conservationi of biodiversity.
Furtlhermore, the participation of GEF in the national program  would provide essential. non-partisan
support for CENAGREF's leadership and coordination responsibilities.
G- GEF Operational Strategy and Program objectives addressed by the Project:
Benini ratified the Global Convention on Biodiversity June 30, 1994. The proposed project will provide a
vehicle for the implementation of the principles of the convention through the promotion of iodiversitv
conservation and the sustainable use of natural resources. The program therefore represents an important
step in the implemiienitation in Benin of GEF's Operational Program #1, focused on biodiversity conservation
in arid and semi-arid ecosystems.
The proposed programii wvill provide an operational response to key elements of GEF's fundamental mission
by supporting international cooperation for providing new and additional grant funding to meet incremeicnital
costs of conserving biological diversity, and tackling land degradation in an area susceptible to
desertification. The proposed program  effectively responds to a number of key elements in the GEF
Operational Strategy and is consistent with COP guidance. This includes: (i) the in situ conservation and
sustainable use of critical ecosystems and threatened endemic species, (ii) support for active involvement of
local communities as managers and beneficiaries of improved natural resource and biodiversity
management, (iii) the promotion of conservation and sustainable use through capacity building, economiiic
incentives and altemative livelihood opportunities, and (iv) the sustainable management of fragile semili-arid
ecosystems susceptible to desertification.
The programii respects the strategic considerations of (i) being consistent with both national and regional
initiatives. (ii) havinig the potential of being socially and environmientally sustainable. (iii) being
complementary, to traditional development funding. and (iv) of working towards the sustainability of global
enivironmiienital benefits.



15
CHAPTER 6: Summary program analysis
A- Economic analysis
The total population living in the program area is estimated to be about 250,000 persons in 115 villages.
About 140.000 people inhabit the 27 villages immediately adjacent to the protected arcas and wildlife
management zones. Subsistence agriculture (staple crops are millet, sorghum, maize. fonio and yam) is the
maini econiomic activity, and cotton is the principal cash crop cultivated particularly in the Borgou
departmenlt. In 1994. in the Borgou Department, in the W park surrounding area, over 67.880 ha werc
being cultivated, of whilcii about 22.045 were planted in cotton.
Populations in the program  area are amongst the most disadvantaged and deprived in thc couIntrv.
According to several studies, more than 50% of the population of Atakora and northern Borgou fall beloxw
the poverty line compared with a national average of 15%. For example, according to the very limited
available informationi, yearly average household revenue in the program area can range from less than $35
to $350, but an income survev in Tanougou shows that 50% of the population have an inlcomile lower than
$35. 40% have an income betweien $35 and $85 and 10% have an income over $85.
Benin legislation on the exploitation of resources in protected areas is quite restrictivc. Communities
bordering protected areas are denied any right to hunt, to fish and to cultivate in these areas, permission
must be requested in order to harvest forest and savandas minor products. These restrictions oblige famcrs
to modify traditional agricultural practices: hunters to renounce their traditionally importanit CcoIloImic and
social activities: and pastoralists limit their periodic traditional movements.
Over the last decades. commllunities settled along the borders of the national parks have been forced to
changc their life-styles. Thius. protected areas have been perceived to contribute to their problemiis. which
include lack of land. lack of resources. conflicts between fanners and herders. etc..
The NPCMP intenids to establish sustainable wildlife management and biodiversity conservation capacity at
local and nationial lcvels by developing durable wildlife management and conservation svstems within the
protected areas and wvildlife managemiient zones. By developing effective partner-slhips with local
communities, the program wouild cnhlance local access to the benefits of protected areas and wildlife zoIel
management and cncourage ecologically sound and economically viable land use and productioni practices
In the surrounldinig areas. Thus, the program would change the attitudes of neighboring populationis toN\ards
the protected areas.
Apart from the classic bcenefits of such a program, inter alia, the protection of a globally-significant but
threatened biodivcrsity of the ecosystem of the northern Benin. the present analysis rationalizcs of the
program bv outlinling thc program benefits which would accrue to the rural communLities who are the
primary stakeholdcrs. The success of the program depends to a great extent on chaniging the attitudes of
these stakeholders towards the parks.
The proposed program is built upon the participatory management teclniques which have becn tested by
the Natural Resources Managemncit Project (PGRN). Costs imposed on the local populations will be
reduced throughi de facto compenisationi through increased employment opportunities as trackers and
guides, access to beniefits from imiproved park management and through comm1lun.ity-based dcvclopmeicnit
programss.
Program henefits accrl-ued to the local popilations
The rcvcenues gcncrated by the managemllent of the parks include direct proceeds collected by the public
organisms (on cco-tourism, huntinig permits and trophy fees, etc.) and indirect incomes generated by eco-
tourism and local economic activities. Currently, the management of these revenues is not particularly
profitable to the local populations. As a result of the participatory approach to be adopted by thie prograim.



16
benefits generated by activities in the protected areas will be shared among the local populations. the state
and the private sector. Employment of local villagers in the anti-poaching parks patrols of CENAGREF.
and the developmenit of incentives for sustainable rural activities within the buffer zonles are also income
geneerating sources for the local populations.
1994-95        1995-96        1996-97         1997-98
Number of viewing tourists                             -          2,586           2.516
Number of cynegetic tourists          26            20               -             115
Ecotourism reveniues                                  -          $16,000         $29,500
Cynegetic activities revenues     $13,000        $23,000         $8,500          $73,000
Total                             $13,000        $23,000         $24,500        $102,500
Source: season reports, CENAGREF
Table 4 - Situation of ecotourism in the Pendjari and "W"Parks (rounded estimates)
Eco-tourisim has steadily increased In the Pendjari park. Estimates suggest that about 2.500 to 5.00()
tourists visit the park of Pendjari a year, mostly expatriate residents of Cotonou or Ouagadougou. It should
be noted that as there is no infrastructure, no management and no protection in the W park. except in the
Alfakoara. There are very few organized tourism activities in these areas, and no available information on
the few tourists wlho visit Alfakoara. Given that under the program, tourism  infrastmicture will be
improved, it is expected that the numliber of tourists visiting both parks would ilcrease. In a fully
operational stage, it is expected that 5,000 to 10,000 tourists a year will visit both parks. This assumes that
proposed actions to attract tourists are correctly implemented, and CENAGREF and ARDET work closely
together.
On the basis of this increase in tourist visitation, tourism revenues could be in the range $60,000-120,000
annually. Assuming improved conditions, hunting activities could bring in additional annual revenues of
about $50,000. Therefore approximately $110,000-170,000 could be generated through tourism (accruing
to CENAGREF). Depending on the outcome of the negotiations between CENAGREF and local
populations organizations, the revenues from tourism activities accrued to local communities could amoullt
to $55.000-90,00()0 annually.
Anotlher sourcc of incomiie for the local populations is the employment generated by the rehabilitationi and
better managclilemet of the parks. Total income from new employment is estimated to reach $18.000
annually . Local populations would also benefit from sale of game meat. Assuming about 10 tons of game
sold on average at $ I /kg. this would amnount to about $8,000 annually
Altogetlher. it can be expected about $80,000-1 10,000 annually could accrue as direct benefits to the local
commiiunities. Indirect benefits would come from the development of local rural development activities.
Anticipated revenues to CENAGREF and ARDET could amount to $85,000 and $250.00(0 respectively in
direct revenucs USinlg a high hypothesis, and $55,000 and $125,000 using a low hypothesis. Of course.
CENAGREF is a public institution whose primarily objective is the conservation of the parks. while
ARDET is a profit-driven agency. Nonetheless, CENAGREF's direct benefits would be greater if reveniues
from huntinig permit and trophy fees are included. In 1997-98, the total revenues from huntillg was about
$30,000 for both parks of Pendjari and W. Assuming better game conditions, revenues could be expected
to increase modestly.
A convenition has been signed between CENAGREF and ARDET, to allow sharilg of the seasonal
revenues accrued to ARDET to help support CENAGREF recurrent costs. In comparing the overall
program  implementation costs added to the recurrent costs of the management of the parks with the direct



17
benefits accmred to CENAGREF (excluding environmeintal, biodiversity conservationi bencfits etc.). actual
rcvenues are insufficienit to cover all the directs costs and ensure sustainable conservation of the
biodiversity in these areas. Additional, extemal, sources of support are therefore required. A study is under
way for the feasibility of the creation of a trust fund.
If implciiiemeted as plaruned, the program will contribute to the reduction of poverty in the neiglhborinig areas
as it will: (i) gencrate revenues through employment and sharing the benefits from managing the parks; (ii)
help imiprove the living conditions through rural development activities. The risk of not achieving this
objectivc is minimal given that with the experience of the eco-rural development component of PGRN. the
participatory management approach has proved successful. Under the new program the approach will be
strengthened and local populations will be more involved.
B- Financial
The key issue with regard to the financial viability of the program is the long term financing of
conservation activities and park management by CENAGREF. Financial sustainability would be achieved
through a combination of cost effectiveness and generation of income. Cost effectiveness would be achieved
by establishing effective management systems and by creating conditions that would eventually allow a less
extensive surveillance system. The latter would be achieved through the participation of local communllities
in the monitorinlg activities of the program (see also H below) and depend on the extent to which tangible
benefits from  imiproved wildlife management can be effectively and transparently chanieled to the
COmmllllunlitiCs with the greatest interest in the area of activity.
In addition to Governmlilent budget. income be generated in part from the revenues of tourismii. Such incolmie
Would depend on the expected increase in the nurmber of tourists and on the extent to which locally
generated revenue and benefits from commercial hunting can be increased throughl increasilg the price of
huntinig perimiits and trophy fees. A key issue is the extent to which the very high price of interniatiolnal air
travel to Beninl would reduce the potential for attracting intemational tourists, with a consequenit impact on
local revenucs, interniational interest and political support for biodiversity conservation in Benin.
Finally. as cxplained in Chapter 7 below, financial sustainability will be achieved through the establishlmlent
during the first two years of program implementation of an International Tnmst Funld.
C- Technical
Program implementation would rely on the mobilization of the limited national technical capacity in park
managemenit and wildlife conservation. This capacity would be increased by training more staff as part of
program implementation.
The limited availability of data would be addressed by activities aiming at an early definition of wildlife
numbers and confinration of previous identification of key ecosystems, endangered species and cndemics.
D- Institutional
The institutionial, operational and finanacial autonomy of CENAGREF is considered a key factor in
program  implemiienitationi. Assurance was obtained from Government during negotiations that the current
setup would not be modified without consulting with donors.
Legal recognitioni and full participation of local communities, local professional organizations. Village
Associations (AVIGREFs). NGOs and consultants in the implementation and monitoring of thie program
arc key aspects of program design. The new legislation on wildlife management - approved by Govermilent
as a prc-requisitc for the present program and now with Parliament for adoption - paves the wav towards
formal institLtionalization of such an evolution.



18
A potential issue is the capacity of CENAGREF to manage a widely dispersed set of field operations in the
north of the country, while concurrently assuring strong national support, efficient administration and
financial management and leading donor coordination in the south of the country. This would be addressed
by establishing a decentralized management structure, and through the provision of technical assistance
(funded by other donors) and training. Care would be taken to ensure that bilateral Technical Assistancc
does not endanger national capacity building and national capacity mobilization.
Effective international cooperation between Burkina Faso, Niger and Benin on issues such as ecological
monitoring, anti-poaching  measures, management of transboundarv  transhuimianice  and  bush-fire
management would be developed through the E.U. funded contribution, part of a regional operation that
would have a secretariat in Burkina Faso and cover all three countries.
E- Social
Ensuring effective community participation - including transhumant pastoralists - in program execution
will be crucial to the success of the operation. Great care must be taken to ensure that the benefits of the
program are not captured by a limited elite group inside each community. The utmost transparency of all
community-based benefit payments must be assured at all times.
Structured and unstructured community participation in the diagnostic and planning stages of the program
are very important. It is. however, important to ensure that these will be followed up by substantial
implementation activities. Even though the program has not yet been launched, communllities in the area are
impatient to get started.
It will be important to ensure that there are sufficient direct incentives to encourage traditional village
hunters to establish and subsequently respect agreed quotas and techlical guidelines, and have a vested
interest to ensure that all other hunters do as well.
F- Resettlement
There wvill be no involuIntary resettlement associated with either the specific proposed GEF-finaniced
operation or the overall national programn. There will be some de facto compensation provided to rural
conmunities for foregone benefits of illegal poaching or agricultural activities wvithin the parks through
employment in the park as rangers and guides, access to benefits from improved park managemiienit and
through conmmunitv-based development programs.
There are currently no villages within the parks themselves, and Government stated policv is that there
would be no attempt to request illegal dwellers to quit immediately the areas they occupy within the hunting
zones. Restrictions to the activities of such communities would result from a negotiation process and
defined on a contractual basis. In parallel. attractive opportunity would be offered to themll under the
programn through the village development component.
G- Environmental assessment
Environmental issues: Key issues include (a) the possible negative enviromunental impact due to incorrectly
planrned tourist infrastructure, and (b) the failure or lack of support of the national program and the
consequent destruction of globally important ecosystems and biodiversity.
Environmental categorv: B
Justification/Rationiale for categorv rating: The primary objective of the proposcd program is to improve
envirounmenital managemiient in the nortlh of Benin. Therefore the program is expected to have some positive
environmental impacts: hiowever. there are some environmental risks, albeit relatively! minor. First,
investment in access to paths and water points in and around the protected areas has potentially negative
cnvironmiiienital impact. It will therefore be necessary to undertake an activity-specific EIA for each of these



19
types of investments. Second is the control and management of commercial and traditional hunting.
Vigilance will be required to ensure that the quotas and guidelines are respected.
Status of Categorv B assessment: An Environmental Impact Assessment was prepared by an IUCN team
and has been reviewed by CENAGREF and the Agence Beninoise pour I 'Environnement (ABL), the latter
being the legally responsible agency for all EIA review in the country. The Assessment emphasizes the
impact the program will have on populations in the border of the parks. The participatory approach which
is recommended by the program is expected to limit any negative impacts on local populations. Potential
negative impacts on ecosystems of the parks, due to tourism development, will be managed through the
elaboration of a Development Plan at the onset of the program, to be followed by the formulation of full
Park Management Plans as part of program implementation. All new infrastructure within thc protected
areas will have to follow the regulations formulated by the ABE. Moreover, it is planned that an ecological
monitoring system will help to ensure that the conservation objectives of the programs arc achicved.
R- Participator-y Approach
The national program will be implemented in areas where surrounding communities are ver\ poor. and
where past relationiships between the authorities managing wildlife resources and local commllunLities have
been antagonistic, and where transborder commercial poaching and transhumance have added substanitial
complications. However, local populations have indicated a willingness to becomc more actively involved
in park maniagemeicnit and biodiversitv conservation, the government has indicated a willingniess to involve
local communities and the capacity of local institutions to plan and implement community-based natural
resource managemiient is continually iiicreasing. These elements show that the participatory approach is
critical to cnsure the success of the program.
The preparation of the program has extensively used a participatory approach - to the extenit that somile
rural communities are reluctanit to participate in any more planning exercises and have expressed the desire
for implementation of program activities without any further consultation. Program  inplemenltationi will
continue to include the active participation of a wide range of stakeholders. Among the more directly
involved in this process has been, and will be: beneficiaries/community groups. NGOs. academic
institutions. local government institutions, professional hunting guides, bilateral and multilateral donors and
neighboring countrv officials.
A detailed list of local groups and NGOs consulted is given in annex 11.
The participatory approach is based on1 the strengthening of the capacity of local populations in termiis of
ecological monitorilng, the sharinig of the benefits drawn from the activities in the protected areas between
the local population. the state and the private sector, the employment of local villagers for working with the
anti-poachinig Parks patrols of CENAGREF, and the development of incentives for sustainiable rural
activities within the buffer zones.



20
CHAPTER 7: Sustainability and risks
A- Sustainability
The program is designed to have financial, institutional, social and ecological sustainability.
Financial sustainability will be achieved primarily through the establishment during the first two years of
program implementation of an International Trust Fund for the Conservation of Biodiversity in Benin.
Initial design work has already started, and the process would continue as part of program implementation.
Once the legal framework, fiduciary responsibilities and financial regulations of the Trust Fund has been
developed and agreed upon by Benin and the donor community, capital contributions would be sought from
both public (including GEF) and private, and traditional and non-tradition sources. The revenue generated
by the fund would be used, as and when needed to meet both recurrent and capital costs of biodiversity
conservation operations in Benin. The establishment of this fund would assure the sustainable financial
support for biodiversity conservation and ensure that CENAGREF would be able maintain a significant
level of financial and operational autonomy.
Institutional sustainabilitv at the national level would be assured through the legal and financial autonomy
of CENAGREF. according to the legislation already established. At the same time, national NGOs. the
University. local conisultinig firms and other groups in civil society would be encouraged and supported to
play an active role in the dissemination of information concerning biodiversity conservation and in the
implementation of field operations in the wildlife areas. This will enable them to make a long, term
contribution to biodiversity conservation in Benin. At the local level, the participation and direct
implication of the local populations in a wide range of activities associated with national park and wildlife
maniagemiient would provide a durable demand for support for conservation in the nortlh of Benin.
Communllities would have the skills and authority to undertake a wide range of conservation activities
themselves, and would be encouraged to implement these effectively through access to the benefits of their
work.
Social sustainability would be based on the involvement of the local populations in the activities of the
program. Although all will not be profitable in the short term, the combination of direct and indirect
benefits, supported financially where necessary with resources from the Trust Fund, should be sufficient to
obtain their durable support.
Finally, ecological sustainabilitv will be achieved through the application of a range of simple. low cost and
replicable wildlife and habitat management techniques; many of which could be applied bv the local
population. Sustainable management of dynamic and fragile ecosystems requires accurate and up-to-date
information. The ecological monitoring systems to be established under the proposed program would
therefore establish the scientific basis for durable and effective direction of the national parks and the
wildlife managemiient areas.



21
B- Critical Risks
Risk                        Rating        Risk Minimization. Measure
Project  Outputs  to  (i)  Poor  mobilization  of Moderate    (i)       Depoliticization   of
Objectives            available  though  limited  -             deployment  of  Development
national capacity in wildlife             staff and contracts with NGOs
management                                and local consultants.
(ii) Lack of institutional and  Low       (ii)  Application  of  existing
financial   autonomy    for               legislation.
CENAGREF
(iii) Short tenm. exigencies of Moderate    (iii) Major focus on establishing
adjacent population override              effective and transparent flow of
medium-  and  long-  tenm                 benefits to local population from
requirements of biodiversity              project activities
conservation
Projects  Components  (i)  Erosion   of  political Low          (i)  Growing   internal  and
to Outputs            support  for   biodiversity               international pressure will make
conservation                              it  increasingly  difficult  for
Government  to  ignore  the
importance   of   biodiversity
conservation in Benin
(ii) Policy decision to expand  Low   to  (ii) Increasing external pressure
cotton cultivation into wildlife  Moderate    and   increasing    awareness
areas                                     anmongst Policy makers of the
incompatibility of the two forms
of land  use.  Issue  to  be
specifically discussed in PIP and
ASIP Negotiations
(iii)    Reluctance     of Low       to  (iii) Donor, NGO  and private
CENAGREF  to  implement Moderate    sector pressure will make it
policy    of    community                 increasingly  difficult for the
involvement, participation in             government to retrace its steps
project  benefits  and  the               on this issue
concractualisation      of
operations to private sector
operators
(iv) Inadequate incentives for Low        Participative   planning   and
private sector and community              policy decisions to maximize
participation                             participation of civil society
Table 5 - Risks of the program



22
C- Possible Controversial Aspects
Land use policy: Cotton is a profitable and attractive crop for the local population. It provides them, many
of whom are very poor, an important opportunity to significantly increase their income. To end support to
illegal cotton cultivation within protected areas and to forego increasing the area planted to cotton will
represent a real and substantial economic loss. Significant local political pressure can therefore be expected
in support of the continued expansion of cotton, towards the parks and the wildlife management areas.
L'affaire des hippotragues. Early in 1997 between 60 and 100 Roan antelope were illegally captured in the
Pendjari' and translocated to sites in Togo and South Africa. This operation was undertaken by South
African consultants with Togolese logistical support, and apparently without the knowledge of the Ministry
of Rural Development and certainly against the wishes of the local population, who had been given to
understand that they, not outsiders, were to benefit from the wildlife resources of the area. The issue is
extremiiely delicate as it involves the highest possible political authority. A Parliamentary Commission has
been established to investigate the incident, but there was no sign of any progress. Donors supporting
biodiversity conservationi in Benin, as well as the local press anid environmental NGOs. are very eager to
knok\ the cvenltual COInCILSiOIS of the Comumission, anid to know what steps have been proposed to ensure
that the incidenit is not repeated. The Ministry of Rural Development has agreed to provide the necessary
explanation and assurances.



23
CHAPTER 8: Program costs and financing plan
A. Program costs
Total cost. The total cost of the program is estimated at US$ 24.2 million equivalent, including taxes and
physical and prices contingencies. of which US$ 17,8 million equivalent in local currency and US$ 6A
million equivalent In foreign currency. A summary of program  costs is provided below:
(FCA'C )                              (us pXX))
LDa@        Fa*eign      Toal          Locl       F1igi        ToWal
A Cairmi ALirns at the fkicnal Level
1. PThtlN%prrit                                529,260      127,080     656,340          882         212       I,($
2 S Activities                                 785,280      567,000    1,352,280        1,3(0)       945       2,254
Sutota CCanxiMimAtais atlheictialeel            1,314,540     694,080    2,008,620       2,191        1,157      3,.
B llixm Cbirtle\
1. F1Ak.audC\Irgatic Arnus Mnugiuit          2,078,161    1,325,543    3,403,70)3      3,464        2.25) 5,07
2 'taniandl I-kaling                           823.560)      67200       8'X),7W)       1,373         112      1.48l
' AIials witl Villkw.us
itu1kble)vcIiutLoliSrif A-tit               1,10(,211     174,60)3    1,274,814       1,X34        2'1       2,12
(0ILT&-ions with Milagers                    415,6W        60,(WX)     475,600)        693          1(X)      793
.Suotj AIiis wil Villags                      1.515,811     234,603    1,750,414        2,526        391       2,91
S&Acdal P,cn1ai Con-k\                         4,417,531     1,627,346    6,044,877      7,363        2,712     1(),075
C: "W'(3;xilpe\
1. IEk- RndC\m,dicNaLs Mnpiuilt             3,132,008      982,916    4,114,924       5,22(0       1,639      0.85
2. Tobrianm    kzaltiag                        527,760           -       527,760         83)            - 
3 .Aims vdithVillags                           672,768      128,580      80)1,348       1,121        214       1,3:3
SiLtda 'W'calplc\                              4,332,536     1,111,49    5,444,032       7,221        1,852      9,073
TOtl 1AS1iNLM  Ct 1 S                            10,064,608    3,432,921    13,497,529     16,774       5,722     22,49(
Hly.icad (.Xnting1vies                         563,215     3-05,735      868,95()        939          51(      1,44,
Rlio Gcqtltiries                               771,652      397,335    1,168,987         124          177       301
Tdtal FROJECCT COSI                              11,399,474    4,135,992    15,535,466     17,837       6,4(18    24,245
Table 6 - Program Cost Summary
Base cost. Base costs are estimated in June 1998 prices using the prevailing rates of exchange of FCFA
600 for US$ 1. The average physical contingency for all components is estimated 10 perccnt of base cost.
Price contingenicies were applied to base costs over the program  implementation period of 5 years ( 1999 -
2003). Inflationi on1 foreign exchange costs was calculated at an average rate of 2 percent per year durilng
the period. The inflationi rate on1 local costs was assumed to be 3 percent during the same period.
GEF contribution. The GEF financing will contribute to the three components of the program, and as
lender of last resort will provide external financing of CENAGREF staff and other operating costs. The
global contributioll is cxpected to be US$ 6,76 million. US$ 2.87 million will finance commoll actions at a
nationial level. This will conisist in building the required infrastructure, supplying the national unit with the
required equipment. financing part of the salary of the staff as well as consultancies and studies for support
actions for the followinig purposes: preparation of the trust-fund, training activities, regional cooperation.
Informatioin  - education and communication (IEC) activities, development of management information
svstems (for monitorinig and evaluation, ecological monitoring, and geographic information management).
US$ 1,08 million will be dedicated to the Pendjari complex in order to complement the GTZ-KfW  funding.
It will mainlv consist in equipment supply and operating costs. US$ 2,8 million will be dedicated to the
-W" complex in order to complement the funding from  the European Union. In terms of equipment. it



24
appears that European Union funding can account for only 50 % of the needs. GEF will also support
decentralized actions with villagers: communication, training, and setting-up of a social investment fund
that will help create the incentives for the population to remain out of the limits of the protected areas.
The        Other
GEF    Govemment   Donors          Total
A. Common Actions at the National Level
1. Program Management /a                    826         197            11(    1,133
2. Support Activities /b                   2,045        368               -    2,413
Subtotal Commoni Actions at the National Leve    2,870   565             11(    3,546
B. Pendjari Complex
1. Park and Cynegetic Areas Management     1,049        932          4,177    6,159
2. Tourism and Hunting                       -          249           1.429    1,678
3. Actions with Villagers
Sustainable Development of Sir] Area       26          185          2,072    2,283
Other Actions with Villagers                -          38             801      839
Subtotal Actions with Villagers              26         223           2,873    3,123
Subtotal Pendjari Complex                    1,075       1,404         8A79    10.959
C. "W" Complcx
1. Park and Cvnegetic Areas Managemiient   1,901       1,111         4.252    7.264
2. Tourism and Hunting                       -          147            847      994
3. Actions with Villagers                   910         122            451      1.483
Subtotal "W" Complex                         2,811       1,379         5,551     9,740
Total Project Costs                           6,756       3,349         14,140    24.245
Table 7 - Program Budget by Source (US$ '000)
Governmiienit contributioni. The participation of the goveniment will cover the local taxes as well as the
salaries of somile of the personniel. It will also contribute to part of the operating costs.
Other fiianiciii . The program will be co-financed according to the following table:



25
Financier                         Amount
Federal Republic of Germany       US$ 4,8 million
European Union                    US$ 4,47 million
AFD - FFEM                        US$ 2,02 million
Dutch Cooperation                 US$ 2,07 million
CENAGREF                           US$ 0,49 million
Table 8 - Co-financing of the program
All program activities would fall under CENAGREF and coordination of donors' contributionis would take
place through an annual programming process resulting in Yearly Work Plans that will ensure that no
duplicate activities will be financed twice by two different donors. Part of the Frenchi contribution  will bc
channleled through ARDET-Atacora and managed through the formal convention already signed betwecn
them and CENAGREF.



26
CHAPTER 9: Main grant conditions
A. Assurances obtained at negotiations
Thc institutionial setup of the National Parks Conservation and Management Programn and in particular the
status of CENAGREF, would not be significantly modified without prior consultation with donors.
Adequate auditing procedures would be applied.
The Director General and Directors of CENAGREF would be acceptable to the World Bank at all time
during Program implementation.
Government would carry out, in collaboration with donors, a mid-term evaluation of the Program.
B. Conditions that have been met between Negotiations and Board Presentation
Governmenit has adopted a Policy Letter satisfactory to the World bank spelling out its policy with regard
to land use in and arounid protected areas (annex 10).
The decrec modifying the decree 96-73 that created CENAGREF has been signed and the arrCtW, specitving
CENAGREF's attributions. organization chart and mechanisms is in application
The CENAGREF has recruited an accountant and has implemented an accountinig systemii meetinig the
donors requiremiienlts.
The Imiplemiienitatioin Manual of C'ENAGREF has been formally endorsed by its Board of Directors.
The Implementation Agreemenet between CENAGREF and ARDET has been signed.
A new law on wildlifet managemiienit has been adopted by Government and submitted to Parliament
C. Conditions of effectiveness
The appointment of an external project auditor would be a condition of effectiveness.
D. Conditions of disbursement
There are no conditions of disbursemelnt.



27
CHAPTER 10: Compliance with Bank Policies
IXI  This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
I l   [The following exceptions to Banik policies are recommnended for approval:  . The project
complies with all other applicable Bank policies.]
Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Michel Simeon
Sector Managver/Director: Hans Binswanger
Country Manager/Director: Theodore 0. Ahlers



28
Annex 1 - Project design summary and performance indicators
~DesrpinI dictoVerification sources
Goal
Natural resources in Pendjari
anid "W" complexes are
coniserved.
Deevelopmnent objective
TIhc     national     Parks
adminiistrationi,        its
represenitatives   and   the
POPuIlatiOn leaViIng nealr the
Parks    mianage    natural
resources in a sustainable
way.
Outputs                      * Carrying capacity for big mamamals has increased by at least n I%, in  RcOiular wildlife surveys
1. A  strategy  Ibr naltural   tlhree years. (n depends on development plan of Pendjari and  W"
resources  conservation  and   complexes)
sustainable  managemoient in  * Significalnt increase in the population of the various animiial specics ill
the protected areas is definied   the Protected Areas after 3 years (depending oni developmenLt plan of
and implemiienited.            Pendjari and "W" complexes)
*An  infrastructure network for Parks supervision  is set-up  and
maintainied during the third year.
2.  The  pressure  of  the * Factors that compel population to settle in the Protected Areas are Regular field surveys (the
population  on  the  Parks   better managed                                                        first  results   must  be
conplexes is reduced         * Illegal activities in Protected Areas have decreased atter 3 years  available after 6 months)
* Behavior of the animals (their tleeing distance is decreased)      Reports
Observation in the field
3.  Protected   areas  ceo- * AnnuiLal increase in the number of visitors for Protected Areas
tourism     potential     is
developed.                   * Lodging capacities are increased by 50 % over 5 years.
* At least two niew. tourist tours are created over 5 years.
4. Cl:'NARiEIF is efficicnt.    * The financial dependency ratio for National Parks managemenlt is less
thani 30) per cent after 5 years.
* Number of regional agreements (or percentage based on an lnvenitory
ol theiiies requirinig a regional approach)
* The achlievemiienit ratio for the Yearly Work Programi reaches SO '%,
after 2 years.
* National Parks are considered as imiportanut by public opiniionl.
5.  Participationi  of  local * TIhe increasinag ratio of taxes redistributed to local populationi reaches
populationi    to    P'arks   at least 30 % in the 5th year.
Manimgemlent is acttal                                                                             .
* Revenules coining 'from the Parks to the households doubled        lield surveys
* The level of responsibility of the local population in the definitioni,
adoptioni anid implementation of development plan
6. Knowledge oni biodiversity  * The database on biodiversity is available after 3 years, updated and  Regtlar  publicationis  on
is   available   and   the   used regularly.                                                      biodiversitv evolution
mlanagemiienit    intfonnation 
system is operationial       * Definitioni of indicators tor ecological monitoring available after Rports
1 year.
* Percentage of relevanIt solutions compared to problems encounitered.



29
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Indicator                             Objective            Deadline
I . Population  of endangered  species (elephant, buffalo,    Increase by 20%    end 2001
korrigum antelope, cheetah, Roan Antelope)                           .
2. Park infrastructure (3 main bases, 12 secondary posts, 700  Set-up and maintained  end 2001
kmn of tracks)                                         _
3. Number of illegal activities  (poaching, cultivation,    Decrease by 50%       end 2001
transhumance)                                           _____
4. Number of visitors in protected areas                Multiplied by 2 (from     end 2003
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   4000 to 8000)
5. Lodging caacity                                        Increase by 50%         end 2003
6. Number of tourist tour routes                         Increase (from 3 to 5)   end 2003
7. Self-financing for National Parks management            More than 70%          end 2003
8. Annual work program implementation ratio                   More than       Beginning of year
80 %               2000
9. Part of the fees paid back to the local population       At least 30%         year 2003
10. Local households income induced by the park activities  Multiplied by 2      end 2003
I1. Number of operational Wildlife Reserves Management    Multiplied by 3        end 2002
Village Associations (AVIGREF) that are
12. Biodiversity data base                               Existing and updated    end 2001



30
Annex 2 - Project description
Project Component A - Common actions at the national level: US$ 3.5 million
This component encompasses all actions to be undertaken by the national unit of CENAGREF based in
Cotonou. It includes the following sub-components.
Pro2ram Management. The establishment of CENAGREF as an effective, operational organization
capable of supervising the implementation of the national program will require additional equipment,
vehicles and material, and support for key operating costs. The program will support the establishment and
operation of a Monitoring and Evaluation System which would track the programs execution and deten-nine
the impact of the different components.
Support actions. This sub-component consists in the following support actions: (i) consultancies and
studies for the implementation of a trust-fund that would ensure the program sustainability. (ii) training for
CENAGREF staff in other African countries and scholarships to strengthen the capacity of national staff,
(iii) ensuring regional cooperation through missions through coordination, organization of regional
workshops and various consultancies for providing decision-makers with relevant information and
recommendations: (iv) enhanicing Information, Education and Communication (IEC) activities through the
organization of workshops for awareness to biodiversity issues, use of rural radios for disseminating
informationi, developmenit of cultural activities in border villages and use of didactic materials for educating
the population: (v) institutional support for revising legal documents about protected areas management.
ensuring decentralized action of CENAGREF and developing participatory approach at the local level: (vi)
setting-up a management information system for managing the parks with particular attention paid to the
geographical aspects of the information (GIS capabilities); (vii) ecological monitoring in implementing an
adapted environment infonration system (EIS), organizing surveys and studies for collection of ecological
informationi and training the national staff.
Project Component B - Pendjari complex: US$ 11.0 million
This componcnt encomiipasses the actions to be managed by the Pendjari direction of CENAGREF. It
includes the following sub-components.
Pendiari complex. Park and cyne2etic areas management. This sub-component will focus on providing
the decentralized unit in Tanguieta with the required equipment and staff. Each of the 2 sections consists of:
one chief,  6 officers from CENAGREF and 9 villagers. Each section will need to have access to
appropriate vehicles (motorcycles and bicycles) and equipment (GPS and radios). At the management level.
the staff will consist in a director for the whole complex, 3 associates, 2 intemational experts and 2 national
experts, and the appropriate support staff. The sub-component will also provide the unit with required
office space. Eventuallv, the construction, repair and maintenance of paths will be financed through this
sub-component.
Pendiari complex. Tourism  and hunting. This sub-component will be divided as follows: (i) hotel
infrastructure witlh the construction and restoration of rooms; (ii) tourist infrastructure with the
construction of watchtowers for wildlife observation and paths for tourism purposes. the installationi of
signs for tourist orientation. (iii) organization and promotion of a commercial campaign through the
formlulationi of a strategy.
Pendiari complex. Actions with villagers. Actions will be implemented in two different areas: (i) in the
Siri area, the sub-component will finance staff to work with villagers by supporting the Ulit in its operating
costs (needed equipmenit for didactic purposes). It will eventually support the organizationl of workshops;



31
(ii) in the Pendjari area, the sub-component will finance socio-economic studies, training seminars for
villagers, support to their institutional organization in associations, and funding of social micro-projects.
Project Component C - "W" complex: US$ 9.7 million
This component encompasses the actions to be managed by the Pendjari direction of CENAGREF. It
follows the same framework as the component B described above.
"W" complex. Park and cvne2etic areas management. This sub-component will focus on1 providing the
decentralized unit in Banikoara with the required equipment and staff. The staff is organized in 4 sections
each with one chief. 6 officers from CENAGREF and 9 villagers. Each section will have to be equipped
with the appropriate vehicles (motorcycles and bicycles) and equipment (GPS and radios). At the
management level the staff will consist in a director for the whole complex, 3 associates, 2 international
experts and the appropriate support staff. The sub-component will also provide the unit witlh required office
space. Eventually, the construction, repair and maintenance of paths will be financed througlh this sub-
component.
"W" complex. Tourism  and huntin2. This sub-component will be divided as follows: (i)  hotel
infrastructure with the construction and restoration of rooms; (ii) tourist infrastructure with the
construction of watchtowers for wvildlife observation and paths for tourism purposes. the installationi of
signs for tourist orientation; (iii) organization and promotion of a commercial campaign through the
formulation of a strategy.
"W" complex. Actions with villa2ers. In the W  area the sub-component will finance socio-economic
studies, training seminars for villagers, production and dissemination of didactic materials, and the
development of a social fund for demand-driven micro-projects.
The financing of the various components and sub-components is as follows:



32
German         German                        French         French
The                               Cooperation    Cooperation       Dutch       Cooperation    Cooperation    European
GEF      Government CENAGREF   ARDET              .GTZ           - KfW        Cooperation      -AFD          - FFEM         Union       Total
Amount      Amount       Amount    Amount          Amt Am      o      untun      Amount         oununt         Amount       Amount       Amount
(            (N)         (%)e       (i%)           iY)            t%)            io)            i%)            th          i%)          1 %
A. Common Actions at the National Level
1. Program  Management                                826          197          110                        -                                                                                   1,133
(73)         (17)        (10)
2. Support Activities                                 2,045        368            -                                                                                                            2,413
(85)     _  (15)     _        _
SubtotalCommon Actions atthe National Level              2,870         666          110                     _           _          _           .                     _                             3,546
(81)        (16)         (03)
B. Pendjari Complex
1. Park and Cynegetic Areas Management                1,049        932          148           -          1,261          2,768                            .             .                       6,159
(17)        (15)         (02)                     (20)            (45)
2. Tourism and H-unting                                 -          249            -         146            -               -              -            822            461                      1,678
(15)                    (09)                                                       (49)          (27)
3. Actions with Villagers
Sustainable Development of Siri Area                26           185                       .            -               -           2,072             -             -                       2,283
.                              ~~~~~~~~~~(01 )  (08)                                                             (91 )
Other Actions with Villagers                                     38                                    565            236              -                                                     839
(05)                                  (67)           (28)
Subtotal Actions wfith Villagers                       26           223           -           .           565            236           2,072             -              -                      3,123
(01)         (07)                                  (18)           (08)           (66)
Subtotal PendJari Complex                                 1,075        1,404        148         146          1,826          3,003          2,072           822            461                     10,959
(10)        (13)         (01)        (01)         (17)            (27)           (19)           (08)          (04)
C. 'WW Complex
1. Park and Cynegetic Areas Management                1,901        1,111        232                        -              -               -              -             -          4,020        7,264
(26)         (15)        (03)                                                                                                (55)
2. Tourism and Hunting                                  -           147           -         111                                                        629            107            -          994
(15)                    (1)                       .(63)                                           (1
3. Actions with Villagers                              910         122                        -                                                                                    451         1,483
(61)         (08)                                                                     _                                     (30)
Subtotal"  Complex                                       2,811        1,379         232         111                    -                      -            629            107         4,471        9,740
(29)        (14)         (02)        (01)                                                       (06)          (01)          (46)
Total                                                      6,756       3,349         491         257          1,826          3,003          2,072          1,451           568         4,471       24,245
.(28)       (14)         (02)        (01)         (08)            (12)           (09)           (06)           (02)         (18)
Table 9 - Financing plan of the components. (Amounts in US$)



33
Project programming, monitoring and evaluation.
Programming. Every year, CENAGREF, government and donors will agree on an ainual work prograun
prepared and submitted by the three operational directions of CENAGREF. The work program will be
endorsed by the board of CENAGREF before implementation. This procedure will ensure the national
coherencc of the activities of CENAGREF as well as the multi-donor consolidation of the programming.
Monitoring. The direction of each park, and the technical direction will monitor their activities with a set of
performance and impact indicators. The computerized system that manages these indicators will enable a
permanent access to monitoring information updated on a monthly basis. Particular attention is paid to the
design of the summary tables of the monitoring system so as to enable the management to identify quickly
and precisely problems in the implementation.
Evaluation. A set of global indicators has been defined in order to evaluate the performance and impact of
the program. A mid-term review will take place in 2001 and will assess the compliance of the program with
the target values of these indicators.



34
Annex 3 - Estimated project costs
(;FAOXI)                                 (I  $ LK))
Lol         FTatal OWLa1l                             14igi        'roiw
A Unimi Ac-ii at tIL Ntiznl LJel
1. fbWun Mut                                    529,260      127,080       656,340           882          212        1,AA
2 SkxtActivities                                785,280      567,000      1,352,280         1,309          9A5       2,254
StuRoWl Conmcu  Actiois at thu  iticrul Le'.el   1,314,540     694,08D     2,008,620         2,191          1,157      3,.
3 Patixjaii CeiZex
1. PrkaiadC)    icAresMu       imt            2,078,161    1,325,543     3,403,703         3,464         2,20)       5,673
2. Tbuismani1-rtii                              823,560       67,21:       890,760          1,37.3         112        1,485
3. Actions vMth Villagars
SuoainabeD    Sepn-itofSiri Area             1,100,211     174,603      1,274,814         1,834          291       2,125
OIrr Actiais  th Vilagrs                      415,6C0       60,000       475,600           693           10         793
9&tMa1 Acticns \kith VillaV                    1,515,811     234,603      1,750,414        2,526           391       2,91
SihoaI Pi-Oa6 CcnlTe'x                           4,417,531    1,627,346     6,044,877         7,363        2,712       10,075
C "W' C'tilvpe
1. I'trk ai C,   WicAn-as inowninit           3,132,008      982,916     4,114,924         5,220         1,638       6,&5
2. 'kunisinaid 1iniing                          527,760            -       527,760           883             -
3. Actitons v   atl Vllags                      672,768      128,580       801,348          1,121          214        1,3R
Slotal "W'Ocirplex                               4,332,536    1,111,496     5,444,032         7,221         1,852      (,073
Idzjl RkSNEEUKIS                                   10,054,608    3,432,921   13,497,529        16,774         5,722      22,4'
Miysiad Clingtcs                                563,215      305,735       868,950           939           51(        1,448
IpnceUliii-aes                                  771,652      397,335      1,168,987           124          177         301
T1cal R(- )L1icfQ1-ElS                             11,399,474    4,135,992    15,535,456       17,837         6,408      24,245
Table 10 - Estimated costs of the project



35
Annex 4 - Incremental Cost Analysis
BENIN
NATIONAL PARKS CONSERVATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
A- Broad Development Goals
The northemn wildlife areas of Benin present about 50% of the area of a unique, contiguous zone of
relatively pristine sudanian savanna. The remaining 50% is shared between Benin's northern neighbors,
Burkina Faso and Niger. Although recent reliable survey data are not available, it is generally agreed that
this area is of regional and global importance for biodiversity. At the same time it is a vast zone of fragile.
potentially degradable semi-arid forest, scrub and rangeland.
Although there have some recenlt institutional problems - which are now being resolved by the Govemrment
-Benin has a long history of commitment to biodiversity conservation. The country ratified CITES in 1983)
and the Global Convention on Biodiversity in 1994. A new, autonomous wildlife management agency is
being established to oversee the management of the national parks. A National Conservation Strategy and a
National Environmlental Action Plan have both been prepared, and investment in a national parks
management program has been included as one of the national priorities for the rural development sector.
The key development objectives of the government - as defined in the National Protected Area Conservation
and Management Strategy document - are: (i) improved national capacity for conservation (ii) imiproved
conservation and protection of national parks and wildlife management areas; (iii) sustainable use and
management of wildlife resources in the management areas and buffer zones; (iv) increased participation of
the local population in the management of protected areas, development of scientific research and
ecological monitoring: and (v) improved donor coordination within the framework of a unified nation
program.
B- Baseline
Beniin is a poor country anid can only be reasonably expected to undertake activities in this field which
respond to national development needs. There are, however, an important set of activities whliclh are
required to ensure the global benefits of the sustainable management of this large ecosystem. The baseline
activities for which global environmental considerations are not explicitly taken into account include: (i)
development and review of national environmenital action plans and national conservation strategy. (ii) the
design and implementation of improved participatory, community-based land planning and agricultural
production techniques in the buffer zones; (iii) the employment of local community members as forest
guards, trackers etc. (iv) the establishment and staffing of CENAGREF, (v) a national program of public
awareness for the importance of biodiversity conservation and national park management, (vi) investment
in basic infrastructure for park management, (vii) strengthening park planning and management, and simple
ecological monitoring and research. The total cost of the baseline program would be US$ 17.5 million.
Benin has managed to obtain considerable external support to meet these base costs.
C- Global Environment Objectives
The national program's global enviromnental objective is to ensure better and sustainable conservation of
biodiversitv in the sudaniiani savanna of northern Benin, and by doing so, to contribute to a transbouLndarv
program of biodiversity conservation. The area contains unique and irreplaceable habitat and a number of
globally threatened and endangered species; leopard, cheetah, korrigum antelope and the spotted hvena are



36
among the most obvious, but further detailed survey will certainly reveal others. Under the base-line course
of action. Benin would be able to manage the parks and wildlife management areas at a minimal level, and
undertake a certain though limited amount of community-based participation and developmenit work. It is
unlikely that these would be completely satisfactory and the conservation of globally important biodiversity
could not be assured.
D- GEF Alternative
The GEF alternative will enable Benin to tackle effectively the conservation of globally important savanna
ecosystems and associated biodiversity in the north of the country.
In functional terms, the additional funds would support the following: (i) the restructuring of the Park
management administration (US$ 1.00 million); (ii) local and national capacity building, improved
communications and awareness heightening, to ensure that the concern and skills exist to achieve
sustainable management of globally important habitats and species, and short-term technical assistance
(US$ 1.35 million), (iii) the collection and analysis of scientific data on.the ecosystem and its species, and
the effective monitoring of population numbers and trends, and changes in the quality of habitat (US$ 1.15
million). (iv) improved programn and project management and better donor anid internationial coordination
(US$ 3.25 million). The breakdown of the same costs by program sub-components is presented in the
Incremental Costs Matrix given below. The total costs of realizing the goals of global biodiversitv
conservationi would be US$ 6.76 million.
E- Incremental Costs
The agreed incremental costs for this GEF funding is requested in order to achieve the global environmental
benefits of the GEF alternative are therefore US$ 6.76 million.



37
F- Incremental Cost Matrix for GEF funding
Sub-                   Cost           Cost                 Domestic                        Global
components          Category   US$ Million                  Benefits                       Benefit
Program             Baseline          0.31        Reorganization of CENAGREF,  increased nationial capacity to
Management                                        inicluding       decentralized  conserve global biodiversity
Increment         0.83        directions of Parks
Total             1.14
Support             Baseline          0.37        Better    cooperation    from   Effective laws and institutionial
activities                                        neighboring countries          arrangements   to   ensure
activities      Increment          2.05                                      biodiversity conservation
Removal      of      current
Total             2.42        contradictions in laws, rules and  linproved   internationial
regulations                    participation    in    global,
traiisbouiidary    biodi vcrsity
Improved awareness in Natiolal    traesbonservatiodr
Parks and biodiversity of Benin resources conservation.
hnproved   management   of  Greater local, nationIal and
inifonnationi                 interlational   support  lor
Monitoring of impact of project  conservation    ol   globall
on biodiversity and ecosystem  important biodiversity
Park and            Baseline          10.47       Better management of national  Better   understanding    ol'
cyniegetic areas                                  parks and wildlife management  intenaltionial ecosystem
yanageticareast      Icrement         2.95        areas                          invenitory of' tlreatelned and
Total             13.42       Increased     capacity    in  endangered    species   anid
anti-poachi.ng and stock control   habitats, moniitorinig ol' changes
in  biodiversity  of  global
significance.
Better    coniservationi    of'
internationally   important
ecosystem    anld    globally
important        biodiversity
resources
Tourism and         Baseline          2.67        Iinproved income fromi tourism
hunting             Increment           0         Better financial  viability  of
conservation
Total             2.67
Actions with        Baseline          3.67        Improved  local  capacity  to  Increased  local capacity  to
villagers                                         mianiage    resources    and  conserve  global biodiversity
Increment         0.94        participate in park management.  Reductioni in natzlral resource
Establishment of effective rural  degradation
Total             4.61        development systems
TOTAL                 Baseline            17.49
GEF                 6.76
TOTAL             24.25
Table 11 - Incremental costs analysis matrix



38
Annex 5 - Financial summary
(US$ '000)
2000      2001      2002      2003      2004      2005             Total
Proiect costs
Investment costs    4.732     6,508     3,017     2,268     1,871       843         19.239
Recurrent costs      426        920     1,013     1,043     1,064       540          5.007
Total                  5,158     7,428     4,030     3,311      2,935     1,383         24,245
Financing sources
ARDET                23        48        51        53        55        28            257
CENAGREF               39        89       102       103        105        53           491
Federal Republic of      945      1.82X     1,393      815       517       213           5.710
Germany
Dutch cooperation        140      313       407       475        489       248          2.072
AFD                131       269       286       300       309       157           1.451
FFEM                62        169       144        76        78        39            568
Europeanl Unioln I     1.345     1,558      459       498       432        180          4.471
GEF              1.655     2.121       875       826       848       430          6,756
Goveriumient          884      1173       487       364       303       138          3.349
Total                  5,158     7,428      4,030     3,311     2,935     1,383         24,245
Table 12 - Financial summary
The numbers in this table do not include activities to be managed at regional level - by includinig the slhare of
Benin in suchi activities, tlhen total expected EU coiitribution is estimated at about US$7.6 millionl



39
Annex 6 - Procurement and disbursement arrangements
A. Procurement
Procurement guidelines. Civil works and vehicles, wholly or partly financed by the GEF, will be procured
in accordance with the World Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the World Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and in September
1997 and January 1999; Consultant services wholly or partly financed by the GEF and incremental staff
funded under the GEF grant will be procured in accordance with the World Bank's '"Guidelines for
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World bank Borrowers" published in January 1997 and
revised in September 1997 and January 1999 . The following table summarizes procurement arrangements
for the GEF. and further detail is given in annex 4.
International  National
Competitive Competitive    Local      Direct    Consulting
Bidding     Bidding    Shopping  Contracting   Services      Total
Works                       -         6,731       1,188         -            -        7,919
(460)       (81)                               (541)
Goods and vehicles        2,222        556          -           -           -         2,778
(622)       (156)                                           (778)
Consultants services        -           -           -          854         7,688      8,542
and training                                                  (269)       (2,421)    (2,690)
Operating costs                         -         1,030       1,325       2,652       5,007
(573)      (733)       (1,442)     (2,748)
Total                       2,222       7,286       2,218       2,179       10.340      24.245
(622)       (615)       (654)      (1,002)     (3.862)     (6.756)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by World Bank - GEF
Table 13 - Procurement arrangements (US$ '000)
Note i igure.. in pr)al :h2tieses are the respeclive amounts 1inaiinced by (CiF.
Civil works. The civil works will be procured through National Competitive Bidding (NCB). Works
esthimated to cost less than US$ 30.000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amnount of US$ 400.000
equivalent. may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures, namelv
under lump-suni fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of written quotations obtained from three
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation.
Goods. Goods estimated to cost more than US$ 100,000 equivalent per contract will be procured through
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) and will be bulked to the extent possible, with the exception that
vehicles and computers may be procured from IAPSO. The acquisitions estimated to cost less than US$
100,000 per contract will be procured through National Competitive Bidding (NCB). up to an aggregate
amount of US$ 200,000. Goods estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed $100.000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of national shopping procedures.



40
Direct contracting. Goods and works which: (i) should be procured as an extension of an existing
contract/must be purchased from the original supplier to be compatible with existing equipment, or (ii) are
of a proprietary nature, or (iii) must be procured from a particular supplier as a condition of a performance
guarantee, and costing $100,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the Bank's prior agreement,
be procured under direct contracting in accordance with the provisions of the Guidelines.
Community participation: Goods anid works required for the village level activities of the project shall be
procured following suitable procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Consultant services. Recruitment of consulting firns or individual consultants will be carried out under the
Quality and Cost Based Selection method (QCBS) in accordance with the World Bank's Guidelines
mentioned in para. I above. The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $50,000
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants Single source selection will be
acceptable when justified for contracts expected to cost no more than the equivalent of US$ 50,000.
World Bank review. Requirements for World Bank pnror review of procurement operations will be as
follows (see also the table presenting Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review in the annex 4
on procurement):
(i) procurement of works and goods: in accordance with the above mentioned guidelines, proposals for
advertising, draft tender documents, bid evaluations, and award proposals will be subject to review by the
World Bank prior to their execution for all contracts exceeding US$ 100,000 as well as for all sole source
contracts.
(ii) consultant services: full review as spelled out in the guidelines will be required for contracts expected to
cost more than or the equivalent of US$ 100,000 (for such contracts the World Bank requires in particular
that the Techlical Evaluation Report be subjected to its prior review for non objection before opening of
the financial proposals). Below the US$ 100,000 limit, all consultant contracts expected to cost more than
or the equivalent of US$ 50.000 per contract with finns and US$ 25,000 per contract with individuals, as
well as all sole source contracts. will be subject to prior review by the World Bank but will not require the
noni objection of the Bank on the techlnical evaluation of the proposals. All other contracts will be subject to
post review.
B. Disbursement
Categories. The number of disbursement categories will be limited to the five categories of (i) civil works,
(ii) goods and vehicles, (iii) consultant services, (iv) operating costs and (v) unallocated. Staff salaries
financed by the GEF will be disbursed under the operating costs category.
Anuit                    Shalreoffininng
(i) Civilws                       048                 1OO/ooffcreiSgi x tibtre
9%/ cf loil exqptLre
(ii) GCxis andvwcles              0.68                 1 00Y/o of fcr eig    xftite
9G3/of loa eq3xftLure
(ni) c-s'ultarnts sevices         261                           10/0
(iv) Q    Oatug costs             253                           100%
(v) Laloctd                       0.46
Total                             6.76
Table 14 - Disbursement of GEF Grant, by categories (US$ million)



41
Disbursement plan. Estimated GEF disbursement is as follow:
2000      2001     2002      2003   2004      2005
Annual              1,655     2,121      876      826    848        430
Cumulative          1,655     3,776    4,652    5,478   6,326     6,756
Share                24%       56%1    69%        81%    94%      100%
Table 15 - Estimated GEF disbursement (US$ '000)



42
Annex 7 - Project processing budget and schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                        Planned                Actual
(At final PCD stage)
GEF PRIF                                          $244,000
B. Project Schedule                               Planned                Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)                                 50
First Bank missioni (identification)                1994                  1994
Endorsemiienit by GEF CouLncil
Appraisal missioni departure                     06/24/1998            06/24/i998
Negotiationis                                    10/05/1998            10/05 /1998
Final Documentation to GEFSEC                    11/15/1998             02/ /00
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    early 2000             mid 2000
Prepared by:  CENAGREF / National Unit for Wildlife Management - Ministr\ of Rural
Development
Project Preparation and Appraisal Team
Michel Simeon                      Team leader           AFTEI
Nicolas Ahouissoussi            Rural development        AFMBJ
Jean-Miclhel Pavv                  Consultant            AFTE I
Nina Chee                          Consultant            AFTEI
Luc Lecuit                         Consultant            AFTEI



- 43 -
Annex 8 - Status of Bank Group Operations
Closed 32
Projects
Difference Between
Board                                                 Last PSR                                                      Expected and Actual
Date                                             Supervision Rating b/          Original Amount In US$ Millions      Disbursements_
Fiscal                                       DvlpetImplementation
Year  Active Projects                        Develosment    ples              IBRD        IDA     Cancel.  Undisb.     Orig. Frm Revd
Obiectives    Proqress
1991    P000105   AGRIC. SERVICES                  S             S                 0          0          0        0         0         0
1991    P000108   POWER REHAB                      S             S                 0      15.26          0     4.32      3.48         0
1993    P000120   RURAL CREDIT II                  HS            S                 0       3.84          0      1.46     1.37       1.37
1994    P000116   ECON. MGMT.                      S             S                 0       4.99          0     2.82      2.96      2.99
1994    P000103   EDUCATION DEVELOPMEN             S             S                 0      17.79          0     8.82      8.69      6.52
1994    P000099   FOOD SECURITY                    S             S                 0       9.75          0      1.13     0.86      0.86
1994    P000121   RURALWATERSUPPLY&                S             S                 0       9.62          0     4.12      4.12      4.11
1995    P000112   ENV. MANAGEMENT PROJ             HS            S                 0        7.5          0     4.38      2.46      2.32
1995    P000118   POPULATION AND HEALT             S             S                 0      24.17          0    18.71     19.39     17.59
1997    P000117   TRANSPORT SECTOR                 S             S                 0      37.52          0    21.18     11.98         0
1998    P057345   BORGOU PILOT RSP                 S             S                 0       4.09          0     3.49      1.68         0
1998    P035645   SOCIAL FUND                      S             S                 0      17.03          0    13.96     -0.33     -2.15
1999    P035648   1ST DECEN.CITY MGMT.             S             U                 0      25.93          0    25.93      1.31         0
2000    P039882   PRIVATE SECTOR                                                   0      29.86          0    29.86         0         0
Total          207.35               140.18    57.97     33.61
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.



- 44 -
Annex 8 - Statement of IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 12/31/99
(In US Dollars Millions)
Held                  Disbursed
FY Approval Company         Loan Equity Quasi Partic Loan Equity Quasi Partic
1991/93/95   AEF BOAB           0      0  0.02     0     0      0  0.02     0
1995 AEF Union Benin     0   0.08     0     0     0   0.08     0     0
1994 Equipbail-Benin    0    0.1      0     0     0    0.1     0     0
1993 BECOL              6      0      0     0     6      0     0     0
1998 Nova/Ambergris    5.5     0      0     0  4.68      0     0     0
Total Portfolio:      11.5  0.18  0.02      0 10.68   0.18  0.02     0
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan Equity Quasi Partic
1999 SOBAC               0  79.22     0     0
Total Pending Commitment:     0  79.22     0     0



- 45 -
Annex 9 - Country at glance
Benin at a glance                                                             9/199
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         Saharan      Low-
Benin     Afrca  Income       Development dlamond
1998
Population, mid-year (millions)                      6.0       628      3.515                Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas metod., USS)                   380       480       520
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                     2.3       304      1,844
Average annual growth, 1992-98
Population (%)                                       2.9        2.6       1.7
Labor forcea(%)                                      2.9        2.6       1.9     GNP                             Gross
-99)                        ~~~~~~capita                  enrollment
Most reCent esUimfte (latest year available. 11992-Scaia 7 prmy
Poverty (% of populaton below national poverty line)  33
Urban population ( of total populaion)                41        33        31
Ufe expectancy at birth (years)                       53        51        63
Infant mortality (per 1t000 Ifve births)              88        91        69
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)            29                                   Access to safe water
Access to safe water ( of population)                 72        47        74
Uliteracy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                    66        42        32
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-age populaton)   78        77       108            8enin       Low-income group
Male                                                98        84       113
Female                                              57        69       103
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977    1987       1997     1998
Economic ratios'
GDP (USS billions)                           0.8     1.6        2.1       2.3
Gross domestc investment/GDP                17.8    12.9       18.5      17.1                    Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP           23.5    29.3       24.9      23.3
Gross domestic savings/GDP                   0.9      3.6       9.8       8.3
Gross national savings/GDP                           7.0       13.0      11.1
Current account balance/GDP                -17.0    -5.9       -5.2      -4 9                    /  \s
Interestpayments/GDP                         0.1      1.0       0.8               Dmesffc                     Investment
Total debt/GOP                              22.3    76.4       75.9      71.4     Sans
Total debt service/exports                   '        7.5       9.0       9.6
Present value of debt/GDP                                      45.1                                JL
Present value of debtlexports                                 159.2
Indebtedness
197747  1988-98    1997       1998   199943
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 4.1      4.1      5.7       4.5       5.4             Benin      Low-income group
GNP per capita                      0.8      1.2      2.8       1.6       2.2
Exports of goods and servces        2.9      1.0      2.2      -1.0       6.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977    1987       1997      1998     Growth rates of output and Investment(%)
% of GDP)
Agriculture                                 31.9    33.3       38.4      38.6     s
Industry                                    12.6    12.4       13.9      13.5    25
Manufacturing                              9.0      7.2       8.4       8.2    25
Services                                    55.6    54.4       47.7      47.9                       S9        9
-2 03               9          s
Private consumption                         90.7    80.8       79.8      82.1   -SD
General govemment consumption                8.3    15.5       10.4       9.7                    G01        GODP
Imports of goods and services               40.3    38.6       33.6      32.1   1
(average annual growth)                 197747  1988-98       1997      1998      Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                  3.8      5.1       5.6       6.7    S.
Industry                                     6.1      4.6       4.4       0.9    25
Manufacturing                              3.2      5.9       5.6       3.0
Services                                     3.9      3.2       6.2       3.8     o
93   94~~~~97 9
Private consumpton                           1.6      4.2       4.3       9.3     .
General govemment consumpton                 5.4      2.6       4.2      -4.6
Gross domestic investment                    0.8      6.3      16.3      -2.5   -SD
Imports of goods and services               -1.8      2.7       3.7       6.8                  Enxorts    -   hOpoots
Gross national product                       3.9      4.1       5.8       4.6
Note: 199 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



-46 -
Benin
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977     1987      1997      1998      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                         so
Consumer prices                                                   3.8       5.8    40
Implicit GDP deflator                         5.2      3.0       4.7       4.2    30 -
20-
Government finance                                                                 10  
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                 0
Current revenue                              15.0     12.9       15.7      16.1            93   t4   95   9e   97   98
Current budget balance                        2.8     11.3        3.6       5.2             -G DP deflator          CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                      -4.2     11.3       -3.1      -0.7 1
TRADE
1977     1987      1997      1998      Export and Import levels (USS millions)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                                    366       400       406      7s0
Cotton                                                50        199       193
Crude oil                                            11          7         1     So o*
Manufactures                                                                      so ..
Total imports (cif)                                    545       641       662
Food                                                 182        112       116     250                     i i_
Fuel and energy                                       33        72        74
Capital goods                                        130        206       212          9 -             9_ _ 9_ - 9
Export price index (1995=100)                           32        93        95           t2  93   94  9s  9e  t7   go
Importpnceindex(1995=100)                               44       103       101               *Exports      *lImports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                       -       74        90        95
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(1977    1987      1997      1998      Current account balance to GOP ratio (')
(U)S$ millions)
Exports of goods and services                 162      457       532       557      0
Imports of goods and services                 327      602       713       735
Resource balance                            -165      -145      -180      -178      2
Net income                                      '   -29  -30  -29    *     'iiiil
Net current transfers                          38       81       100        94    -4
Current account balance                      -127      -93      -110      -113
Financing items (net)                         128       58       126       146
Changes in net reserves                         0       35       -16       -34    -e
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)          ..      ..       212       266
Conversion rate (DEC, /oca4UUSS)            245.7    300.5      583.7     589.9
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987      1997      1998
(USS millions)                                                                      Composition of total debt, 1998 (USS mlillons)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          167    1,194      1,624     1,647
IBRD                                          0        0         0         0
IDA                                          32      196       510       543                 F: 4 G. 85
Total debt service                              4       41        55        60                                8:543
IBRD                                          0        0         0         0
IDA                                           0        2         7         8         E:533
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                              14       58       125
Official creditors                          31        57        23        32
Private creditors                            -1       -2         0         0                                   C. 94
Foreign direct investment                     3        0         3
Portfolioequity                               0        0         0                               D: 388
World Bank program
Commitments                                  17       48         0         0      A - IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                 7       22        20        20      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                          0        0         4         4      c - IMF                      G - Short-term
Net flows                                     7       21        16        16
Interest payments                             0        1         4         4
Net transfers                                 7       20        12        12
World Bank                                                                                                           9117/99



47
Annex 10 - Policy statement
POLICY LETTER ON THE USE OF THE LAND
SURROUNDING WILDLIFE RESERVES
Wildlife reserves in Benin, namely the Pendjari National Park, the W National Park, and the Pendjari.
Atacora. and Djona Game Reserves, in addition to the buffer zones bordering areas, are all concentrated in
the far north of the country. They contain a wealth of ecological, economic, and sociocultural resources
seldom found in West Africa. The traditional methods for preserving and managing such resources have
proven to be increasingly inadequate for effectively protecting the biotic communities in these areas. This
is why the Republic of Benin prepared an Environmental Action Plan in 1993, which includes a
biodiversitv management program. The following measures have been adopted under this plan:
*  Preparation in 1994 of a strategy for preserving and managing protected areas:
  Creation of CBDD (the Benini Center for Sustainable Development);
*  Creationi in 1996 of CENAGREF (the National Center for the Management of Wildlife Reserves), a
government agency with scientific, cultural, and social functions, vested with adminiistrative and
financial autonomy;
- Preparation in 1998 of an action plan for the conservation and management of national parks. With
these activities, the need has arisen to implement, over the next five years, a project entitled Programn
for the Conservation and Management of National Parks.". This in tum makes it essential to identify
more clearly the problems affecting the areas surrounding wildlife reserves and to define appropriate
policies for dealing with them. This is why this statement has been prepared.
l.OBJECTIVES OF THE LAND-USE POLICY
The primary objective of the land-use policy is to ensure the ecological sustainability of wildlife reserves
through rational forms of land management that are more consciously geared toward protecting them. The
priorities are as follows:
*  strengrthening the Govenmment's prerogatives in formulating policy and regulating land use:
* protecting the borders of wildlife reserves:
*  halting the encroachment of fannland:
* eliminating transhumance in wildlife reserves;
* implementing a system for the conservation of biodiversity;
*  achieving the sustainable management of natural resources;
* controlling brush fires,
*  securing the participation of the residents of bordering areas in the process of managemenit. and sharinig
the benefits with them,



48
providing for the cross-border dimension of the problem by developilg regional cooperation in the
management of wildlife reserves.
2.COMPONENTS OF THE LAND-USE POLICY
The policy to be implemented will take into account the status of the different types of land.
2.1. Recovery of Enclaves in the W National Park
The national parks are part of the public domain. These lands will be made the direct responsibility of
CENAGREF, and will be protected from any exploitation by the neighboring population.
Because some parts of W National Park are currently being used for agriculture by the local communities
(mainly for growing cotton), all necessary steps will be taken to put a halt to fanning in these areas.
2.2. Strict Regulation of the Exploitation of Game Reserves
Game reserves will also keep their status as part of the public domain. They will be made the direct
responsibility of CENAGREF and by law they will be used for no activities other thani huniting and
tourism.
The Government will not require that communities occupying strips or enclaves of land set aside as game
reserves immediately vacate them: instead, it will restrict their activities, and introduce a system of
incentives (see 2.4) for encouraging them to return to the neighboring areas.
Exploitation of these strips of land and enclaves will be regulated by use contracts between thc central
govermnent and the village comumunities. The Government will take the necessary steps to halt all technical
support for cotton farming on this land.
2.3. Control of Land Use in the Buffer Zones
The areas of land adjoining national parks and game reserves will be made the joint responsibility of the
village communities and CENAGREF. The communities will have free access to this land. the use of
which must conform to conditions agreed between CENAGREF and the villages.
Prioritv Nvill be given to reforestation, to meet the need for wood. Village communities will be authorized to
create and manage for themselves regulated village hunting areas.
2.4. Promotion of the Rational Management of Peripheral Areas (Terroirs)
Areas surrounding wildlife reserves are free of any constraints linked to the protected areas. Because of the
extenit to which these areas are intercoinected with the wildlife reserves, bordering areas may be developed
on the basis of land management plans drawn up by the local communities.
Such maniagemenit plans would have the following objectives:
*  promotion of intensive, sustainable agriculture;
  diversification of agricultural operations;
*  establishment of nonmigratory stock-raising activities;



49
*  the combining of agriculture and stock raising;
*  the development of agro-sylvo-pastoral complexes (with corridors for moving livestock or
transhumance. pastureland, reservoirs, wells, etc.);
*  the control of brush fires.
For its part. the Govermnent, through CENAGREF and national development institutions, will undertake to
provide the necessary legal, technical, and financial support for implementing management plans.
2.5. Control of Transhumance by Local Pastoralists
The policy to be adopted for solving the problem of transhumance will consist of developing systems that
will both protect wildlife reserves and meet the needs of the communities engaging in this practicc.
Measures will include the provision of transhumance corridors, cooperation betwveen farmers and stock
raisers, an increase in watering places, etc.
2.6. Control of Cross-Border Transhumance
The Government, with the assistance of the European Union, will endeavor to promote consultations among
the neighboring countries in order to find lasting - and generally acceptable -- solutions to these problems.
3.STRATEGY
3.1. Information-Education-Communication
Every effort will be made to achieve the following objectives:
* increase information, education, and communication;
*  organize viable village-level activities for preserving and managing biodiversity as a whole, in
coordination with other projects and the NGOs specializing in this field;
*  promote functional literacy among the people living in the bordering areas, so as to ensure the success
of a participatory approach to the conservation of wildlife reserves.
3.2. Development of Village-Level Activities
In order to reduce the pressure of local communities on wildlife reserves, socioeconomic development
programs are to be drawn up and implemented by the communities living in the bordering areas, with
support from the government authorities responsible for protected areas, national development institutions.
and nongovermnenital organizations. The priorities to be observed are as follows:
*  promotion of income-generating activities:
*  establishment of socioeconomic infrastructure;
* promotion of Village Associations for the Management of Wildlife Reserves.
3.3. Development of a Coordinated Approach to the Management of Terroirs
A number of development projects that are under way or have been implemented in the areas surroundinlg
wildlife reserves have devised land-management methods for the terroirs.  In order to assist the



50
communities in these bordering areas to adopt appropriate techniques, special attention will be paid to
preparing a consistent approach.
3.4. Transferring responsibility to Local Government Authorities
Until now, the enforcement of laws and regulations protecting wildlife reserves has remained the sole
responsibility of the national parks authorities. Every effort will be made to transfer this responsibility to
local govemment authorities, and to obtain their support.
3.5. Promotion of the Participatory Management of Wildlife Reserves
So far, the conservation and management of wildlife reserves have been the responsibility of the
government agency in charge of national parks. Neighboring communities have not been involved in these
activities, and have become hostile toward these protected areas. Every effort will be made to develop a
participatorv approach that will enable the communities to participate in the management of such areas and
to share in the profits they produce. This participation will be organized through the village associations
that the coimmunities will be invited to establish.
Prioritv should be given in road repair and maintenaince operations to the use of labor from the villages in
these surrounding areas. The same holds true for operations for controlling poaching, and for activities
relating to ecotourism and hunting.
CENAGREF will introduce and implement an appropriate profit-sharing system for the income generated
by the wildlife reserves. This system will involve the following:
*  allocation of game quotas to local communities the hunting season opens in the areas that have been
assigned:
* payment to the communities of a share of the income from hunting and tourism,
* payments to villagers for work and services performed.
3.6. Coordination of the Participants
In addition to agency responsible for maniaging national parks, various institutions and organizations
(CARDER. development projects, ABE. local authorities, village associations, anid NGOs) are active in the
areas surrounding wildlife reserves. In order to ensure that the various activities being carried out conform
to the requiremenits for the conservation of the protected areas, policies should be geared toward fostering
coordination among all the entities working in these areas.
The various participants will establish regional conumittees in order to facilitate consultation amonig them.
4.THE ROLES OF THE VARIOUS PARTICIPANTS
The roles of the various participanits can be divided into two categories: public institutions acting on behalf
of the Government: and private organizations, including socioprofessional organizations, farmers'
organizations. nongovernmental organizations, and private operators.
4.1. The Role of Government Institutions
The following tasks could be performed by government institutions:



51
(a) guiding the national land-use policy. by:
*  defining a use plan and strategies,
*  developing legal and regulatory instruments;
*  implementing incentives.
(b) monitoring implementation of this policy;
(c) monitoring the support measures;
(d) gathering and disseminating information;
(e) institutionalizing the land rights of individuals and communities.
Public institutions or others could perform the following functions:
  providing management assistance for farmers;
*  supporting village-level organizations.
4.2. The Role of Private Operations
Socioprofessional organizations. fanrmers' associations, NGOs, and private operators will cooperatc with
the Government in preparing and implementing land-use plans, training, and infrastructure projects both in
the reserves and in the neighboring areas.
5.PRIORITY ACTIVITIES
To achieve the objectives of the land-use policy, priority will be given to the following activities:
*  estimating the population living in the areas surrounding wildlife reserves;
-  carrying out sociological and demographic studies;
-  organizing a consultative forum for the various actors involved;
  carrying out a basic ecological study:
*  setting up AVIGREFs (Wildlife Reserve Management Associations) in all villages in the bordering
areas.
For the Republic of Benin,
The Minister of Rural Development
Saley G. Saka



52
Annex 11 - Social Analysis and Participatory Approach
A. Social analysis
The proposed program is built upon the participatory management experimented by the Natural Resources
Management Project (PGRN), in the forn of Wildlife Management Village Associations (AVIGREF).
Ensuring effective comnmunity participation - including transhumant pastoralists - in program execution is
acknowledged to be crucial to the success of the operation. Great care would be taken to ensure that the
benefits of the program are not captured by a limnited elite group inside each community. The utmost
transparency of all community-based benefit payments must be assured at all times.
Structured and unstructured conimunity participation in the diagnostic and planning stages of the program
are very important. It is. however, important to ensure that these will be followed up by substantial
implementation activities. Even though the program has not yet started some conimunities in the area have
already had enough "consultation" and are impatient to get started with implementation.
It will be important to ensure that there are sufficient direct incentives to encourage traditional village
hunters to establish and subsequently respect agreed quotas and technical guidelines, and have a vested
interest to ensure that all other hunters do as well.
B. Local groups and NGOs consulted:
Local groups:
Gu imbagou. Mekrou, Gningninrou, Gningninrou-Pogou, Kerenou, Gbeniki, Pompoma, Dakoguiri,
Soudou. Dare. lgrigou, Gnangnangou, Gnikoga, Saunpeto, Kanderou, Gnamborokorou. Tissoua,
Kori, Tindarou:
Village Hunting Association Kolegou, Tchawassaga, Mamoussa, Tiele, Sepounga. Tcharaga. Tanougou,
Tanguieta. Batia, Sangou, Namemou, Porga I, Porga II, Pouri, Dassiri, Tiega, Nagaessega,
Alakora, Thias, Tchoka, Angaradebou, Serekale, Dogban, Bangou, Issinnin. Boefo. Tordzougou.
Goungoun, UJnion des Associations Villageoise de Chasse de l'Atacora, UJnion des Associations
Villageoises de Chasse du Borgou;
Womens' Hunting Associations: Alakora, Thia, Tchoka, Angaradebou, Serekale, Dogban, Bangou.
Issinnin, Boefo, Torozougou, Goungoun;
Peulh Associations: Tobaga-Peul, Gabaga-Peul, Mamassy-Peul.
NGOs:
IUCN:
Programme Regional d'Assistance Technique pour la Conservation, V'infbrmation et la proteclion che
l'Environment:
Associalion Regionale poutr le developpement de tourisme dans / 'Atacora:
OXPAM O(lebec.
PACIPE':
Aclion P'romolionnelle pour icl Femme.



53
C. Participatory Approach
The national program will be implemented in area where the surrounding population is very poor, and
where past relationships between the authorities management wildlife resources and local communities have
been antagonistic, and where transborder commercial poaching and transhumance add a substantial
complication. On the other hand, the local populations have indicated a willingness to become more actively
involved in park management and biodiversity conservation, the government has indicated a willingness to
involve local communities and where the capacity of local institutions to plan and implement
community-based natural resource management is continually increasing. These elements show that the
participatory approach is critical to ensure the success of the program.
The preparation of the program has extensively used a participatory approach - to the extent where some
rural communities are reluctant to participate any more in planning as they wish implementation to start
without any further consultation. Similarly, program implementation will include the active participation of
a wide range of actors. Among the more directly involved in this process has been. anid will be:
beneficiaries/community groups, NGOs, academic institutions, local government institutions, professional
hunting guides. bilateral and multilateral donors and neighboring country officials.
The participatory approach is based on the strengthening of the capacity of local populations in terms of
ecological monitoring, the sharing of the benefits drawn from the activities in the protected areas between
the local population, the state and the private sector, the employment of local villagers for working with the
anti-poaching Parks patrols of CENAGREF, and the development of incentives for sustainable rural
activities within the buffer zones.






MAP SECTION






IBRD 28525
r-)  MA L       I    I    R  \1   2'4                 \            o .     
NURKINAS -                  . ER            ,7 NIGER
NIGERIA                                                                              by hhe NUGER
COOl            K'                                                          M W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,Id B~~~~~~"dA
D'hf0IRE /GANAt          .                  f_                                                          TbM boundae.o coo
1000   n- %      IBURKINA\                   RESERVE                 ToN,=mey                 ,  o pon a,
ATIANTI             UK\INI'.                 Du           K IE
EQ G01001        FASO                                Krimomo-
OCEAN                                                                                                      f O 
0    20   40   60   80   100
/3 / , /t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS
Banikoara
NATIONAL PARK              \]       .      '2           i     t1\
To P=            DE LA PENDJARI    .-a. 6                                    i 
KopMot6ri        PoPGogoungo                                                    NIGERIA
*      Tongui6ta                                     .        (  
Q. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~f
Kobli              oukountoun
T.9  NATITINGOU              K wKeuoncI            o SinendI                                              AIRPORT
S.--6Nzo \B ukoumb7 '             -                            r                       a  DISTRICT CAPITALS
. ATAKORA  PPhonko                                                             C
,               ~~BORGOU                 .1 
i  OKopa/;~\<   Ndolit   g Nikki           CPA
Dbjougou              0P0r'r
i ~   ~ ~ oob ,,                                          -POIC   BOUNDARIES
KI uka                     'x                           -  INENTOA  BONARE
T1~.
TOGO            :        O e  ?urLss8t/BosEN I 
1~~~~~~~~~T !hzou urou
)   2   Glczoue .-->                               w  ~~~~~PAVED ROADS
-80   t           ! \tovalou         ,        T                                  GRAVEL ROADS                          -
OHA A'    t Pa  ATLjQUEINTERNATIONALAIRPORT
99  l   ~ >c t    g   ,  JaAIRFIELDS
4  | \    -Djidjo       10 Wi4<|   eou (JoDISTRICT CAPITALSa
V    |  )MEY   kpoto2AXS,,Ot    j           (3PROVINCE CAPITALS                .j
H   b   h  3 2olicbon           r.6  NATIONAL CAPITALS
T.Nlr m        i         9    f         e    s                                 PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
_7           ~~Aplch        l     u         o       T b_  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
LOKCtSMN|1   O A0,on<-;
k  .   (llcdo Abom            0       NOV           LD =d=
Co'                Co .  zw 
GHANA >->rpdO AT>NTIQUE BIGHT OF\
January 1997



