Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF 023658
Global Environment Facility
Trust Fund Grant Agreement
(National Parks Conservation and Management Program Support Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility
Dated April 21, 2000
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF 023658
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 21, 2000, between REPUBLIC OF BENIN (the Recipient) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as an 
implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) in respect of grant funds 
provided to the GEF Trust Fund by certain members of the Bank as participants of the 
GEF.
WHEREAS (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991 of the 
Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the protection of 
the global environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable 
economic development;
(B)
following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements continued in 
place on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 of May 24, 1994, of the Executive 
Directors of the Bank which, inter alia, established the GEF Trust Fund, authorized 
the first replenishment of the GEF Trust Fund and appointed the Bank as Trustee of the 
GEF Trust Fund (Resolution No. 94-2);
(C) 
the second replenishment of the GEF Trust Fund was approved on the basis 
set forth in Resolution No. 98-2 of July 14, 1998, of the Executive Directors of the 
Bank (Resolution No. 98-2);
Page  2
(D) 
the Bank has received from the Recipient a letter, dated December 16, 
1998, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to strengthen 
the Recipient's wildlife management and conservation capacities (the Program) and 
declaring the Recipient's commitment to the execution of the Program;
(E)
the Recipient, as part of the Program, having satisfied itself as to the 
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has 
requested assistance from the GEF Trust Fund for funding the Project and said request 
having been approved in accordance with the provisions of the Instrument for 
Establishment of the Restructured Global Environment Facility approved under 
Resolution No. 94-2, and to be funded from contributions to the GEF Trust Fund under 
Resolution No. 98-2, which may include funds carried over from the first replenishment 
of the GEF Trust Fund under Resolution No. 94-2;
(F)
the Recipient intends to obtain from various Donors (as hereinafter 
defined) grants and loans to assist in the financing of the Program;
(G)
the Project will be carried out by the Centre National de Gestion des 
Réserves de Faune (CENAGREF) with the Recipient’s assistance and, as part of such 
assistance, the Recipient will make available to CENAGREF the proceeds of the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the GEF Trust Fund Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Currency Pool Loans of the Bank, dated January 1, 
1985, as amended through December 2, 1997, with the modifications set forth in 
paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (15), 
(18) and (20), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Section 8.01 (b);
(vii)
Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(viii)Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04;
(ix)
Article XI; and
(x)
Sections 12.01 (c), 12.03 and 12.04.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
a new paragraph shall be added to the end of Section 2.01 to read 
as follows: "the term "Special Drawing Rights" and the symbol 
"SDR" mean special drawing rights as valued by the International 
Monetary Fund in accordance with its Articles of Agreement";
(ii)
the term "Bank", wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of 
such term in Section 5.01 thereof, means the Bank acting as an 
Page  3
implementing agency of the GEF, except that in Section 6.02, the 
term "Bank" shall also include the Bank acting in its own 
capacity;
(iii)
the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient;
(iv)
the term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(v)
the term "Loan" and "loan", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant;
(vi)
the term "Loan Account", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account; and
(vii)
a new subparagraph (q) is added after subparagraph (p)  in Section 
6.02 of the General Conditions, as follows: "an extraordinary 
situation shall have arisen in which any further disbursement 
under the GEF Trust Fund Grant would exceed the resources 
available for disbursement from the GEF."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"ARDET-ATACORA" means 
Association Régionale pour le Développement du 
Tourisme de l’Atacora, the Recipient’s Regional Association for the Development of 
Tourism in the Atacora Department, established and operating under the Recipient’s 
laws and regulations pursuant to its statutes dated June 28, 1991, as amended as of 
the date thereof;
(b)
"CENAGREF"" means Centre National de Gestion des Réserves de Faune, the 
Recipient’s National Center for the Management of Protected Areas, established and 
operating under the Recipient’s laws and regulations pursuant to the Recipient’s 
Decree No. 96-73 dated April 2, 1996, as amended as of the date hereof;
(c)
"CFA Franc" and "CFAF" mean the currency of the Recipient;
(d)
"Convention" means the agreement to be entered into between the Recipient 
and CENAGREF pursuant to Section 3.05 (a) of this Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes any schedules to the Convention; 
(e)
"Donors" means, collectively, the national or international agencies 
contributing funds or technical assistance for the Program, and "Donor" means each and 
every such agency individually;
(f)
"IAPSO" means Inter Agency Procurement Services Organization;
(g)
"Pendjari Complex" means the area comprising Pendjari National Park, the 
associated synergetic areas, and the adjacent buffer zones and surrounding rural 
areas;
(h)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and CENAGREF of 
even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement; 
(i)
"Project Implementation Manual" means the manual setting out, inter alia, 
policies, procedures, timetables, guidelines relating to the implementation of the 
Project, referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, and 
adopted by CENAGREF on June 28, 1999, as the same may be amended from time to time, 
and such term includes any schedules to the Project Implementation Manual;
(j)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
Page  4
this Agreement; and
(k)
"W Complex" means the area comprising W National Park, the associated 
synergetic areas, and the adjacent buffer zones and surrounding rural areas. 
ARTICLE II
The GEF Trust Fund Grant
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GEF Trust Fund Grant in 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to five million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
5,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be withdrawn from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for carrying out the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant.
(b)
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
CFA Franc a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2005 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later 
date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Global 
Environment Facility Trust Fund Grant Agreement, shall cause CENAGREF to perform, in 
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement, all the obligations of 
CENAGREF therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the 
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate 
to enable CENAGREF to perform such obligations and shall not take or permit to be 
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Recipient and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
assist CENAGREF in the carrying out of the Project in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall take steps, or cause CENAGREF to take 
steps, to:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Bank, a plan, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, designed to ensure the 
continued achievement of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Page  5
Recipient on said plan.
Section 3.04. The Recipient and the Bank hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating 
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, and 
maintenance, respectively) shall be carried out by CENAGREF pursuant to Section 2.03 
of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.05. (a) The Recipient shall conclude an agreement (hereinafter 
referred to as the Convention) with CENAGREF, under which it shall transfer to 
CENAGREF the entire proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant on an non-reimbursable basis 
and on such other terms and conditions as shall be acceptable to the Bank, including, 
but without being limited to, the provisions set forth in Part A of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
(b)
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Convention in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Convention or any 
provision thereof.
Section 3.06
Without any limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Recipient shall, for the purposes of making available its counterpart 
contribution to the financing of the Project:
(a)
cause CENAGREF to open, and thereafter maintain for the duration of the 
Project, an account in CFA Francs (the Project Account) in the Treasury and on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank;
(b)
deposit into the Project Account an initial contribution of thirty 
million CFA Francs (CFAF 30,000,000);
(c)
thereafter, replenish said account at least on a quarterly basis, or 
whenever its balance shall be less than fifteen million CFA Francs (CFAF 15,000,000); 
and
(d)
ensure that amounts deposited into the Project Account shall be used 
exclusively to make payments to meet expenditures made or to be made in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services for the Project in addition to those financed 
from the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures, the Recipient 
shall:
(i)
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Grant Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section and those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
Page  6
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested, including a separate 
opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
(b)
CENAGREF shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(c)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Global 
Environment Facility Trust Fund Grant Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have 
arisen which shall make it impossible that CENAGREF will be able to perform its 
obligations under the Project Agreement. 
(d)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)
the right of the Recipient to withdraw the proceeds of any 
loan or grant made to the Recipient for the financing of the 
Program shall have been suspended, canceled or terminated in 
whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement 
providing therefor; or
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Recipient establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) 
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not 
caused by the failure of the Recipient to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the 
Program are available to the Recipient from other sources on terms 
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Recipient 
under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following events are specified: 
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of 30 days after notice thereof shall have 
been given by the Bank to the Recipient; and 
(b)
any event specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur. 
ARTICLE VI
Page  7
Effectiveness, Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as conditions to the 
effectiveness of the GEF Trust Fund Grant within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of 
the General Conditions, namely: 
(a)
CENAGREF has employed the independent auditors referred to in Section 
4.01 of this Agreement and in Section 4.01 of the Project Agreement, in accordance 
with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement;
(b)
the Convention has been executed on behalf of the Recipient and CENAGREF; 
and
(c)
the Project Account has been opened and the initial contribution referred 
to in Section 3.06 (b) of this Agreement has been deposited therein.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all 
their obligations hereunder.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Recipient at the time responsible for finance 
is designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02 The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Ministry of Finance 
B. P. 302
Cotonou, Republic of Benin
Cable address:
Telex:
MINFINANCES
5009 or 5289
Cotonou
MINFIN
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI)
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
Page  8
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
By /s/ Abdoulaye Bio Tchane
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an implementing agency of 
the Global Environment Facility
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category:
Amount of the
GEF Trust Fund 
Grant Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works
   350,000
100% of foreign
expenditures, and
90% of local
expenditures
(2)
Goods and vehicles
   500,000
100% of foreign
expenditures, and
90% of local expenditures
(3)
Consultants’ services
 1,900,000
100%
and training
(4)
Operating costs
 1,850,000
100%
(5)
Unallocated
   400,000
TOTAL
 5,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Recipient; 
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient; 
provided, however, that if the currency of the Recipient is also that of another 
country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in 
such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures"; 
and
(c)
the term "operating costs" means the incremental expenses incurred on 
account of Project implementation, management, monitoring, and auditing, including 
Page  9
office supplies, vehicle and equipment operation, office rental, utilities, 
telecommunications, transport, travel, per diem, supervision costs and salaries of 
CENAGREF staff but excluding salaries of officials of the Recipient's civil service.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement,
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 
100,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but 
after July 1, 1998.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account to be 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods, works and 
services under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent, under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient.
5.
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the 
provisions of this Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund to the Bank for deposit into the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account an amount equal 
to the amount so used or the portion thereof as specified by the Bank.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient in implementing its 
program to develop and implement sustainable wildlife management and conservation 
systems designed to improve the management and conservation of biodiversity resources 
in selected areas of the Recipient's territory.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Recipient and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives.
Part A:
Program Management
1.
Strengthening the managerial and operational capacities of CENAGREF through the 
construction and rehabilitation of offices, the acquisition of equipment, vehicles and 
materials, the provision of technical advisory services and training, including the:
(a)
carrying out of studies for the establishment of a financing mechanism 
designed to ensure the sustainability of the Program;
(b)
training of CENAGREF staff in environmental management; 
(c)
preparation and organization of workshops designed to enhance regional 
cooperation in environmental matters; 
(d)
preparation and implementation of information, education and 
communications activities designed to increase awareness of biodiversity issues 
amongst the Recipient's population and decision-makers; 
(e)
review of the Recipient's legal and regulatory framework governing 
wildlife management and conservation with a view to enhancing decentralization and 
local participation; 
(f)
establishment and operation of a parks management information system; and 
(g)
establishment and operation of an environmental information system, 
including an ecological monitoring system, the carrying out of surveys and studies, 
and training of CENAGREF staff in the operation of such an environmental information 
Page  10
system. 
2.
Establishment and operation of a system to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing 
basis the implementation of the Recipient's wildlife conservation and management 
program, through the acquisition of equipment, vehicles and materials, and the 
provision of technical advisory services and training. 
Part B:
Pendjari Complex
1.
(a)
Strengthening the managerial and operational capacities of CENAGREF, 
through the acquisition of equipment and vehicles, the provision of technical advisory 
services, and training; and (b) construction of offices and lodging facilities, and 
construction, repair and maintenance of paths. 
2.
(a)
Construction and rehabilitation of tourism infrastructure, including 
lodging facilities, watchtowers and paths for wildlife observation, and signs to 
direct tourists; and (b) preparation and implementation of a promotion campaign 
designed to attract visitors.
3.
(a)
Strengthening the capacity of CENAGREF to work closely with village 
population, through acquisition of didactic equipment and material, and the 
preparation and organization of workshops; and (b) (i) carrying out socioeconomic 
studies; (ii) preparation and implementation of training programs for village 
population; (iii) strengthening the capacities of local associations in the management 
of natural resources; and (iv) construction and rehabilitation of community social and 
economic infrastructure.
Part C:
W Complex
1.
(a)
Strengthening the managerial and operational capacities of CENAGREF 
through the acquisition of equipment and vehicles, the provision of technical advisory 
services, and training; and (b) construction of offices and lodging facilities, and 
construction, repair and maintenance of paths.
2.
(a)
Construction and rehabilitation of tourism infrastructure, including 
lodging facilities, watchtowers and paths for wildlife observation, and signs to 
direct tourists; and (b) preparation and implementation of a promotion campaign 
designed to attract visitors. 
3.
(a)
Strengthening the capacity of CENAGREF to work closely with village 
population, through production and dissemination of didactic equipment and material, 
and the preparation and organization of workshops; and (b) (i) carrying out 
socioeconomic studies; (ii) preparation and implementation of training programs for 
village population; (iii) strengthening the capacities of local associations in the 
management of natural resources; and (iv) construction and rehabilitation of community 
social and economic infrastructure.
*  *  *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3
Implementation Program
Part A:
Main Provisions of the Convention 
The Convention shall include, but without being limited to, provisions to the 
following effect: 
(a)
the obligation of CENAGREF to take all measures necessary to ensure that 
the Project is carried out with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with 
Page  11
appropriate administrative, financial, technical and environmental practices; 
(b)
the obligation of CENAGREF to comply with the provisions of the agreement 
entered into between CENAGREF and ARDET-ATACORA regarding the implementation of the 
activities of the Program relating to tourism development; 
(c)
the obligation of CENAGREF to keep the positions of Director General, 
Administration and Financial Director, Technical Director, Director of 
Operations-Pendjari Complex and Director of Operations-W  Complex, filled with 
employees with experience and qualifications satisfactory to the Bank; 
(d)
the obligation of CENAGREF to promptly inform the Recipient and the Bank 
of any conditions which interfere, or threaten to interfere, with the progress of the 
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Grant or the performance by 
CENAGREF of its obligations under the Convention; and
(e)
commencing six months after the Effective Date, the obligation of 
CENAGREF to furnish to the Recipient and the Bank six-monthly reports of such scope 
and in such detail as the Recipient or the Bank shall reasonably request regarding the 
progress in the carrying out of the Project during the elapsed six-month period.
Part B:
Overall Project Implementation 
1.
The Recipient shall: 
(a)
not later than July 31 of each year, commencing in calendar year 1999, 
undertake, in conjunction with the Bank, CENAGREF and Donor, a joint annual review on 
all matters relating to the progress of the Project and, in particular, the progress 
achieved in the implementation of the Project during the current calendar year having 
regard to the monitoring indicators in paragraph 3 (a) of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement;
(b)
not later than one month prior to each annual review, furnish to the 
Bank:
(i)
for its review and comments, a report in such detail as the Bank 
shall reasonably request on the progress of the Project, including 
an evaluation of the activities carried out under the Project 
during the previous calendar year, including beneficiary 
assessments; and
(ii)
for its approval, a proposed action plan for the implementation of 
the Project
during the following calendar year, including a 
proposed work program and a proposed budget; and
(c)
following each annual review, act promptly and diligently in order to 
take, or assist CENEGREF in taking, any corrective action deemed necessary to remedy 
any shortcoming identified in the implementation of the Project, or to implement, or 
assist CENAGREF in implementing, such measures as may have been agreed upon between 
the parties in furtherance of the objectives of the Project.
2.
Midterm Review
(a)
On or about thirty months after the Effective Date, the Recipient shall 
carry out jointly with the Bank, CENAGREF and Donors a midterm review of the progress 
made in carrying out the Project (hereinafter referred to as the Midterm Review).
The Midterm Review shall cover, among other things:
(i)
overall Project performance as measured against Project 
performance indicators;
Page  12
(ii)
an in-depth review of all components of the Project; and
(iii)
a discussion of the options for ensuring the long-term 
sustainability of the activities carried out under the Project, 
including a review of the timeliness and adequacy of the 
Recipient’s budgetary contribution to the financing of the 
Project, and  progress achieved towards setting up new financing 
mechanisms to ensure the sustainability of the Project.
(b)
The Recipient shall, at least six (6) weeks prior to the Midterm Review, 
furnish to the Bank a separate report describing the status of implementation of each 
component of the Project and a summary report of Project implementation generally.
(c)
The Recipient shall, not later than four (4) weeks after the Midterm 
Review, prepare an action program, acceptable to the Bank, for further implementation 
of the Project having regard to the findings of the Midterm Review and, thereafter, 
implement such action program.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) to (4) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of CFA Francs 
300,000,000 to be withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposited into 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, 
that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited 
to an amount of CFA Francs 150,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR1,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Page  13
Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient 
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Bank from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents 
and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated 
to the eligible Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount 
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated to the eligible Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
Page  14
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this 
Agreement, including the General Conditions.
