Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF 023658
Project Agreement
(National Parks Conservation and Management Program Support Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility
and
CENTRE NATIONAL DE GESTION DES RESERVES DE FAUNE
Dated April 21, 2000
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF 023658
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 21, 2000, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank), acting as an implementing agency of the Global Environment 
Facility (GEF) and CENTRE NATIONAL DE GESTION DES RESERVES DE FAUNE (CENAGREF).
WHEREAS (A) by the Global Environment Facility Trust Fund Grant Agreement of 
even date herewith between the REPUBLIC OF BENIN (the Recipient) and the Bank, the 
Bank has agreed to make available to the Recipient an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to five million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 5,000,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Global Environment Facility Trust Fund Grant Agreement, 
but only on condition that CENAGREF agree to undertake such obligations toward the 
Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a Convention to be entered into between the Recipient and CENAGREF, 
the proceeds of the Grant provided for under the Global Environment Facility Trust 
Fund Grant Agreement will be made available to CENAGREF on the terms and conditions 
set forth in said Convention; and
WHEREAS CENAGREF, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Global 
Environment Facility Trust Fund Grant Agreement with the Recipient, has agreed to 
undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Global Environment Facility Trust Fund Grant Agreement, the Preamble to this 
Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings 
therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) CENAGREF declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Global Environment Facility Trust Fund Grant 
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, technical and 
environmental practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Bank and CENAGREF shall otherwise agree, CENAGREF shall carry out 
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) CENAGREF shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections  
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, and maintenance, 
respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, and without 
limitation thereto, CENAGREF shall assist the Recipient in carrying out its 
obligations under Section 3.03 of the Global Environment Facility Trust Fund Grant 
Agreement.
Section 2.04. CENAGREF shall duly perform all its obligations under the 
Convention. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, CENAGREF shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or 
waiving the Convention or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) CENAGREF shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views 
with the Bank with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement, the Convention and the Project Implementation Manual 
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Grant.
(b)
CENAGREF shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes 
or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Grant or the performance by CENAGREF of its obligations under this 
Agreement, the Convention and the Project Implementation Manual.
(c)
Without Prejudice to the generality of the foregoing, CENAGREF shall 
participate fully in the reviews referred to in Part B, paragraphs 1 (a) and 2 (a) of 
Schedule 3 to the Global Environment Facility Trust Fund Grant Agreement and, to this 
end, shall, (A) furnish to the Recipient and the Bank such reports as may be required 
for that purpose, and in such detail as the Recipient or the Bank shall reasonably 
request, on the progress and status of the Project, and (B) following each annual 
review, act promptly and diligently in order to take, or assist the Recipient in 
taking, any corrective action deemed necessary to remedy any shortcoming noted in the 
implementation of the Project, or to implement, or assist the Recipient in 
implementing, such other measures as may have been agreed upon between the parties in 
furtherance of the objectives of the Project. 
Page  3
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of CENAGREF
Section 3.01. CENAGREF shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, technical and environmental practices 
under the supervision of qualified and experienced management, assisted by competent 
staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. CENAGREF shall at all times operate and maintain its buildings, 
office space, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly 
as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with 
sound engineering, financial, technical and environmental practices.
Section 3.03. CENAGREF shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) CENAGREF shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, its operations and financial 
condition.
(b)
CENAGREF shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such year 
as so 
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors 
of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Global Environment Facility Trust Fund Grant Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of CENAGREF 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Global Environment Facility Trust 
Fund Grant Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall 
promptly notify CENAGREF thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect, notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Page  4
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For CENAGREF:
Centre National de Gestion des Réserves de Faune
01 B.P. 393 RP
Cotonou
Republic of Benin
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of CENAGREF may 
be taken or executed by the Director General or such other person or persons as the 
Director General shall designate in writing, and CENAGREF shall furnish to the Bank 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Callisto Madava
Regional Vice President
Africa 
CENTRE NATIONAL DE GESTION 
  DES RESERVES DE FAUNE
By /s/ Abdoulaye Bio Tchane
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Page  5
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Recipient.
Part C: 
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, and works may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Direct Contracting
Goods and works which: (i) should be procured as an extension of an existing 
contract must be purchased from the original supplier to be compatible with existing 
equipment, or (ii) are of a proprietary nature, or (iii) must be procured from a 
particular supplier as a condition of a performance guarantee, and costing $100,000 
equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Vehicles and computers may be procured from IAPSO in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
5.
Community Participation
Goods and works required for Parts B.3 and C.3 of the Project shall be procured 
in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
6.
Procurement of Small Works
Page  6
Works estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $400,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review 
With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II. 
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The shortlist of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Single Source Selection
Services which are estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract 
may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Page  7
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$100,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.
Except as the Bank  shall otherwise agree, CENAGREF shall: (i) implement the 
Project in accordance with the policies, procedures, timetables, guidelines, and other 
arrangements set out in the Project Implementation Manual; and (ii) not amend or 
waive, or permit to be amended or waived, the Project Implementation Manual, or any 
provision thereof, in a manner which, in the opinion of the Bank, may materially and 
adversely affect the implementation of the Project or any part thereof. 
2.
CENAGREF shall ensure that the positions of Director General, Administration and 
Financial Director, Technical Director, Director of Operations-Pendjari Complex and 
Director of Operations-W Complex, at all times during the execution of the Project, 
shall be kept filled by persons who shall be employed in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
3.
CENAGREF shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
Page  8
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
commencing six months after the Effective Date, cause CENAGREF to furnish 
to the Bank six-monthly reports, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
reasonably request, on the progress of the Project; these reports shall be furnished 
to the Bank not later than 30 days after the elapsed six-month period; and
(c)
review with the Bank, not later than 90 days after the elapsed six-month 
period, or such later date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in 
subparagraph (b) of this paragraph 3 and, thereafter, take all measures required to 
ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the 
Bank’s views on the matter.
