                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 36464

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                                (TF-23658)

                                                  ON A

                                                 GRANT

                                IN THE AMOUNT OF US$6.8 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                         REPUBLIC OF BENIN

                                                 FOR A

             NATIONAL PARKS CONSERVATION AND MANAGEMENT PROGRAM




                                              June 30, 2006




Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development 3
Country Department 15
Africa Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                            (Exchange Rate Effective )

                            Currency Unit = CFA franc (CFAF)
                               CFAF 1.00 = US$ 0.00167
                                      US$ = CFAF 600

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1  December 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ABE:           Agence Béninoise pour l'Environnement
               (Benin Environment Agency)

AFD:           Agence Française de Développement
               (French Development Agency)

ARDET-Atacora: Agence Régionale de Développement du Tourisme de l'Atacora
               (Regional Agency for Development of tourism in Atacora)

AVIGREF:       Association Villageoise de Gestion des Réserves de Faune
               (Wildlife Reserves Management Village Association)

CBDD:          Commission Béninoise pour le Développement Durable
               (Benin Commission for Sustainable Development)

CENAGREF:      Centre National de Gestion des Réserves de Faune
               (Wildlife Reserves Management Center)

CFO:           Chief Financial Officer

EIS:           Environmental Information System

FFEM:          French Global Environment Facility

GEF:           Global Environment Facility

GIS:           Geographical Information System

GPS:           Global Positioning System

GTZ:           German International Cooperation

ICR:           Implementation Completion Report

IUCN:         International Union for Conservation of Nature

KAI:          Kilometric Abundance Index

KFW:          Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau
              (German Development Agency)

NEAP:         National Environment Action Plan

NPCMP:        National Parks Conservation and Management Program

PAD:          Project Appraisal Document

PAPN :        Projet d'Aménagement des Parcs Nationaux
              (National Park Management Project)

PGRN:         Projet de Gestion des Ressources Naturelles
              Natural Resources Management Project

RDS           Rural Development Strategy


                          Vice President:  Gobind T. Nankani
                 Acting Country Director:  Nils O. Tcheyan
                        Sector Manager:    Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Remi Kini

                                            BENIN
                   National Parks Conservation and Management Program)


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            15
6. Sustainability                                                                18
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 19
8. Lessons Learned                                                               22
9. Partner Comments                                                              23
10. Additional Information                                                       25
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             28
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             29
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             31
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             32
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             34
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                35
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            36

Project ID: P037580                                                  Project Name: BJ-GEF Nat Parks Cnsv & Mgmt SIL
                                                                     (FY00)
Team Leader: Remi Kini                                               TL Unit: AFTS3
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 30, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: BJ-GEF Nat Parks Cnsv & Mgmt SIL (FY00)                  L/C/TF Number: TF-23658
   Country/Department: BENIN                                                              Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Sub-national government administration (44%); Central government administration (43%);
                            Other social services (13%)
                  Theme: Biodiversity (P); Environmental policies and institutions (P); Participation and civic
                            engagement (P); Rural non-farm income generation (S); Export development and
                            competitiveness (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 04/01/1995                                     Effective: 07/06/2000                07/06/2000
     Appraisal: 06/24/1998                                         MTR: 11/19/2003                  11/19/2003
      Approval: 03/30/2000                                      Closing: 12/31/2005                 12/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF BENIN/MINISTRY OF RURAL DEVELOPMENT
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:               Nils O. Tcheyan                                Theodore O. Ahlers
Sector Manager:                 Joseph Baah-Dwomoh                             Hans P. Binswanger
Team Leader at ICR:             Remi Kini                                      Michel Simeon
ICR Primary Author:             Pacome Kossy


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
Sustainable environmental and natural resource management gained significant momentum in the
1990s in Benin, as the country emerged from two decades of a centrally planned economic and
political system. The increased importance of environment and natural resource management
objectives in policy statement was reflected in the Rural Development Strategy (RDS) and
materialized in the 1993 National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP). In particular, biodiversity
conservation featured prominently in both documents. The relevance of the objectives of the
National Parks Conservation and Management Program (NPCMP) has to be assessed against this
policy background.

By the time the Government initiated the preparation of the NPCMP in the second half of the
1990s, the sustainable management of biodiversity resources was hampered by (i) limited technical
capacity, weak and poorly organized institutions for park and wildlife management, and limited
national awareness of the importance of biodiversity conservation; (ii) widespread antagonism
between local communities and the forest guards in and around the protected areas; (iii)
inadequate scientific information on natural habitats, animal populations, endangered and endemic
species; (iv) conflicting land use policies and practices in buffer zones - especially related to the
expansion of the area sown to cotton; (v) inadequate control and management of transhumant
pastoralism; (vi) poor control of poaching; and (vii) a lack of rationalization of rules and
legislation pertaining to park and wildlife management.

In order to help remove these obstacles to the sustainable conservation of biodiversity resources,
the NPCMP was designed to pursue the following objectives:

Overall objective: to ensure the sustainable management and conservation of regionally and
globally important biodiversity of fragile ecosystems in northern Benin.

Specific objective: to create the capacity for sustainable wildlife management and biodiversity
conservation at the local and national levels. The program targeted the development of sustainable
wildlife management and conservation systems within protected areas and wildlife management
zones. Through the development of an effective partnership with local communities based on the
empowerment and increase in human resource capacity of local populations, the program sought
to enhance local access to the benefits of protected areas and wildlife zones, and to encourage
ecologically sound and economically viable land use and production practices in the surrounding
areas.

Global environmental objective: to ensure the long-term conservation of Benin's globally
important biodiversity resources in the face of competing economic pressures. Specific areas of
concern included: (i) increasing the ecological security of regionally important species, including a
number of endemics, through improved management of protected areas and associated zones; (ii)
providing sustainable management of habitats and ecosystems which are of regional and global
importance, and which are increasingly threatened by a range of anthropic factors; (iii) promoting
in situ preservation, of genetic diversity, which includes species of ecological, cultural and
economic importance, in their natural habitat and within their natural range; (iv) supporting the



                                                - 2 -

involvement of local communities in the management of natural resources and the conservation of
biodiversity; (v) supporting a coordinated response to the management of the tri-national
transboundary ecosystem; and (vi) encouraging the sustainable management of fragile semi-arid
savanna ecosystems.

The operational objectives of the national program were: (i) to increase the technical and
managerial capacity of the local population, the Wildlife Reserves Management Center
(CENAGREF) and other partners in protected area and wildlife management; (ii) enable the local
populations to play a more active and profitable role in park and wildlife management; (iii)
support locally identified rural development activities in the areas surrounding the park and
wildlife management areas in order to improve the quality of life for the local population and
diminish pressure on the parks; (iv) encourage sustainable systems of natural resource
conservation, management and use; (v) improve the flow of information and the level of education
on biodiversity conservation at both local and national levels; (vi) establish sustainable ecological
monitoring systems, and support ecological research related to management; (vii) improve basic
infrastructure within the parks; (viii) identify and prepare the steps for the establishment of an
International Trust Fund to help finance future wildlife management biodiversity conservation
operations; (ix) provide support for effective donor coordination; and (x) to ensure effective
program management, monitoring and evaluation.

The operational objectives for which GEF support was requested were: (i) to provide institutional
support and capacity building to national institutions responsible for biodiversity conservation; (ii)
support training of staff working for partner agencies and to support improved communications;
(iii) support studies and field trips necessary to improve scientific understanding of the ecosystems
and identify and describe habitats, ecosystems and species of global importance; (iv) design a
financial mechanism capable of providing sustainable financial support for the conservation of
biodiversity; (v) support transboundary cooperation for the conservation of biodiversity in the
region; and (vi) to support the review and update of legislation relating to National Park and
Reserve Management, village and commercial hunting, and the development of local institutions
for the management of natural resources.

In addition to the Government's own resources, the program's financial and technical assistance of
this program was assured by a group of donors including (i) the European Union, (ii) Germany
through GTZ and KfW, (iii) the Netherlands and (iv) France. The program was implemented by
the Centre National de Gestion des Réserves de Faune (CENAGREF) with strong support from
the Association Villageoise de Gestion des Réserves de Faune (AVIGREFs) at the local level.


____________________________________________
AVIGREF are organizations of adjacent villages and direct partners of CENAGREF in the management of
national parks. Their missions are to (i) educate populations from adjacent villages on the necessity to preserve the
fauna and its habitat, (ii) inform populations on regulations, (iii) help CENAGREF carry out control and
surveillance (anti-poaching) activities, (iv) ensure the adherence to regulations related to hunting, (v) promote the
sustainable management of fauna, which is profitable to local populations, (vi) take part in the management of the
zone of controlled activities and buffer zones, and (vii) take part in the economic development of adjacent villages.




                                                          - 3 -

3.2 Revised Objective:
The original objectives were recognized as pertinent throughout implementation and therefore did
not need to be revised.

3.3 Original Components:
In order to achieve its objectives, the program was implemented through the following
components (from the PAD):

Component 1: Common actions at the national level (Cost: US$2,850,000 all costs per
component are GEF financing only)

This component consisted of two sub-components: (i) program management, and (ii) support
actions:
l The program management subcomponent aimed at establishing the CENAGREF as an
    effective and efficient organization capable of supervising the implementation of the program,
    and operating an effective monitoring and evaluation system.
l The support actions sub-component included the following activities: (i) providing consultant
    services and studies for the design and implementation of a trust-fund that would ensure the
    program sustainability; (ii) strengthening capacity through the training of CENAGREF staff in
    other African countries and overseas, (iii) ensuring regional cooperation through coordination,
    organization of regional workshops and consultant services to provide decision-makers with
    relevant information and recommendations; (iv) enhancing Information, Education and
    Communication (IEC) activities through the organization of workshops to increase awareness
    on biodiversity issues, use of rural radios for disseminating information, develop cultural
    activities in border villages and use of didactic materials for community level education
    efforts; (v) providing institutional support for revising legal documents relevant to protected
    areas management, ensuring decentralized action of CENAGREF and developing a
    participatory approach as at the local level; (vi) setting-up a management information system
    for parks with particular attention paid to the geographical information aspects (GIS
    capabilities); (vii) establishing ecological monitoring for the implementation of an adapted
    environment information system (EIS), organizing surveys and studies for collecting
    ecological information and training national staff.

Component 2: Pendjari complex (Cost: US$1,070,000)

This component included three sub-components: (i) Park and cynegetic areas management; (ii)
sustainable tourism and hunting, and (iii) actions with villagers, particularly the sustainable
development of the Siri area and actions on the Tanguieta ­ Porga and Tanguieta ­ Batia axes:
l The sub-component on park and cynegetic areas management focused on providing the field
    office of CENAGREF in Tanguieta with equipment and staff. Each of the 2 anti-poaching
    teams in the field office consisted of one chief, 6 officers from CENAGREF and 9 villagers.
    Each team had appropriate transportation means (motorbikes and bicycles) and equipment
    (GPS and radios). At the management level, the staff consisted of one director, 3 associates, 2
    international experts and 2 national experts, and the appropriate support staff. The
    sub-component was also to provide the Tanguieta field office with office space, and to finance


                                                 - 4 -

    the construction, rehabilitation and maintenance of paths leading to, and in the park.
l The sustainable tourism and hunting sub-component was divided into: (i) hotel infrastructure
    with the construction and restoration of rooms; (ii) tourist infrastructure with the construction
    of watchtowers for wildlife observation and paths for tourism purposes, the installation of
    signs for tourist orientation; and (iii) the development of a strategy for the promotion of
    wildlife/nature-based tourism.
l The sub-component focusing on actions with villagers was to be implemented in two different
    areas: (i) in the Siri area, the sub-component would have financed staff to work with villagers
    by supporting the unit in its operating costs (needed equipment for didactic purposes) and
    would also have supported the organization of workshops at a later stage; and (ii) in the
    Pendjari area, the sub-component was to finance socio-economic studies and training seminars
    for villagers, support institutional organization in associations, and support community
    development through the financing of micro-projects.

Component 3: "W" complex (Cost: US$2,810,000)

This component consisted of three sub-components: (i) Park and cynegetic areas management, (ii)
Tourism and hunting, and (iii) Actions with villagers:

l The sub-component on park and cynegetic areas management was envisioned to provide the
    decentralized office of CENAGREF in Banikoara with equipment and staff. The staff was
    organized in 4 anti-poaching teams each with one chief, 6 officers from CENAGREF and 9
    villagers. Each team had to be equipped with the appropriate transportation means
    (motorcycles and bicycles) and equipment (GPS and radios). At the management level the
    staff consisted of a director, 3 associates, 2 international experts and the appropriate support
    staff. The sub-component was also to provide the office of Banikoara with office space and
    eventually finance the construction, repair and maintenance of paths.
l The Tourism and hunting sub-component was divided into: (i) hotel infrastructure with the
    construction and restoration of rooms. (ii) tourist infrastructure with the construction of
    watchtowers for wildlife observation and paths for tourism purposes, the installation of signs
    for tourist orientation; (iii) the formulation of a strategy to organize and conduct a commercial
    campaign for tourism promotion.
l The sub-component actions with villagers consisted of financing socio-economic studies,
    training seminars for villagers, production and dissemination of didactic materials, and the
    development of a social fund for demand-driven micro-projects.

3.4 Revised Components:
Although there was no formal revision of components, before the start of the program, the French
Development Agency (AFD) which was financing Component 3, eliminated the sub-component
on tourism and hunting for lack of funding. Activities planned for this sub-component were not
implemented and the program indicators were updated accordingly.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The program was not submitted to a quality at entry review. The program was approved on
March 30, 1997. At that time, quality at entry reviews were not systematic for all projects.
However, a brief assessment of the program design conducted during the ICR mission showed


                                                   - 5 -

that the program's overall development objective was reasonably clear and appropriate. The
program's global objectives were also appropriate and in line with GEF's priorities under the
operational program on biodiversity, which included (i) the in situ conservation and sustainable
use of critical ecosystems and threatened endemic species, (ii) support for active involvement of
local communities as managers and beneficiaries of improved natural resource and biodiversity
management, (iii) the promotion of conservation and sustainable use through capacity building,
economic incentives and alterative livelihood opportunities, and (iv) the sustainable management
of fragile semi-arid savanna ecosystems.

The objectives were also consistent with the development strategies of the Government of Benin
and with the Bank assistance strategy to the country.

Nonetheless, the ICR mission also found out that aspects regarding institutional, organizational
and implementation set up were not clearly and/or thoroughly described in the PAD. First,
although the PAD mentioned the design of a financial mechanism capable of providing sustainable
financial support to conservation of biodiversity in Benin, nothing was said with regard to the
types and the sources of funds to support this financial mechanism, thus living a void that resulted
in interminable discussions among donors during project implementation. Second, a marginal
attention was paid to the monitoring of the project. A comprehensive and rigorous monitoring and
evaluation system was not set up during project preparation. In addition, the indicators identified
at that stage were not appropriate, and were consequently changed during the Mid Term Review.
Third, given the multi-donor characteristic of the program, a common financial framework should
have been adopted in order to not only facilitate the preparation of financial reports and
statements but also to give enough visibility and transparency to the overall financial mechanism.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The NPCMP was a multi-donor program, involving the GEF, the European Union, Germany, the
Netherlands, France and the Government of Benin. The arrangements agreed to by the donors
during the preparation phase and at the beginning of the program were such that the Government
of Benin and the GEF would finance institutional strengthening activities and operational costs
incurred by the CENAGREF, the NPCMP implementing agency, while the other donors would
finance field activities. Germany, through GTZ and KFW, financed activities implemented in the
Pendjari National Park. The French Development Agency used GTZ as its implementing agency
to carry out planned activities for the Pendjari National Park. The European Union intervened in
the W National Park and Netherlands financed rural development activities around both parks.
Thus, from the beginning, donors' interventions were interrelated. Consequently, the outcomes
and outputs detailed below are those of the NPCMP as a whole, which include the GEF
operation. The mid-term review of the NPCMP was delayed by a year (late 2003 instead of
2002) because the Program did not fully start in 2002 as scheduled. While the GEF grant became
effective in the second half of 2000 (August 2000), the W component did not start until early
2001, and the Dutch financing was not put to use until early 2002.

The achievement of the NPCMP measured against the performance indicators included in the
PAD was Satisfactory. Although the sustainable management of national parks is a long term



                                                - 6 -

process that cannot be achieved in 5 years, the NPCMP implemented activities that allowed a very
rapid recovery of the wildlife population. The Program established a strong institutional and
operational framework for the conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity in and around the
two national parks, with the following key features:

Co-management as a viable alternative: Numerous co-management experiences have been
undertaken in Gabon, Cameroon, and even in Benin (National Park Management Project) with
mitigated results. The co-management arrangement implemented by the NPCMP generated
tangible results because it understood and took into account population dynamic and
expectations. In addition, a genuine partnership was established between the populations and the
CENAGREF. In fact, the CENAGREF, which was perceived by the populations as a reliable
interlocutor, supported local populations' effort to establish village associations (AVIGREFs) for
the management of wildlife reserves. As a result, 100 AVIGREFs were created and played a
catalytic role in (i) the disappearance of the previous antagonistic relations between the
populations and the CENAGREF, (ii) the management and control of protected areas, (iii) the
co-management of tourism and hunting zones, (iv) the decrease in poaching, (v) a reliable supply
workforce for park management activities such as control and surveillance, and (vi) the building
of social infrastructures using 30 percent of total revenues generated by hunting activities and
retroceded by CENAGREF.

In the same context, actions with villagers were identified as local development activities around
national parks to improve livelihood conditions while offering alternative sources of revenues and
strengthening the co-management approach. These activities started in 2000 in the Pendjari
National Park and in 2002 in the W National Park, and $400,000 were injected in the local
economy via micro-credits, grants and equipment. Approximately one household out of ten
benefited from these actions.

Overall, even though the organization of AVIGREFs is in progress, these associations are
self-sufficient in terms of mobilization of funding and management. In 2003 AVIGREFs counted
500 members, in 2005 that number grew up to 2,390 members including 389 women.

CENAGREF as the lead wildlife reserve management organization: The CENAGREF was created
in 1996, and has since played a crucial role in the sustainable management of national parks in
Benin, using a co-management approach involving AVIGREFs. As a result, Benin now has a
strong institution in the conservation field, which is regarded in the sub-region as exemplary. As
part of CENAGREF operational strategy, AVIGREFs have inspired several countries e.g.
Burkina Faso, Senegal, Mali, and Ivory-Coast, interested to replicate this approach. Still, the long
term durability of the co-management mechanism will depend on CENAGREF capacity to stay
operational and efficient in the field as well as financially self-sufficient. In order to confer it an
institutional durability, it was decided in 1998 that the CENAGREF would operate under an
"Office d'Etat Autonome" status. This decision not only highlighted the political willingness of
Benin authorities to establish a flexible and autonomous agency specialized in the management of
protected areas, but also set biodiversity conservation as one of the development priorities.
However, the financial sustainability of the CENAGREF has not been reached yet, although this
process is underway.



                                                 - 7 -

From 2000 to 2005, major NPCMP achievements can be summarized as follows:

l increase in fauna and flora populations within protected areas; data generated by the
    ecological monitoring system show an increase of more than 20 percent in a 5 year-period; in
    fact some mammal populations such as elephants more than doubled and the latest census
    numbers show that the size of the population of roan antelopes, cob de buffoon and warthogs
    increased over 40% between 2000 and 2005;
l building of infrastructures included in management plans; more than 1,300 km of paths (target
    in the PAD was 700 km), 9 watchtowers, 15 surveillance posts and 10 ponds were built for
    water supply to wildlife;
l establishment of CENAGREF as the major player in the country in terms of park management
    and as an example to be replicated in the sub-region;
l support of CENAGREF in developing business plans not only for the central office but also
    for field offices; these business plans include strategies to reduce costs and increase revenues,
    marketing strategies and plans to develop and improve touristic products;
l effective involvement of local populations in the management of national parks through
    co-management activities and partnerships by empowering AVIGREFs and giving them the
    possibility to play a central role in park management activities; 100 AVIGREFs are active in
    the field;
l increase of revenues from national parks, thus increasing populations' incomes; tourism and
    cynegetic activities generated about US$889,000 from both parks and 30 percent of this
    amount, representing US$226,000 was retroceded to populations living around the parks;
l increase in national awareness on conservation issues and benefits through communication
    campaigns, talk shows and documentaries; and
l provision of rural populations with alternative employment opportunities by hiring them as
    supplemental workforce to conduct park management activities; 60 park rangers headed
    households of 5 to 8 people were hired for both parks, and about 1000 people were hired for
    punctual tasks.

4.2 Outputs by components:
The current costs of components are different from those assigned at project appraisal because of
the reallocation of the GEF grant resources in 2004 to better reflect needs expressed by
stakeholders. Total financing of GEF did not change.

Component 1: Common actions at the national level (Cost: US$3,670,000)

This component was intended to support activities common to both parks (W and Pendjari) and
to carry out other activities necessary for the effective implementation of the project (procurement
of goods and services, financial management, personnel management, etc.). This component is
rated Unsatisfactory mainly because it was unable (i) to set up a sustainable financial mechanism
for biodiversity and conservation in Benin, (ii) to construct a building planned to house
CENAGREF headquarters, and (iii) to set up a comprehensive and integrated monitoring and
evaluation system covering all activities of the project, although it did produce well monitored
annual work plans.
Nonetheless, through the proceeds of the GEF grant, the component not only strengthened


                                                  - 8 -

CENAGREF's technical capacities, but also created an enabling environment for biodiversity
conservation and park management in Benin. In particular:

l with the support of the program, the CENAGREF has become the lead institution for
   protected areas management and biodiversity conservation in Benin (it joined IUCN
   membership in 2003), and is considered as a model that many countries in the sub-region are
   trying to replicate in their protected area management framework;
l under this component, the CENAGREF acquired a GIS-based ecological monitoring system
   enabling to not only store and process data generated by the systems used in parks, but also to
   track changes in fauna and flora populations, and consequently to help decision makers in the
   formulation, implementation and monitoring of biodiversity conservation policies and
   interventions. At the same time, equipment were acquired to support CENAGREF's
   interventions in the field, including 6 vehicles, 13 desktops, 4 laptops, 13 printers, 3 servers
   and 5 copy machines used at the national and regional levels;
l the scientific and general knowledge of park resources as well as the knowledge of ecosystem
   interactions and dynamics were reinforced through a series of 17 studies in fields such as
   biodiversity, wildlife conservation, sociology, finance, and law; the findings of these studies
   helped to strengthen the ecological monitoring systems;
l at least 50% of the 2,390 members of the AVIGREF are well trained and have the skills
   needed to carry out most park management activities (e.g., surveillance and control of
   poaching), and infrastructure maintenance and basic conservation activities (protection and
   sustainable use of resources);
l from 2002 to 2005, five thousand (5,000) high school students spent 2-3 nights in the parks
   (education center located in the W national park) as part of the environmental education
   program; each year 4-5 theses dealing with various aspects of protected area management are
   produced by graduate students from Benin, Burkina Faso, Niger and some European
   academic institutions; each year about 15 interns work on the Program (in field offices and in
   CENAGREF offices in Cotonou);
l another series of studies as well as workshops were financed to support the elaboration of the
   law on the "Regime de la Faune", which was promulgated in 2004 and constitutes the
   reference framework for fauna management in Benin. In addition, to diversify means for
   increasing awareness of Benin globally important biodiversity resources, a website
   www.cenagref.firstnet.bj was developed under this component;
l for 5 years, under this component, CENAGREF paid park rangers' salaries as well as the rent
   of the building temporarily housing its headquarters, and;
l several dozens CENAGREF staff were trained in Benin and abroad (other African countries,
   Europe and Canada) on topics such as project management, procurement, monitoring and
   evaluation, financial management, and GPS and GIS software operation to strengthen their
   capacities in their respective fields of specialization and improve CENAGREF's performance.
   The Ecological Monitoring Officer assigned to the Pendjari National Park, who was trained
   under the program, has become a national reference in environmental and ecological
   monitoring systems.

Under this component, the Netherlands financed community development activities in the areas
adjoining the two national parks. These community development operations were implemented by



                                                 - 9 -

IUCN through a sub-project ("Projet Eco-développement et Gestion de l'Espace des Zones
d'Influences des Parcs Nationaux" - PEGEI) that supported community development initiatives in
the villages located around the national parks in order to help populations develop alternative
sources of livelihood. Through its 3 antennas, the PEGEI was active in 80 villages. In the villages
of Séri, Sampéto, Gori, Pédé and Kérémou the project built 3 classrooms, with an office and a
storage room. A total of 90 women and 90 beekeepers were trained and received equipment, for
farming and bee keeping activities. Women from Sinasinrou and Dokosuan who where trained
and equipped are now making a net revenue of US$20 per day of market (there are 4 days of
market weekly) compared to US$6 before the program. The sub-project also financed study tours
and exchanges in Burkina Faso, Senegal, Mauritania and South Africa.

Component 2: Pendjari complex (Cost: US$1,460,000)

This component is rated Satisfactory. However, it is worth mentioning that the sub component
on tourism was not implemented because AFD changed the focus of its financing at the beginning
of program implementation. Under this component, the program established a strong and
equitable partnership between CENAGREF and the populations living around the two protected
areas. The rights of populations to use resources in designated areas were recognized and
materialized through contract arrangements giving access to a controlled use zone. Between 2002
and 2005, 136 contracts were signed, including 29 with women and 9 with mixed groups. The
contracts focused on farming, fishing, hunting and bee keeping activities conducted by
populations for commercial and subsistence purposes. The new climate of trust resulted in a better
conservation of biodiversity and an increase of populations' incomes.

Even though it is not easy to assess results of biodiversity conservation in only 5 years, one can
notice that the relative decrease of poaching between 2001 and 2005 led to an increase of certain
mammal populations. In 2005, 9000 Cobs de Buffon were numbered against 2000 in 2000. In
2003, 800 elephants (representing a fourth of the elephant population presents in the whole
ecosystem, which includes almost 4 national parks) were numbered against 400 in 2000. The
number of farms within the park decreased during program implementation. In 2004, 15 farms
were counted within the boundaries of the park against only 2 farms in 2005, for a total of 23
villages and 15,000 inhabitants. The indicators above are monitored with a sustainable ecological
monitoring system that produce quarterly dashboards and whose parameters and baseline data
were established in 2003. In addition, a sustainable management plan for Pendjari was elaborated
in 2004 and adopted through a decree signed on August 31, 2005.

During the process of establishing sustainable biodiversity management techniques, populations
from adjacent villages were fully involved via AVIGREFs on one hand and park rangers on the
other hand. Twenty three AVIGREFs were established in the Pendjari area and regularly received
30 percent of total earnings from hunting activities. From 2001 to 2005, they received 94,965,500
CFAF (US$178,000). In addition, the commercialization of game meat obtained from
international hunters, who are only interested in trophies, represented a total of 5,197,000 CFAF
(US$10,000) from 2001 to 2005. AVIGREFs used their financial resources as follows: (i) 27
percent is used to support the functioning of their organizations, including the preparation of
meetings, and the control of hunting, and (ii) 73 percent is distributed among villages. The



                                               - 10 -

resources intended for villages were divided into resources allocated to communes (20 percent) to
finance local development, participation of members in conservation law and control activities (25
percent), and social activities such as the restoration of pumps and the payment of school
teachers' salaries. In addition, 37 training sessions and workshops were organized to improve the
managerial capacities of villagers. About 1,005 people, including 741 women, were trained.
Twenty one park rangers were recruited within neighboring villages.
One hundred and nine micro-projects were financed, representing 89 million CFAF (US$178,000)
in credit and 58 million CFAF (US$116,000) in grants. In the absence of a specific study, the
impact of those micro-projects on populations cannot be determined with certainty.

To conduct anti-poaching enforcement activities in the park an original system was set up with the
following objectives: (i) improve the mobility of teams, (ii) reinforce the presence within the park,
and (iii) set-up a system to strategically position teams in the park. A total of 9 teams consisting
of 3 agents and 2 villagers (members of AVIGREFs) are used in Pendjari. The involvement of
villagers in anti-poaching teams reinforced mutual trust, ownership, provided independent
observers at no additional cost, fostered professionalism and the respect of rules, and limited and
prevented corruption cases. In 2005, 14 percent of AVIGREF's budget was dedicated to
anti-poaching activities, which involved more that 200 villagers. The performance of
anti-poaching teams was stimulated through the establishment of an adaptive incentive-based
system linking the payment of salaries to the achievement of specific targets.

In terms of awareness campaigns and communication, 4 talk shows were aired weekly on local
radios. In addition to brochures and posters, a specific web site was developed, www.pendjari.net.
Two documentaries were realized and aired on national and international TV stations such as
French TV5.

In the Pendjari National Park Hunting area concessions were attributed after an international
competitive bidding process. In addition, villagers managed particular hunting areas included in
controlled use zones. They provided international hunters with helpers who were paid about
US$5 (2,000 CFAF) per day. Earnings from these special hunting zones, through hunting permits
and fees, enabled villagers to maintain hunting paths. Moreover, they constantly received game
meat to fill unmet needs for animal protein. These hunting areas had the benefit to reinforce trust,
financial independence and food security.

It should be mentioned however, that the performance of the infrastructure component was
delayed to a significant degree due to the failure of the selected contractor to complete the works.
In addition to the delay in construction work (buildings and tracks in the park), the contractor
also did not comply the recommended environmental safeguards contained in the guide that was
prepared and adopted at the MTR. The Bank was not directly involved in the procurement and
the supervision of the works. This sub-component was financed and supervised by KfW. The
contract was eventually cancelled. The works will be completed before the end of the year 2007
(participating donors have different closing dates for their grants).




                                                 - 11 -

Component 3: "W" complex (Cost: US$1,600,000)

This component is rated Satisfactory. Because of issues related to the recruitment of personnel,
activities in W National Park started in January 2002. Numerous achievements both in terms of
biodiversity conservation and in terms of local development are visible.

A GIS-based ecological monitoring system was developed in 2002 and enables to track
parameters related to fauna and flora conservation. A baseline study was also conducted in 2002.
In 2005, after 3 years of conservation and control activities, the ecological monitoring system
revealed some improvement in the kilometric abundance index (KAI: number of contacts points -
physical observations - over a distance of one kilometer divided by the sampling rate, with a
confidence interval of 95%.) for some mammals like Buffalos (0.006 in 2002 and 0.012 in 2005),
Roan gazelles (0.034 in 2002 and 0.071 in 2005), Cob de Buffon (0.010 in 2002 and 0.015 in
2005), Warthogs (0.020 in 2002 and 0.044 in 2005). Although exhaustive numberings have yet to
be conducted, the KAI shows a reconstitution of some mammal populations.

The improved management of the park also resulted in a noticeable decrease in the pressure on
natural resources. In 2005, (i) the number of illegal farms was numbered at 2 against 54 in 2001,
(ii) the number of cows grazing on the park's resources was 3000 (with 24 pastures) against 25
000 (with 115 pastures) in 2001, and (iii) the number of poaching cases recorded was 18 against
56 in 2001.

These results were achieved with the participation of local populations from the 78 villages
around the park, representing more that 200, 000 inhabitants. In fact, local populations, through
their 78 AVIGREFs, were thoroughly involved in management activities. To facilitate the process,
12,000 people were trained in various fields such as participatory management, management of
associations, basic accounting, and modern harvest techniques. From 2002 to 2005, AVIGREFs
received 30 percent of total earnings from hunting activities, which represents 46,823,935 CFAF
(US$88,000). The commercialization of game meat obtained from hunters earned them an
additional 1,449,000 CFAF (US$2,800) from 2003 to 2005.

AVIGREFs used the money received from 2002 to 2005 to co-finance the building of 15 wells, 14
classrooms, 2 hospital rooms, build a storage room, make 100 school desks, contribute to the
payment of school teachers' salaries and finance the participation of villagers (AVIGREF
members) in anti-poaching patrols.

Moreover, populations living around the park received 500.000 Euro of grants from the European
Union and implemented 75 micro-projects; the impact of which on the local development, has not
been determined yet. From 2002 to 2005, 33 contracts were signed to gain access to the
controlled use zone.

For anti-poaching missions, 40 park rangers (heading families of about 8 people) were recruited
among the local population. Control teams were composed of 3 park rangers regularly employed
by CENAGREF and 3 AVIGREF members. As in the Pendjari National Park, this combination



                                                - 12 -

enabled to foster trust, accountability and ownership.

As far as communication and awareness are concerned, since 2003, 2574 talk shows have been
aired on local radios, using 12 different local languages. Additionally, from 2002 to 2005, 5000
school boys and girls had as a reward for academic excellence, the opportunity to visit the park
for 3 days.

The W National Park has a sustainable management plan produced in December 2005. The
exploitation of hunting areas was attributed after an international competitive bidding process. In
this park, like in Pendjari National Park, populations managed their own hunting areas included in
the controlled use zone.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The nature of the investments and the conservation of biodiversity are not amenable to the
traditional approach of cost-benefit analysis. The surrogate economic analysis used at the
appraisal of the project was based on any incremental benefits that would accrue to the local
communities as a result of the improved management and conservation of the two protected
areas, and their buffer zones. The analysis identified:
l direct proceeds from eco-tourism, hunting permits and sale of game meat, and employment
    generated by a better management of parks, and
l indirect incomes generated by local economic activities.

During the 1997-1998 season, ecotourism revenues amounted to about US$29,500 for a number
of tourists of 2,500 to 5,000. At appraisal it was estimated that the investments in tourism
infrastructure and promotion would double the number of visitors in the Pendjari National Park
(given the high level of resource degradation in the W National Park, it was not envisaged that
this park would attract many tourists during the program's implementation period). Based on the
expected increase in the number of tourists, yearly tourism revenues were to be in the range of
US$60,000-120,000. The expected improvement in wildlife management was to increase
hunting-related revenues of about US$50,000 every year.                   Therefore, approximately
US$110,000-170,000 were to be generated through tourism and cynegetic activities. Of this
amount, local populations were to receive between US$50,000 and 90,000 (i.e., about 45-53% of
total revenue) annually.

From 2001 to 2005, tourism and cynegetic activities generated about US$594,000 in Pendjari and
US$295,000 in W, thus a total of US$889,000 between the two parks, representing an average of
US$177,800 per year, over a five-year period. Although the targeted share of this revenue
accruing to the local populations was to be between 45-53%, the performance indicator included
in the project appraisal document retained 30%. More precisely, it was expected that the share of
revenues distributed to local populations would reach at least 30% in the fifth year of the
program. The negotiations that occurred between CENAGREF and the representatives of the
local populations at the beginning of the implementation resulted in the adoption of 30% as the
share of the tourism and safari hunting revenue accruing to the AVIGREFs. It was emphasized
however, that this percentage may rise as the scope of the revenue generating activities increased.
Based on this arrangement, the AVIGREF of the villages in the Pendjari complex area received
US$178,000 in 5 years, while those living around the W complex received US$88,000. Overall,


                                                 - 13 -

local communities received US$226,000 in 5 years, i.e., an average annual revenue of US$45,200.
It should be mentioned that while the revenue generated by tourism and hunting activities are
slightly above the range set at the appraisal of the program; the amount received by local
populations, on the other hand is slightly below the range predicted. This is due to the fact that
the relative size (i.e., the percentage) of the revenue accruing to local populations was lower than
the one which the appraisal estimates were based on (30% instead of 45-53%). It should also be
emphasized that the expected increase in the number of visitors did not materialize. The number
of tourists visiting the Pendjari national Park was about 4,000-6,000 every year.

It was also determined at appraisal that the sale of meat game would bring an additional
US$8,000 annually. However, the analysis did not take into account consumption needs. In fact,
an important part of game meat was consummated by populations and the remaining part was sold
and generated approximately US$2000 per year in Pendjari and US$933 per year in W. It is
estimated that these amounts represent about one fifth of the total value of the game meat.
Consequently, it is estimated that the total value of game meat was about US$15,000 (on average
US$3,000 yearly). Finally, total income from new employment was estimated to reach US$18,000
annually. Over a five year-period in Pendjari park rangers' salaries reached approximately
US$73,000 annually, while in W complex, over a four-year period, park rangers' salaries were
approximately US$118,000 per year.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
The Project Appraisal Document did not include an estimate of the financial rate of return.
Financial sustainability of the Program was to be achieved through the establishment of a
conservation trust fund during the first two years of program implementation.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The program had a strong institutional development impact. The CENAGREF (created in 1996)
was a lethargic institution before the program. Under the NPCMP, CENAGREF evolved into an
effective organization that developed effective protected area management tools based on
co-management mechanisms that empower local populations for the conservation and sustainable
of biodiversity resources. CENAGREF is now a key policy advice provider to the Government in
the area of protected area management and biodiversity conservation. Today, CENAGREF is
considered across the sub-region as model to be replicated in community-based biodiversity
conservation in the neighboring countries. The establishment of AVIGREFs as strong and credible
stakeholders for the effective protected area management and for the implementation of local
development initiatives is a very important achievement. The network of 100 AVIGREFs and
their 2390 members constitute dependable community-based organizations that not only show
strong natural resource stewardship, but also play an important role in village and local
development planning. The program also supported CENAGREF and the Government in the
drafting and adoption of the law on wildlife management (loi sur le Régime de la Faune), and its
implementation decrees. This law aims to regulate the protection and exploitation of wildlife in a
manner that makes wildlife management compatible with the educational, scientific, and
socioeconomic needs of society, in particular with the needs of populations living near wildlife
sanctuaries. It is important to stress the fact that this strong institutional impact is undermined by
the weak financial sustainability of CENAGREF. The planned mechanism for ensuring the
financial sustainability of CENAGREF was not established in time. Arrangements for supporting



                                                  - 14 -

the operating costs in order to ensure the most critical functions of CENAGREF in the short term
(12 -16 months) are underway. These arrangements may involve both donor (the interventions of
two of the participating donors in the program are still on-going) and Government resources. It is
expected that the conservation trust fund will be established and resources secured in order to
take over the financing of part of the recurrent costs of CENAGREF after this interim period.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Two main factors, both related to the financing of the program affected adversely the
implementation of the program. The first one is the suspension of the financing from the Dutch
cooperation. The amount of financing included in the appraisal document was US$2.1 million.
This amount was to finance the "Actions with Villagers" which include all the community
development initiatives through the support to micro-projects and multi-purpose training
(business management, natural resource management, etc.). The resources were channeled
through the Benin Commission for Sustainable Development (CBDD). CBDD then recruited
IUCN to implement the planned activities around the two national parks. IUCN then prepared a
small project (with its own logical frame) that tried to link the two protected area management
with the socioeconomic development of the local communities by financing small production
equipment and livelihood activities. For reasons that are related to the poor performance of
CBDD and to a shift in the areas of emphasis in their development assistance, the Dutch
cooperation suspended the financing from March 2003 to September 2004. Consequently, the
project that was supposed to last 5 years was implemented in 28 months, considerably reducing
the scope of the planned activities, and the disbursement rate of the allocated resources. During
the suspension period, the Government of Benin provided a small amount of funds to support
some of the critical activities that started before the suspension. The late start (July 2002) of the
activities financed through this grant and the suspension resulted in a disbursement rate of about
50 percent. Since the "Actions with the villagers" was an important element of the program, the
50 percent reduction in the financing may have had significant consequences in terms of lost
socioeconomic development opportunities and welfare gains, and in terms of improved
relationship between the targeted communities and CENAGREF.

The second element outside the control of the Government is the significant reduction of the
funding for development of eco-tourism. As already mentioned, the design of the multi-donor
program included an ecotourism sub-component that was to be financed by the French
Development Agency (AFD). Before the start of implementation, the AFD cancelled a significant
amount of the funding allocated to this sub-component. As a result of this reduction in funding
some of the key investments that aimed to upgrade the tourism infrastructure in order to increase
its quality and the attractiveness of the two parks to visitors were not undertaken. This decrease
in financing was a source of shortcomings in the achievements of the program because tourism
revenue was expected to make a significant contribution to the financial viability of the protected
area co-management system.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The effectiveness of implementation and the development outcome of the Program could have
been improved by a better management of at least three factors that were under the control of the



                                                     - 15 -

Government. The first factor was persistent political interference in the management of the
Program. For example, there seemed to be some evidence that the heated discussions that delayed
and ultimately prevented the construction of the CENAGREF office building (in Cotonou) were
the result of regional politics.       Also, when it became obvious that the contractor for the
construction of the roads and other physical infrastructure in the Pendjari National Park was no
longer capable of completing the works, political considerations seemed to have delayed the
cancellation of the contract, resulting in an increase of the sunk costs to the program.

The second factor was the failure of the Government to allocate sufficient resources to finance the
operating costs of CENAGREF. Despite the strong recommendation of the mid-term review
mission to increase Government budgetary contributions to the Program in order to sustain the
program achievements following the closing of the GEF grant, no action was taken to secure
these resources. The failure of the Government to provide these resources jeopardized the
financial and institutional sustainability of CENAGREF, as the lead institution in protected area
management and biodiversity conservation.

The third factor was the ineffective management of lodging infrastructure in the Pendjari National
Park. The unreliable supply of water and power, and the lack of adequate sanitation in hotels and
lodges remain a key obstacle to the increase in the number of tourists in the Pendjari National
Park. The Government which still plays a key role in the management of these lodging facilities
failed to hold the managers accountable for the quality of the service provided to visitors. Most
importantly, the revenue generated by the facilities located within the park does not contribute to
the financing of the park management because this revenue is collected by the Ministry of Tourism
that does make any attempt to improve the living conditions in the lodging facilities. The MTR
recommended that the Government take the necessary steps to remedy this lack of alignment and
consistency in its ecotourism promotion policies. The cabinet reshuffles and the changes at the
head of CENAGREF that followed occurred in 2004-2005 did not allow any progress in this area
of policy realignment.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The implementing agency could have done a better job in (i) cost control and procurement of
goods and services, and (ii) program coordination and management. The poor performance of the
implementing agency on these aspects did not have any significant effect on the outcome of the
Program. However, a better handling of these aspects could have improved the management
effectiveness of CENAGREF, thereby increasing further its operational and institutional capacity.

In retrospect, the implementing agency could have achieved higher economy and efficiency by
adopting more efficient personnel management measures, and assuring a higher standard of
procurement services. One year after the start of the Program it became obvious that
CENAGREF could function well with less personnel than what it had at that time.               The
overstaffing situation had an impact on GEF funds, which financed operational costs (including
salary cost), and partly forced a reallocation of funds. There was a strong push by donors to have
CENAGREF reduce the size of its staff. Eventually, the donors commissioned an organizational
audit that recommended three alternative organizational charts corresponding to three different
personnel size for CENAGREF. By the end of the Program, the personnel salary cost was
reduced by 20% thanks to job changes by some staff and the non-renewal of expired employment


                                                    - 16 -

contracts for others.

Economy of financial resources could have also resulted from better procurement of small goods
through increased competition among suppliers of such goods. The quality of procurement was
average too low, although there was some improvement starting in 2003 following the training of
the procurement specialist. Despite this improvement, the procurement audits of 2004 and 2005
noted some weaknesses in the procurement of small items (mostly office supply), and
recommended the recruitment of a new procurement specialist. The scarcity of skills in
procurement in the local job market, and the learning time required for a new specialist to operate
efficiently led the CENAGREF management to favor the continuous training of the existing staff.

Communication between the CENAGREF management located in Cotonou (capital city) and the
field offices was deficient in many respects.         The weakness of the Program approach (i.e.,
separation of financing, relative autonomy of operations on each site, etc.) played a role in this
deficiency of communication. But it should be mentioned that the lack of strong leadership as
well as untimely political interference in the management of CENAGREF also hampered the
establishment of effective communication channels between the field offices and CENAGREF
management in Cotonou.            Most importantly, the weakness of the managerial skills and
decisiveness in coordinating and handling strategic operational issues, such as donor consultation,
especially during the first year of the Program created some uneasiness and poor work
atmosphere in the Program. In order to remedy this situation, an institutional and organizational
audit was commissioned by donors in 2001. The implementation of the recommendations of this
audit led to the replacement of the three top managers of CENAGREF during the same year.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Total program costs (i.e., GEF contribution of US$6 million) were within the amount forecasted
at Appraisal. Adjustments had to be made in the cost composition because of the reallocation
among categories. The program was not extended from its original five-year period. The GEF
funding was almost fully disbursed (95%).

Table 1: Financial Planning: GEF Grant and Co-financing


     Co financing       GEF Grant       Bank: IBRD/IDA      Government           Other*            Total
     (Type/Source)       (mill US$)        (mill US$)        (mill US$)        (mill US$)       (mill US$)
                   Planned      Actual  Planned    Actual Planned    Actual Planned   Actual Planned
                                                                                             Actual
Grants                 6.756       6.456    NA        NA    4.097     1.132    13.391  18.292   24.244  25.88
Loans                     NA         NA     NA        NA      NA        NA        NA      NA     NA       NA
Credits                   NA         NA     NA        NA      NA        NA        NA      NA     NA       NA
Equity investments        NA         NA     NA        NA      NA        NA        NA      NA     NA       NA
In-kind support           NA         NA     NA        NA      NA        NA        NA      NA     NA       NA
Other                     NA         NA     NA        NA      NA        NA        NA      NA     NA       NA

         Totals        6.756       6.456                    4.097     1.132 13.391     18.292   24.244  25.88




                                                   - 17 -

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The program sustainability is rated Unlikely. By mandate, CENAGREF will carry on the activities
that the program helped to initiate and implement. During the implementation of the Program,
CENAGREF gained and developed substantial technical capacity that should help execute its
mandate successfully. The field offices are well equipped to provide the technical support needed
to ensure the sustainable management and protection of biodiversity in the two national parks.
However, CENAGREF does not currently have the financial means required to sustain the
investments made under the Program, and to carry out its institutional mandate successfully. The
conservation trust fund that was supposed to be established within two years of the program
implementation in order to help finance the operations of CENAGREF is yet to be created.
Substantial work has been accomplished toward the creation of the trust fund, but still needs to be
done. International experts and practitioners who helped to establish conservation trust funds in
other countries (e.g., Peru) were hired to help the CENAGREF identify and execute the measures
and actions needed for the creation of a conservation trust fund. This help led to the creation of a
multi-disciplinary Working Group to spearhead the preparation work. The lack of adequate
national know-how in terms of the technical, administrative and legal requirements for creating
this financial instrument delayed the work of the Working Group. These difficulties led the
Government's decision to start with the creation of a public association which would subsequently
become a foundation after the adoption by Parliament of the regulations pertaining to the
establishment of foundations. The Working Group has made significant progress, and drafted a
proposal for the creation of the "association" for the conservation of wildlife and biodiversity. The
draft awaits comments and/or approval from the Ministry of Justice.

The Government's approval of this proposal would not mean that the newly created "Association"
has the financial resources required to support CENAGREF' operations. In fact, the source of
funding for this future Association remains uncertain. In sum, the lack of the trust fund or any
other financial means to carry on the activities of the Program remains a serious threat to the
sustainability of the Program's achievements. CENAGREF is very active in preparing a follow-up
operation that would constitute the second phase of the NPCMP. In addition to supporting key
investments in the area of biodiversity conservation, this second operation would focus on raising
fund for establishing a long-term financial instrument for biodiversity conservation. However,
before donors can support a new intervention the Government will need to show strong financial
and political commitment to sustaining the achievements of the first Program. In particular, it is
important that the Government allocate sufficient budgetary resources to support the operating
costs of CENAGREF in the interim period. There seems to be some positive signs, as the amount
of resources that the Government allocated to CENAGREF in 2006 increased six-fold from the
2005 allocation (50 million CFAF as opposed to 300 million CFAF). However, due to liquidity
constraints no transfer from the treasury to CENAGREF has taken place.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
All the activities supported by the NPCMP fall under the institutional mandate of CENAGREF
created to help manage the wildlife and biodiversity resources of Benin. CENAGREF is therefore
technically well equipped to carry on and sustain the achievements of the NPCMP, and from a
purely technical perspective all the NPCMP activities become regular operations of CENAGREF.



                                                  - 18 -

In this sense, little was needed in terms of arrangement in order to ensure the continuation of
these operations. However, there are some concerns from a financial perspective. Based on the
slow progress in the preparation work leading to the creation of the conservation trust fund, the
MTR mission made strong recommendations on the need for the Government to provide
increasing budgetary resources to support the operating costs of Program, starting in 2005. This
recommendation was not implemented in 2005.             As mentioned above, the Government did
increase significantly the amount of resources allocated to CENAGREF in 2006 in order to help
finance the operating costs. However, due to the country's difficult financial situation during this
election year, the disbursement of these resources has been slow. It is expected that next year's
budgetary allocations will at least match the 2006 level.

The European Union and the German Cooperation Also, level Because these recommendations
were not implemented, the closing of the GEF grant resulted in severe financial stress for
CENAGREF. The continuation of the operations is due to the fact that the closing dates of the
grants from Germany (KfW/GTZ) and the European Union are 2007 and 2008 respectively. It is
hoped that the efforts by CENAGREF to establish a conservation trust fund will be successful
before the end of the remaining donors' support. If provided with the required resources, this
trust fund will help finance the operating costs in the long run.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance during program identification, preparation and appraisal is rated as
Unsatisfactory. The Bank provided adequate resources (staff weeks and budget) that enabled the
task team to carry out the preparation in a cost-effective and timely manner. During the lending
phase, the missions were adequately staffed (appropriate mix of technical skills) with Bank and
non-Bank staff, including staff from participating donors, Government representatives, and
representatives from the NGOs (e.g., ARDET-Atakora, CBDD, IUCN). The skills, knowledge
and experience of these stakeholders enhanced the design of the Program. This design reflected
the lessons learned from conservation endeavors in Africa and other parts of the world by building
on the right hypothesis that successful biodiversity conservation in rural and impoverished areas
must integrate livelihood and long-term development needs of local populations. The Program's
development objectives were consistent with the Government's development strategy as described
in the NEAP and in the rural development, and with the Bank assistance strategy at the time.

However, there were some weaknesses in Bank performance during the lending phase. The first
shortcoming was the lack of an effective implementation coordination mechanism given the
number of donors and the complexity of the financing arrangement of the NPCMP. GTZ and KfW
(Germany) and AFD (France) resources only financed interventions in the Pendjari National Park
(i.e., component 2), while the EU financing supported investments in the W National Park (i.e.,
component 3). In fact, the interventions in the W National Park are part of a regional cooperation
program managed by a tripartite commission (Benin, Burkina Faso, and Niger) based in
Ouagadougou. The GEF grant proceeds were to finance most of the recurrent costs of the
NPCMP. Each donor had their own grant agreement with the Government, and their planned
operations had their own logical frame, monitoring and evaluation arrangements, and financial



                                                - 19 -

management procedures. Given these design features, the PAD should have included an effective
mechanism in order to coordinate implementation among donors. The PAD addressed the
coordination issue on page 33 in the section dealing with "programming, monitoring, and
evaluation". In this section it is stated that the three operational directorates of CENAGREF will
prepare an annual work program that is endorsed by the board of CENAGREF before
implementation. It was assumed that this procedure will ensure the coherence of the activities and
consolidate the programming. On "monitoring" the PAD stated that "the directorate of each park,
and the technical directorate will monitor their activities with a set of performance and impact
indicators". These two measures, i.e., agreed annual work program, and collaboration between
the head of each park and the technical directorate do not provide any specific guidance on how
actual coordination among site-specific interventions financed by different donors will take place.
To sum up, the clear division of labor among the participating donors was not matched by a clear
mechanism to coordinate the interventions. This lack of a clear coordination mechanism agreed
upon at appraisal weakened the leverage of CENAGREF to effectively coordinate donors'
interventions. Although there is no evidence this lack of strong control by CENAGREF hurt the
results on the ground, it did undermine the national ownership of the Program.

The second shortcoming of the design is the weakness of the M&E system. In particular, the
section on "Programming, Monitoring and Evaluation" needed more elaboration on the M&E
tools, methods, integrated (multi-donor) framework, and implementation arrangements. Finally,
the issues pertaining to the sustainability of CENAGREF and the program's achievements were
not well handled. In fact, an exit strategy with regard to operational costs supported by the GEF,
and a clear definition of activities to be implemented in order to not only establish a trust fund but
also to identify the potential financiers of this trust fund were not thoroughly discussed during the
preparation phase. Most precisely, the difficulty to establish such a fund and to endow it with
sufficient resources was somehow underestimated.

7.2 Supervision:
Although the GEF grant resources financed mostly the operating costs, Bank supervision missions
covered the full spectrum of the Program. Every attempt was made to ensure the participation of
donors' representatives during Bank missions. In any case, the field technical advisers provided by
the donors were always part of the supervision teams. In fact, the Bank maintained close
coordination with the co-financiers of the Program, and carried out joint supervision missions,
including the Mid-Term Review. In addition to the technical activities and issues related to
conservation effectiveness, the Bank supervision missions also covered the fiduciary safeguards
and strategic issues such as the management effectiveness and leadership of CENAGREF, and
donor coordination. Supervision missions were carried out regularly, and the skill mix given the
scope of the tasks were adequate. These conditions ensured adequate assessment/reporting, and
diligent monitoring of reporting and auditing. It should be mentioned however that much of the
follow up on the recommendations of the Mid-Term Review did not require field visits because
the most important physical works that remained were handled by other donors. Nonetheless,
while on different missions in Benin twice in 2004, the TTL visited the implementation agency to
follow up on the implementation progress. The ESSD staff who was stationed in the field at the
time also assured the follow up of the implementation from that end. These follow-up, though
not formally recorded helped to update the Implementation Support Reports (ISRs).



                                                  - 20 -

It ought to be mentioned however that while the supervision missions were successful in handling
routine monitoring of the Program activities, they were not effective in curbing the high level
political interventions in the management of the Program. Although these interventions that were
frequent, untimely and unnecessary did not disrupt the implementation of the field activities, they
did weaken the leadership and effectiveness of CENAGREF's senior management, and hampered
their ability to manage efficiently and effectively. Although there some progress was made in the
procurement of goods, the post reviews conducted near the end of the of Program uncovered
some residual weaknesses.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Despite the shortcomings noted during both the lending and supervision phases of the Program,
the rating of the Bank's performance is "Satisfactory". This rating is based on the fact that these
shortcomings did not have any serious adverse effect on the achievements of the Program. This is
due mainly to the fact that these shortcomings tended to be associated with peripheral issues
rather than the core investments and operations management in the field directorates.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The borrower performance during Preparation is rated Satisfactory. During the preparation phase
the Government of Benin mobilized and assigned its experts to prepare the program. When
needed, decisional or political level actors contributed successfully to the preparation process.
The project took too long to develop, but much of the delay was due to the mobilization of
donors' resources.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The performance of the Government is rated Unsatisfactory, mainly because it let regional
politics and interests prevent the construction of the building that was supposed to house the
CENAGREF's offices in Cotonou. It also was at the origin of frequent turnovers among
CENAGREF's managers, which did not foster the building of a coherent and long term vision.
Untimely political interventions also weakened CENAGREF's leadership and hampered the
advisory and control role of CENAGREF's board in which all the key stakeholders, including the
private sector are represented. There have been instances where the implementation of the board
recommendations was unnecessarily hindered by the host ministry.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The implementing agency performance is rated Satisfactory in light of the results achieved by the
program. CENAGREF was very successful in creating the technical, institutional and social
conditions that allowed the consolidation and rationalization of Benin protected area system. It
designed an effective co-management scheme that is compatible with and supportive of the
livelihood of the communities living around the two national parks. The implementing agency
provided timely inputs (equipment, office supply, training, etc.) and technical oversight that
contributed to the effectiveness of field operations. Based on a thorough understanding of its key
constraints and opportunities, CENAGREF developed a flexible management and business plan
for each national park.     These plans will help to ensure the long-term sustainability of the
protected area system through the sustainable use and conservation of the biodiversity resources.
The implementing agency was able to reinvest part of the revenue generated by the parks into the
management of the protected area system. Finally, as the GEF granted closed in 2005, the


                                                - 21 -

implementing agency was able to secure 300 million CFAF (about US$600,000 as opposed to the
usual US$100,000) from the national budget in order to help finance the operating costs.

Despite these good results, it is worth mentioning that CENAGREF could have done better in
terms of cost control by reducing the size of its staff at the beginning of the Program (limiting
recruitment to the minimum number of staff required to run the organization). The need to
reduce the staff and to improve the quality of communication between the headquarters and the
field offices was mentioned in two organizational audits whose recommendations were
implemented timely. To a limited extent, lack of leadership played a role in failure to complete
the steps to creating the conservation trust fund.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall Recipient (Implementing agency, Governments) performance is rated Satisfactory by
taking into account the results achieved both in preparation and implementation phases. Despite
the shortcomings noticed, the willingness and the technical ability of regional and local teams as
well as of the Government were key in the accomplishment of program objectives.

8. Lessons Learned

Co-management: The achievements of the NPCMP confirm the critical importance of involving
local communities in the development of effective biodiversity conservation systems. By adopting
a co-management approach that empowers local populations to play an active role in the
management of wildlife and other genetic resources, the Program increased its legitimacy at the
local level. The direct and indirect benefits that accrued to the local communities because of their
active involvement in the park management activities allowed the Program to secure the effective
collaboration of the Village Associations for the Management of Wildlife Reserves in the control
of poaching and other environmentally harmful activities, and in the maintenance of park
infrastructure. This situation reduced significantly the cost of surveillance and control activities
for both parks.

Integrated conservation and development:          The effective integration of conservation and
development has always posed great challenges to the conservation community. These challenges
are often due to the difficulty in demonstrating and maintaining a direct link between these
interventions and the conservation activities and outcomes. To a significant degree, the NPCMP
seemed to have achieved this integration by combining a set of activities that had a clear and
positive impact on the living conditions of the local populations. These activities consisted of: (i)
a transparent mechanism for sharing the revenues derived from hunting and tourism, (ii) direct
employment of local populations in park management activities, (iii) controlled access to and use
of natural resources following an agreed upon sustainable use plan, and (iv) financing of targeted
community development initiatives, including the provision of social infrastructure, and small
grants for income generating activities.

Effective multi-donor financing: The financing arrangement of the Program was based on the
sharing of burden among donors. In the agreed scheme of burden sharing, the GEF incremental
resources were to finance most of the operating costs of the Program including institutional
building and capacity strengthening, while the other donors focused their support on site-specific



                                                - 22 -

priority investments for effective protected area management. This arrangement allowed the GEF
to leverage additional funding beyond and above the financing level agreed at appraisal (about
30% additional funding for the EU, and almost 80% for the German contribution).                  This
additional funding will allow the Program activities to continue twenty four months following the
closing of the GEF grant.

Effective coordination mechanisms are key requirements for multi-donor interventions:            The
NPCMP had five donors each with its grant agreement, its own financial management and
reporting requirements, and logical frame. Component 3 "W" National Park Complex funded by
the EU was part of a regional program (Benin, Burkina Faso, and Niger) managed by a tripartite
commission based in Burkina Faso.

Yet, the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) did not include any specific coordination mechanism
other than stating that "..all Program activities would fall under CENAGREF, and coordination of
donors' contributions would take place through an annual programming process resulting in
yearly work plans that will ensure that no activities are financed twice by two different donors".
The PAD also lacked specific guidance for a consolidated monitoring and evaluation system. This
lack of a clear coordination mechanism agreed upon at the appraisal weakened the leverage of
CENAGREF to effectively coordinate donors' interventions. Although there is no evidence this
lack of strong control by CEANGREF hurt the results on the ground, it did undermine the
national ownership of the Program.

Ensuring financial sustainability of biodiversity conservation agencies is key: While the Program
was able to identify the procedural, administrative and legal steps towards the establishment of an
international trust fund, very little is known at this stage about the origin of the funds that would
be deposited in this trust when it is created. Since the core activities supported by the NPCMP
consist of long-term measures aimed at achieving the pursued global environment objectives, the
uncertainty associated with the materialization of this trust fund and the lack of any credible
alternative means for supporting the recurrent costs constitute a serious threat to the sustainability
of the Program's achievements. This undesirable outcome could have been avoided had the
design of the Program included a clear phase out strategy for the financing of the recurrent costs.
A clear exit strategy during the implementation of the Program would have accelerated the
identification and securing of a viable alternative means for financing the recurrent cost of the
Program.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Government judged the project Satisfactory and was pleased with the catalytic role played by
the CENAGREF in promoting the importance of better management of protected areas to reach a
sustainable management of biodiversity. The key role played by the Bank in bringing other donors
around the table was recognized. Moreover, the financial support of the GEF that permitted the
functioning of the CENAGREF and the flexibility of the Bank in reallocating GEF funds were
very much appreciated.

The Government asserted that substantial issues (poaching, fires, farms, cotton culture, etc.) that



                                                 - 23 -

were threatening the parks have been controlled. The project supported the CENAGREF on the
following aspects:

l Institutional support and capacities building of institutions involved in protected areas
    management: the NPMCP helped the CENAGREF to (i) develop a system based on short
    term trainings to strengthen staff capacities, (ii) acquire equipments such as transportation
    means, computers, GPS and cyber trackers, (iii) develop a quite innovative system of control
    and surveillance in the parks, which proved effective in reducing poaching and enabling the
    reconstitution of mammal populations and (iv) build surveillance infrastructures such as roads
    and watchtowers. However, the end of the GEF project put the central office of CENAGREF
    in a precarious situation and left it with very limited means to play its coordination and
    support role.

l Improvement of communication: in 2002 a communication strategy developed in 1998 was
    implemented, and in 2003 a communication strategy covering the period 2003-2006 was
    developed. Several workshops and forums involving local NGOs, the civil society, the private
    sector and local populations were organized. In addition, 3 web sites were developed and/or
    maintained: www. www.cenagref.firstnet.bj, www.pendjari.net, and www.ecopas.org.bf.
    Under this window, local populations were thoroughly involved in the project, particularly
    through the PEGEI, which worked with women and precarious groups. The CENAGREF
    regretted, however that, despite all the efforts made, the frequentation rate of National Parks
    remains low, and the ministry of tourism does not take the initiative of attracting tour
    operators and taking advantage of the touristic products available.

l Involvement of local populations in park management activities: the use of a co-management
    approach involving local communities was one of the most satisfactory aspects of the
    program. A network of 100 AVIGREFs is active in the field and plays a central role in helping
    CENAGREF manage wildlife reserves and acting as rural development implementing
    agencies. Nonetheless, credit recovery rate for micro-credit grants are very low and the
    impact of those micro-credits is yet to be demonstrated.

l Studies on Ecosystems and habitats: more than 15 studies were financed by the GEF project
    to support the production of the law on the "Regime de la faune" and provide GIS-based
    ecological monitoring systems with baseline data. The systems are operational and the law
    was promulgated in 2004.

l Establishment of sustainable financial mechanism: the establishment of a sustainable financing
    mechanism to finance biodiversity conservation in Benin has not been done yet. The legal
    framework and lack of competencies were among the reasons that hampered the setting-up of
    a trust fund as planned.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Not available.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not available.




                                                - 24 -

10. Additional Information

GEF Review Criteria

Implementation Approach

The logical framework of the NPCMP did not change during project implementation. The
implementation approach that was adopted relies on the co-management of resources. This
approach was efficient due to the fact that not only did it reduce the anthropic pressure on natural
resources, thus favoring biodiversity conservation and regeneration, but it also helped local
populations improved their livelihood conditions. Important lessons were drawn from PGRN and
PAPN during the program preparation phase, and the encouraging results achieved re-enforced
the relevance, effectiveness, and attractiveness of the co-management or community-based
approach to biodiversity conservation.

Country Ownership/Driveness

The Bank and the Government of Benin supported the development of a National Environmental
Action Plan (NEAP), and the subsequent establishment of a National Environmental Agency
(Agence Béninoise pour l'Environnement) to monitor the implementation of the NEAP. The
effective management of national parks and other protected areas for the conservation and
sustainable use of biodiversity was an important objective of the NEAP. Country ownership was
strong throughout the preparation and implementation, although the Government's financial
stance did not allow the allocation and disbursement of the budgetary resources needed to support
part of the operating costs of the Program during the last two years (counterpart resources were
fully paid during this period). It is important to mention that the activities supported by the
Program fall under the CENAGREF's mandate, and will therefore be carried out by this
permanent agency. The contribution of the Government's own budgetary resources to support
partly the continuation of these activities is still a key ownership and driveness test for the Benin.

Public involvement

The active involvement of local populations in the Pragram's activities is a key feature and
contributor to its achievements. The AVIGREFs were the key partners in the co-management
scheme, and played a crucial role in activities such as control and surveillance by providing human
and financial resources. They also provided labor for the control and management of bush fires.
In the Pendjari complex, the AVIGREFs dedicated up to 14 percent of their annual budget to
covering the costs of surveillance activities. In the same area, more than 200 villagers were
involved in control and surveillance teams. In addition, AVIGREFs played a critical role in
disseminating and explaining regulations pertaining to wildlife conservation and its benefits not
only from an ecological perspective but also from an economical and social stand point. Today,
100 AVIGREFs comprising 2,390 members are active and play a valuable intermediary role
between populations and the wildlife management administration.




                                                   - 25 -

Replication approach

Based on its achievements, the NPMCP can be considered a successful Program. Many factors
contributed to this success, but there are two features of the Program that made a significant
contribution to this success and that are worth replicating elsewhere. One of these features is the
institutional development represented by the emergence of CENAGREF.             Despite financial
durability issues, CENAGREF is seen in the sub-region and beyond as good model to replicate.
The second feature that is worth replicating is the successfully implemented a co-management
scheme that empowered the AVIGREFs to execute a wide array of conservation and non
conservation activities. Wildlife conservation professionals from Ivory-Coast, Burkina Faso and
Niger regularly visited Benin to take stock of the strengths and challenges emerging from these
two and other features of the NPCMP.

Financial planning

Identification of co-financing sources
With the support provided by the Bank, CENAGREF was able to identify and mobilize additional
sources of co-financing funds as presented in Table 1(see page 17).

The Program did leverage a significant amount of resources including approximately US$150,000
from the Government of Benin to support the PEGEI component when the Netherlands put its
participation to the project on hold between March 2003 and September 2004. The EU added
923,000 Euros to the initial 3,000,000 Euros, whereas the German Technical and Financial
Cooperation increased their initial financing by at least 45%. In addition, the project generated
US$889,000 from tourism and hunting activities. These resources helped to finance the operating
costs and served to pay operational expenses and to support AVIGREFs. Most of the EU and
German leveraged resources will finance investments and operating cost until 2008.

Financial control

Even though external auditors issued favorable opinions on financial statements without any
reserve, financial management during project implementation was not as effective as one would
like it to be. The lack of technical capacity in financial management, financial dashboard, skills
required to use the financial management software, and the frequent personnel turnover within the
financial management team are the main causes of the weak performance in financial management.
However, it should be mentioned that the complex financing arrangement of the Program due to
the number of donors and the differences in their financial management procedures and reporting
format made things even harder for the financial management team.

Cost-effectiveness

In agreement with the incremental cost criterion, GEF resources supplemented with funds from
other donors as shown in Table 1. The GEF resources were used to finance activities that would
not have been financed otherwise, such as the development of biodiversity management tools, and
the support to management and capacity building activities that would allow the achievement of



                                               - 26 -

the global environment benefits. However, one could question the appropriateness of using GEF
funds to pay salaries and other operational costs during 5 years. The fact that this course of action
was taken without the adoption of an exit strategy may hurt the sustainability of the Program's
achievements after the closing of the GEF grant because of the lack of resources to finance the
recurrent costs.

Completion of planned activities

The GEF project was completed on time. It lasted 5 years and almost 95% of the GEF funding of
US$6.8 million was disbursed at closing.

Monitoring and Evaluation

Despite the production of activity reports based on the implementation of agreed upon annual
work plans, the monitoring and evaluation system was one of the weakest aspects of the Program.
In fact, no formal monitoring and evaluation activities were carried out during project
implementation. The CENAGREF explained that situation by the fact that donors' logical
frameworks were incompatible. While the limited flexibility of these logical frameworks could
have played a role, it was the view of the ICR mission that the lack of leadership and adequate
competencies also hampered the establishment of an effective and integrated M&E system. This
being said, each national park had relatively good M&E plan that allowed the tracking of the
implementation results, and the undertaking of remedial actions when needed.




                                               - 27 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                   1
               Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                       Actual/Latest Estimate
Each national park has prepared and adopted Yes                                             Yes
a medium-term business plan for sustainable
wildlife management and conservation




Output Indicators:
                                                                                   1
               Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                       Actual/Latest Estimate
CENAGREF has prepared and adopted a              Yes                                        Yes
comprehensive medium-term business plan


Self-financing ratio:DPNP=45%;                   50%                                        DPNP=45%; DPNW=40%;
DPNW=33%; CENAGREF= 27%                                                                     CENAGREF=NA


Increasing of abundance index of                 Pendjari National Park: Buffalo:0.0175;    Pendjari National Park: Buffalo:0.0175;
buffalo,hippotrague, cobe de buffon and wart Hippotrague:0.0358; cobe de buffon:0.0477; Hippotrague:0.0358; cobe de buffon:0.0477;
hog living in protected areas                    wart hog:0.0350                            wart hog:0.0350
                                                 W National Park: Buffalo:0.010; Hip        W National Park: Buffalo:0.012; Hip
                                                 potrague:0.054; cobe de buffon:0.018; wart potrague:0.071; cobe de buffon:0.015; wart
                                                 hog:0.040                                  hog:0.044


Improved park infrastructure for better patrol, 700 km of roads, 3 main bases and 12        1,300 km of roads, 9 watchtowers, 15
wildlife management, and tourism                 secondary posts                            surveillance posts and 10 ponds
development


Increased park generated income to               30% of park revenue paid to the AVIGREF    30% of park revenue paid to the AVIGREF
neighboring populations                                                                     (representing US$178,200 )


15 out of 26 AVIGREF in Pendjari and 30 out 100                                             100
of 75 of AVIGREF in W are viable
organizations and are technically equipped to
pariticipe effectively in co-management
schemes for wildlife resources.


At least 2 hunting areas are created and         3                                          3
managed by local population with the
CENAGREF assistance


Number of illegal activities is low in parks and 0 farms                                    4 farms
hunting areas


A conservation trust fund is created by the      No                                         No
end of the project

1End of project




                                                                   - 28 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                     Component                            US$ million   US$ million
Common actions at the national level                         2.87             3.69           128.6

Pendjari complex                                             1.08             1.47           136.1
W complex                                                    2.81             1.60            56.9

Total Baseline Cost                                          6.76             6.76
                        Total Project Costs                  6.76             6.76
                  Total Financing Required                   6.76             6.76


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                            0.00            6.73         1.19          0.00         7.92
                                  (0.00)           (0.46)      (0.08)          (0.00)       (0.54)
2. Goods                            2.22            0.56         0.00          0.00         2.78
                                  (0.62)           (0.16)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.78)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00         8.54          0.00         8.54
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (2.69)          (0.00)       (2.69)
4. Operating costs                  0.00            0.00         5.00          0.00         5.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (2.75)          (0.00)       (2.75)
5. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                            2.22            7.29        14.73          0.00         24.24
                                  (0.62)           (0.62)      (5.52)          (0.00)       (6.76)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                            0.00           6.73         1.19           0.00        7.92
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                            2.22           0.56         0.00           0.00        2.78
                                  (0.11)          (0.30)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.41)
3. Services                         0.00           0.00         8.54           0.00        8.54
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (1.05)         (0.00)       (1.05)
4. Operating costs                  0.00           0.00         5.00           0.00        5.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (5.30)         (0.00)       (5.30)


                                                - 29 -

  5. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
      Total                                2.22               7.29             14.73             0.00             24.24
                                          (0.11)             (0.30)            (6.35)            (0.00)           (6.76)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Common Actions at the          2.87         0.56         0.11        3.69                               128.6     0.0       0.0
National level


Pendjari Complex               1.08         1.40         8.48        1.47                               136.1     0.0       0.0
W Complex                      2.81         3.35        14.14        1.60                               56.9      0.0       0.0




                                                          - 30 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

It was not possible or practical to calculate the economic costs and benefits for such a project
which by nature does not aim directly at economic benefits. Therefore, no economic analysis was
prepared.




                                                 - 31 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              09/15/1997                2    MISSION LEADER (1)               S               S
                                             AGRI-ECONOMIST (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation

              06/24/1998                5    MISSION LEADER (1);              S               S
              (Appraisal)                    AGRI-ECONOMIST (1);
                                             SENIOR ECONOMIST (1);
                                             SENIOR ENVIRONMENTAL
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              10/05/1998                4    MISSION LEADER (1)               S               S
              (Negotiation)                  LAWYER (1);
                                             AGRI-ECONOMIST (1);
                                             DISBURSEMENT SPEC (1)

 Supervision

              09/23/2000                3    PROJECT ASSIST., KFW (1);        S               S
                                             PROJECT MANAGER, KFW
                                             (1); TASK TEAM LEADER (1)
              06/04/2001                     MISSION LEADER (1)               S               S
                                             KFW REPRESENTATIVES (2)
              01/14/2002                2    TEAM LEADER (1); RURAL           S               S
                                             DEVELOPMENT SPEC (1)
              11/28/2002                3    TTL (1); SR. FINANCIAL           S               S
                                             SPECIALI (1);
                                             DISBURSEMENT ANALYST
                                             (1)
              11/03/2003 (MTR)          6    MISSION LEADER (1)               S               S
                                             SENIOR AGRI-ECONOMIST
                                             (1)
                                             FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1)
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1)
                                             DISBURSEMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); ECOLOGIST (1)
              03/31/2005                3    MISSION LEADER (1),              S               S
                                             FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1),
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1)

 ICR
              04/08/2006                2     MISSION LEADER (1)              S               S
                                              MEMBER (1)




                                              - 32 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                           366
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                                155
  Supervision                                                          262
  ICR                                                                   56
  Total                                                                839




                                            - 33 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 34 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 35 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


l National Parks Conservation and Management Program ­ Appraisal Report, February, 24
2000, WB
l Project Status Reports from 2001 to 2005
l Supervision aide-memoirs from 2001 to 2005
l Rapport synthèse de fin de projet, CENAGREF ­ April 2006




                                          - 36 -

- 37 -

