FILE COPY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK% FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DE3VELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Reort No. 1O la-HO
HONDURAS
APPRAISAL OF A
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
May 4, 1973
Latin America and the Caribbean
Projects Department
This report was prepared for official use o:nly by the Bank Group. It may not be publshed, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility forthe
accuracy or completeness of the report.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit                         = Lempira (L)
US$l.00                               = L2000
Ll                                     = US$.50
L 1,000,000                            = US.$500,000
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
System of Weights and Measures: Metric
M4etric                               British/US Equivalent
1 meter (m)                            - 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                       - 0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km)                - 0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 metric ton (m ton)                  - 2,204 pounds (lb)
Abbreviatiors and Acronyms
ADT         - Average Daily Traffic
BR          - Brown and Root (Consultants)
CABEI       - Central American Bank for Economic Integration
DGC         - Direcci6n General de Caminos, General Directorate for
Highways
DGM         - Direccion General de Mantenimiento, General Directorate
for Maintenance
HHK         - Howard Humphreys, Keeble and Partners (Consultants)
TDB         - Inter-American Development Bank
SCOPT       - Secretarxa de Comunicaciones, Obras PTiblicas y
Transportes, Secretariat for Communications, Public
Works and Transport
STP         - Secretarfa Tecnica del Consejo Superior de Planificacion
Econ6mica, Technical Secretariat of the. High Council for
Economic Planning
USAID       - United States Agency for International Development



HONDURAS
APPRAISAL OF A SIlXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .............................                 i
1.         INTRODUCTION ........           ................................       1
2.         TAE TRANSPORT SECTOR ................................                  2
A.   General ........................................                 2
B.    The Transport Modes .....          .......................      3
C.   ''ransport Policy and Coordination ..............                4
3.          TiE HIG11WAYS .         .......................................       5
A.   'The lligh-sway N4etwork ............................            5
B.   Characteristics and Growth of fload Traffic .....                5
C.    Hi-hway Planning and Financing ..................               6
D.    Highway Administration .........................                7
EZ.   Highway Engineerin.g ............................               3
F. Jigaway Construction.                                             8
G. Nighway Maintenance.                                              9
4.          THIE PROJECT ....................                                    9
A. General Description.                                              9
B.   Cost Estimates, Financing  and Disbursements                    13
C.  F,xecution ....................,.,.,.,....    16
5.    I]CONO'rIC EVALUATION .                 ....  17
A.    General  ........        ................................     17
P).   Construction of the Tegucigalpa-Talanga Road....    13
C.    Improvement of Secondary and Feeder R'oads ......             20
6.         AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .............           ..    20
'This Appraisal iReport has been prepared by ;lessrs. R. Paraucl (Engineer) arid
B. Chatelin (Economist) and has been edited by 'liss V. Foster.



TABLE OF CONTENTS - Continued
TABLES
1. Public Investment (Transportation)
2,.  Development of the Highway Network 1960-1971
3. 'Vehicle Registration 1960-1971
4., 'Vehicle Fuel Consumption 1963-1972
5.. Higlhway Expenditures 1965-19 71
6. Road User Charges
7. D)esign Standards for the Tegucigalpa-Talanga Road
8. Civil Works other than the Tegucigalpa-Talanga Road
9. Feeder Roads to the Tegucigalpa-Juticalpa Road to be Studied
10. Traffic Forecast (Tegucigalpa-Talanga Road)
11.  Velhicle Operating Costs (Tegucigalpa-Talanga Road)
AN1NEXES
1. External Financing by Agencies other than the Bank Group
2. Details of IDB Loan 291/SF-HO for Highway Maintenance
3. Schedule of Disbursements
4. Probability Analysis
CHA:RTS
I. Organization Chart of the Secretariat for Communicationis, Public
Works and Transport
II. Organization Chart of the General Directorate for Highways
III. Organization Chart of the General Directorate for Maintenance
MAP - 11.ndu':as - Main Hlighway Network, IBRD-10395



tiONDURAS
APPRAISAL OF A SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The major part of the economic activity of Honduras is centered
in the western half of the country and along the north coast where population
is dense. Transport facilities are concentrated mainly in these areas. The
prime traffic mode is road transport and the highway network, comprising about
5,600 km, is basically well developed. The railway network, totaling about
1,200 km, comprises 1,040 km of private lines along the Caribbean coast serv-
ing private companies, primarily for shipping bananas. The national railway
line (about 160 km) is also located in the northern part of the country.
Inland water transportation is negligible, and air transport, which played a
vital role in the development of the country, is still important; passenger
air traffic is steadily increasing. Three ports on the Caribbean coast and
one on the Pacific coast handle over 90% of the country's international trade;
Puerto Cortes on the Caribbean coast is by far the most important seaport of
the country.
ii.       The recently published Six-Year Investment Program (1972-1977) of
the Government, totaling about US$560 million equivalent, allocates about
US$145 million equivalent to the transport sector. This allocation was made
on the basis of the recommendations of a survey carried out by Stanford
Research Institute and completed in 1962; 1/ it is estimated that about 73%
would be obtained from external financing. About 80% of the proposed invest-
ment would be devoted to highway improvements or reconstructions, including
feeder roads, which are needed to achieve full development of the areas
served by the main roads.
iii.      The main element of the proposed project (construction of the
Tegucigalpa-Talanga road, 55 kmi) is a first stage of the Tegucigalpa-Juticalpa
road (175 km) which serves forest areas where lumber exploitation is intensive
and agricultural development is; promising. The present Tegucigalpa-Talanga
road is not suitable for the present and future traffic needs and the Govern-
ment has allocated the first priority for its construction. The second
section of the road (Talanga-Juticalpa) crosses a more gentle topography and
its reconstruction is envisage(d as a second stage. The feasibility study for
the Tegucigalpa-Juticalpa road was carried out by the UK consultants Howard
Hlumphreys, Keeble and Partners (HIIK) with financing provided under Loan 495-HO.
Detailed engineering is being f-inanced by the Central Anerican Bank for
Economic Integration (CABEI) in cooperation with the UK Government.
iv.       The proposed project provides also for the construction of a
secondary road and improvement of about 80 km of feeder roads, as well as
1/   Ten-Year Highway Program for Honduras; Stanford Research Institute,
1962.



- ii -
for economic and technical studies for about 375 km of feeder roads. Finan-
cing of technical assistance for transport planning and for a training pro-
gram is also proposed.
v.        Execution of the project is expected to take about three years and
will be the responsibility of the Secretaria de Comunicaciones, Obras Publicas
y Transportes (SCOPT) 1/ and the Secretaria Tecnica del Consejo Superior de
Planitficacion Economica (STP) 2/. Consultants contracted under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank will carry out the studies, will assist in
prequalifying bidders and evaluating bids, and will supervise construction.
Construction contracts for the main road will be awarded on a unit price basis
after international competitive bidding following normal Bank Group procedures.
The secondary and feeder road construction program will be advertised locally
only.
vi.       Major developmental benefits will accrue from the construction of
the new Tegucigalpa-Talanga road by the facilitation of access to existing
and potentially rich forest and agricultural areas. Expected benefits
resulting from the construction elements of the project would derive from
savings in maintenance and vehicle operating costs. The economic return
from construction of the Tegucigalpa-Talanga road is 13%, and from the
secondary and feeder road construction program as a whole is 19%. The
economic return for the project as a whole is about 14%.
vii.      Total project cost is estimated at US$25.8 million with an estimated
foreign exchange component of US$18.8 million (73%), to be financed by the
proposed loan. It is possible that the foreign exchange component for consulting
services will be less than estimated, in which case the proposed loan would
finance some local costs. In addition to the normal contingencies for possible
increases in quantities and prices, a special contingency of 15% of the con-
struction cost of the Tegucigalpa-Talanga road has been included to cover the
risk of high bid prices resulting from the uncertainty of the response of the
market to contracts of the size proposed for the above-mentioned road. Local
costs amounting to about US$7.0 million equivalent would be provided by the
Government. The project includes an amount of US$50,000 for retroactive fi-
nancing to cover services of consultants to be engaged prior to loan signature
for assisting the Government in prequalification of contractors and bid
evaluation.
viii.     The project provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US.$18.8
million: on country grounds, a term of 30 years, including a five-year period
of grace, is appropriate.
1/   Secretariat for Communications, Public Works and Transport.
2/   Technical Secretariat of the High Council for Economic Planning.



HONDURAS
APPRAISAL OF A SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Republic of Honduras has requested Bank assistance to help in
the financing of a highway project comprising (a) construction of a main
road about 55 km long; (b) reconstruction of a secondary road about 45 Ian
long; (c) construction of a bridge about 200 m long; (d) improvement of
about 80 km of feeder roads; (e) consulting services for supervision of
construction, for feasibility and engineering studies and for technical
assistance; and (f) a training program for highway staff. The total cost
of the proposed project is estimated at about US$25.8 million equivalent;
the estimated foreign cost component of US$18.8 million equivalent is proposed
for financing by a Bank loan, and the balance of US$7.0 million equivalent in
local costs would be provided by the Government.
1.02      This will be the sixth highway project for Ilonduras financed by
the Bank Group. In 1955, a loanL of US$4.2 million (135-HO) was made to
finance the establishment of a road maintenance organization.  Three years
later, a loan of US$5.5 million (195-HO) was made, primarily to reconstruct
the main roads between San Pedro Sula and Puerto Cortes, and between Teguci-
galpa and the Inter-American Highway. This project also included the
construction of bridges on the Western Highway between Chamelecon and Santa
Rosa to make the highway passable during the rainy season. All work under
these projects has been successiFully completed.
1.03      The first IDA Credit of USS9 million (1-HO) was made in 1961 to
finance (a) improvements of sections of the Western Highway between Chamele-
con and Santa Rosa to gravel standard and the construction of an extension
to the highway from Santa Rosa to the El Salvador border; (b) construction
of feeder road connections with the Western Highway; (c) strengthening of the
highway maintenance organization initiated under the first loan; and (d)
a highway transportation survey to prepare a long-term road investment pro-
gram. The survey was carried out by Stanford Research Institute and the
report 1/ was issued in 1962. The extension of the Western Highway was
completed in 1964 and other construction works were completed in 1967.
1.04      In 1965, a credit of US$3.5 million (71-HO) and a loan of US$6
million (400-HO) were made to finance reconstruction of the North road from
Tegucigalpa to Potrerillos; works were completed in 1971. Finally, in 1967,
a loan of US$8.6 million (495-HO) was made to finance (a) reconstruction of
the remaining sections of the Western Highway and paving over its full length;
and (b) feasibility studies for feeder roads and for the Tegucigalpa-Juticalpa
road (the main road leading to the fertile Olancho region). Feasibility
1/   Ten-Year Highway Program for Honduras; Stanford Research Institute,
1962.



- 2 -
studLes were completed in 1970, and reconstruction and paving works were
completed in 1972. The total amount of highway loans and credits provided
by the Bank Group has thus totaled US$36.8 million equivalent.
1.05      The Bank has also made two port loans to Honduras:  Loan 463-HO, in
1966, financed the expansion of Puerto Cortes; and Loan 767-HO, in 1971,
is fLnancing further improvement and expansion of Puerto Cortes as well as
the construction of a deepwater port at Henecan. Implementation of the latter
project is about 18 months behind schedule, mostly because of indecision on
the part of the previous Government regarding the best location for a deep-
wate r port on the Pacific coast; the new Government has decided to carry out
the construction of the Henecan port project.
1.06      In addition to the above-mentioned financing by the Bank Group,
Honduras has received external financing for highways from the Export-Import
Bank and USAID (US$13.0 million), from the Inter-American Development Bank
(IDB) (US$26.6 million) and from the Central American Bank for Economic
Integration (CABEI) (US$35.1 million); details are presented in Annex 1.
1.07      The proposed project is a further step in the expansion and improve-
ment of the highway and feeder road network; moreover, it will bring about
addiitional improvement in transport planning. The appraisal of the project
was based on economic and technical studies prepared by consultants Brown
and Root (BR), US, and Howard Humphreys, Keeble and Partners (HHK), UK; on
information provided by the Government; and on the findings of an appraisal
miss:ion, comprising Messrs. R. Paraud (Engineer) and B. Chatelin (Economist),
which visited Honduras in November/December 1972. The report has been
edited by Miss V. Foster.
2. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   General
2.01      Honduras, with an area of 115,200 km , is the second largest of the
five Central American countries. Its population has been growing at an
average of 3.4% per annum over the last 10 years, reaching 2.7 million in 1971.
2.02      The Gross National Product (GNP) has been increasing in real terms
by 5.6% per annum over the last decade, but the per capita GNP (US$290
equivalent in 1971) 1/ is still the lowest of the Central American countries;
the growth rate of GNP for 1972 has been estimated to be about 3.5%. Honduras
presently faces some urgent economic problems because of a combination of
adverse factors, including hurricane damage to the banana plantations and
the consequences of the short war with El Salvador in mid-1969.
1/   Calculated using World Atlas methodology.



-3-
B.   The Transport Modes
2.03      Transport facilities are mainly concentrated in the western half
of the country and along the north coast where the population is dense. The
four paved roads, San Lorenzo-Tegucigalpa-Puerto Cortes (the main north-south
road), San Pedro Sula-Ocotopeque (to the El Salvador border), San Pedro Sula-
La Ceiba (along the north coast) and the Inter-American Highway (in the
extreme south), constitute the main highway network. Railways run along
the Atlantic coast between Puerto Cortes and Sonaguera. In general, the
rugged nature of the topography makes construction and maintenance of the
land transport system difficult and expensive.
2.04      In 1971, more than 86% of all freight traffic (in tons) was carried
by road, 11% by rail and less than 3% by air. Highways clearly constitute
the most important transport mode, but the railways are the most specialized.
The relative importance of roads is even greater when passenger traffic is
considered (road, 96.6%; railway, 0.6%; and air, 2.8%).
Highways
2.05      The highway system is described in detail in Chapter 3.
Railways
2.06      Honduras has three railway lines totaling about 1,200 km, all located
on the north coast near the ports and serving a very small area. Two of the
lines (about 1,040 km) are owned by private companies and are used primarily
for shipping bananas. The third (San Pedro Sula-Puerto Cortes, 160 km),
owned and operated by the Government since 1958, carries about 500,000 tons
of freight and about 100,000 passengers annually. It is one of the few
railways in the world that operates at a profit.
Air Transport
2.07      Until recently, air services played a vital role in the development
of the country, providing transport for many remote areas. Three private
companies, owning 24 aircraft and providing national and international serv-
ices, carried about 340,000 passengers and 15,000 tons of freight in 1971.
As a result of the recent improvement of the highway system, however, domestic
air service has been withdrawn in many areas (e.g., along the Western Highway);
nevertheless, air traffic, especially for passengers, has been steadily
increasing. The bulk of the traffic moves within the triangular area between
Tegucigalpa (the capital city), San Pedro Sula (the country's main industrial
center) and La Ceiba.
Ports
2.08      Over 90% of the country's international trade is handled by the
ports, and the Government attaches high priority to their development. Puerto



- 4 -
Cortes, on the north coast, is the principal port with a total traffic ex-
ceeding 2 million tons per annum. It handles about half of the total banana
exports, while the two other specialized ports east of Cortes, Tela and La
Ceiba (also on the north coast), handle the remainder. Amapala, on the is-
land of El Tigre, and El Muerto are the only accessible anchorages on the
Pacific coast for ocean-going ships; they are lighterage ports and cargoes
are hnauled by barges to and from San Lorenzo on the mainland. About 120,000
tons of lumber, representing two-thirds of the total traffic through the
port, are exported annually through Amapala-San Lorenzo-El Muerto.
C.   Transport Policy and Coordination
2.09       The policy of the new Government (which came into power in December
1972) is to attach top priority to agricultural development; it intends to
focus the highway program on feeder road construction to support that policy.
The Government, nevertheless, proposes to proceed with reconstruction of the
Tegucigalpa-Juticalpa road (part of which is included in the project) since
that iLs one of the few major road sections yet to be reconstructed, and
since it would have a significant impact on forestry development and land
colonization in the area east of Juticalpa.
2.10      Modal competition is not a serious problem in Honduras because the
railway serves only a very small part of the country and neither coastal ship-
ping nor inland water transportation is of any significance. As in other de-
veloping countries with rugged terrain, air transport opened up some difficult-
to-reach areas but these are now being economically served by roads and the
air services have been withdrawn (para. 2.07). Internal air services still
serve cities and toxns which are also served by road (e.g., Tegucigalpa and
San Pedro Sula), but each mode caters to a different segment of the market
and there is no uneconomic competition.
2.11      Even where competition exists between modes, there is no regulation
of traffi'c; users are free to select the mode of transport best suited for
their needs. The importation of trucks and entry into the road transport
industry are unrestricted.
2.12      The transportation investment program is planned by the Secretaria
Tecnica del Consejo Superior de Planificacion Economica (STP) 1/ after dis-
cussions with the Planning Unit 2/ of the Secretaria de Comunicaciones, Obras
Publicas y Transportes (SCOPT) 3/ and the Port Authority. A Six-Year Trans-
port Investment Program (1972-1977) was prepared in 1972 and is now under
1/   Technical Secretariat of the High Council for Economic Planning.
2/   Created by the Government following agreements reached in connection
with Loans 400-HO and 495-HO.
3/   Secretariat for Communications, Public Works and Transport.



- 5 -
review by the new Government; it follows the recommendations of the Stanford
Research Institute study (para. 1.03). With a total of about L 290 million
(US$145 million equivalent, Table 1), this Program will represent around
26.5% of the total public investment. About 72.5% of the Program would need
external financing. A major portion of the proposed investment will be de-
voted to road improvement (about 80%).
2.13      This Six-Year Transport Investment Program is not supported by an
economic evaluation, but it contains much information which could be useful
for additional transport studies. Staff in both the Transport Department of
the STP and the Planning Unit of the SCOPT lack planning experience and have
little basic material with which to work. To remedy these shortcomings, the
proposed project includes the financing of technical assistance to strengthen
transport planning through the services of a traffic engineer and a transport
economist for about one year; these specialists will assist the Government in
the establishment of an adequate transport data collection system and will
train local counterparts.
3.  THE HIGIWAYS
A.   The Highway Network
3.01      Significant road development in Honduras started only in the mid-
1950's; by 1960, there were about 3,230 km of roads, out of which only 110 km
were paved. Major efforts were made during the last decade to extend and im-
prove the highway network; however, while there are road connections between
the major population centers, some parts of the country, mainly in the east
and northeast, have no roads. The present road network comprises about 5,590
km, about 1,170 of which are paved (Table 2).
B.   Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic
3.02      Road transport has expanded rapidly in the last 10 years, and the
vehicle fleet has been increasing. by about 11% per annum, reaching some
31,000 vehicles in 1971 (Table 3). The fleet is mainly concentrated around
the two main cities (Tegucigalpa - 48%, and San Pedro Sula - 12%). Vehicle
density, 11 vehicles per 1,000 inhabitants, is the lowest in Central America.
Overall the fleet can absorb the transport demands, although locally there
may be surpluses and shortages of truck capacity, since many truckers are
reluctant to work on itineraries which do not allow them to run to the main
cities of Tegucigalpa and San Pedro Sula.
3.03      Road transport is largely in the hands of individual owner-drivers
and competition among them is keen. To reduce this competition, the Director-
ate General for Transport, recently created within the SCOPT, has drafted a
law to regulate truckers.  The main objectives of this law will be:



- 6 -
(a)  to regulate the highway transport industry; and
(b)  to adjust the number of licenses to the prevailing needs, as-
signing specific routes to each truck, in order to transfer
some trucks from roads where the supply exceeds the demand to
other roads where the demand is presently in excess.
This law was under discussion in Congress when the new Government took over
in December 1972 and it is expected that it will be considered in the near
future. The proposed law includes desirable safety regulations, but its
intention to regulate traffic through road licenses is controversial. During
negotiations, it was emphasized to the Government that such a law might hamper
the development of a competitive transport system. The Government intends to
request the Bank's technical assistance with regard to this problem; such as-
sistance would comprise, inter alia, the organization of a seminar in Tegucigalpa
on the subject.
3.04      On the Inter-American Hlighway, average daily traffic (ADT) is cur-
rently atbout 350, and on the other three major paved roads (para. 2.03), ADT
is in the range of 1,000-3,000. On the Tegucigalpa-Juticalpa road, ADT is of
the order of 500; elsewhere on the country's road network, ADTs are rarely
above 15CI. Traffic counts in the past were infrequent and the results are
of doubtful value (para. 3.05); hence, a rational determination of traffic
growth on this basis is difficult. A more dependable basis can be established
from the records for fuel consumption (Table 4), which show that consumption
of both gasoline and diesel oil over the period 1963-1972 has been increasing
at about 5% per annum.  The rate of growth of traffic can therefore be esti-
mated at about 5% per annum.
C.   Highway Planning and Financing
3.05      The highway investment program is prepared by STP, after discussion
with the planning unit of SCOPT, for approval by the Government; SCOPT is re-
sponsible for its execution. '.lajor planning obstacles are still the absence
of a transport data collection system and a suitable basis for evaluating
these data.  I)espite the efforts made under previous Bank-financed highway
projects, traffic data are not collected regularly by SCOPT: however, consul-
tants have recently been carrying out traffic counts for feasibility studies
and other purposes. The location of the counting stations and the period when
the counts are taken vary considerably from year to year so that the compari-
son of traffic data over several years would not lead to meaningful conclu-
sions. A road inventory carried out by the consultants BR in 1970 should be
updated. The technical assistance to be provided under the proposed project
for transport planning (para. 2.13) would review the highway element of the
Six-Year Transport Investment Program (para. 2.12) which envisages paving of
about 460 km of roads and improvement of a further 1,500 km for a total amount
of about US$115 million, without any obvious economic justification.  The tech-
nical assistance will also take part in data collection and evaluation, and in
updating the road inventory.



3.06      Highway expenditures are financed from budgetary sources; details
of such expenditures over the period 1965-1971 are given in Table 5.  About
75% of highway investment has been financed from external sources and the
Bank has participated in about 30% of this external financing.
3.07      Highway revenues from road users currently total about L 15 million
(US$7.5 million, Table 6). This iLs less than present total expenditure on
highways, but appreciably exceeds expenditure on administration and mainte-
nance alone. Even allowing for a desirable increase in maintenance alloca-
tions (para. 3.16) and for the fact that some of the revenue from road users
is utilized for urban purposes, the remainder would still cover the total of
highway maintenance and administration expenditure for the rural network.
3.08      Revenues from road-user charges are not earmarked for roads, however,
and the Governnient has some difficulty in finding funds for adequate road main-
tenance (para. 3.17). Although tlhe level of road-user charges is considered
acceptable from the point of view of promoting efficient use of transport
facilities, further consideration needs to be given to increasing these charges,
taking into account the country's fiscal problems.
D.   Highway Administration
3.09      The Direccion General de Caminos (DGC) 1/ within the SCOPT (Chart I)
is responsible for planning and constructing all roads in the country. DGC's
organization (Chart II) comprises departments for planning, administration,
engineering, materials and research, and construction. Until the recent
change in Government (December 1972), the responsibility for maintaining the
road network was entrusted to a seaparate department within SCOPT, reporting
to the Under-Secretary of Public Works and to DGC as well. To define respon-
sibilities more clearly than previously, the new Government created, within
the same Secretariat, the Direccion General de Mantenimiento (DGM) 2/ (Chart
III). This clear division of responsibility is intended to increase effi-
ciency in maintenance operations.
3.10      Under Loan 400-HO (Febrlary 1965), the Government agreed to carry
out a number of important reforms in highway administration, such as improve-
ment of road maintenance practices and cost accounting procedures, strengthen-
ing of the planning unit, enforceiment of traffic regulations, and institution
of a civil service system of professional staff to ensure stability and
continuity in highwav operations. Some progress has been made on most of
these reforms, although the low salary scales and the established procedure
of removing most of the high officials from office with every Government
change hamper the creation of a strong civil service.
1/   General Directorate for Highways.
2/   General Directorate for Maintenance.



- 8 -
3.11      In June 1958, Honduras signed the Central American Agreement on
Highway Traffic, which was intended to regulate traffic in all five Central
American countries. The load limits and dimensions prescribed in this agree-
ment were set according to the normal practice (legal axle limit, eight tons);
discussions are currently being held among the Central American countries to
update the agreement. Early in 1969, the Government issued a new law of Land
CommurLications which, unfortunately, did not indicate limits for vehicle
weights and dimensions; it stated only that a special transit permit would
be required when vehicle weights and dimensions exceeded highway specifica-
tions, and established fines for infractions.
3.12      According to surveys carried out by the consultants BR and HHK,
about 70% of the trucks are presently overloaded. The Government is aware
of the problem and has obtained a loan from CABEI (No. FCIE-30) amounting
to US$475i,000 which provides, inter alia, for the financin2 of a network
of weipht: control stations.  The newly created Directorate General of Trans-
port intends to enforce regulations starting in early 1974. The IDB mainte-
nance loan (Annex 2) will also assist in establishing a network of weight
control stations. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the
regulations on vehicle axle limits will be enforced.
E.   Highway Engineering
3.13      DGC undertakes design work on a limited scale for minor improve-
ment works or for some feeder roads. Nevertheless, it is desirable to im-
prove the technical expertise of its staff, and the proposed project provides
for training of highway engineers and technicians (para 4.09).
3.14      DGC has a set of geometric design standards for road construction
which takes terrain and traffic into account. The standards follow generally
accepted engineering practices and can be applied to suit specific conditions.
They have been coordinated with the standards agreed upon for the five Central
American countries. INhen major construction is to be carried out, as in the
case of the present project, the consultants are asked to develop specific
design standards.
F.   Highway Construction
3.15      Construction of major modern highways started in 1957 with the
Inter-American Highway, financed by the Export-Import Bank, and continued
thereafter with external financial assistance. Construction is generally
carried out under unit price contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding. There are about six local firms capable of executing small or
medium scale construction works and, for recent bids, most of these firms
have been associated with foreign contractors. As a result, there are about
four foreign/local joint ventures with permanent offices in Honduras, which
normaLly submit bids for major construction works. Recent uneven budgetary
allocations and the uneven flow of foreign financing for highway construc-
tion have led to uncertainties and idle periods for the contracting firms,
jeopardizing the possibilities of creating a stronger contracting industry.



- 9 -
There are about 20 small firms specializing in drainage structures and minor
earthworks which are periodically engaged by DGC. DGC also undertakes small
scale betterment works by force account. Government-financed highway work is
normally supervised by DGC staff whereas foreign-financed construction works
are supervised by consultants.
G.   Highway Maintenance
3.16      Routine maintenance is carried out by force account through seven
maintenance districts. The control of maintenance operations has been re-
cently taken over by the DGM (para. 3.09). Each district has its own tech-
nical and administrative staff, equipment, workshops and service facilities.
The technical expertise and equipment of the highway maintenance organiza-
tion have been materially strengthened with financial assistance from the
Bank/IDA (Loan 135-HO and Credit 1-HO) but, despite Government undertakings
in connection with previous Bank Group lending, maintenance has recently
deteriorated because of a shortage of budgetary allocations for routine
operations and for replacement of wornout equipment. Budgetary allocations
for maintenance have been rather erratic (Table 5) and, according to SCOPT's
estimates, future allocations should be substantially increased in order to
cover deferred and routine maintenance.
3.17      In 1971, IDB made a loan to Honduras amounting to US$6.3 million,
which included about US$2.6 million for the financing of (a) consulting serv-
ices to study means for improvement in the maintenance operations at SCOPT
and (b) the purchase of maintenance, workshop and weight control equipment
(details are given in Annex 2). Consultants for (a) have been selected and
it is expected that, if SCOPT allocates the necessary counterpart funds, this
IDB project will effect a substantial improvement of highway maintenance in
Honduras.  The consultants' study may take about three years, and then a fur-
ther period would be required for implementation; during negotiations, there-
fore, the Bank stressed to the Government the need for increases of the main-
tenance budgetary allocations in the period pending implementation of the
IDB study. The amounts to be allocated in 1974 and 1975 (L 5.5 and 6.0 mil-
lion respectively), which were determined during negotiations, would cover only
part of the needs for routine and deferred maintenance, but the Government has
indicated that it considers the agreed amounts as a minimum and intends to
allocate additional funds for maintenance.
4. IHE PROJECT
A.   General Description
4.01      The project consists of:
(i) construction of a new paved primary road between Tegucigalpa and
Talanga (about 55 km);
(ii)  reconstruction of a secondary road between Comayagua and La
Libertad (about 45 km);



- 10 -
(iii) construction of a 200 m long bridge over the Ulua River;
(iv)  improvement of about 80 km of feeder roads;
(v)  consulting services for:
(a) supervision of (i) through (iv);
(b) engineering studies for items (ii), (iii) and 45 km of (iv);
(c) feasibility studies and, if practicable, detailed engineering
of about 330 km of feeder roads; and
(d) technical assistance for transport planning.
('i) a training program abroad for highway engineers, supervisors
and technicians.
The project is expected to take about three years.
Construction of the Tegucigalpa-Talanga Road
4.02      The existing Tegucigalpa-Talanga road (55 km), which is the first
section of the main route between Tegucigalpa and Juticalpa (175 km), serving
the rich Olancho region, is located in difficult terrain on the south side of
the Choluteca valley. It is poorly aligned, narrow and unpaved, and driving
is hazardous. The road is not suitable even for present traffic, and Govern-
ment has allocated high priority within its highway investment program for
reconstruction of this Tegucigalpa-Talanga section. The feasibility of re-
constructing this section was considered in the whole Tegucigalpa-Juticalpa
road feasibility study which was financed under Loan 495-HO. The study in-
dicated inter alia that a new road between Tegucigalpa and Talanga on the
north side of the Choluteca vallev was technically and economically feasible,
and the detailed engineering for its construction, proposed for inclusion in
this project. was recently carried out by the consultants HHK, financed by
CABEI and the UK Government. The new road (also about 55 km in length) is
in equally difficult terrain (all the country east of Tegucigalpa is moun-
tainous) but has the advantage of opening up the other side of the valley.
The standards to which the new road has been designed are acceptable and
are indicated in Table 7. The nature of the terrain -- much of the road
will be in rock excavation - is such that labor-intensive techniques would
not be appronriate; therefore, for this road, in spite of an unemployment
rate of about 7%, the Government does not favor substitution of labor for
equipment, because of a substantially longer construction period, higher
financial costs and lower quality of work. The design has, therefore, been
based on normal equipment usage.
4.03      The new Tegucigalpa-Talanga road starts from a suburban avenue,
located on the outskirts of the city of Tegucigalpa, which has been paved to
a point about 800 m distant from the starting point of the new road; the last



- 11 - 
stretch of this avenue is dangerous and should be improved and paved. Agree-
ment was reached during negotiations that the Government will construct and
pave this 800 m section before completion of the new Tegucigalpa-Talanga road
and will connect it with the interchange to be provided under the proposed
project.
Reconstruction of the Comayagua-La Libertad Road (about 45 kIn) and
Construction of a 200 m :Long Bridge over the Ulua River
4.04      The Comayagua-La Libertad road serves a potentially rich area, ad-
jacent to the North road, but development is hampered because of high trans-
port costs resulting from the inadequacy of the alignment and the width of
the road, as well as the lack of a drainage system adequate to ensure traffic
all year round (paras. 5.12 and 5.13). The upgraded gravel road will even-
tually become part of the secondary highway system. The bridge proposed for
construction is located on the La Ceibita-San Nicolas feeder road, which it-
self is to be reconstructed under the proposed project (Table 8). Its con-
struction will ensure year-round traffic between two important regions of
the country (para. 5.14).
4.05      The improvement of the road and the construction of the bridge were
proven technically and economicaLly feasible by the consultants BR, and the
proposed project includes both the detailed engineering and the construction.
It is estimated that detailed engineering would be prepared in a six-month
period and construction could start immediately thereafter. The possibility
of including only the detailed engineering in the proposed project and post-
poning the financing of construction until a possible further highway loan
is made to Honduras (say, in about two years' time) was considered and found
to be inadequate, since only a few months would be required for detailed en-
gineering preparation and it would be unreasonable to postpone construction
for a long period, thus delaying unnecessarily the development of potentially
rich areas of the country.  However, the feasibility of constructing the road
and the bridge will be reviewed in the light of final cost estimates, and the
corresponding loan amounts will be cancelled if the feasibility is not con-
firmed. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the reconstruction
of the secondary road and the construction of the bridge will be carried out
only after their economic feasibility has been confirmed.
Improvement of about 80 km of Feeder Roads
4.06      The few origin/destination surveys already performed in the country
show that the traffic on the main roads is mwstly between the large cities,
with very little local traffic feeding in. The Government is aware of the
problem and has asked that the proposed project include provision for improve-
ment of about 80 km of feeder roads scattered in various regions of the coun-
try (Table 8). The feasibility of improving these roads has already been
demonstrated by the consultants BR. The project, therefore, includes this
improvement work and provides for the engineering of 45 km (the remaining
35 km are being engineered with SCOPT financing). Since the roads would be
constructed to relatively low standards, the normal level of detailed engineer-
ing would be too expensive and inappropriate; following a Government request,



- 12 -
the project provides for a "light" engineering preparation, which would pro-
vide a. reasonable estimate of average cost per km and a suitable basis for
preparation of contract documents.
Consulting Services
4.07      The proposed project provides for the financing of feasibility and
engineering studies for 14 feeder roads totaling about 330 km (Table 9). All
of these roads are along the Tegucigalpa-Juticalpa route and, when constructed,
would contribute to the development of the region served by the main route.
According to the importance of the areas to be served, and considering that
some of the proposed roads may become a part of the secondary highway system,
the engineering of the feeder roads will be carried out as follows:
(a)  for nine roads totaling about 140 km, engineering would be
"light", as explained in paragraph 4.06 preceding; and
(b)  for five roads totaling about 190 km, normal detailed engineering
would be prepared.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that engineering for the feeder
roads will not be undertaken until their economic feasibility has been
demonstrated.
4.08      The proposed project also provides consulting services for supervi-
sion of all construction and reconstruction works. The preparation of detailed
engineering for the secondary road and for the bridge (paras. 4.04 and 4.05)
is included. Since feasiblity studies have already been completed for the
80 km of feeder roads to be improved (para. 4.06) and engineering for 35 km
is being financed by the SCOPT, the proposed project will provide only for the
engineering of the remaining 45 km. Feasibility studies and, if practicable,
engineering studies for about 330 km of feeder roads (the construction of
which could be financed by the Bank at a later date) are included. At Gov-
ernment Ts request, the proposed project will include technical assistance
for transport planning because of the lack of a proper data collection sys-
tem and the inexperience of the personnel (para. 2.13). This technical as-
sistance is expected to consist of the services of two experts for about one
year to aid the Government in improving its work. During negotiations, assur-
ances were obtained from the Government that the terms of reference for the
experts and the schedule for implementation of the technical assistance will
be satisfactorv to the Bank.
Training of Highway Personnel
4.09      To improve the efficiency of the highway personnel (para. 3.13), it
is proposed that a training program be established for highway supervisors and
technicians (equipment operators, mechanics, and road foremen) and engineers.
Such a program, for which US$150,000 is provided in the proposed project, would
cover areas such as design, construction and maintenance of highways, soils
and materials testing, operations and maintenance of equipment. Accordingly,



- 13 -
the SCOPT will prepare and send to the Bank, for its review and approval, a
training program, including: (a) program objectives; (b) number and types
of personnel to be trained; (c) training timetable and estimated man-months
for training experts required; and (d) estimated cost of training, showing
a breakdown of costs for training locally and abroad (if any). Although the
program envisages training for both technicians and engineers, the former
will receive first priority. It is expected that training of all technicians
will be carried out in Honduras by a firm which is expert in the training of
highway maintenance personnel. However, consideration will be given to the
training of some technicians (eqluipment operators and mechanics) to be con-
ducted in the Latin American region, e.g., the School of the Americas in
Panama. The training of engineers by training experts may also take place
in Honduras, or, alternatively, in other Latin American countries where ad-
vanced techniques are applied. In the latter case, the engineers would be
selected by SCOPT in agreement with the Bank and would be sent out in groups
of about five, so that the limited technical forces of the DGC and DGM would
not be seriously affected. The duration of training for each group is esti-
mated at about four to six months, although the exact program duration for
each trainee will be assessed after the selection of candidates.
B.   Cost Estimates, Financing and Disbursements
4.10      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$25.8 million, in-
cluding contingency allowances; the proposed loan will finance the estimated
foreign exchange component of US$18.8 million equivalent. A summary of
project costs is given on page 14 following.
4.11      The construction cost for the Tegucigalpa-Talanga road has been es-
timated by the consultants HHK on the basis of completed detailed engineering.
Construction costs for the Comayagua-La Libertad road, the bridge and the
80 km of feeder roads have been prepared by the consultants BR on the basis
of average costs per km of similar works, and are acceptable.  Costs for con-
sulting services have been estimated on the basis of costs for similar serv-
ices being carried out in Honduras. The costs for technical assistance items
have been estimated on the basis of man-months required for assistance to STP
and SCOPT.
4.12      A contingency allowance of 10% of the construction costs has been
included to allow for increases :in quantities. A further contingency of 11%
has been included for price esca]Lation of construction costs on the basis of
a 4% average annual increase for local expenses and 6% for foreign expenses,
from the time of bidding until completion of construction. The same percent-
age has been included for consulting services to cover possible cost increases
of these services during the project execution period. The above-mentioned
contingency allowances are considered adequate.
4.13      Although detailed engineering for the Tegucigalpa-Talanga road
has been satisfactorily completed and the unit prices used for the calcula-
tion of cost estimates appear reasonable, it is difficult to judge the re-
sponse of the market to bidding, and hence to estimate the general level of
bidding for this road, since no .Large contracts have recently been awarded
for major highway work. Two courses of action have been considered:



- 14 -
L Million         US$ Million Equivalent  % Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign   Total  Exchange
A. CiviL Works
(i)  Construction of the
Tegucigalpa-Talanga
Road (55 km)           6.80   20,60   27.40   3.40   10.30    13.70         75
(ii) Riconstruction of the
Comaya ua-La Libertad
Road (45 km)           0.80    2060    3.40   o.40    1,30       1.70       75
(iii) Construction of a 200
m bridge over the
TLua River             0.40    1,20    1.60   0.20    0,60       0,80       75
(iv) Improvement of about
80 km of Feeder Roads 100   100    2.00   0.50    0.50         1.00       50
Sub-Total         9.00   25.40   34.40   4.50   12.70    17,20         74
B.  Consilting Services for
(i)  Supervision of con-
struction of works
under A                1.28    1.92    3.20   o.64    o.96        1.60      60
(ii) Engineering studies
for items A (ii),
(iii) and 45 km of
(iv) above             0.16    0.24    0.40   o.08    0.12       0.20       60
iii) Feasibility studies
arid, if feasible,
de-tailed engineering
of about 330 km of
feeder roads           0940    0,80    1.20   0,20    0.40       0,60       60
(iv) Tebchnical assistance
for transport            -     0.20    0.20      -     0.10    010        100
pLanning               -
Sub-Total         1.84    3.16   5.00   0.92    1.58        2,50
C Trainiirg Program
for Xi gineers,_Supervisors
and Technricians            -     0,30    0,30      _      0115     0.15      100
D. Contingencies
(i)  Physical (about 10  of
A'l                    0,90    2.54    3.44   0.45    1.27       1,72
(ii) Price escalation (about
11% of A and B)        1.20    3014    4,34   0.60    1,57       2.17
(iii) Special 1/ (about 15%     .
of A (i)               1.06    3.06    4.12   0.53    1.53       2.06
Sub-Total        3.16    8.74   11,90   1.58    4e37        5.95       74
GRAND TOTAL     14.00   37.60   51.60   7.00   18*80    25.80          73
2/ See para, 4.13.



- 15 -
(a) to await bids (early July 1973) before processing the project;
(b) to proceed with the project on the normal schedule (which would
imply presentation of the project to the Board prior to receipt
of bids), but to provide a specific contingency against unex-
pectedly high bidding in order to avoid the possibility of an
intolerable strain on the Government's financial resources
during the construction period.
The Government prefers the latter course, since it wishes to press ahead with
construction of this road, which has important developmental Implications,
and wishes to have finance assured. It was considered that the risk of the
bids being very high was not so great as to warrant the course of action men-
tioned in (a) above being adopted; hence, the course of action in (b) above
was adopted by adding a special contingency of 15% to the estimated cost of
the road. This bidding contingency will be cancelled if the lowest evaluated
bid is below the cost estimate (excluding quantity and price contingencies)
and will be cancelled pro rata if the bid is in excess of that figure. This
procedure was discussed and agreed during negotiations.
4.14      The foreign exchange component for the construction of the Teguci-
galpa-Talanga road has been estimated at 75%, based on the assumption that
construction would be carried out by foreign firms in joint venture with
local firms or in subcontracting part of the works to local firms. The
high foreign exchange is an indication of the general lack of construction
resources within the country and the high proportion of equipment cost in
the works (particularly the heavy earthworks and rock excavation). For works
under Loan 495-IO (1967), the foreign exchange component was estimated at
70%; the proposed increase to 75% for the present project reflects the heavy
input of equipment required to excavate significant amounts of rock. For the
feeder road construction, the foreign exchange component has been estimated
at 50%, assuming that construction will be more labor-intensive and will be
carried out by local firms. The foreign exchange component for consulting
services (supervision of construction, feasibility and engineering studies)
has been estimated on the basis of past experience in Honduras when these
services were provided by foreign firms, with some participation of local
firms. It is possible that, as a result of the recent development of the
local consulting industrv, the foreign exchange component of these joint
ventures will be lower than the lestimated 60%. During negotiations, how-
ever, the Government requested, and the Bank agreed, that the Bank would
maintain its 60% participation, even if this implied some local cost fi-
nancing (estimated to be up to US$0.4 million). This arrangement would encour-
age Honduras' infant consulting industry.
4.15      The Government has invited for prequalification of contractors and
intends to issue the invitations to bid before loan signature. Since consul-
tant services are required for assisting the Government in carrving out these
tasks as well as in analyzing the bids, retroactive financing will be required
in an amount of about US$50,000.
4.16      The proposed loan will finance all foreign exchange costs of the
project and possibly a small amount of local currency for consulting ser-
vices (para. 4.14). Local costs will be met by Government from budgetary



- 16 -
allocations. The financial situation of the country has been strained re-
cently, and payments to contractors have been delayed. However, the amounts
of road user charges collected during the recent years are increasing (Table
6). The local counterpart funds needed for the proposed project roads are
high compared to past yearly expenditures for the transport sector (about
L 14.0 million for three years). However, the Government considers this
project of the highest priority and will allocate the needed resources to
carry it out. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Gov-
ernment that adequate funds will be provided to meet local costs.
4.17      Disbursements will be made on the following basis:  (a) 74% of ex-
penditures for civil works contracts (which represents the estimated foreign
exchange component); (b) 60% of total expenditures for consulting services;
and (c) 100% of foreign expenditures for the technical assistance for trans-
port planning and for the training program. Based on this and on the proposed
project execution schedule, an estimated schedule of disbursements has been
prepared (Annex 3). Surplus funds remaining in the loan account on comple-
tion of the project would be cancelled.
C.   Execution
4.18      Execution of the project will be the responsiblity of SCOPT through
DGC and DGM (for all construction, studies and training). Technical assis-
tance for planning will be under the responsibility of STP and SCOPT.
4.19      Consulting services under the project will be provided by consul-
tants on terms satisfactory to the Bank. The Government intends to retain
the consultants HHK for assistance in prequalification of contractors and
evaluation of bids as well as for supervision of construction of the
Tegucigalpa-Talanga road; this will be acceptable. For the supervision of
the secondary and feeder road works and the bridge construction, as well as
for the engineering studies for the remaining 45 km of feeder roads (para.
4.06) and the feasibility and engineering studies for the additional 330 km
of feeder roads (para. 4.07), the Government intends to retain the services
of at least two consulting firms, BR and another firm established in Honduras.
The terms of reference for consulting services were agreed during negotiations,
and SCOPT will submit proposals to the Bank detailing the services to be pro-
vided by each firm.
4.20      For the Tegucigalpa-Talanga Road, there will be international com-
petitive bidding. SCOPT proposes to divide the work into two unit-price con-
tracts (about US$7.0 million and 27 km each) which would be attractive both
to joint ventures of local and foreign firms (para. 3.15) already established
in the country and to foreign firms not yet established. The rough topography
and the difficult access from the existing road to the center line of the new
road make it impracticable to open many workfronts and, hence, to subdivide
the work further. Prequalified bidders will submit bids for each of the two
sections separately or as a package for both sections. The bidding and con-
tracting procedures for this were discussed and agreed during negotiations.



-- 17 -
4.21      Bidding for reconstruction of the bridge and for improvement of the
secondary and feeder roads (both of which will also be on a competitive unit
price basis) will be advertised 'Locally only; this will not, of course, ex-
clude participation by foreign firms. Bids for fieeder roads would also be
"packaged" as far as practicable.  The procurement procedures for carrying
out the above-mentioned construction works were also agreed during negotia-
tions.
4.22      No delays are foreseen in acquisition of right-of-way.  Civil works
are expected to start by the fourth quarter of 1973 and to be completed by
the fourth quarter of 1976. Reporting requirements and the schedule for
project execution were discussed during negotiations.
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   General
5.01      Except for a few sections, the main highway network, if properly
maintained, would be able to absorb the present transport demand. Neverthe-
less, SCOPT is faced with three major problems:
(a) Some gravel roads with very heavy traffic and in very poor
condition must be improved and eventually paved;
(b) the main highway network must be completed with an adequate
feeder road system to facilitate agricultural development;
(c) large parts of the country (mainly the northeast) are still
virgin, and road construction should be included in the general
development program for these regions.
5.02      With more than 460 vehlicles per day, the Tegucigalpa-Juticalpa
road has the highest priority among the gravel roads to be improved.  Th.is
road crosses the richest wooded area in Honduras and links the capital,
Tegucigalpa, to the very fertile Olancho region located near Juticalpa.
Together with the Juticalpa-Puerto Castilla road (a feasibility study of
which is now under way), it will provide an additional link between the
capital and the north coast and will open up part of the virgin northeast.
The construction of the first section of this Tegucigalpa-Talanga road con-
stitutes the main element of the proposed project. The financing of the
second section, up to Juticalpa, may be considered for a future Bank high-
way loan.
5.03      SCOPT, aware of the problem created by the insufficiency of the
feeder road system, has carried out a study with the consultants BR, consid-
ering about 2,000 km of secondary and feeder roads all over the country. The
proposed project will provide financing for improvement of about 45 km of sec-
ondary roads and about 80 km of feeder roads and construction of a 200 m
bridge. This program has been selected from the 2,000 km of roads recently
studied on the basis of their traffic.



- 18 -
5.04      Construction of the Tegucigalpa-Talanga road and construction and
improvement of the 125 km of secondary road and feeder roads and the bridge
represent about 95% of the proposed project cost.
B.   Construction of the Tegucigalpa-Talanga Road
5.05      With more than 600 curves in its 55 km, the Tegucigalpa-Talanga
road is very difficult. In 1971, the 26 sawmills in the area served by the
road produced about 35% of Hondurastlumber production, and the road, which
is not paved, is no longer adequate for neavy traffic. A traffic count
carried out by consultants HHK in 1971 on the Tegucigalpa-Talanga road showed
an ADT of about 600 vehicles. Tlhis figure seems over-estimated; the traffic
count carried out by the SCOPT during appraisal showed an ADT of about 460
vehicles, 54% being heavy vehicles.  This last traffic count has been used
in the economic evaluation. No previous traffic counts are available for
this section. Since 85% of the heavy traffic is carrying lumber, it is
estimated that the total traffic has been increasing at the same annual
rate of growth as that of lumber production (about 5%).
5.06      The proposed construction of the Tegucigalpa-Talanga road will be
a paved road, with a fully engineered alignment, but on the other side of the
Choluteca valley from the existing road (para. 4.02). By reducing the vehicle
operating costs substantially, this new road will generate traffic which is
estimated at 20% of the total traffic (assuming a low elasticity of about
0.35 between generated traffic and reduction of vehicle operating costs).
Since the new road will not follow the location of the present road, it has
been estimated that about 10%. of the total traffic will remain on the present
road to serve existing villages. With normal maintenance, the present road
will be able to bear the very limited local traffic.
5.07      The consultants, assuming that the two sections of the Tegucigalpa-
Talanga-Juticalpa road would be opened at the same time, forecast an average
traffic increase of 9% per year; however, this will not be the case. After
opening of the first section (Tegucigalpa-Talanga), the traffic will not in-
crease at such a rate, since no important agricultural development can be ex-
pected along thnis section. It is estimated that the traffic will increase by
7' per year during the first five years after opening of the project road, and
by 10'% per annum during the following five years, assuming that the Talanga-
Juticalpa section would then be open. 1/  The rate of growth is assumed to
be 7%0 for the last 10 years of the economic life of the project road. The
remaining local traffic on the existing road is expected to increase by 5%
per year as in the past (Table 10).
5.08      The proposed project includes construction of the first section,
Tegucigalpa-Talanga, of the road to Juticalpa; this road will play a major
1/   Assuming an annual traffic increase of only 7% per year during the 30
years of the project (in the eventuality of any delay in the construc-
tion of the Talanga-Juticalpa section), the economic return will be
reduced by only about 0.5% (para. 5.10).



-- 19 -
role in the development of the country. On the highways financed by previous
Bank loans, the benefits resulting from savings in vehicle operating costs
have been largely transferred to the users by means of a reduction in the
rates charged by truck and bus operators (by about 30% on the Western High-
way and 50% on the North road).  The opening of the new road, by reducing
vehicle operating costs, would lead to substantial reductions in rates and
would increase the competitiveness of agricultural production in the area
traversed by the road.
5.09      The fact that agriculture is presently limited to relatively small
areas of mountainous terrain in various parts of the country is responsible
for the low productivity in the agricultural sector. More intensive use of
the potentially productive valley lands is a most urgent need in the develop-
ing of Honduran agriculture, and the new Government is considering coloniza-
tion schemes to help remedy this problem. There are numerous areas where
agricultural production could be increased. The Olancho region (adjacent
to Juticalpa) is one of the most fertile; it is one of the nearest to the
capital city and the Government owns a large part of it. The agricultural
development of this region would largely satisfy the increasing demand for
basic products (such as maize, rice and sugar) in Tegucigalpa. There is
considerable land suitable for cotton production and, if ginning and trans-
portation facilities in the Olancho region could be improved, production and
exports could rise substantially, given the stimulus of currently high world
prices. Land is also suitable for meat production. Cotton and meat are
among those products for which export can be substantially increased in order
to maintain the general economic growth of Honduras.
5.10      There will thus be major developmental benefits from the construc-
tion of the new Tegucigalpa-Talanga road. For the economic evaluation, the
readily quantifiable benefits only - reduced vehicle operating costs (includ-
ing time saving) and lower maintenance costs 1/ - have been considered. The
vehicle operating costs are abnormally high on the present road due to the
very bad riding conditions and poor geometry. The new road will reduce these
costs substantially by improving the riding surface, reducing the number of
curves and increasing the average speed. Details of the vehicle operating
costs are shown in Table 11. From a probability analysis, taking into
consideration factors having a significant degree of uncertainty (traffic
counts, traffic forecast, construction cost, vehicle operating costs and
time cost), it appears that the most likely economic return would be about
13% (giving a first year benefit/cost ratio of about 10%). Even by measuring
only the readily quantifiable benefits, the probability analysis shows that
the economic return will have a 75% probability of being higher than 10%.
Details of the probability profiles assumed in the calculations and the re-
sults are indicated graphically in Annex 4.
1/   Maintenance costs have been estimated by the consultant HHK at 2,000 +
0.67 (ADT) Lempiras per km on the new road and 600 + 8 (ADT) Lempiras
per km on the old one; these figures are acceptable.



- 20 -
5.11      The economic evaluation of the improved road does not take into
account (a) the possible eventual installation of a steel plant in Agalteca
near Talanga, which is now being considered by the Government; or (b) the
possible construction of an international airport near Talanga.
C.   Improvement of Secondary and Feeder Roads
5.12      The project includes improvement of one secondary road (45 km) and
five feeder roads (80 km) and construction of one bridge located on one of
the feeder roads (Table 8).  Thle proposed investment will consist of upgrad-
ing poor gravel or earth roads into all-weather roads by gravel surfacing and
small drainage works. The present ADT on the roads selected ranges from 100
to 273. By their developmental effect, these roads will generate important
traffic; however, since very little information is available on the past
traffic growth, the future traffic is assumed to increase at the same rate
as the annual average increase of the total traffic in Honduras measured by
the increase in fuel consumption - about 5% per year (para. 3.04 and Table 4).
5.13      The improved roads will stimulate colonization and development in
the area by providing all-weather roads and by reducing transport costs.  The
small farms along the roads will increase production, with the possibility of
enter:Lng the national market.  The project will benefit about 150,000 inhab-
itants (6% of the total population). Even measuring only readily quantifiable
benef:its based on vehicle operating costs (see detail in Table 3) resulting
from the Droposed road work (these discounted over eight years for the feeder
roads and 15 years for the secondary road), the economic returns range from
10% to 42% (19% for the program as a whole), and are high enough to justify
the proposed work.
5.14      The 200 m bridge to be built over the Ulua river on the La Ceibita-
San INicolas road w4ill provide an all-year-round exit for agricultural products
in the areas between the Ulua river and the Atima mountains. Presently, the
road is closed about half of the year for lack of a bridge.  The benefit from
the bridge construction tias been computed by taking into consideration only
the generated traffic and, by doing so, considering the developmental effect
of the bridge for tne area to be opened (about 200 sq kmi).  The generated
traffic ihas been estimated by the consultants BR to be approximately 200
vehicles per day. (Present traffic is about 120 vehicles per day.) The
economic return for the bridge construction is about 12% computed over 25
years.
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECO0,MNDATION
6.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on
the following:
(a) Enforcement of regulations on axle limits of vehicles
(para. 3.12);



21 -
(b)  Increase of budgetary allocations for highway maintenance
(para. 3.17);
(c)  Construction, including paving, of an 800 m section of road
within Tegucigalpa (para. 4.03);
(d)  Reconstruction of the secondary road and construction of the
bridge to be carried out only after their economic feasibility
has been confirmed (para. 4.05);
(e)  Engineering for the feeder roads not to be undertaken until
their economic feasibility has been demonstrated (para. 4.07);
(f) Terms of reference for ithe planning experts and the schedule
for implementation of the technical assistance to be satis-
factory to the Bank (para. 4.08);
(g)  Procedure for dealing with the special contingency allowance
of 15% of construction costs of the Tegucigalpa-Talanga road
(para. 4.13);
(h)  Provision of local costs for the project (para. 4.16);
(i)  Terms and procedures for retaining consultants (para. 4.19);
(j)  Procurement arrangements for civil works (paras. 4.20 and
4.21).
6.02      The proposed project provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan of
US$18.8 million for a term of 30 years, including a five-year grace period.
May 4, 1973






TABLE 1
HONDURAS
SIXTH HIGHWAY PRDJECT
Public Investment (Transportation)
(Leipiras-Millions)
ACTUAL:
Year       Highways       Ain2orts       National Railways      Ports     Total
1965          9.0            0,3                  0.1             -         9.4
1966          9.1            0,4                  0.8             -        10.3
1967         10.0            1.D2                 3.0             -        14,2
1968         21.1            1.3                  0.5            2.5       25,4
1969         32.0            1.2                  2.1            8.6       43.9
1970         44.9            1.7                 1.3             2,1       50,0
1971         42.6            0.2                1i1              1.2       45.1
1972
(Estimate) 25.8            3.5                 0.7             3.4       33.4
FORECAST: /
1973         37.0            2.5                 0,8             3.6       43.9
1974         38.3            4.0                10o             4.6       47.9
1975         41.6           14.1                 1.1             7.3       54.1
1976         41.1            5.4                 1.2             6.6       54.3
1977         43.6           15.3                 1.3             5.0       55,2
i/ 1972-1977 Transport Investment Program (para. 2.13).
Source: Secretar'a Tecnica del Consejo Superior de Planificacion Econ6mica -
December 1972.
January 1973



TABLE 2
HONDURAS
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Development of the Highway Network 1960-1971
(in kilometers)
YEAR            PAVE              GRAVEL             EARTH            TOTAL
196C'             110                     3,118                       3,229
1961              345                     3,,040                      3,385
1962              380                     3,025                       3,05
1963              380                     3,057                       3,437
1964              382              1,805            1,1408            3,595
1965              407              1,852            1,380             3s639
1966              407              1,928            1,713.            4,048
1967              416              1,978            1,955             4,349
1968              472              2,120            1,978             4,570
1969              622              2,102            2,004             4,728
1970              745              2,162            2,033             4,940
1971            1,168              2,988            1,433             5 ,589
Source:  SCOPT, December 1972
January 1973



TABLE 3
HONDURAS
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Vehicle Registration 1960-1971
1/
YEARS            TOTAL         CARS         BUSES         TRUCKS-      VARIOUS
1960              10,989       5,505         1,269         3,914        301
1961              11,338       5,680         1,334         4,001        323
1962              11,606       5,850         1,407         4,025        324
1963              14,329        7,476        1,661         4,881        311
1964              16,002        8,759        1,217         5,9o9       117
1965              18,797       10,273        1,526         6,682       316
1966              21,609       11,786        1,784         7,871       168
1967              22,570       12,042        1,704         8,784        30
1968              24,748       11,045        1,982        11,617       104
196              27,526       12,25h        2,198        12,950       125
1970              28,706       12,630        2,296        13,492       288
1971              30,733       13,765        2,066        14,755        28
1/  Including small pick-ups widely used in Honduras which for statistical
purposes are classified as trucks.
Source:  Direccion General de Estadisticas y Censos, December 1972.
January 1973



TABLE 4
HONDURAS
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Vehicle Fuel Consumption 1963-1972
(Thousand cubic meters)
Year             Gasoline               Diesel                Total
1963               15.6                   9.8                  25.4
1964               16.4                 10,2                   26.6
:1965              17,2                  10.7                  27.9
1L966              18.1                  11.3                  29.4
:L967              18.9                  11l5                  30.9
1L968              19.9                  12.4                  32.3
1969               209                  13.1                   34.0
J3970              21,9                  13.7                  3507
197:1              23.1                 14. 4                  37.5
1972 j             24.2                 15.1                   39.4
Annual Rate of Growth
1963-1972 - 5% (Both for gasoline and diesel).
!/ Estimated
Source: Consultants HHK and oil conpanies, December 1972.
January 1973



TABLE 5
HONDURAS
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Highway Expenditures 1965-1971
1,Lempiras-Millions)
Year      Studies   Construiction   Maintenance   Administration   Total
1965        1.3          7.7             4.3             3.6          16.9
1966        0.3          8.8             2.8            2.8           14.7
1967        1.3          8.'7            4.0             2.9          16.9
1968        2.1         19.(             3.1            2.9           27.1
1969        2.0         30.0            5.6             4.6           42.2
1970        1.7         43.2             3.8            2.3           51.0
1971         -          42.6             4.2            1.1           47.9
Source:  SCOPT, December 1972
January 1973



TABLE 6
HONDURAS
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road User Charges (thousands of Lempiras)
1969          270          1971
Registration of new vehicles              51.1          62.3         60.1
New Vehicle Sala Taxes                 1,569.7       1,844.9      1,84. 5
Die sel and Gasoline Taxes             4,657.7       8,744.6      9,700.0
Import Taxes                           1,523.1      1,833.7       1,845.7
Driving Licence                           57.6          82.6         88.3
AnnuLl Taxes on Vehicles               1,169.6      1,290.9       1,432.3
A=ium,a  "Tags!!                         188.3         208.5        240.6
Total                    9,217.1     14,067.5     15,208.5
Source: SCOPT - December 1972
JanuELry 1973



TABLE 7
HONDURAS
SIXTI HIGHWAY PROJECT
Design Standards for the Te2!cigalpa-Talnga Road
Type of Terrain
Design_Elements                   !Mountainous    Very Undulating   Undulating    Flat
Design Speed                  km.h       50                60            80         100
Min. passing sight distance  m.         350               425           550         675
Min. radius of curvature      m.         60               100           200         300
Maximum grade                 %           8%                6%            4%          4%
Platform width                m.      10.10             10.10         10.10       10.10
Pavement width                m.       7.30              7.30          7.30        7.30
Shoulder width                m.       1.40              1.40          1.40        1.40
Design loading of bridges                        AASH0         HS         20-44
Width of right-of-way         m.     50.00             50.00         50.00       50.00
Favement design                           Premix bituminous surfacing 5 cm. thick
Source:   Consultants and SCOPT - Decenmber 1972
January 1973



TABLE 8
HONDURAS
SIXTH HIGHWAY PHOJECT
Civil Works other than the Tegucigalpa-Talanga Road
Preliminary
Cost          Internal
Length      ADT       Estimates        Economic
km        1972       (Lempiras)      Heturn
A.  Comayagua--La Libertad            45.0        125      1,700,000           14 %
Secondary roa  -'.o be
recons tt ructed_/L
3.  Feeder roads t2/be
reconstructed -
1. Casa Quemada-Azacualpa         11.5       105         230,000           18 %
2. 9tisLern Highway-Quimistan-     7.0       269         150,000           42 %
Fina.La,j 
3. La Ceibita-San Nicclas         14.0       130         300,000           29 %
Lt. Tholutsca-Crocuina-Apacilagua 28.0       120         730,000           10 %
5. 2romaYagy1aa-La Paz            19-5       273         570,000           29 %
Sab-Total            80.0                 2,000,000
ZO0  m long, Bridge over the                             800,000           12 %
ulua River to be constryuted
(along road B 3 above) 
TOTALS            125.0                 4,500,000
1/ Detailed engineering to be prepared.
2/ "Light"' engineering to be prepared (para. 4.06).
Vehicle Operating Cost on the Above Roads
Without improvement                with Improvement
Average    Cost in centavos  Average        Cost in centavos
Speed      pa. -ehicle km    Speed          per vehicle km
per km                        per km
Private cars               48             14.0           56                  9.0
Buses                      32              26.7          56                 15.0
Trucks                     24             49.1           32                 30.0
Source:  Consultants BR, SCOPT and Mibssion Estimates, January 1973
February 1,973



TABI&,9,
HONDURAS
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Feeder Roads to the Tegucigalpa-Juticalpa
Road to be Studied
A. Roads that would require "light" engineering preparation:
Roads!                             Length (km)
1.  Cedros-San Ignacio                            13.7
2.  Coyol Solo-El Porvenir                         7.1
3.  El Porvenir--El Terrero                        5.2
4.  San Francisco-San Luis                        13.7
5.  Access to arica                               28.3
6.  Access to Concordia                           13.7
7.  Access to Sialama                             32.5
8.  Salama-Silca                                   3.8
9.  San Francisco de La Paz-Manto                 25.0
SUBTOTAL =   143.0
B. Roads that would requ,ire full engineering studies:
10.  Talanga*Ced,ros                               24-5
11.  Cedros-MinaLs de Oro                          44.8
12.  Juticalpa-Catacamas                           40.7
13.  Catacamas-Dulce Nombre de Culmi               58.9
14. Telica-San Francisco de La Paz                 21.1
SUBTOTAL =   190.0
GRAND TOTAL =   333.0
Source: Consultants BR and SCOPT - December 1972
January 1973



HONDURAS
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Traffic Forecast (Tegucigalpa-Talanga Road)
Annual Rate             Annual Rate                        Annual Rate
of Growth               of Growth                          of Gr owth
1972    1976    1981      (1976-311)    1986      (1961-b6)      1991    1996        (1966-95)
Diverted Traffic                 513     720         7 %         1159       10 %1/       1626    2279           7 %
on New Road
Generated Traffic                114     160         7 %          258       10 %V         361      507           7 %
on New Road
Total Trafific                   627      880        7 %         1417       10 %/        1987    2786            7 %
on New  Road
Local Traffic                     57       73        5 %           93        5 %          118     151           5 %
(on existing roads)     460
T O T A L               460     684      953                    1510                    2105    2937
]/  Increase due to reconstruction of Talanga-Juticalpa Section (para. 5.07)
Source: Mission's estimates - January 1973
January 1973



TABLE 11
HONDURAS
SIXTCH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Vehicle Operating Costs (Tegucigalpa-Talanga Road)
Without improvement            With improvement
Average   Cost in 9             Average   Cost in
spieed    centavos              speed    centavos
in i        vokm.              in kmVh      v.km.
Private cars                 29         18.2                64.4        9.3
Buses                         26        51.5                57.9       23.5
Trucks II                    18         54.9                51.0       18.6
Trucks III                   17         76.2                43.6       28.3
j/ Including cost of time* The following values have been considered by
computing the cost of time: private car driver, L 1.40; buses and
pickup driver, L 0.75; and passenger, L 0.10. The cost of time will
represent about 23% of the total cost for private cars, 30% for buses
and 15% for trucks.
2/  Including private cars,  all buses and pickup.
Source:  Mission estimates - January  1973.
January 1973






ANNEX 1
HONDURAS
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
External Financing by Agencies other than the Bank Groun
A.  BY THE EXPORT-IMPORT BANK AND USAID:
Dates of            Amount
Agreements          US$  000                         Purpose
1. 1957             1.810-          Construction of InterAmerican Highway
2. 1958             5.000          Construction of Main Highways and Studies
3. 1964               500          Construction of Forest Fire Access Roads
4. 1965             5.200          Construction of Farm-to-Market Access Roads
5. 1969               500           Studies of the Central Highway
13,010
B. BY THE INTERAMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK:
1. 1961             2,082           Construction of the Western Highway
2. 1961               960          Pre-Investment Studies
3. 1961               250          Pre-Investment Studies
4. 1963             1,580           Construction of Access Roads
5. 1965            10,130          Construction of the North Road
6. 1967             5,275           Construction of the San Pedro Sula-Tela Road
7. 1971             6,300          Construction of Access Roads; Purchase of
Maintenance Equipment
26.,577
C. BY CABEI:~/
Amount
From        To      US$  000
1.  1964-      1970       2,026    Pre-Investment Studies
2.  1965       1970       3,440    Construction Choluteca-Nicaragua Border Road
3.  1968       1971       2.,900    Construction Danli-Las Manos Road
4. 1968        1971       2,720    Construction Ocotepeque Guatemala Border Road
5.  1967       1970       5,500    Construction Pto. Cortes-Guatemala Border Road
6.  1965       1970      11,480    Construction of Tela-La Ceiba Road
7.  1969                  6,600    Construction Tegucigalpa-Danli Road
8.  1970                    475    Signalization and Traffic Control Equipment
35,14L
Sources: USAID; IDB and CABE]T Reports - December, 1972
I/ Export-Import Bank.
2/ CABEI fiscal years - July 1 to June 30, same as Bank/IDA.
2/ July 1, 1963 - June 30, 1L9640
January 1973



ANNEX 2
HONDURAS
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Details of IDB Loan 291/SF-l10
for Highway Maintenance
In 1.971 the IDB made a loan to Honduras (291/SF-HO) totaling US$6,300,000
which,among other items (construction of feeder roads and engineering services),
included an amount of US$2,623,C00 for maintenance purposes as follows:
(i) US$123,000 to finance consultants,or expert services, to assist
in improving SCOPT organization, accounting and audit systems,
road maintenance and equipment utilization; and
(ii)  US$2,500,000 to finance (a) the purchase of maintenance and work-
shop equipment; (b) the improvement of' workshop or warehouse
installations; and (c) the construction and equipping of vehicle
weight control stations.
Consultants have been selected fortasks under (i) above and their services are
estimated to last for about three years.
Source: .DB Technical and Financial Report -
Feeder Road, Construction and Maintenance Project, August 1970.
February 2.973



ANNEX 3
HONDURAS
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
SchLedule of Disbursements
Cumulative Disbursement
IBRD/IDA Fiscal Year                                        at End of Quarter
and Quarter EnT_ng                                          (US$ Thousands)
1973/74
September 30, 1973                                               50
December 31, 1973                                             1,800
March 31, 1974                                                2,600
June 30, 1974                                                 3,600
1974/75
September 30, 1974                                            4, 600
December 31, 1974                                             5,600
March 31, 1975                                                7,000
June 30, 1975                                                 9,000
1975/76
September 30, 1975                                           11,000
December 31, 1975                                            12,500
March 31, 1976                                               15,000
June 30, 1976                                                16,500
1976/77
September 30, 1976                                           17,800
December 31, 1976                                            18,800
Assunptions:/ Bids Evaluated:         July 1973
Contract Award:      August 1973
(Loan Effective:     September 1973)
Start of Conlstruction: October 1973
Construction Completed:  December 1976
For main comoonent of project (Tegucigalpa-Talanga Road).
Sou,rce:  SCOPT and Appraisal M4ission - January 1973.
March 1973






HIONDURAS                             ANNEX  4
J77~~~~~ -  ~ ~  ~     ~    ~     77age1~~~~~ ag7
\      j       S]?r$JH HIGHWAY P   R                         ag 
Probability An
'~~~~~~I !-i '                                                           I          
_     _ _                                                   -- 1    -  - -  -  ,  -  .-  .
Figure 1: CQnstruic1ion Qo6t|    Figure 2% Traffic Counts
15    sg40     17   13
~~~___                                        - - - rv- ---_  _I 
-10%   -5%        5%   l%  15%  20% 25%  30% D   -10%  -5%             5%   1         15%
Figure 3: Traffic Growth                            Figure 4:  Time Cost
25     50      25
19   15     40     115  10               -
-40%  -30% -20%-10%    9   10% 20% i30%  40%3'   -20% -10%  0  +10% +2 %
\ . | { . 1 E e~~~~~~~~igr, 6: Vehicle OpIerat'ing. 
Figure    Vehicle Operatir,g Cos               CostCs  - Nic               Road
|ld Road
81                                             10  Io Li
-4%.-30%N -Zo% -io% 0   10%  20%  3Q%            I .20%  -10%   0   10%  2        %
g . . l ; g . . > t , . i , -5%' 5%.
DO V.riation in ,percenti arouod the best s#im,ate.   ,  -               ___,  _
P: Probabilities.



+100  -%-----  _________               ________                                         Annex 4
%,-28-t'-   1 o o              *            I    8    t    11                 '   ,
2 2j                                                                                    Page 2
Fig4 e 7   Probabilities                          ..
8 9 -- F----1---- --------/tt
7 0 r ~~~~~~~- -- --r---.- - -   -.   -                              -"-- - ----  - ---/f-----   --           
ProbabiliI4  that rate/
Of raturn is less tha.
the value shown.
60
50                            =                     _    Density of
Probability
40-~~~~~~~~1
Probability of Rat
of Return being nior
than- l0  is 7 3\%
30
/-                                   i                                         lRate of
20                                                                                              Return
3    7    I   15   19   23
1                     25%
10                                      Most probable value about 13%
7            9            11           13            15           17            19           21%
May 1973                             Rate of Return



HONDURAS
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE
SECRETARIAT FOR COMMUNICATIONS, PUBLIC WORKS AND TRANSPORT
SECTORAL PLANNING                                 SECRETARY                                   ADVISORY COUNCIL
OFFICE CAVARD AND REVIEW
UNDER SECRETARIES                                OF CONTRACTS
rSENIOR
| TECHNICAL  |                                |   ~~~~~~~~~LEGAL
ADVISOR                              O~'''~'                |   ADVISOR
ADMINISTRATlO
COORDINATION BY THE                                                                                     COORDINATION BY THE 
UNDER SECRETARY FOR                                                                                     UNDER SECRETARY FCR
COMMUNICATIONS   _PUBLIC WCORKS
AND TRANSPORT
G  E N JE  R  A  LD  I R  E C  TIO  R A  T  E S
TENANC                                                                                                   F F AIPSTOFIESAEONUTCSGEGRPHCAND PUBLIC  TRANSPORT
Wol Id Bo.,k - 7367






HON DU RAS
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE
GENERAL DIRECTORATE FOR HIGHWAYS
GENERAL
DIRECTOR
PLANNING                                                           AMNSRTO
AND RESEARCH
l  l  l  g     |      l             l             l      r             |      r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COORDINATION 
COORDINATION                                     SUPERVISION               OF
HIGHWAY           STRUCTURAL            OF DESIGN                 RIGHT OF WAY              OF               SUPERVISORY
DESIGN              DESIGN            CONSULTANTS                                     CONSTRUCTION            SUPERVIS
CONSULTANTS                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~CONSULTANTS
CENTRAL                      SULA
LABORATORY                 LABORATORY
VVn,ti R.nk _ 7-1rq






HONDURAS
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE
GENERAL DIRECTORATE FOR MAINTENANCE
GENERAL DIRECTOR
ADMINISTRATION                                                 PROGRAMMING
I  l                                     |  AND SUPERVISION
SEVEN MAINTENANCE 1                                                AIRPORT                     MAINTENANCE OF
DISTRICTS                                              [     ENGINEERING    J                        AND
r   EOUIPMENT AND   l                                         r
TRANSPORTATION                                                  WAREHOUSE
DEPARTMENT                                                   DEPARTMENT
SIGNALIZATION
AND HIGHWAY
TRAFFIC CONTROL
World Bank - 7369






. 9*                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                . A.
SARSAMETA    GUMAN*U                                                                                                IAAC
ISLANLt     ISLAND                                                                              ,
C A f/ S        EfA N                                 ROATAN ISLAND                      SEA                                                                                                            SEA
LIMA ISLAND                                                                                                                                     HONDURAS ,,   >
611UE   OF   OOO,UU.UOAS                                                                                                                                                                                                        a 5*G0
PUERIO CUSTILLA
1 ,   U                                                                                                                                                                 A  X,*   ;M   A.,  ,,  otH=   , ,o    .. N.IA <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A I I I   A   I  
PUERTO CORTES                                                                                                                                                                                                          T
/ M  A   ; A                       PTRltU                                            ,
_-}! \ 3 1 r * 9 toAR-A                                    O.EXSANA o 
POERTO- 
s    0                                                                                                                                                          'EMPIRA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LSPR
EULCE NO-DE
SANVD            _\UARIUA    CUTYAMARAUGUIL                                                                                     Iv\}<SNI D LUS LMI
5AN ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~--
MR T  I  -AS                   1AL-A             ~            ~            ~            ~            ~            ~           ~H                ND       RA
RID                                                                DEMECI  ol              C        |J_AI   AI                                                 tI$CN oHW$npyil-    eCr-RR
>_ { TFGUCIG~~~~~~~~~A IN  f- THIGL iHWAY NEWRKJC Cei -C
iX   \    42   C   !,   LEPAER10  E  ><  <  < EooV FOURTH HlGHWAYPROJECT (tooo G0-HO/Coedil 71-HO} ^.FIR T   HIGTIWA                                                                       FRO RO   Ioor    5-00
LA LIBEliT. If SAN                  G.. OUI      LUS  /lS                                             rC                                            OT    e F,D/AT
J/ S DQEACNolSAyOJOOSE |   \   tODE FUrURES                       G                                                    *--~~~ RotAorrprsrroolSond dr  SLTLint USDO CarIe  Roo
co,                                                                                                                                                                                                     RURO,  *-  ,   CorrL CI OrrS  W    |   R o iror,,
GSt > >   RL TPiiiEE IGUAHD EL MUERTo WEA A   DE *AR^                                                                                                          RAo  _                1 I 8   d i                               T.
HONDU                        LoRA  95-S O
MAIN  IGH)WAY NETWOR
RAWA  STA   PA~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~btIrLlTsUrOR   od
S-TA   CL/F/  C OCFA N 4 6Ulr                                                                                b3F    DENO 3 IQ>O S is h 3 A9 u AS  Miw2,5Erlr- -ol-ocd road
-13-  A39'  Ef-APC.T. _AR. _   _                                                                                               .d7 t*AtsWElsn8W1s   tiS  !f5,R
DA                                                                                         ...... O  0  5 10    - -DOOtHLrro i a AH85-D-L Hi
PACIFIC OCEAN                                                                                   AIM 05*0  S/SIr ro Isa ap ~                                  HIOMETEOS-   -   IotFoOtsHtGI                              BoH n  -ioHO)
IF   S0        ~      ~       ~     ~      ~                                     -.                     IRNAEonHMDUNrNMsOc~~7.TRIGE  E FAAK                                                 5'                                                                                         0LU.I      d~'iqYlit    H,-



