FILE  COPY                      RESTRICTED
Report No.   PTR-26a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF A
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
UGANDA
August 25, 1969
Transportation Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit            Uganda Shilling (U Sh)
l U Sh                = US¢lL
U Sh 1,000,000        =US$140,000
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
WEIGHTS AND MESURES
Metric and British
EQUIVALENT BRITISH/US SYSTEMP
1 kilometer (km)             =  0.62 miles (mi)
1 meter (m)                  =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 square kilometer (km2)    =  0.386 square miles (sq mi)
I liter (1)                  =  0.22 imp. gallons
0.26 gallons (US)
1 metric ton (m ton)            2,204 pounds (lbs)
(Note:  The Government of Uganda has decided to adopt the
metric system. Conversion to the system began on January
1, 1969 and is scheduled for completion by January 1, 1972.
The Government's intention is to introduce metrification
into future design as rapidly as practicable. However,
designs for works included in the project were commenced
some years ago and design standards mentioned in this
report will be referred to in the British/US system.  All
other measurements will be referred to in the metric system.)
ABBREVIATIONS
ADT       - Average Daily Traffic
FED       -  Fond Europeen de Development
LAC       -- East African Community
EAHO      -  East African Harbours Corporation
EAR&H     -  East African Railways and Harbours
EARC      -  East African Railways Corporation
EkTS      -  East African Transport Study
NIO0W     -  Ministry of Works, Communications and Housing
PN,EA        Permanent Mission in Eastern Africa



UGANDA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pa _ No.
SUMMARY . . . . . .i..  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     . .
1.   INTRODUCTION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
2.   BACKGROUND  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
A.    General   .    .  .    .    .    .  .    .    .    .    .    .  .    .    .    .    .    .    .   .    .   .    .    .  3
B.  The Transport System  .......  ..  ..  ..  ..  .   .   4
C.  Transport Coordination  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   5
3. THE HIGHWAY SECTOR.                                                      6
A. Highway Administration.                                             6
B. Planning.                                                           7
C. Highway Engineering ..
D. Construction Industry .8
E. Maintenance.                                                        3
F.  Growth of Vehicle Fleet and Road Use  . . . . . . . . .   9
4. THE PROJECT .                                                           10
A.  General Description ...  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  10
B.  Primary Roads . .  .  .I. .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  11
C.  Secondary Roads ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  12
D.  Feeder Roads  ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  12
E.  Tea Roads ...................... .  13
F.  Services of Consultants .....  .            ..  .  .  .  ..  .  .   .  13
G.  Technical Assistance  ......  .             .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..  14
H.  Cost Estimates and Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  15
I.  Execution of Project  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  16
5.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION .......  ..  ..  ..  ..  ...  .                   .  17
6.   RECOMMENDATIONS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  18
(continued)
This report was prepared by E. Haker (economist) and F.D.T. Reid (engineer,
PMEA).



-2-
TABLES
1. Length of Classified Roads
2.  Revenues from Road Users
3.  Expenditures on Roads by Central Government
4.  Design Standards
5. Licensed Motor Vehicles
6. Gasoline and Diesel Fuel Sales
7. Project Cost Estimates
ANNEX 1  -  Description of Positions Included in Technical
Assistance Program
ANNEX 2  -  Basis for Economic Justification
CHART 1  -  Organization of Ministry of Works, Communications
and Housing
MAPS     -  1.  Uganda Road Network and Project Roads
2. Toro Tea Roads
3. Ankole Tea Roads
4. Kigezi Tea Roads



UGANDA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
SLMMARY
i.        Until the late 1950's, Uganda had the best highway system in
Eastern Africa in terms of coverage and technical standards. This was due
to a long tradition of communal labor, the existence of an abundant supply
of good road materials and the presence of a competent and well staffed hiph-
way administration. During the 1960's, however, a number of unfavorable de-
velopments took place and as a result the condition of the highway system
deteriorated. First, there was a loss of large numbers of personnel at ex-
ecutive and administrative levels, and second, the funds available for road
maintenance were reduced to a considerable extent. Parallel with these de-
velopments, traffic was increasing so that many of the roads built for light
traffic became increasingly difficult to maintain, and the planninF for fu-
ture highway development was not done, largely because of insufficient staff.
ii.       IDA's efforts to assist Uganda to overcome deficiencies dates back
to 1962, when an attempt was made to identify road investment needs. Sub-
sequent progress in project preparation was slow, mainly because of staffing
deficiencies in the highway management. As a result, the first IDA Credit
to Uganda (Credit 108-UG) for US$5.0 million equivalent was not signed until
1967. It has taken two more years from the date of the first highway project
to complete the preparations of the present project, which constitutes the
second and concluding phase of the original list of road investments that
were identified in 1962.
iii.      The proposed project comprises:
(a) the construction and reconstruction of about 665 km
of primary, secondary and agricultural roads;
(b)  a road investment and maintenance study by consultants;
(c) feasibility studies and the detailed engineering of
about 400 km of roads; and
(d) technical assistance for the staffing and training
requirements of the Ministry of Works, Communications
and Housing (MOW).
The total cost of the project, including contingencies is estimated at
US$16.5 million equivalent.  The foreign exchange cost component correspond-
ing to about 70% of project cost is estimated at about US$11.6 million equiv-
alent and will be financed by the proposed credit. Execution of the project
will be the responsibility of the MOW.
iv.       The project, which was prepared under the first IDA highway project,
represents a natural development of the Bank Group's lending for highways in
Uganda, and will prepare the way for future assistance for the highway sector.
The project is consistent with the aims of the Government to continue the



- ii -
expansion and upgrading of the highway system in accordance with the needs
of growing traffic and to support and promote agricultural development. The
project will also strengthen Uganda's transportation links with Rwanda and
Tanzania and encourage international trade. Economic rates of return for
the individual projects vary from 10% to 28%. Important elements of the pro-
ject are the road investment and maintenance study and the technical assist-
ance program which will strengthen highway administration and establish high-
way planning on a systematic examination of investment and maintenance ex-
penditure options. These elements of the project aim at providing the neces-
sary remedies for critical deficiencies of highway management which affect
the ability of the economy to absorb needed transportation investment.
v.        During negotiations a number of issues were satisfactorily resolved,
the main ones of which related to the technical assistance program: the road
investment and maintenance study to be financed under the proposed credit,
the reorganization of the Works Division of the Ministry of Works, the main-
tenance of the highway system and road investment policy. The project pro-
vides a suitable basis for an IDA Credit of US$11.6 million equivalent.
0



UGANDA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Uganda has asked the Association to help finance
a project consisting of:
(a)  the construction and reconstruction of about 665 km
of primary, secondary, and agricultural roads;
(b) the services of consultants for
(i)   the supervision of construction,
(ii) a road investment and maintenance study,
(iii) feasibility studies and the detailed en-
gineering of about 400 km of roads; and
(c) technical assistance for the staffing and training
requirements of the MOW.
The cost of the project is estimated at US$16.5 million; the Government has
requested a credit from the Association to meet foreign exchange costs amount-
ing to 70% of the total, or approximately US$11.6 million.
1.02      The project will improve Uganda's primary road links with Rwanda
and Tanzania and improve the secondary roads in populated and economically
developed areas, particularly near Kampala, the capital. It will also open
new areas for agricultural development in more remote areas, and give a sub-
stantial impetus to tea production in the country. The road investment and
maintenance study included in the project is designed to eliminate the exist-
ing backlog in planning by identifying investment priorities and the mainte-
nance needs of the highway system, and to assess the reorganization require-
ments of the MOW.  The technical assistance part would enable the MOW to
handle increased volumes of planning, construction and maintenance work, and
to train Uganda nationals who will eventually take over executive positions.
1.03      This would be the second credit for the highway sector, the first
(Credit 108-UG) was for US$5.0 million equivalent signed on July 28, 1967 to
finance the foreign exchange cost of the construction and reconstruction of
161 km of roads. It included the services of consultants for the supervision
of construction, and the detailed engineering of 740 km of roads from which
those included in the present project have been chosen.
1.04      Execution of the construction of the Mbarara-Katunguru road (113
km), the principal item being financed under Credit 108-UG, is behind sched-
ule. A contract for this work was awarded in June 1968 to Water Resources
Development (Israel); the construction period allowed for by the contract
was 25 months. During the first seven months following the award of the
contract, very little progress was made on the works. Following an IDA pro-
ject supervision mission in January 1969 and subsequent action by the Govern-
ment, the contractor has now moved additional plant to the site and a revised



- 2 -
construction schedule has been formulated. During negotiations, the Govern-
ment indicated that it now expected the project to be completed by mid 1971,
about one year late.
1.05      The only other Bank Group financing for the transport sector con-
sisted of two loans of US$24.0 million and US$38.0 million equivalent to the
East African Railways and Harbours (EAR&H) which is jointly owned by Kenya,
Tanzania and Uganda (Loan llO-EA on March 15, 1965 and Loan 428-EA on Sep-
tember 29, 1966). The EAR&H is now being split into an East African Harbours
Corporation (EAHC) and an East African Railway Corporation (EARC); the Bank
recently negotiated a loan of US$35 million equivalent for EAHC, which was
approved by the Board on July 29, 1969, and one of about US$43 million for
EARC, which is now scheduled for negotiations in September 1969.
1.06      There is an eight-year history to the Association's efforts to
identify and assist in the preparation of road projects in Uganda.  The slow
progress has been primarily due to:
(a)  staffing and organization deficiencies of the MOW;
(b)  slow progress in starting the engineering design
of road projects;
(c)  reluctance on the part of the MOW to make the
consultants wholly responsible for all aspects
of the design work;
(d)  the adoption of high design standards which made
some roads economically unattractive; and
(e)  the prolonged effort required on the part of Bank
Group project preparation missions to bring about
changes to more economic designs.
Apart from the staffing and organization difficulties, these problems were
eventually resolved in discussions with the MOW.
1.07      The project currently proposed constitutes the second and conclud-
ing phase of the construction of the roads originally identified in 1962 as
suitable for IDA financing. Provisions have been made in the present project
for technical assistance to solve the staffing problem, and for road studies
to lay the way for further IDA assistance in the highway sector and ensure
the timely preparation of sound projects in the future.
1.08      It was the Government's intention to include in the project the
construction of six additional road sections totalling 150 km, whose detailed
engineering was executed under Credit 108-UG. In addition the Government also
requested that two roads included in the project should be constructed to pav-
ed standards. The Association has concluded, however, that in view of the
existing staffing difficulties of the MOW and the additional financial pres-
sure which the local costs of construction would exert on the Government bud-
get, it would be advisable to reduce the size of the project. Accordingly



- 3 -
the Govermnent agreed to reduce the size of the project. The investments
which have been left out had the lowest economic priority among those consi-
dered by the appraisal mission; the optimum timing of their construction will
be examined under the road investment and maintenance study that forms part
of the present project.
1.09      This appraisal report is based on the findings of a preappraisal
mission from PMEA consisting of E. Haker (economist) and A. van Dijck (engi-
neer) which visited Uganda in June 1968 and an updating mission consisting
of E. Haker and F.D.T. Reid (PMEA engineer) which visited Uganda in February
1969. The period between the two missions was spent in making the necessary
revisions in the high design standards originally proposed for certain pro-
ject roads and in working out the details of the technical assistance scheme
included in the project. The actual time required to bring about these
changes was in excess of reasonable estimates and is indicative of the Dres-
ent staff and organization difficulties of the MOW.
2. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Uganda is a landlocked country, about the size of the United
Kingdom, in the upper basin of the Nile and astride the equator. It is
bounded by the Sudan on the-north, Kenya on the east, Tanzania, Lake Victoria
and Rwanda on the south and Congo (Kinshasa) on the west. The total area of
the country is 233,000 sq km, of which about one-seventh is swamps and lakes.
Most of the remainder is a plateau about 1,200 m above sea level; the climate
is temperate. The population was estimated at about 8.2 million in 1968 and
is growing at the rate of about 2.7% per annum.
2.02      According to the most recent estimates, Uganda's GDP amounted to
US$923 million in 1968 or US$110 per capita, which is higher than the average
level for Africa, south of the Sahara, but still in the lower quartile of the
international scale of per capita GDP. The economy is based mainly on agri-
culture which accounts for about 60% of GDP. A little over one-half of this
represents marketed production, principally coffee and cotton, for export.
Agriculture employs over 90% of the potential labor force. Development ef-
forts since 1966/67, the first year of the Second Five-Year Plan, have been
mainly focused on the agricultural sector and, in particular, on crop diver-
sification to eliminate excessive dependence on coffee and cotton that be-
tween them accounted for nearly 70% of the value of exports in 1967.
2.03      Crops most favored in this respect are tobacco, groundnuts and
sorghum for the home market, but the most spectacular success in crop diver-
sification has been tea production, almost exclusively for export.  Tea ex-
ports increased by 50% between 1964 and 1967 and by the mid 70's will become
a major foreign currency earner.



B. The Transport System
(i)  General
2.04      Apart fram the river Nile ifhich cuts the country from south to
north, and Lake Kyogo with its extensive papyrus swamps which prevents direct
access between the populous fringes of Lake Victoria and the less developed
northern part of the country, there are few physical barriers to communi-
cations within Uganda. Kampala, the capital and major commercial city, is
the main hub of the transport system from which roads and railway lines ra-
diate throughout the country. Since Uganda is a landlocked country some
1,200 km from the nearest coast, and is heavily dependent upon foreign trade,
the railway line to the port of Mombasa in Kenya is a vital link in its trans-
port system.
(ii)  Raiway 
2.05      Railways are a part of the co-mon services of the East African
Community (EAC) and until recently were managed by the EAR&H.  In accordance
with the Treaty for East African Cooperation of December 1967 between Kenya,
Tanzania and Uganda, it was decided to divide EAR&H into an East African
Harbours Corporation (EAHC) with headquarters in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania,
and an East African Railways Corporation (EARC) with headquarters in Nairobi,
Kenya. The split became effective on June 1, 1969, after an 18-month transi-
tion period. EARC operates 5,870 km of lines in the three East African coun-
tries, of which 1,160 km are -within Uganda. Practically all of the country's
international trade is moved by rail, mostly to and from the port of Mombasa
in Kenya. In 1967 the railways carried about 1.7 million tons of cargo for
Uganda consisting of 153 million tons of exports and imports and 0.4 million
tons of local traffic, Between 1962-67 railway traffic for Uganda has been
growing at 8-9% per annim. Due to competition from bus operators, passenger
traffic which was never important has rapidly declined to insignificant pro-
portions over the last five years.
(iii) B
2.06      The high-Ray system of Uganda can be best described in terms of a
semiicircle with Kampala as its center and with the circumference broadly
following the international boundaries of the country (see Map No. 1).  This
systenm is supported by a network of radials emanating from Kampala towards
the circumference interconnected with secondary and tertiary roads. At pres-
ent there are about 24,000 km of roads (see Table 1). Of these, about 6,000
km are primary and secondary roads consisting of about 1,500 km of paved and
4,500 km of good quality gravel roads. The rema'niLT   18c000 km of the road
system constitutes the tertiary of feeder network, consisting mostly of un-
engineered earth roads,
2.07      %uring the 1960's the highway system in Uganda has remained stag-
nant and in sorme respects has deteriorated. This was primarily due to the
loss of la.ge numbers of expatriate personnel at executive and administrative
levels, leadLig to a deterioration in highway inamagement. Contributory fac-
tors were a reduction in the funds available for road mainteenance, and an



-5-
uneconomic allocation of road investment funds. Parallel to these develop-
ments, traffic was increasing so that many of the roads built for light traf-
fic became less and less adequate to serve the increased volumes. At the
same time, little planning was being done for future highway needs due largely
to the insufficient staff. These issues are discussed in greater detail in
Chapter 3 on the Highway Sector; the present project is aimed primarily at
remedying this situation.
(iv) Waterways
2.08      The inland waterway service on Lake Victoria is operated by the
EARC; it provides a link with the Tanzania and Kenya transport systems; it
forms part of Uganda's alternative route to the seaports in Tanzania. Jinja
and Port Bell are Uganda's two main lake ports and each handles about
10-15,000 tons per annum.
(v) Air Transport
2.09      There are 12 airfields in the country served by scheduled flights
of the East African Airways Corporation (EAAC), which is also jointly owned
and operated by the three East African countries. Entebbe, 33 km south of
Kampala has the only airport that can handle large jets. Existing traffic
is still modest in comparison with other international airports in Africa,
notably Nairobi which is East Africa's major international airport, only
700 km away.
C. Transport Coordination
2.10      The rail and road system of Uganda are largely complementary.  The
railway's prime function is to haul exports to the coast and bring imports
to the main distributing centers. Road transport serves the export sector
by connecting numerous scattered production points with processing centers
and railheads, by moving imported goods to the many small retail outlets
throughout the country, and by providing for the internal distribution of
foodstuffs, local raw materials and manufactured goods.
2.11      This complementarity of railways and roads in Uganda is particularly
evident when viewed in an East African context. Road transport in Uganda
does not seriously threaten the mainstay of railway finances, the long-haul
trunk line traffic. For Uganda's export/import traffic, the average length
of haul to the sea has been sufficiently long to protect this traffic from
serious road competition despite the differential tariff which elsewhere has
tended to invite uneconomic road competition. It has therefore never been
considered necessary by the authorities to introduce licensing restrictions
on the transport of goods by road in Uganda, similar to those found in neigh-
boring Kenya and Tanzania.
2.12      Within Uganda itself, however, there has been some parallel de-
velopment of transport facilities along some routes with resultant under-
utilization of capacity. The Government has found it necessary to protect
certain rail lines by underinvestment in parallel road facilities and by
arbitrarily directing to the railway all Government traffic, including that



- 6 -
of the cotton and coffee marketing organizations, as well as transit traffic
to and from the Congo. This has taken place regardless of possibly cheaper
alternatives.
2.13      In the road sector, total revenue received from vehicle use and
ownership has increased from about U Sh 47 million in 1961/62 to U Sh 117
million in 1967/68 (Table 2). This increase is attributable more to upward
revision of tax rates on road users than to an increase in vehicle use and
ownership. The revenues are nearly three times as high as current expendi-
tures on roads during recent years and amply cover investment expenditures
as well (Table 3).
2.14      For the past year, the three East African Governments have been
carrying out a joint study on transport coordination with the financial
assistance of the UNDP; the Bank is acting as the Executing Agency.  The
object of the study is to provide each government with a sound basis for                     _
formulating its transport pricing, taxation, and regulation policies. The
study should develop an appropriately rhased series of measures to coordi-
nate the use and development of the various modes of surface transport in
and among the three countries, so that economic resources are used in the
most efficient manner. The findings of the study, which are now under re-
view, include recommendations for (a) the adjustment of railway tariffs so
that all tariffs cover at least variable costs; (b) the introduction of com-
mercial flexibility in railway pricing in order to prevent the diversion to
road transport of traffic economically suited to rail transport; (c) the
discontinuation of uneconomic railway services and lines; and (d) a phased
relaxation of the licensing policies in Kenya and Tanzania that in the past
have restricted the development of road transport. The net effect of im-
plementing these recommendations on existing traffic flows in Uganda is not
likely to be significant, and would not affect adversely the justification
of the proposed second highway project.
3.  THE HIGHWAY SECTOR                                          4
A. Highway Administration
3.01      Primary and secondary roads are administered by the MOW, while the
tertiary system is administered by Local Governments supported by 'grants-in-
aid' from the Central Government for maintenance and improvement. The MOW
(see Chart 1) is divided into three Divisions: Housing, Communications and
Works. The Communications Division is concerned with aviation, railways and
other transport and communication matters falling within the framework of
the common services operated under the EAC. The Works Division is respon-
sible for the development and maintenance of the water supply system, air-
fields and the primary and secondary road systems. It consists of a head
office at Entebbe and four regional offices. The head office is divided into
five branches: water supply and drainage, planning, design and documentation,
construction and maintenance, mechanical, and materials. Executive respon-
sibility for maintaining the primary and secondary road system lies with the
four regional offices of the MOW, while the responsibility of the headquarters
is confined to general policy and budgetary control.



3.02      The existing organizational. structure suffers f-a-am ae bner of
deficiencies  which limit the capacity of the Works Division both in terms of
the volume and efficiency of its operations. There is a need for a clear
division of responsibility between the needs of roads, airports, and water
supply and drainage. Centers of responsibility for planning and for admin-
istration should be separated and clearly defined lines of authority between
headquarters and regional offices established.
3.03      Organizational difficulties have been largely aggravated by the
shortage of qualified staff that has developed in the past years. The' Govern-
ment has not yet met its obligations under Credit 108-UG to take prompt and
effective steps to ensure that the Works Division of the MOW is adequately
staffed. In 1957 MOW professional staff consisted of 32 engineers engaged on
a full or part time basis on roads. Their number has now declined to 17 even
though highway expenditures have risen from about U Sh 31.5 million in 1957
to U Sh 70 million in 1967/68. A further three key foreign personnel will
be leaving shortly.  One cause of this is the salary structure, which does
not attract and hold competent foreign expertise needed until Uganda nation-
als have been trained. Thi-s shortage of trained staff has imposed a serious
limitation on the volume of new highway work which the MOW can undertake.
3.04      The assistance of consultants is essentilal. if the project is to be
executed properly.  Such assistance would be provided Luder the proposed
credit.  In addition, technical assistance to provide an interim solution to
the staffing problem, to implement a limited reorganization of the MOW, and
to provide on-the-job training for Uganda nationals is al-so included in the
proposed credit.
B. Planning
3,05      Preseint road plalining can be bes t desci t-d as alx ad hoe process
based on the accuiulated experience and J.dgment mainly 3f senior kIOW person-
nel as to the road development requirements of the country. A road devel-
opment plan was drawn up for the Second Five-Year Plan (l966/67-1970/71)
consisting of a list of 85 roads for an estimated expenditure of US$40 mil-
lion equivalent.  At an early stage of its execution it becasne evident that
investment costs were seriously underestimated, and that to attain the phys-
ical targets of the Plan approximately US$75 million would be required.
This, however, was out of the question financially, and in terms of the ca-
pacity of the MOW to plan and implement projects. Moreover, the substantial
increases in cost estimates for particular projects cast considerable doubt
on their economic justification; some of them were in an advanced stage of
preparation.
3.06      The MOW was, therefore~ faced A.th thae lar-ge tx.sk 3f reviewing
the list of road projects and establishing priorities on the basis of ben-
efit/cost analyses and its cxpacity to carry out works wi.thin the overall
finanrcial constraints of US$40 million for the Plan period.  As the Ministry
did not at t'ne time have the staff for iwhis task, it reduced the physical
scope of the progriin, 9 ainly according to t6ie deg ee of project preparation
and the availability of foreign assists ice foi6 specific projects.  Even in



its reduced scope the Plan is behi nd schedule. A.ccord-ing tio recent infor-
matiorn  iivestmen'u expenditures have toJalled less than U $L3 miJllon through
1968I69, the third year of the Plan.  Most of the spending occurred for a
few costly projects, and it is possible that not more than 40% of total phys-
ical targets of the Second Five-Year Plan will be reached. Roads in the
proposed project are considered to be of high priority in the Plan.
3 07      Insufficient attention has been given to allocating the right
amount of resources for the right type of projects in the highway sector.
What is needed to remedy this situation is a brief but rigorous examination
of the present list of road projects of the MOW to determine priorities on
a systematic basis. This task can be most conveniently carried out within
the framevork of a road investment and maintenance study, mainly based on
the data obtained through the East African Transport Study, and using its
policy recoammendations for the role of each transpor' mode in the require-
ments of the overall economy.  Provision has been made in the present project              6
to finance such a study.
C. Hihway_ Engineering
3. 08     In the past , the MOW has employed survey -ffirms to locate, survey
and design road alignments, doing itself the soils work, bridge design and
preparation of specifications and contract documents. This resulted in a
lack of coordination which has led to serious errors in design and substan-
tial increases in construction cost over the design estimates, Assurances
have been obtained from the Government that for the feasibility studies and
detailed engineering to -be financed under the proposed credit, the consul-
tants employed ill execute all aspects of the design work, including those
mentioned at the beginning of this paragraph.
3.09      Design staiidar s in Uganda for -vreai  :tniountainous terral  have been
found to be high.  The matter of appropriate design standards for various
types of roads will be examined in the inves;.ment and maintenance study in-
cluded in the project. For the construction and reconstruction items in-
cluded in the preser.t project, the standards shown in Table 4 which were
drawn ,xp in consultation with the Association will be adopted.
D. Construc,tion IndlA
3.10      The construction indust._-' in East Africa is riade uxp of branches or
subsidiaries of large European firms. Srmal" contracts such as for culverts,
small bridges and other labor-intensive works are carried out by local firms.
E. Maintenance
3.11      Maintenance of the road systiem is dete-ioratiiig a. fo.leign staff
leaves the country ann as the amounts allocated for maintenance (Table 3)
become in- reasingly  insufficient to keep pace with the growth of the road
network and, traffi c vo-omes,  Average maintenance expenditui es including
current, maintena,nce  resufacing, regravelling, and equipment depreciation
and traffic aids have declined to US$360 in !.963,t68 per im of road compared
with ar, average of about US$S50  during 1961/6    if an allowance is made for



general cost inflation and reduced efficiency in maintenance operations due
to a loss of expert staff, the decline that has taken place despite an in-
crease of 40% in traffic during this period becomes even more striking.
3.12      Maintenance expenditure for the 18,000 km of roads under local
government jurisdiction amounted to U Sh 15 million during 1967/68 averaging
about US$100 per km and is also not adequate. If the present situation is
allowed to continue, the condition of the main road system will deteriorate
to a point where substantial reconstruction investments will be required.
It is clear that the Government has not fully met its obligations under
Credit 108-UG to adequately maintain the road network.
3.13      The 1969/70 maintenance estimates submitted for Treasury approval
total U Sh 37 million compared with U Sh 15.7 million for 1967/68. A main-
tenance report prepared by the MOW in this connection estimates that the re-
gravelling of roads in the primary and secondary road systems is overdue by
an average of eight years and the resurfacing of those with a bitumen surface
by about four years; the backlog for regravelling alone is estimated at
U Sh 30 million. In order to eliminate some of this backlog, the 1969/70
budgetary requests include U Sh 12.6 million for regravelling aimed at catch-
ing up on 50% of the roads where regravelling is overdue by ten or more years.
In addition, U Sh 7.1 million has been included for the resealing of bitumen
roads overdue by a similar amount of time.
3.14      The urgency to catch up on road maintenance for those roads on which
maintenance is overdue by ten years or more is sufficiently self-evident not
to require its confirmation by the road investment and maintenance study.
During negotiations, it was agreed that the Association would send a letter
to the MOW expressing its concern regarding the need to improve maintenance
of the road network and that the views of the Association would be submitted
to the Cabinet to ensure that the Government will take definite steps to im-
prove the maintenance situation. It was further agreed that the Government
would provide the details of the maintenance budget that has been approved
for 1969/70 and the list of roads that will be regravelled or resurfaced.
In addition the Government would submit to the Association by February 28,
1970 an interim regravelling and resurfacing program for 1970/71 pending the
findings of the study.
F. Growth of Vehicle Fleet and Road Use
3.15      In 1967 there were about 44,000 vehicles in Uganda (Table 5) giving
a vehicle density of one per 180 persons. This is about average for Africa,
south of the Sahara. The average growth rate for the vehicle fleet for the
period 1957-67 was about 5% per annum. However, between 1962-67 the growth
rate accelerated to over 6%, especially for the truck and bus fleet which
grew at nearly 8% per annum. The Government estimates, and the Association
agrees, that during the next 10 years the growth rate of the vehicle flow in
recent years will be maintained and that this rate is consistent with the
projected GNP growth rate of 4.5% per annum.



- 10 -
3.16      Traffic counts have been taken in Uganda since 1951 and the number
of counting stations has been gradually expanded to about 250 in 1968. Since
1964 the quality of the counts has improved considerably but central direction
is still lacking and the system is unable to produce accurate ADT's adjusted
for seasonal variations. According to results from some 70 stations on the
interurban network for which counts over the past five years are available,
traffic has been growing at about 8% per annum.  During the same period of
time fuel consumption has been growing at 6.5% per annum (Table 6). When
this rate is adjusted to reflect the growth of fuel consumption for inter-
urban traffic alone, a rate of 7.5% is arrived at which is quite close to
the 8% growth rate based on ADU data.
4. THE PROJECT
0
A. General Description (see Map No. 1)
4.o0      The project consists of:
Construction and Reconstruction:
(a)  three primary roads totalling about 167 km;
(b)  three secondary roads totalling about 111 km;
(c)  two feeder roads totalling about 57 km;
(d)  tea roads in three districts totalling about
330 km;
Consultants' Services for:
(e)  the supervision of road construction under
(a) - (d);
(f)  a road investment and maintenance study;
(g)  feasibility studies and detailed engineer-
ing of about 400 km of primary, secondary
and feeder roads;
Technical Assistance for:
(h) the staffing and training requirements of the MOW.
4.02      The roads to be constructed under this project have been engineered
and bidding documents have been prepared by consultants as part of the first
road project.



- 11 -
B. Primary Roads
(i) Masaka-Kyotera (47 km, US$1.85 million)
4.03      This road, along the western shore of Lake Victoria, forms part of
the Kampala-Masaka-Mutukula (Tanzania border) road, which has a bitumen sur-
face from Kampala to Masaka. Between Masaka and Kyotera, it is an unengi-
neered gravel road in poor condition. The project road has been engineered
by Italconsult (Italy) to Class I standards (Table 4) and will be provided
with a 20-ft bitumen surface which is satisfactory for the traffic to be
served during its economic life. The condition of the remaining section to
the border is adequate for existing traffic.
(ii) Kabale-Rwanda Border (23 km. US$0.95 million)
0            4.04      This road forms part of the link between Kampala and Kigali, the
capital of Rwanda. From Kampala to Masaka the road has a bitumen surface in
fair condition, and from Masaka to Kabale the road is being reconstructed to
Class I standard with a 20-ft bitumen surface under bilateral assistance
from the Federal Republic of Germany. The Rwanda Government is carrying out
the detailed engineering of the Rwanda border-Kigali section of the road
under financial assistance from FED (Fond Europeen de Development) with a
view to its reconstruction.
4.05      The project road passes through difficult terrain consisting of
narrow swampy plains between rocky mountain slopes; the alignment and its
surface are unsuitable for the truck-and-trailer combinations that carry
Rwanda's international traffic.  The consultants, Electroconsult (Italy),
propose that this road should be constructed to Class I gravel standards
with a 22-ft carriageway but that the radius of curvature be reduced below
the present minimum standard of 900 ft in hilly terrain. This design is
satisfactory.
(iii)  Iganga-Mbale (97 km, US$2.2 million)
4.o6      The present Iganga-Mbale road consists of two reasonably well-
aligned low class gravel sections linked by a ferry which crosses a 3.2 km
wide papyrus swamp at Terinyi. The consultants, Edward and Burrow (UK),
have proceeded with the detailed design of the road on the basis of Class I
standards with a 20 ft bitumen surface. The proposed alignment would follow
the existing one which is satisfactory. The design included an embankment
accross the swamp and a 45 ft long bridge. At the time of the negotiations
the engineering of the road was complete except for the bituminous pavement
and a substantial amount of additional technical investigations were still
required to complete the detailed engineering of the swamp crossing. In
the meantime construction cost estimates had escalated by about 60% so that
the economic rate of return on the total project was substantially reduced
(Annex 2, paras. 10, 11). It was therefore agreed that the swamp crossing
and bitumen surface would be left out of the present credit pending the com-
pletion of the detailed design and the road would be constructed at this
stage to Class I gravel standards only.



- 12 -
C. Secondary Roads
(i)  Kayunga-Bale (45 kmi, US$0.60 million)
(ii)  Kayunga-Nabuganyi (19 km, US$0.27 million)
(iii) Bukoloto-Jinja (47 km, US$1.30 million)
4.07      These are secondary earth roads in poor condition, serving some of
the most heavily populated and agriculturally developed areas in southern
Uganda. Roads (i) and (ii) would be constructed to Class I gravel and road
(iii) to Class I bitumen standards which are satisfactory. The roads have
been designed by Edwards and Burrow (UK). The realization of the full bene-
fits of the Kayunga-Nabuganyi project depends on linking this road with the
main trunk system with an adequate ferry across the Nile.  During negotiations
the Government agreed that a suitable ferry will be transferred to this site.
(iv) Sezibwa Crossing (2 km, US$0.33 million)
4.o8      The Sezibwa crossing traverses a 2-km wide swamp on the trunk road
from Kalagi to Kayunga, which carries about 600 vehicles per day. The present
causeway which incorporates a bridge is narrow, and its gravel surface is un-
even due to settlement. It needs reconstruction and the consultants (Edwards
and Burrow) proposed that it should be built to Class I standards with a 20-ft
bitumen surface. The Government has agreed that the pavement will not be
constructed to full standard immediately. Completion of a permanent pave-
ment would be made when settlement of the fill across the swamp has stabi-
lized.
D. Feeder Roads
(i)  Mbale-NkokonJeru (20 km, us$0.80 million)
4.09      This road is a penetration road which will open up some of the most
populous counties of the Mount Elgon District and link them with the rest of
the country. The terrain is difficult, and the rise to the plateau is steep
and involves climbing an escarpment between altitudes of 1,200-2,100 m. To
avoid excessive construction costs, the consultants (Edwards and Burrow) have
reduced the geometric standards considerably for this road. These reductions
are consistent with the main objective of the proposed facility which is to
open new areas for agricultural development by providing an all-weather road
at minimum economic cost. The proposed design includes a bitumen surface on
the escarpment section, which is necessary to protect the gravel surface on
the very steep grade.
(ii) Maiyugo-Akokoro (37 km. US$0.35 million)
4.10      This is a penetration road passing through flat terrain in north-
central Uganda. The consultants, Roughton & Partners (UK), have designed
this road to Class III standard. A ferry is required for the full realiz-
ation of the benefits as in the case of the Kayunga-Nabuganyi road. The
Government has agreed that a suitable ferry will be made available to ful-
fill this requirement.



- 13 -
E. Tea Roads
(i)  in Toro district (70 km, us$o.65 million)
(ii)  in Ankole district (120 km, US$0.70 million)
(iii)  in Kigezi district (140 km, US$1.10 million)
4.11      These roads are to be constructed in three different tea-producing
areas (see Maps 2, 3, 4 and Table 7) and their location has been decided upon
consultation with the Uganda Tea Growers Corporation. They are penetration
roads and form an integral part of a tea development scheme which is being
financed by the Association under Credit 109-UG. The terrain is generally
rolling to hilly, with some mountainous sections in the Ankole and Kigezi
*          areas.
4.12      The standards originally adopted for the project are those of the
MOW for mountainous terrain whose %trict application produced estimated
costs of US$20,000 per km which were clearly above the requirements of mini-
mum all-weather roads for vehicles carrying green tea. The consultants,
Norconsult (Norway), were asked by the Government to redesign the roads to
the minimum all-weather standard required for use by medium size trucks in
all but the wettest conditions. The revised designs are consistent with
minimum all-weather road requirements of the tea-growing areas. Construc-
tion will be supervised by experienced road consultants who will make field
decisions on the horizontal and vertical alignments and drainage.
4.13      Maintenance of tea roads will be the responsibility of local dis-
trict councils, some of whom are short of experienced staff, and may have
difficulty in maintaining the roads satisfactorily. During negotiations,
the Government agreed that the MOW will take over responsibility for main-
tenance of the tea roads, if the local district councils, in the opinion of
the Association, fail to maintain the roads in a satisfactory condition.
F.  Services by Consultants
(i) Construction Supervision, (us$0.60 million)
4.14      Due to the understaffing of the MOW (para. 3.03) the assistance of
consultants is essential to supervise construction. During credit negotia-
tions assurances were obtained from the Government that consultants satisfac-
tory to the Association will be employed for supervision of construction.
(ii) Road Investment and Maintenance Study, (US$0.30 million)
4.15      This study will be largely based on transport demand data collected
under the recent East African Transport Study (EATS) and will use its policy
recommendations as a general framework to the extent that they are acceptable
to the Government. The study will have the following aims:



- 14 -
(a) the assessment of road development priorities of
Uganda for the period 1971/72-1975/76;
(b) recommendation of general design standards;
(c)  the evaluation of maintenance requirements with
particular emphasis on regravelling and resurfacing; and
(d) the assessment of the changes which are required in
the present organization of the MOW to enable it to
cope with the increased planning, construction and
maintenance requirements of an expanding road system
(para. 3.02).
Special emphasis will be given to the rehabilitation requirements of the
heavily trafficked roads in Uganda. In this context, the feasibility of
the upgrading of the Kampala-Entebbe road to a four-lane highway will also
be examined. This project is currently under active consideration for con-
tractor financing but has not been appropriately studied.
4.16      The study is required because there is a considerable backlog in
highway planning and road maintenance and the MOW lacks the staff to do the
necessary work without outside assistance. The study will involve a small
group of specialists over an eight-month period. During negotiations agree-
ment was reached on the scope of the study; assurances were obtained from the
Government that the study will be carried out by consultants satisfactory to
IDA, and that major investment decisions on road construction, including the
upgrading of the Kampala-Entebbe road to a four-lane highway, will be post-
poned pending the results of the study.
(iii) Feasibility Studies and Detailed Engineering of 400 km of Roads
(US$1.00 million)
4.17      To enable the MOW to proceed with the engineering of roads that
are economically justified, and to ensure a continuation of road investment
in an orderly manner, feasibility studies and the detailed engineering of
about 400 km of roads recommended by the road investment study (para. 4.15)
are included in the project. These roads could subsequently form the basis
for future Bank Group lending to Uganda. During negotiations assurances were
obtained that the feasibility studies and detailed engineering will be carried
out by consultants satisfactory to the Association.
G.   Technical Assistance, (US$0.50 million)
4.18      The successful execution of the technical assistance program re-
quires a limited reorganization in the Works Division consisting of:
(a) the splitting of the present Construction and
Maintenance Branch into two separate branches;



- 15 -
(b) confining the present Planning and Design Branch
to design and documentation and the creation of
a new branch for advance planning; and
(c) the establishment of a new branch for administration
and costing.
During negotiations the Government gave its agreement to the above reorgani-
zation.
4.19      The staffing situation of the MOW has already been discussed in
para. 3.03. The technical assistance scheme included in the project is
designed to:
(a) meet immediate staffing deficiencies, mainly in
executive positions;
(b) continue the work to be started by the road investment
and maintenance study; and
(c) train Uganda nationals who will eventually take over
executive positions.
To achieve the above aims, the scheme would provide for the services of 11
foreign experts. (See Annex 1 for list of personnel, qualification require-
ments and duty definitions.) The terms of the technical assistance provided
under this credit were discussed at length during negotiations and it was a-
greed that the 11 experts would work for three years at headquarters.
4.20      The personnel would be recruited by the Government.  The salaries
have been worked out in conformity with the qualifications required for the
proposed positions and scales of pay in similar schemes for other parts of
Eastern Africa.  The scale is considerably higher than the present Government
scales for foreign personnel which have proved inadequate to attract suitably
qualified candidates. Agreement was reached on guidelines for qualifications
and salaries.
H. Cost Estimates and Financing
4.21      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$16.5 million in-
cluding contingency allowances. A summary of the cost estimate in rounded
figures split into local and foreign cost is shown below, and is given in
detail in Table 7.



- 16 -
U Sh (millions)          US$'000 equivalent
Items             Local  Foreign  Total       Local  Foreign  Total
(a)  Road Construction       23.5    56.0   79.5        3,330   7,770   11,100
(b)  Consultants' Services    4.0      9.5    13.5         570   1,330    1,900
(c)  Technical Assistance     1.0      2.5     3.5        150      350      500
(d)  Contingencies             6.5    15.0    21.5         850   2,150    3,00O
Total              35.0    83.0   118.0       4o9   Ll_600    626500
4.22      The construction cost estimate is based on detailed engineering
studies, and prices obtained in contracts recently awarded following inter-
national bidding. The cost estimates for the consulting services for con-
struction supervision are based on actual costs for similar services rendered
by consultants. The cost estimates for the road investment and maintenance
study are based on man-month estimates and salary scales for consultants'
work of a similar kind recently executed in East Africa. The contingency
item includes an allowance of 10% for physical contingencies and a further
11% for price escalation over the period of the project. The price escala-
tion contingency has been calculated on the assumption that in conformity
with past trends, foreign costs will increase at 2.5% per annum and local
costs at 5.0% per annum.
4.23      The foreign exchange component for construction and reconstruction
is estimated at 70% and is the same as that under the first project, Credit
108-UG. It includes depreciation of equipment, imported materials, fuels,
spare parts, the cost of foreign personnel, overhead and profits. The local
component includes labor and local services. For the services of consultants
and technical assistance, the foreign exchange component is also about 70%;
the local costs cover subsistence allowances, wages of local personnel, and
certain miscellaneous items.
I. Execution of Project
4.24      Execution of the project will be the overall responsibility of the
MOW, assisted by qualified consultants under terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association. Contracts for the construction works would be let on the
basis of unit price contracts after international competitive bidding and in
accordance with the Association's established procedures. The value of indi-
vidual contracts will vary from- US$0.35 million to US$3.00 million. The issu-
ing of tenders will be staggered in order to avoid overloading the capacity
of the MOW and that of the contracting industry. Construction of all the
roads will be completed by mid 1973.
4.25      The road investment and maintenance study would be completed by
late 1970 while the consulting services for the feasibility studies and de-
tailed engineering of 400 km of roads would be completed by the end of 1971.
Staff for the technical assistance scheme will be recruited-by the MOW; the



- 17 -
scheme should be fully underway by mid 1970 and continue until mid 1973. The
recruitment of qualified individuals to fill these types of posts has proved
to be a problem in neighboring countries where similar schemes are underway.
During negotiations recruitment procedures and timetables were discussed in
depth and appropriate assurances obtained. On the basis of the estimated
schedules of project execution, disbursement (in US$ million) would be as
follows:
1269     1970     1971      1972     1973    Total
IDA        0.2       3.0      4.6      3.0       o.8     11.6
4.26      Credit funds would be disbursed on the basis of the estimated for-
eign exchange cost component, 70%, applied to total payments to contractors
for civil works and on the basis of actual foreign currency required for pay-
ments to consultants for studies, engineering and supervision and for the
technical assistance staffing and training scheme. Any savings in funds pro-
vided under the proposed credit should be cancelled.
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
5.01      The principal types of benefits resulting from improvement of the
primary and secondary roads are the reduction in vehicle operating costs due
to improved driving conditions and reduction of distances, induced economic
activity as a result of lower transport costs, and savings in road mainte-
nance costs. For the agricultural penetration roads included in the project,
the main type of benefit is the net added value of agricultural production
induced by their construction. For tea roads the benefits are associated
with the increase in tea production jointly induced by investments in tea
plantations factories and road construction.
5.02      Rates of return for individual projects vary from 10% to 28% as
shown in the following table:
Primar Roads
Masaka-Kyotera                 -  21%
Kabale-Rwanda border           -  15%
Iganga-Mbale                   -  10%
Secondary Roads
Kayunga-Bale                   -  13%
Kayunga-Nabuganyi              -  11%
Bukoloto-Jinja                 -  12%
Sezibwa swamp crossing         -  15%
Feeder Roads
Maiyugo-Akokoro                -  13%
Mbale-Nkokonjeru               -  20%



- 18 -
Tea Roads
Toro District                  -  28%
Ankole District                -  19%
Kigezi District                -  16%
5.03      The tea roads form part of a package investment in a tea project
which was appraised in 1967 (Credit 109-UG). At that time, the overall rate
of return on the tea project, including the roads, was estimated at 13%.
Since that time certain variables in the project have changed, including
forecast tea prices and the cost of the roads. The overall rate of return
is now estimated at about 10%. However, the high rates of return for these
roads shown in the above table, more accurately reflect their economic im-
portance, in that these returns account for the fact that substantial invest-
ment has already been sunk into tea plantations and factories and to be fully
productive these investments require improved roads. Details of the project
roads and of the economic analysis are given in Annex 2.
6. RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations agreement was reached with the Government on
the following points:
(a) Concerning road maintenance the Association would send a letter
to the Ministry of Works expressing its concern regarding the
need to improve maintenance of the road network and the views
of the Association would be submitted to the Cabinet to ensure
that the Government will take definite steps to improve the
maintenance situation. The Government would provide the de-
tails of the maintenance budget that has been approved for 1969/
70 and the list of roads that will be resurfaced.  In addition
the Government would submit to the Association by February 28,
1970, an interim regravelling and resurfacing program for 1970/
71 (para. 3.14).
(b) Suitable ferry facilities will be provided for the roads
Kayunga-Nabugawyi and Maiyugo-Akokoro (para. 4.07, 4.10).
(c) Consultants satisfactory to the Association will be employed
for construction supervision, the road investment and mainte-
nance study, and the feasibility studies and detailed engi-
neering which will be financed under the proposed credit
(paras. 4.14, 4.16, and 4.17).



- 19 -
(d) The road investment and maintenance study will be largely
based on transport demand data collected under the East Afri-
can Transport Study and will use its policy recommendations
as a framework to the extent that they are acceptable to the
Government (para. 4.15). Pending the results of the study,
major investment decisions on road construction will be post-
poned (para. 4.16).
(e) A limited reorganization will be carried out in the Works
Division of the MOW entailing the splitting up of the present
Construction and Maintenance Branch into two separate branches,
confining the present Planning and Design Branch to design and
documentation and the creation of a new branch for advance
planning and the establishment of a new branch for administra-
tion and costing (para. 4.18).
(f) Concerning technical assistance the personnel will be recruited
by the Government in accordance with the guidelines for quali-
fications, job definitions, salary scales and time periods that
have been agreed upon (para. 4.20).
6.02      The project is suitable for an IDA Credit of US$11.6 million equiva-
lent to the Uganda Government.
August 25, 1969



a
6



TABLE 1
UGANDA
SECOND HIG154AY PC'JRECT
Lenlgth of C1a;  led Roads - 195? '-966 in km
(at June 30 j
Ministry of V-orks             Locall/
Bitumen         Gravel          Authority           Total
1958            794           3,870            9,0W7           13,711
1959            794           3,870            9,047           13,711
1960            892           3,797          10,666            15,355
S                1961           ,1145         3,63h            9,792            14,571
1962          1,188           l,19l           17,355           22,737
1963          1,188            ,19g           17,3w            22,737
1964          1,190           h,54o          17,355            23,085
1965          1,188           4,5 158080                       23,818
1966          1,278           4,680           18,080           24,038
(1967-68 figures not available but changes were very smkall).
0
1/ Roads maintained by local authorities consist mostly of earth tracks.
Source: Uganda Government Statistical Abstract and Ministry of Wlorlks,
Communications and Housing 1967.
May 20, 1969



0 I  a          0



TABLE 2
UGATDA
SECOND HIGEWAY PROJECT
Revenues from Road Users
(U Sh *000)
1961/621/ 1962/63  1963/64  1964/65  1965/66  1966/67  1967/6a.C/
A.  From Taxes
Gasoline          20,380    29,100   34,820   37,660  41,260   45,460   49,917
Diesel             5,120     7,000    8,360    9,680   10,840   11,680   12,857
Lubricating oil      620       700       720      720       780      8h0       882
Tires and tubes   2,2h0      2,800    3,[00    3,060    3,580    3,860         -
Spare parts        2,460     3,620    4,1h0    59460    7,060    6,860   11,004
Cars               3,180     5,560    7,400    9,140   12,300   12,860   12,432
Trucks and buses  1,610      3,240    4,140    6,060    8,560    9,080    9,611
Other vehicles       200       340       220      -         560      500       350
B. From Licenses
and Fees
Under traffic
ordinance        9,540     9,820    9,480   12,720   13,200   13,660   139880
Drivers' permits    540        720       600      920    1,220    1,400    1,600
Registration fees   140        500    1,380    1,740    2,420    2,260    2,440
Other fees and
licenses          520        660    1,820    1?068    2,060    2          2,210
Total       h6,580    614,060   76,780   89,140  103,840  110,620  117,183
1/ Fiscal year begins July 1.
2/  1968 tax rates are gasoline U Sh 0.48 per liter, diesel U Sh 0.41 per liter,
lubricating oil U Sh 0.22 per liter, tires U Fh 2.80 per kg. vehicles and
spare parts 305i on c.i.f. prices.
Source: Statistics Division, Ministry of Planning and Fconomic Development.
May 20, 1969



6
6



TABLE 3
UGANDA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Expenditure on Roads by Central Government
(U Sh 000,000)
C U R R E N T
Year-'        Administration0!  Maintenance2/  Total  Construction   Total
1959/60            16.0             15.0         31.0       28.2         59.2
1960/61            16.0             17.0         33.0       28.0         61.0
1961/62            16.0             17.4         33.4       22.6         56.o
1962/63            16.0             17.0         33.0        8.2         41.2
1963/64            16.0             lb.6         30.6       26.0         56.6
1964/65            17.0             15.8         32.8       14.7         47.5
1965/66            17.0             15.1         32.1       25.4         57.5
1966/67            17.0             14.o         31.0       17.5         48.5
1967/68            18.0             15.7         33.7       37.2         70.9
1/ Fiscal year beginning July 1.
2/ Estimated on the basis of Ninistry of Works overheads which averaged about
U Sh 32 million for the years 1964/65-1967/68 of which about 50% is
related to roads.
3/ In addition, expenditure by local government authorities on road maintenance
was about U Sh 15 million during 1967/68 and U Sh 12/1t million annually for
previous years. Local government authority license revenue was about half
this sum.
Source: Budget Estimates
May 20, 1969



6
6



*                                              -~~~~UW
SEXL)ND HIGHWA! PFJECT
DesLen Standards
Class I-A                           Claps I                            Class II                           Clam  III
Elat &                            Flat &                            Flat &                              Flat &
Roli    NiXIs NountainDu1        Rini   HLL   MSoanta-lrwsQ         RollirA   L12 Yilvalinpu           12i19         R4llaI b
Desiga speed, mph                    60       50       40              50       )40       30               40       30        **              30       20         *
Carriageway width,
ft (ainima)                       22       22       22              20*      20*       20*             14        14        14              10       10        10
Roadvaj width, ft (inim)              34       34       34             32        32        32              24       24        24              20       20        16
Shoulder width ft (inim)              6        6        6               6*       6*        6*              5         5         5               5        5         4
Width of right-of-way, ft                                                         00
Ruling gradient, percent              5         6        7              5         6         7               6        7         8               7        8         9
8% for    8% for                  8% for    8% for                    8% for    10% for                  10% for   12% for
Maxim  gradient, percent                  1,000 ft 1,000 ft                 1,000 ft   1,000 ft                 1,000 ft   1,000 ft                 1,000 ft 1,000 ft
Mininim stopping aight
distance, ft                     650       425     300              425     300       200             300       200                       200        * 
KSnim overtaking sight
distance, ft                    1,500    1,200    1,000          1,200    1,000       500           1,000       500                       500       **        4*
Kinisum radius curves, ft          2,100    1,450      900           1,600      900       450             goo     6o0 0*                     600       **        ff
Width of structure
(curb to curb) ft                          24                                 24                                 24                                 12
Design wheel load, lbs                     9,000                              9,000                              7,50O                              4,000
Bridge loading                               H-16                              H-16                               H-16                               H-16
*    Figures for paved roads, for gravel roads, the carriagewar width is increased to 22 ft and sh(lder widths reduced to 5 ft.
The roadway width remains the sae for both types of airface.
** To be decided by individual cases.
May 20, 1969



6
6



TABLE 5
UGANDA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Licensed Motor Vehicles.L!
(1957-67 )/
(In Vehicle Units '000)
Commercial
Cars          Vehicles           Buses            Total
1957           17.6             9.4               0.5             27.5
1958           19.9            10.1               0.6             30.6
1959           21.0              9.8              o.6             31.4
1960           22.6             9.8               0.6             33.0
1961           22.9             9.5               o.6             33.0
1962           22.2             9.6               0.6             32.4
1963           23.8            10.1               0.7             34.6
1964           25.8            10.9               0.7             37.14
1965           27.5            11.8               0.8             0o.l
1966           28.0            13.0               0.9             41.9
1967           29.3            13.8               0.9             44.0
Growth rates/
1957-67     5.2             3.9               6.o 0.8
1962-60'    5.6             7.5               8.5              6.3
1/ Includes all Government vehicles except military vehicles.
2/ As at December 31 of each year.
3/ In % per annum.
Source: Uganda Government Statistical Abstract (1967)
June 13, 1969



g         *S 



TABIE 6
UGANDA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Gasoline and Diesel Fuel Sales
('000 tons 1/)
Gasoline         Diesel          Total
1957                                       59               25              84
1958                                       61               30              91
1959                                       62               31              93
1960                                       63               33              96
1961                                        60              33              93
1962                                       60               34              94
1963                                       66               35             101
1964                                        70              41             111
1965                                       72                5             117
1966                                        73              48             121
1967                                        76              51             127
Annual GroTth Rates in %
1957-67                                     2.5             7               4
1962-67                                    5                8.5             6.5
1/ Original figures were in imperial gallons which have been converted to
tons on the basis of 285 gallons equals one ton.
Source: Uganda Government Statistical Abstract 1967.
August 25, 1969



0           0



TABLE 7
UGAMDA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates
(US$ '000 Equivalent)
I.  Construction                      Length (km)   Local        Foreign     Total
A. Primary Roads
(i)  Nasaka-4yotera                   47         555         1,295       1,850
(ii)  Kabale-.Rwanda Border            23         285           665         550
(iii)  Iganga-14bale                    97         660         1,540       2,200
B.  Secondary Roads
(iv)  Kayunga-Bale                     45         180           420         600
(v)  Kayunga-Nabuganyi                19          81            189        270
(vi)  Sezibwa Swamp Crossing            2          99            231        330
(vii)  Bukoloto-Jinja                   45         390            910      1,300
C. Feeder Roads
(viii)  lIbale-Nkokonjeru                20         240           560         800
(ix)  Maiyungo-Akokoro                 37         105           215         350
D. Tea Roads
(x)  Toro Tea Roads                   70         195           455         650
(xi)  Ankole Tea Roads                120         210           450         700
(xii)  Kigezi Tea Roads                140         330            770      1,100
Total Construction          665        3,330          7,770     11,100
II.  Consultants' Services
(xiii)  Supervision of Construction                 180            420        600
(xiv)  Road Investment & Maintenance Study          90           210         300
(xv) Feasibility Studies and Detailed
Engineering (400 km)                    300            700      1,000
III. Technical Assistance
(xvi)  Eleven men for three years                  150            350        500
Iv. Contingencies
(xvii)  Physical             10%                    400            950      1,350
(xviii)  Price Contingencies  11%                    450          1 200      1,650
Total                         4,900        11600      16,500
August 25, 1969



.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
UGANDA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Description of Positions Included in Technical Assistance Program
Chief Engineers (four)
i.     Chief Planning Engineer
ii.    Chief Materials Engineer
iii.   Chief Design and Documentation Engineer
iv.    Chief Road Maintenance Engineer
1.        Candidates for these posts should hold an engineering degree of a
recognized university or an equivalent qualification. They should have had
at least eight years post-graduate/post-qualification experience with consul-
ting engineers, a government department or contractor specializing in road
works in underdeveloped countries; at least four of these should have been
spent in their specialization. The training of Uganda engineers and techni-
cal staff will also form an important aspect of their duties.
Transport Economist
2.        Candidates should hold an economics degree of a recognized univer-
sity. They should also have had at least five years experience as transport
economists with particular emphasis on highways, two years of which should
have been in underdeveloped countries. The successful candidate will be re-
quired to collect and analyze economic data related to the transport require-
ments of Uganda, to analyze transport costs, operate and improve the existing
traffic census system and analyze investment proposals from an economic view-
point, with the aim of optimizing the highway investment and maintenance pro-
gram of the Uganda Government.  He would also assist in the training of Uganda
transport economists.
Cost Accountant
3.        Candidates must be graduates of a business administration school or
a chartered or cost and works accountant. They must be familiar with high-
ways and stores costing systems and in particular with job costing. They
should possess at least six years of experience in cost accounting, prefer-
ably with a highway or some other civil engineering agency. The successful
candidate will be required to organize and administer a proper system of
costing for highway maintenance operations to facilitate economic and admin-
istrative decisions. He will also be required to train local staff in cost
accounting positions.



*                     0           to    I



ARNEX 1
Page 2
Senior Executive Engineers (five)
i.  Senior Executive Engineer:  Maintenance
ii.    "       "          "    : Construction
iii.    i: Design and Documentation
iv.    ""                      : Mechanical
v.                       .    : for Local Administration
4.        Candidates for these jobs should hold an engineering degree of a
recognized university, an engineering college or an equivalent qualification.
They should have had experience of at least six years, four of which have
been spent in their specialization, preferably part of it in road works in
underdeveloped countries.
0
August 25, 1969



0                           0              II    e



ANNEX 2
Page 1
UGANDA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Basis for Economic Evaluation
A. Traffic Data (Table 1)
1.        Present traffic volumes are based on counts especially taken by
the MOW during 1967 and 1968 for the project roads. For the Iganga-Mbale
road, O&D surveys were taken in 1968 by the MOW and the Economist Intelli-
gence Unit (EIU) on the Mbale-Tororo road, to determine the volume of traf-
fic with origin or destinations of Jinja and beyond. For the Kabale Rwanda
border road, diverted traffic estimates have been prepared by the French
consultant, BCEOM, for the Rwanda Transport Study.
2.        Traffic forecasts are based on growth trends in GNP, vehicle popu-
lation, fuel consumption and the limited information available on traffic
growth rates. It has been assumed that normal growth will be faster for
trunk roads than for feeder roads, but induced traffic will be more signifi-
cant for the latter.
B. Vehicle Operating Cost Data (Table 2)
3.        Vehicle operating costs have been obtained from the EIU.  Those
for gravel and earth roads appeared to be too low compared with data avail-
able from other sources.  EIU data for such roads were, therefore, adjusted
according to the physical coefficients in the QRUS 1/ paper priced with Uganda
input prices. The following is a comparison for estimated vehicle operating
costs for existing and proposed facilities during opening year.
^                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~in US}/km
Present Facility _           Proposed Facility
Light                        Light
Vehicles  Trucks   Buses    Vehicles  Trucks   Buses
Masaka-Kyotera             6.2     13.4    17.4         4.1       8.4    10.9
Kabale-Rwanda Border       8.8     22.6       -         5.2      12.2      -
Iganga-Mbale               7.0     17.1    21.2         5.2      12.2    15.8
Kayunga-Nabuganyi          7.5     18.3    23.8         5.2      12.2    15.8
Kayunga-Bale               7.6     19.5    25.3         5.2      12.2    15.8
Sezibwa Crossing          10.2     21.0    27.2         4.1       8.4    10.9
Bukoloto-Jinja             6.0     12,6    16.4         4.1       8.4    10.9
4.        For gravel and earth roads it has been assumed that after traffic
exceeds an ADT of 350 vehicles, vehicle operating costs go up, due to (i)
1/   Quantification of Road User Savings, World Bank Staff Occasional Paper
No. 2.



0
0



ANNEX 2
Page 2
speed reduction on account of dust; and (ii) poor surface conditions due to
surface deterioration. It has been conservatively assumed that within an
ADT of 350-450 range they go up by 10%, and for every additional 50 vehicles,
they go up by another 10%, an ADT of 500 being the limit which will be
reached during the economic lives of all but one of the project roads (20
years for gravel and 25 for bituminous roads). This limit is estimated on a
"without" basis, based on normal traffic growth alone, and ignoring induced
or diverted traffic.
5.        For maintenance costs fixed costs are US$300 per km for gravel and
US$600 per km for bituminous roads per annum; variable costs are US$2.44 per
vehicle for gravel and earth roads and US$0.88 per vehicle for bituminous
roads. These figures are based on Eastern African (Uganda, Kenya and Tanzania)
experience. For gravel roads the variable component has been increased by
10% for every 50 vehicles after ADT's of 300 are exceeded.
C. Primary Roads
Masaka-Kyotera (47 km, US$1.85 million)
6.        The project section runs through extensively farmed hilly country,
coffee being the main crop. Further west, cotton is the most important item.
South of Kyotera there is a sugar factory with a yearly capacity of 15,000
tons; its total production is carried by truck to Kampala along the project
road. Present traffic ranges from 600 vehicles per day at Masaka to 300 per
day at Kyotera.  The proposed investment will earn a rate of return of about
21%.
Kabale-Rwanda Border (23 km, US$0.95 million)
7.        This is the Uganda section of the projected Kabale-Biumba-Kigali
road which will become Rwanda's principal international transport artery to
the sea at Mombasa, Kenya. BCEOM's Transport Survey for Rwanda confirms
that inland transportation costs for Rwanda's international trade are mini-
mized when channelled through Mombasa rather than through Tanzania's port of
Dar es Salaam via Burundi and Kigoma, or through Congo (Kinshasa) ports on
the Atlantic Ocean.
8.        Rwanda's international trade amounting to about 80,000 tons is
presently shipped through Mombasa over a road via Kakitumba, to the east of
the proposed road. The distance from Kigali to Mbarara via Kakitumba is
315 km, while via Kabale it is only 235 km, a distance saving of 80 km by
the project road. The reason for the present use of the longer road via
Kakitumba is that the existing earth road between Kabale-Biumba-Kigali can-
not be travelled by medium or heavy trucks.
9.        An ADT of about 50 vehicles will be diverted to the project road
after its upgrading, from the existing longer connection, and as a result,
total vehicle journey costs from Kigali to Mbarara will be halved. In ad-
dition there will be a reduction in vehicle operating costs for present
traffic on the existing road from Kigali to Kabale with an estimated 1967



*          S



ANNEX 2
Page 3
ADT of 50 vehicles. The Ugandan section can be justified only when viewed
within the framework of the larger Kabale-Kigali project, which is estimated
to cost approximately US$6 million. The Kigali-Uganda border section is
currently undergoing detailed engineering, and is being prepared for an IDA
appraisal mission in late 1969. The rate of return for the entire project
is estimated at 15%. Most of the traffic on the road, even on the Uganda
section, would be Rwanda traffic and most of the quantifiable benefits of
the proposed project will accrue to Rwanda. However, the indirect benefits
to Uganda, as a result of handling more of Rwanda's external trade, would be
very large.
Iganga-Mbale Road (97 km. US$2.2 million)
10.       This is a road which will provide a new and shorter trunk con-
nection between Kampala and northeastern Uganda via Mbale. For parts of
the Bugisu-Bukedi districts affected by the projected road, the distance
to Kampala will be reduced by up to 150 km. The two districts are heavily
populated with close to a million people. About 40,000 tons of cotton,
100,000 tons of groundnuts and 20,000 tons of coffee are grown in the dis-
tricts. In addition, subsistence crops like cassava, finger millet,
plantain, beans and maize which total over one million tons, are also grown
though mainly locally consumed.
11.       The present ferry across a 3.2 km swamp takes about one hour in-
cluding waiting time, and its capacity is limited to one 6-ton truck or bus.
Most of the agricultural produce in the immediate zone of influence of the
road take the longer road to Kampala via Mbale because of the poor condition
of the existing road and the limited capacity of the ferry crossing. The
1967 ADT on the road was 60 vehicles, most of which consisted of local traf-
fic not using the ferry; it is estimated that, once the embankment is con-
structed and the road is paved to bitumen standards, an additional 270 would
be diverted from the present longer connection between Mbale and Kampala via
Tororo. The districts of Bukedi and Bugisu have additional land potential
suitable for cotton, groundnuts and rice and the projected road will encourage
its use by providing a much shorter and cheaper connection to Kampala.
12.       At the time of the negotiations, however, the detailed engineering
of the embankment was still substantially incomplete. Since the economic
justification of the embankment was found to be very sensitive to the cost
estimates that had not been adequately firmed up, its construction has not
been included in the present project. Once this embankment was left out the
expected diversion of traffic referred to in para. 11 would not be realized
with or without an asphalt pavement which was therefore also left out of the
project.
13.       The rate of return on the proposed road based on Class I gravel
standards serving local traffic alone was estimated at 10%.



S l.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
D. Secondary Roads
Kayunga-Bale (4 vkm, us$0.6 million)
Kayunga-Nabuganyi (19 km, US$0.27 million)
Bukoloto-Jinja (47 km, US$1.3 million)
14.       These three secondary roads are situated in the populous East Mengo
district of Southern Uganda and link some of its rural areas to the primary
road network. The areas directly affected are those of the Busoga district
and the Bugerere county of East Mengo. They have a population of close to
800,000 which is among the economically most active in the country, espe-
cially in agriculture. The major quantities produced are 40,000 tons of
cotton, 30,000 tons of groundnuts and 10,000 tons of coffee as well as large
quantities of subsistence crops. In addition, there is considerable com-
mercial activity, and small workshops have been established in the numerous
villages along the roads. Traffic on these roads in 1967 ranged between 80
and 110 vehicles per day. They are earth roads that are poorly maintained.
High vehicle operating costs constitute a factor inhibiting economic growth
in the zones of influence. The rates of return for the proposed investments
are 13%, 11%, and 12% respectively.
Sezibwa Swamp Crossing (2 km, US$0.33 million)
15.       The Sezibwa crossing is a low standard causeway on the secondary
road between Kayunga and Kalagi which constitutes a bottleneck that slows
traffic considerably. The 1967 ADT on the crossing was 560 vehicles which
is above its economic capacity. The proposed investment for its widening
on the basis of Class I gravel standards has a rate of return of 15%.
E. Feeder Roads
Maiyu o-Akokoro (37 km. US$0.35 million)
16.       The Maiyugo-Akokoro road will serve agriculture in Meruzi county in
North Central Uganda (Lango region) which is bounded on two sides by the
Nile. The area was relatively underdeveloped until recently due to the
presence of tsetse fly. During the past few years this has been eliminated,
and the area has been opened for development and internal immigration from
the neighboring Moroto county. The county has a fishing industry and an un-
utilized land potential suitable for grains, groundnuts and ranching.
17.       In the vicinity of the road, a 42,000 acre ranching project for
10,000 cattle is being developed at an investment cost of US$500,000 which
will have a gross annual output of US$200,000 valued at ex farm prices.
When the road investment is considered jointly with the one for ranching, a
rate of return of 13% is arrived at based on net added value. With other
induced benefits taken into account, the expected rate of return is substan-
tially higher.



lI*                          0 a   



ANNEX 2
Page 5
Mbale-NkokonJeru (20Aki, US$o08 million)
18.       The proposed Mbale-Nkokonjeru connection is a penetratilon road to
the high plateau area of Mount Elgon which is one of the few areas in Uganda
with both a temperate climate and good agricultural land. It is suitable
for the cultivation of coffee, wheat, and vegetables and fruits normally
grown in temperate zones. Despite the absence of a road, coffee, and small
amounts of vegetables like carrots and potatoes are carried down the mountain
along foot paths on the heads of villagers in 15-kg lots. The wages of a
porter for doing the round trip that takes two days to-and-from the market
at Mbale is U Sh 7. On this basis, the cost of bringing in one ton of vege-
tables to Mbale is about US$65 as against under US$1.00 by truck.
19.       Present vegetable yields are very low (one ton per acre) due to a
large wastage factor and poor cultivation methods. Present coffee yields
are also low (200 kg of parchment to the acre). The reason for this is the
incidence of disease, the absence of fertilizers, and inadequate spraying
and extension work due to the absence of a road. The area served by the pro-
posed road has timber and tourism potential, both of which require a road.
20.       The rate of return for the investment has been calculated on the
assumption that with the proposed road, it will be possible in five years to
double coffee yields per annum, increase the acreage under vegetables from
200 to 300 acres and also double yields per acre. The gross value of the
additional production is about US$243,000 which would yield an estimated net
value of about US$l55,000.  To this, a benefit of US$64 per ton should be
added for the 1,500 tons of produce which is presently carried in headloads
at a cost of US$65 per ton compared with a cost of US$l per truck. Total
benefits therefore add up to US$251,000 beginning with the fifth year after
the opening date which yields a rate of return of 20% for the road investment.
Excluded from this calculation are possible increases in marketed subsistence
produce, tourism income, timber, and possibilities of dairy and wheat farming
development.  If one or more of these possibilities is realized the rate of
return would be boosted substantially.
F. Tea Roads
Toro Tea Roads (70 kin us$o.65 million)
Ankole Tea Roads (120 km, US$0.7 million)
Kigezi Tea Roads (140 kmi US$1.1 million)
21.       The tea roads have already been appraised in connection with the
IDA Credit 109-UG for tea cultivation as part of a joint investment package
consisting of tea plantations, factories and roads. At that time the over-
all program was estimated to earn a return of 13%. In the present appraisal
the rate of return of this original package was recalculated on the basis of
the same assumptions and price inputs used in connection with Credit 109-UG,
except that the 10% decline in tea prices since the date of Credit 109-UG



I           * a0                                      I



ANNEX 2
Page 6
and the slight rise in the estimated cost of providing the roads were taken
into account. On this basis a rate of return for the tea project including
tea roads of slightly over 10% appears likely.
22.       The economic importance of these tea roads is best appreciated,
however, when it is noted that substantial investments in tea plantation and
factories have already taken place since the start of the execution of the
tea project in 1966, and that these are sunk costs. Comparing the economic
situations with and without the proposed tea road investments indicates a
rate of return of 28% for those in Toro, 19% for those in Ankole, and 16%
for those in Kigezi.
August 25, 1969



6
0
I



UGANDA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
1967/68 ADT for Primary and Secondary Pro.iect Roads and Traffic Growth Assumptions
Primar Roads                             _            Secondary Roads
Kabale
i4asaka      Rwanda         Iganga             Kayunga      Kayunga      Sezibwa       Bukoloto
Kyotera      Bordpr 1/      Mbale             Nabu F,.a      Bale        Crossing       Jinja
1967/68 ADT on Existing Road
Automobiles (A)             211          38             26                 54           91            431            157
Trucks (T)                  101            8            31                 23           18            108             22
Buses (B)                    23           2              5                  1            2             22              6
Total          335           48            62                  78         111            561            185
Growth Assumptions           A  T  B       A  T  B      A  T  B            A  T  B       A  T  B       A  T  B       A  T  B
(normal traffic)
1968-72                   5  7  8      4  5  3       4  6  6            4  7  7       4 77          5  7  8      4  7  7
1973-77                   5  7  7      4  5  3       4  5  5            4  6  6       4  6  6)      5  7  7      4  6  6
1978-95                   5  6  6      4  5  3       3  4  4            3  5  5       3  5  5'    4  6  6        3  5  5
Induced Traffic Elasticity    0.5           0.5           1.5                 1.5         1.5             0             1.5
1/ About 30 light yeh ies arrlrucks will be diverted to the road with an assumed growth rate of 5%. per annum
and with a saving in distance of 81 km.
Aug"st 25, 1969                                                                                                             3



-~
6



UGANDA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Vehicle Operatina Costs
(in US¢ perim n)
Vehicle type             7_ton truck/ _         62-2assen        l/    20-ton trailer1/           Light vehicle2/
Surface type         Bitumen Gravel Earth  Bitumen  Gravel Earth  Bituren  Gravel Earth  itmn   G l  Earth
Effective speed
km/h                 70      55    40        70       55     40      60       40      25      -        -       -
1. Depreci-ation       1439    1.91   2.78    2.09      2.96   4.26    2.18     2.96   4.26      1.2      1.6    2.5
2. Interest            0.44    0 .52   0.52    0.87     1.04l  1.31    0.96     1.22   1.48      0.5      0.6    0.8
3. Insurance           0.17    0.17   0.26    0.35      0.44   0.70    0.26     0.44   0.61      0.2      0.3    0.4
4. Wages               1.74    1.82   1.91    1.74      2.00   2.35    2.96     3.39   3.92      0.7      0.9    1.2
5   iMaintenance       1474    2.52   3.48    1.91      2.70   3.83    3.05     4.26   6.09      0.4      0.5    0.7
6. Ft1                 1.48    1.74   2.00    1.65      1.91   2.27    2.61     3,05   4.00      0.7      0,8    0.9
7. Oil                 0.17    0.17   0.26    0.35      0.35   0.35    0.52     o.52   0.70      0.1      0.1    0.1
8. Tires and tubes    1.31    1.48   1.74    1.91       2, 18   2.61    5.31    5.92   7.05      0.3      0.3    0.4
Total         8.44   10.33  12.95   10.87    13.58  17.68   17.85    21.76  28.11       4.1      5.1    7.0
1/ Source: Economist Intelligence Unit (East Africa Transport Stuty)
Surce:  United Research Institute
August 25, 1969



I  I                a                                                             l



UGANDA: SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF THE MINISTRY OF WORKS, COMMUNICATIONS AND HOUSING
F -  MINISTER
DEPUTY MINISTER
| PERMANENT SECRETARY
ENGINEER IN CHIEF
DEPUTY ENGINEER IN CHIEF
|   OMUNICATIONS   |WRS7VIO                                                  HUSING DIVISION
WORKS|DIVISION DI
T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
;._~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S
Mr WATER 19|PLANNING                                                    CTNS I            MATES  r
DRAINAGE~~~~~~~~~~OCD AND DESGNAN  MAINTENANCE                              BRANH             BANC
l  l       |                   |~~~~~~~~~~  D R A W IN G   O F F IC E   |ll    
|  R E S/O|  AL   O f f I  C f1 S
l  NORTH   l  l  EAST   l  l  W~E~ E51 j    BUGANDAI
Mrrch 1969                                                                                                                    ()IR -45



I             0                            0II



UGANDA                                                  P   A
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT   '    5V
"I           -f j                                   
.......... .;;   .%
0~~~~~~3
T              A               Z           A         N 0  R
A Fr R I C             N
9 I r ,> I A K E V / C r O R   /  A    N
¢  gnungu    | - = 5   i  _ *   /   /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~ s  i ~ ~   ~   -



0
0



D9 t(7    /        .                                                                    UGANDA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
TORO TEA ROADS
Kigoyeraoo
IC                                                               ca                                            ,
A. t                 .                    K{l ijumo                                                                K'm-ooct                                             4   5-d'
<      ti  C         c             FOR E < T                                    f ) O -t !                                     !~~~~~~~~~~Ky~qbukma0    2    3    4    5  
<;s C    - _        ~~PESERVE                                Ky- ngeny, " P , rJ ?Y Jn0ukm                     a       .LrS
Mironai >
.nyC',
C;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_
D^ r)                    t3 <                 K,59ng,   c  rt                                                                   I5oroga              f5551
>                         <         >                         ~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Kidukuru-   z):
J   t%<   9                2                         ,/N~~~~~~~~yomobugo    * 
\FORT #-Ctf _   
: ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C                                                                 A'tJ
mt ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~Chaib  Se                                                      c ,; 
rp  ffiful                                                                                                                                    u      Kyenjoiiiboe 
'                   \                                                                                                                                                                                     ll.llltss8]; ~~~K,k



6
6
a



UGANDA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
ANKOLE TEA ROADS
Latoto                                        ,     3     Ce 3ra areas 
U       Tea fatcory
P-ojort te  rad
' Frst l.igh-ay project road
0  1  2  3  4  5  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~NSIKA
MILES                                                                           "
Cr,                        ~~~~~~~0    1   2   3   4    5                                                     'I
>a°~                                 °       r >$  ILOMETERS                                         (       Or
8   t fd >    r3   oRyo-ukungu                                                          ,{r        >         
sw, o               0)0fC5O5Ia5o"
ZM
KeysaanrgC     B C,                                                                                C e t    C                                                         /
CC3  t-  O     L.                                                                              0  >s^ f
Keslhohoq3 ~      G r  A                                                             qaalama
N ~                                                                                                                                  /
K.b,ego                    Bahatamo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ lf.
Nyababore                  T' .U Kashe,y,             BUSH ENYI
NAY                                  Uto49                                                                                                            fl$RD 'S5t)1.
KIBIN       e-k0,
KABWOHE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
it~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~53-2 



6
0
a



MAI P 4
UGANDA                                    r
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT                                /                      Nyomensi
KIGEZI TEA ROADS   <
!30    Tea a oa:                                                Tpi 
Tea factorY                              RESERVE           <                                                                        /
Existing  roads                                                  (
Project tea roads  4)
ISHASHA
' ,        0tRongwo
Kihihio c
C,                                  ~~c .-c               
0        1        2       3        4        53
MILES 
0    i    2           4    5                                                                                        Kc ete
KILOMETERS                    p
o Nyamwegabira
Nyomigoye   -         Burerno
&O         ,     U                     E   '-i§..¢,      
AS,        '       Rutanda                                     -Rnuad
Ztktg   \    _    it  , Ws f t - v    Kanyampotir3         RbmW(                  v 
Ntungomo 4
N_c Nykgyezi
\ t < ^ e '4 C _2 K~~~~~~~ANUNGU
B     tut
j  Kyesero  .KJ ''yanrot ' >; ^ {:0 Musheija
Ky serd_-;tc                   c ~ 6;           <           
J M Rugondo                           o                       c                                  Ng';'o
> ~            Mushstrero O - fX    IMPENETRABLE FOREST  . 
,ANIMAL   SANCTUARY
*)  _   ? * i, u        0                                                         " .Kobugo- .  
J  -,  @-1, . t.       Katomco                                             ,        t      q'-   ^
<   _Bluhoc  -                                                   ,4<S               ,R    .< t(
0~~~~~~~~~~~1
K tahuriro  Katundo     lyogo      f 
AY  1969                                                                                                                                         IBRD2SI   R  2 R
MIAY 1969IBD26l



