Document of                             COPY
The World Bank    FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2639-BA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF THE
UNION OF BURMA
FOR A
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
November 6, 1979
This doemmet hw a restricted dislrbuom and my be mod by rocilae may is the plwomam of
thIr UcIa 4.t.. Its eateb may adot borwis be dlolmd witou Wod Dak a_latm. I



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Since May 1977, the Burmese kyat has been officially
valued at 8.51 to the IMF Special Drawing Right (SDR) and
conoequently its value floats relative to other-currencies.
The following exchange rate is used throughout this report
except where stated otherwise:
US$1.00  -  Kyat (K) 6.7
K 1.00   -  US$0.149
BURMESE FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS
GDP  -  Gross Domestic Product
GNP  -  Gross National Product
ITU  -  International Telecommunication Union
MTC  -  Ministry of Transport and Communications
PABX - Private Automatic Branch Exchange
PTC  -  Posts and Telecommunications Corporation



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BURMA
SECONI) TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:            The Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma (BURMA)
Beneficiary:         The Posts and Telecommunications Corporation (PTC)
Amount:              US$35.0 million
Terms:               Standard
Relending Terms:    The Government of Burma to PTC with repayment over
24 years, including five years grace period, at an
interest rate of 8.5% per annum.
Project
Description:      The project consists of the urgent works in PTC's
FYs 81-85 development program and includes: (a) the
installation of about 31,200 lines of local telephone
systems (including replacement of 7,200 lines of obso-
lete equipment) and associated long distance facilities;
(b) the extension of telecommunications services to
important urban and rural centers presently without
service; (c) the installation of maritime radio tele-
phone equipment at the three main ports and mobile
radio telephone systems for transportation and remote
access on the main national routes; (d) installation
of additional telex and gentex systems, a billing
processor and miscellaneous equipment and materials
including those for urgent rehabilitation of the Rangoon
telephone system; (e) consulting services; and (f) com-
pletion of ongoing works under existing contracts in the
first Telecommunications Project (Cr. 551-BA). The
project faces no special risks beyond those commonly
associated with telecommunications projects.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their officl duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost                                               US$ Million Equivalent
of Project: 1/                                             Local  Foreign  Total
Local facilities                        7.2      20.1   27.3
Long distance facilities                2.6       9.5   12.1
Rural telecommunications facilities  1.4          2.5    3.9
Maritime radio telephone                0.1       0.2    0.3
Transportation/remote access
radio telephone systems,
telex and gentex systems              0.4       2.4    2.8
Miscellaneous equipment                 8.9       1.1   10.0
Consultancy services                    0.1       0.2    0.3
Contingencies                           6.9       6.4   13.3
Subtotal                             27.6      42.4   70.0
Duties and Taxes                       23.0        -    23.0
Total                                50.6      42.4   93.0
Financing Plan:                                 US$ Million Equivalent
Local   Foreign   Total
IDA                        -         31.5    31.5
Japan                      -         10.9    10.9
Government               23.6          -      23.6
PTC                      27.0          -      27.0
Total              50.6        42.4    93.0
Estimated
Disbursements
from Credit 2/                           US$ Million
IDA FY            Annual    Cumulative
80               3.0            3.0
81               4.0            7.0
82              10.5          17.5
83               9.5          27.0
84               5.5          32.5
85               2.5          35.0
Rate of return:       16%.
Staff Appraisal Report    No. 2216-BA dated October 26, 1979.
1/   Excluding US$3.5 million for cost increases due to exchange varia-
tions in Credit 551-BA, for the first Telecommunications Project.
2/   Includes US$3.5 supplementary financing for first Telecommunications
Project.



REPORT AN]) RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC
OF THE UNION OF BURMA
FOR A
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Union of Burma for the equivalent of US$35.0 million
on standard IDA terms to help finance a second telecommunications project and
a cost overrun on the first telecommunications project (Cr. 551-BA). The
proceeds of the credit would be relent to the Posts and Telecommunications
Corporation for 24 years incLuding a five year grace period, with an interest
rate of 8-1/2% per annum.  The Government of Japan has agreed in principle
to extend to the Government of Burma a loan of approximately US$11.0 million
equivalent for 30 years including a ten year grace period with interest at
2.25% per annum. The loan would be passed on to PTC on the same terms as
received by the Government.
]?ART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The latest economic report entitled, "Burma - Development Perform-
ances and Policies" (Report No. 2347-BA, March 8, 1979) was distributed to
the Executive Directors on March 16, 1979. Country data are shown-in Annex I.
3.        World War II and the events leading up to Independence in 1948
devastated the Burmese economy and divided the country politically. As a
result, the 1950s were a period of turbulence.  In 1962, parliamentary demo-
cracy was declared a failure, and the assembly and high court were dismissed.
In their place, a Revolutioniary Council was formed with General Ne Win as its
Chairman, and the Burmese Socialist Program Party (BSPP) was established as
the only authorized politicaL party. After eleven years of government by the
Revolutionary Council, a Constitution was adopted in a nationwide referendum
in December 1973. Under this Constitution, the Pyithu Hluttaw (People's
Assembly) was created with supreme executive, legislative, and judicial
authority.
4.        The guiding philosophy of the present Government, as stated in the
April 1962 document on the Burmese Way to Socialism, is based on a combination
of traditional Burmese values and socialist doctrine. Nationalistic in charac-
ter, its economic objectives are set out in the Twenty-Year Plan, which was
adopted by the BSPP in 1972 and is being implemented through a succession of
Four-Year Plans. The intent is to fashion a new order for Burma by reorient-
ing the economy to provide adiequate food, clothing and shelter for the masses
and to improve the quality of social services.
1/   Parts I and II of this report are substantially the same as the corres-
ponding parts of the President's Report for a Second Forestry Project,
dated July 24, 1979 (P2611-BA).



-2 -
5.        By and large, the Government has made progress in the attainment
of its social and political objectives. Insurgency is still a problem,
particularly in the hills and border areas, but there is probably greater
territorial control by the Government now than at any time since Independence.
Greater equality in the distribution of economic opportunity has resulted
from land redistribution, which led to a more equal size of holdings among
farm families, and from the nationalization of a number of major economic
activities in trade and industry. At the same time, access of the population
to social services has been expanded, particularly with respect to education
and health facilities.
6.        However, the Government's ability to maintain the social well-being
of the population has been constrained by slow economic growth. Per capita
income at present is about $140 and permits little above basic needs for the
greater part of the population. Urban unemployment is estimated to be over
10% of the labor force, and rural underemployment is substantial.
7.        Burma's economic performance over the last decade and a half
reflects to a significant extent the effects of the particular policies it
adopted to establish economic independence. Capitalism was considered ex-
ploitative and alien. Thus, State control was established over the means of
production and distribution in large parts of the economy and sweeping mea-
sures were taken to reduce the role of the private sector, which was regarded
as being largely synonymous with foreign investments. As public policies and
public sector performance did not compensate for the drastic declines in
private investment and production which resulted, economic growth suffered.
Throughout the period investment levels were low. Gross capital formation
averaged 10-11% of GNP, and even this limited investment was not directed
towards the sectors having the greatest comparative advantage. With invest-
ment in nationalized industry providing the main thrust in the Government's
efforts to reduce the country's reliance on external transactions, such
directly productive key sectors as agriculture, forestry and mining did not
receive due attention. The pricing policies of the Government exacerbated
the problem. They were aimed at keeping the cost of living low for the
masses, but low producer prices discouraged the production of paddy and other
crops and led to dwindling export earnings. Furthermore, State economic
enterprises were not allowed full recovery of their costs, leading to a
decline in their financial surpluses and hence in domestic savings. An
increasing share of production was either traded in the domestic unofficial
market or illegally exported abroad at a multiple of official prices. In
both cases, income was siphoned off by segments of the private sector with
little opportunity or inclination to invest these resources productively.
The distortions arising from this system were compounded by low official
interest rates and an overvalued exchange rate.
8.        As a result, the increase in value added by the directly productive
sectors of the economy during the 1960s and early 1970s scarcely matched pop-
ulation growth, while export volumes declined for most of the period. Low
export earnings, in turn, reduced the capacity of the economy to import
essential raw materials, spares, and capital equipment, leading to increasing
underutilization of capacity in most sectors of the economy and severely
limiting expansion.



-3-
9.        In recognition of the practical problems faced in the implementa-
tion of its overall economic policies, the Government began pragmatically in
the early 1970s to evolve a modified approach to the attainment of its basic
objectives. This modified approach has been implemented under the curtailed
First Four 'Year Plan (1971/72 to 1973/74) and under the recently completed
Second Four Year Plan (1974/75 to 1977/78). Pricing policy still reflects
the desire to provide basic consumer goods cheaply and to prevent inflation,
but it has begun to recognize the role of prices in creating production
incentives and financial viability. Procurement prices of a variety of
agricultural products have been raised to improve the economic position of
the farmer, while others have been decontrolled. The procurement price for
paddy was raised by 150% between 1972 and 1974. It has, however, remained
unchanged since then despite rapid inflation in the mid-1970s. In industry,
the Government obtained new costing schedules in 1976 and increased the
ex-factory prices of State Economic Enterprises (SEEs), although the adjust-
ments remain incomplete. These new costing schedules in principle allow
profit margins at the producing level for the first time. The official
exchange rate of the kyat was devalued by 25% relative to the US dollar in
January 1975 and a further 9% relative to the SDR in 1977, thus partially
compensating for the overvaluaation.  The interest rate on savings deposits was
raised from 3.5% to 6% in April 1975 and raised again to 8% in November 1977.
10.       In a policy announcement in 1973, the Government reaffirmed its aim
"to transform the economy of Burma from an agricultural to an agriculture-
based industrial country, and thence gradually to an industrial nation." In
the same statement, however, the Government accorded initial priority to
improvements in agriculture, livestock, fisheries, forestry and mining and
the establishment of consumer goods industries based on the raw material
resources cf the country.  The percentage of public investment which was
allocated to agriculture (including livestock, fishing, and forestry) and
mining in the Second Four Year Plan (1974/75 to 1977/78) in fact increased
to 33%, compared to 16% during the previous decade. The share of industrial
investment which was allocated to consumer goods and light industries, how-
ever, was very small.
11.       Managerial and organizational reforms of the SEEs have also been
initiated. In 1975, a comprehensive set of guidelines was introduced to
enable SEEs to operate on a commercial basis and to improve distribution of
their production. The guidelines introduce greater autonomy in the management
of SEEs, se-t standards by which their operational performance will be measured,
introduce i.inancial and costing practices to encourage efficiency, and provide
for a bonusl scheme under which management and the work force may be rewarded
for successful performance.  Although problems remain, particularly in regard
to incentives for operational and investment efficiency, overall production
and financiLal performance are greatly improved.
4
12.       A major tax reform was enacted in April 1976.  It included
the introduction of a Commodlities and Services Tax and a Profits Tax.
Concurrent revisions in the selling prices of SEEs and their improved
financial performance raised the current revenues of boards and corporations
substantiaLly. The reform thus resulted in increasing Union Government
revenue from 9% of GNP in 1975/76 to 12% in 1977/78, reversing the decline



- 4 -
in domestic savings and halting the rapid expansion in money supply that
fueled a high rate of inflation. It represented a major turnaround in public
finance and was perhaps the most important achievement of the Government in
recent years.
13.       These actions have undoubtedly improved the conditions for acceler-
ated economic growth and thereby contributed in a positive manner to economic
performance under the Second Four-Year Plan (1974/75-1977/78). GDP during
this period increased by an annual average of 4.8%, compared to 2.7% in the
previous decade. After a decline in 1974/75, agricultural output growth
recovered, mainly because of the favorable weather conditions. The tradi-
tionally important forestry and mining sectors showed mixed performance, but
a welcome development was the expansion of onshore crude oil production by
an annual average of 8% over the period. With the increased availability
of raw material from the primary sectors, larger imports of intermediate
materials and capital equipment, and improved incentives resulting from the
introduction of the Commercial Guidelines for public enterprises which account
for 50% of gross output, the growth of the processing and manufacturing sector
increased by an annual average of 7%.
14.       After declining in the early 1970s, gross fixed capital formation
is estimated to have almost doubled in real terms during the Second Four
Year Plan, although much of the increase occurred during the last years, and
problems of implementation experienced during the period suggest that these
estimates may be scaled down. Along with the increase in investment, domestic
savings expanded. The improved budgetary position of the Government lessened
its dependence on the banking system, which in turn contributed to a reduction
in the rate of inflation. During 1976 the consumer price index in Rangoon
increased by 22% as compared with 32% in 1975. The consumer price index
declined slightly during 1977, and continued to decline, by an estimated 6%,
during 1978.
15.       The current value of exports (in US dollars) grew by 10.6% per
annum between 1974/75 and 1977/78, principally as the result of export price
increases for most export products and an expanded volume of rice exports.
The increase in exchange earnings, plus some use of external financing,
enabled imports to rise, although Burma's capacity to import continued
to be insufficient in relation to its needs.
16.       Despite these favorable developments, much remains to be done to
put the economy firmly on the path to sustained, more rapid growth. Further
progress needs to be made in rationalizing the role of agricultural and in-
dustrial prices in the allocation of resources. At present, investment and
production decisions are guided by plan targets rather than by changes in
production and market conditions. In agriculture, the Government established
a Rice Commission to examine the appropriate level of paddy prices and this
inquiry needs to be sustained and broadened. A price adjustment for paddy
needs to be evaluated in terms of inflationary pressures as well as the pro-
duction, government revenue, and foreign exchange effects. In industry,
further adjustments of SEE product prices are required to reflect resource
scarcities more accurately, to stimulate productivity growth, and to generate
surpluses for reinvestment. In external trade, the role and impact of the



- 5 -
exchange rate needs to be kept under continuing review, given the importance
of greater export growth for the development of the domestic economy. Greater
export promotion efforts for minor products must also be made.
17.       A sharpening of sectoral development strategy aimed at rehabili-
tating prodluctive capacity and ensuring more efficient use of the national
resource endowment is also required. Bank economic reports, for example,
have drawn attention to the wealth of Burma's agricultural resources, their
importance for the country's economic development, and the difficulties in
sustaining more rapid growth. Apart from the controlled price system, which
militates against fuller realization of timely adjustments of production to
changes in domestic or export market conditions, the problems confronting
agriculture include insufficient supplies of essential farm inputs, inadequate
transportation facilities and shortages of farm power, basic farm services,
in particular agricultural credit, and extension services. If Burma's agri-
cultural performance is to improve, intensive and coordinated action will
be necessary to deal with these difficulties. Expansion of the cultivated
area should be encouraged, but priority attention should also be given to
increasing productivity in existing cultivated areas, with emphasis on quick-
yielding projects.
18.       In forestry, Burma is-estimated to have 75% of the world's remain-
ing teak re!serves in addition to extensive reserves of marketable hardwood.
Improved maLintenance and rehabilitation of existing and the purchase of new
equipment f'or both extraction and wood processing, improved maintenance and
construction of access and feeder roads to forest areas, and better management
and coordination between Government agencies are priority requirements if the
potential of the sector for increased production and export earnings is to be
more fully utilized.
19.       Eiurma's reserves of mineral products are similarly impressive.
Although only a few areas of the country have been systematically prospected,
it is clear that Burma has a highly varied and favorable endowment of minerals
-- tin and tungsten, lead, zinc, silver and copper. Their effective utiliza-
tion will, however, require that urgent attention be given to the rehabilita-
tion, modernization and maintenance of existing mining operations, institution
building and technical training. The benefits foregone by past neglect and
inadequate management in the post-war period are enormous. Current onshore
crude oil production permits virtual self-sufficiency. However, the extent
of total petroleum reserves is still unknown.
20.       T'he primary sectors potentially provide Burma with a solid base
for industrial development, provided managerial efficiency is improved and
research and development are promoted. In contrast to this potential, however,
investments in the recent past have concentrated on industries which were not
always in line with the country's comparative advantages.  Notable cases in this
connection are a number of heavy industries where capacity has been built up
over the years to levels that do not permit efficient production. A review of
industrial strategy is needed, given the character of the country's resource
endowments and the fiscal and balance of payments implications of capital-
intensive -industrial development.



-6-
21.       Together with the development of the primary and secondary sectors,
greater attention is required for the rehabilitation of the country's physical
infrastructure, in particular transportation. The transport sector is in a
serious state of disrepair for lack of spares, new equipment and maintenance.
Only some 60% of the stock of diesel locomotives, 50% of the fleet of trucks
in the public sector, and 75% of inland watercraft are in running condition.
During the Second Four Year Plan, the transportation and communications sectors
accounted for about 17% of all development expenditures. Although a similar
share would be justified during the Third Four-Year Plan, a share of only 13%
has been proposed. Within such an allocation, the highest priority needs to
be given to the rehabilitation and maintenance of existing capacity, although
some expansion of capacity in the communications sector is also required.
Also, rationalization of transport pricing policy is essential. To have any
substantial impact, these measures must, in addition, be accompanied by
improvements in operational efficiency and management in the public sector.
22.       The need for institution building and management development, which
expand absorptive capacity by improving the design, administration and imple-
mentation of development programs, cannot be overemphasized. The Burmese
planning and administrative system, as it now exists, is complex and rigid
in its manner of operation and focuses excessively on the formulation rather
than the implementation of targets. Streamlining of the entire planning and
administrative apparatus, decentralization of decision making and strengthen-
ing of the capability of Government entities to prepare and implement projects
are urgently needed.
23.       The Government concurs broadly with the above diagnosis of the prob-
lems it faces and the issues to which attention must urgently be addressed.
If pursued vigorously, and duly supplemented with additional measures, the
Government's new policy orientation should lead to a significant acceleration
of economic growth. In this connection, the 1977 law on the "Rights of the
Private Enterprise" is welcomed. The Rules and Regulations of this law have
now been issued, and it is hoped that by legitimizing private sector activity
and establishing a clearer set of guidelines for the development of the
public, cooperative and private sectors, some re-integration of the economy
will take place which can be expected to have a beneficial impact upon
economic performance.
24.       The targets of the authorities entail GDP growth in real terms of
6.6% per annum under the Third Four-Year Plan (1978/79-1981/82). Agriculture
is targeted to expand by 5.8% per annum and the processing and manufacturing
sector by 12.2%. These targets are ambitious, compared to past performance,
and whether Burma can achieve them will depend on the ability of the Govern-
ment to generate the necessary momentum, through improved efficiency and
investment in more directly productive areas, in both the private and public
sectors.
25.       In support of the ambitious growth and investment targets for the
Third Four Year Plan, external assistance is needed for projects which
contribute towards:



7-
intensified and morie efficient use of existing cultivated
areas and the reclamation of abandoned land in agriculture
(research and extension services, supply of essential inputs,
especially high-yielding varieties of planting materials,
fertilizer and light agricultural machinery; improvement of
irrigation facilities, in particular, tubewell development;
and integrated agricultural development);
better utilization of forestry resources (through the
improvement of extraction, processing and transport
facilities);
--   development of known mineral deposits; and
--   development of agro- and mineral-based industries
possessing clear comparative advantage (including food,
fish and wood products, and fertilizer production).
Alongside such directly productive projects, external assistance is also
required for infrastructure development, particularly to rehabilitate exist-
ing capacity in transportation and communications. While project loans and
technical assistance will be justified for most projects in the above fields,
commodity financing also will be required from external sources to meet
Burma's needs for fertilizer, materials, spares, and equipment in support
of its rehabilitation efforts.
26.       Given Burma's low income level and the scarcity of foreign ex-
change, such external assistance should be on concessionary terms and should,
in addition,, finance part of local cost requirements which cannot, at present,
be covered adequately by domestic savings. Local cost financing is parti-
cularly needed for the agricultural sector where most investments have a
low foreign exchange component.
27.       Burma's debt service ratio has increased from 10% in the sixties
to about 20% in CY 1977, due primarily to a relative decline in exports with
respect to GDP rather than a relative increase in debt servicing. By the
end of March 1978, Burma's external public debt, disbursed and outstanding,
amounted to US$500 million. With increased foreign assistance, external
public debt will rise further, but Burma should have no major problem in
servicing this debt, provided that it continues to be offered on concessionary
terms, in view of Burma's moderately favorable export potential.
28.       Burma is potentially one of the richest countries in South Asia.
Apart from an impressive natural resource base, it is endowed with a healthy
and literate population. The crucial question is the quality with which these
resources will be managed and developed. While there are some signs that
Burma's performance in this regard is now being improved, areas of improvement
need to be strengthened and broadened. Provided Burma sustains its efforts at
utilizing its endowment efficiently and combines them with a positive attitude
towards population planning, it should make the task of economic development
more manageable and provide :increasingly productive employment for its people
in the longer run.



- 8 -
29.       The Bank Group, in close cooperation with the IMF, will continue
discussions with the Government regarding further improvemenLo in economnic
policy which would help Burma realize its promising potential for economic
development. At the Government's request, the Bank organized an Aid Group
for Burma.  The first meeting of the Group was held on Nov -r 30, 1976, in
Tokyo. At the third meeting of the Group held on April 27, 1979, in Tokyo,
the Group assured the Government of its support for programs and policies to
accelerate economic growth. This support was demonstrated by total annual aid
indications of about $400 million, or double the amount which was indicated
at the second aid meeting held in Paris on February 1, 1978.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
30.       Burma became a member of the Bank in 1952, IFC in 1956, and IDA in
1962. Between 1956 and 1961, the Bank made three loans totalling US$33.1
million, all for transportation projects. One loan for the Port of Rangoon
helped finance the reconstruction of cargo berths and storage facilities, and
the purchase of cargo handling and port equipment. Two loans helped finance
the post-war reconstruction and dieselization of the railways. All three
projects were satisfactorily completed and the loans fully disbursed by FY68.
31.       No lending was requested between 1962 and 1973.  At the request of
the Government, IDA lending was resumed in 1973. Since 1973 IDA has made
thirteen credits totalling US$237.3 million equivalent (net of cancellations),
two of which have been satisfactorily completed and the credits fully dis-
bursed. About 66% of this assistance was channeled to the agricultural
sector, consisting of eight projects: irrigation, rubber, livestock, seed
development, two paddyland development projects and two forestry projects.
About 18% of IDA's assistance supported the rehabilitation of the transport
sector through three projects, namely inland water transport, railways, and a
second ports project. The remaining 16% of IDA's assistance has been for one
project each in the telecommunications sector (9%) and the mining sector (7%).
The proposed credit would be the second in FY80, bringing the total of IDA
assistance to Burma to US$272.3 equivalent, net of cancellations. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits as of September 30,
1979, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. IFC has made no invest-
ments in Burma.
32.       In the past, lending was partly constrained by incomplete knowledge
of some sectors and the lack of adequately prepared projects. Through our on-
going projects and sector work, our knowledge of many sectors has improved. A
US$4.1 million UNDP Technical Assistance Project (Burma Umbrella Project), for
which the Bank is the Executing Agency, has developed a project pipeline suit-
able for external financing in priority sectors such as agriculture, transport,
power and industry. The Seed Development and Rubber Rehabilitation Projects
(Credits No. 745-BA and 879-BA, respectively) were prepared under the Umbrella
Project. A second phase of this Umbrella project is in the final stages of
agreement with the Government and UNDP. Furthermore, the Association plans to
continue its technical assistance on a project-by-project basis to help
improve Burmese project preparation capabilities, as well as administrative
and managerial skills through in-service and overseas training.



33.       The Bank Group strategy is aimed at easing the most immediate con-
straints to growth and, particularly, at increasing and diversifying production
for export in order to alleviate the shortage of foreign exchange. Within this
overall strategy, primary emphasis is being placed on the development of
agriculture, forestry, and mining. Within this framework and where possible,
priority is being given to quick-yielding projects. At the same time, finan-
cing of infrastructure improvements will continue in such areas as transporta-
tion and teLecommunications, mainly to rehabilitate existing facilities. Many
of these are inoperable at present and have increasingly impeded economic
activity in the directly productive sectors of the economy.
34.       In line with the ne!ed to increase Burma's foreign exchange earnings,
most of the projects under active preparation are designed to have an impact
on increasing agricultural surpluses for export.  A major project, Nyaunggyat
Multipurpose Dam, is being appraised. It is designed to increase food pro-
duction in areas of Upper Burma, to meet the raw cotton requirements of the
domestic textile industry, and to provide for power generation. Due to the
size of the project, the Association is exploring co-financing with a number
of bilateraL donors. A paddy storage and handling project is being appraised.
Other projects under preparation include fuelwood supply, fisheries and inte-
grated agriculture development.
35.       The Bank Group presently accounts for about 15% of Burma's total
external debt outstanding and about 1% of its debt service.  In five years,
the Bank Group's share in the total external debt is projected to rise to
about 20% and its share in the debt service to about 2-3%.
PART III - THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
Background and Organization
36.       The Ministry of Transport and Communications (MTC) is responsible
for the sector. The development and operation of the domestic and inter-
national postal, telephone, telegraph and telex services in the country were
the responsibility of a department in the MTC until 1975 when MTC established
the Posts and Telecommunications Corporation (PTC) which assumed these respon-
sibilities. A small Posts and Telecommunications Department under a Director
General has been retained in the MTC to be in charge of general policy matters,
to provide liaison with international bodies such as the International Tele-
communication Union (ITU) and for the general regulation and licensing of
radio equipment. The defense services and civil aviation authorities maintain
telecommunication facilities for their own specialized needs. At present, no
telecommunication equipment is manufactured in Burma. However, PTC has its
own workshop which repairs telecommunication equipment and assembles manual
telephone switchboards of various sizes.
Access to 'Service
37.       B3urma's telephone density of 0.1 per 100 population is among the
lowest in the world, and access to telephone service in rural areas is almost



- 10 -
non-existent. A comparison with nearby countries in 1978 shows Nepal and
Bangladesh: 0.1; India and Pakistan: 0.4; Sri Lanka: 0.5; and Thailand: 0.8.
The average for Asia excluding Japan is 1.0, while the world average is 10.4.
The density for North America is 72.5.
38.       Due to a long period of stagnation in the development of the sector,
the number of waiting applications for telephone service reached about 24,000
in March 1979, which was nearly 90% of the number of existing connections.
Unsatisfied demand is undoubtedly even higher since waiting lists are not kept
in towns and rural areas without telephone service and because the long
waiting periods tend to discourage potential subscribers from registering
at all.
Usage of Service
39.       A recent sample survey in the Rangoon area indicated that business
and government subscribers represent approximately 61% of the total users. A
major portion of the telephones located in residential premises are also used
primarily for Government or business purposes. PTC estimates that in Rangoon
approximately 98% of all calls made during peak business hours, and hence
those which determine systems capacity costs, are business and government
related. In the provincial towns and smaller cities, almost 100% of the
subscribers are government or business related establishments.
Quality of Service
40.       The quality of local telephone service is poor and much of the
equipment is old and obsolete. Long distance service is deficient with
delays of as much as 12 to 18 hours on some routes on ordinary calls.  The
quality of the international telephone service has improved since March 1979,
with the commissioning of an earth station in Rangoon. The international
telegraph and telex services are satisfactory.
Demand for Service
41.       Due to the inadequacy of registered telephone demand and waiting
lists particularly outside of Rangoon, which have not been systematically
maintained, it is difficult to forecast accurately the demand for telecom-
munication service in Burma. Experience in other countries suggests that as
quality of service improves, demand increases rapidly since the telephone
becomes the least cost means of communication for an increasing variety of
productive uses. The increasing pace of new applications in a recently
installed exchange in Rangoon and a new provincial exchange at Maymyo also
suggests that there is a considerable degree of latent demand for telephone
connections above current waiting lists. PTC has estimated that the demand
for telephone connections will grow at about 10% per annum and that demand
for these connections will increase from about 51,000 in early 1978 to about
90,000 in 1985. This forecast is conservative but acceptable.
42.       Currently, Burma is served with a manual telex service with 41 sub-
scribers and has a pending registered waiting list of 40 applicants. This is
likely to increase significantly when automatic telex service is established



- 11 -
in 1980. It is estimated that the number of subscribers will increase from
about 80 in 1980 to 400 by 1985. This is in line with experience in similar
developing countries.
Sector Goals
43.        The broad sector objectives are:  (i) to improve the quality of
telecommunications service to existing subscribers; (ii) to provide access
to new subscribers in existing service areas; (iii) to extend communications
to the more important urban and rural areas currently without service; and
(iv) to give priority to essential telecommunication services needed for
more efficient use of the limited transport capacity. The main strategy for
achieving these objectives is to implement a balanced and integrated develop-
ment program in the sector and to develop PTC as a technically and financially
viable institution.
44.        With this end in view, the Government has approved an investment
program, of which the proposed project is an integral part, to install about
40,000 additional lines of telephone exchange equipment with associated local
and long distance networks. This program includes installation of small
telephone excchanges in 54 of the 107 township centers and public call offices
in 13 villages currently without service. In addition, it provides for the
installation of maritime and mobile radio telephone systems for serving
transportation and remote access on the main national routes.
Sector Const:raints
45.        The major constraints which have impeded progress in the telecom-
munications sector have been the low level of investment, PTC's inadequate
financial and technical capabilities, and low labor productivity. Investments
have recently increased through IDA's support of the 1976-79 four-year program
financed under the first project (Cr. 551-BA). PTC's finances, management and
technical capabilities have been improving. However, further progress needs
to be made in staff productivity and long-term planning.
IDA's Role
46.        Recently, IDA has been the main source of financing for telecommun-
ications development. The first IDA credit (US$21 million) was provided in
1975 to support PTC's FYs76-79 development program. This program allowed for
the installation of about 17,000 lines of local exchange equipment and asso-
ciated local and long distan,ze network to partially meet the demand for new
telephone connections. In October 1977, additional financing was obtained
from OPEC Special Fund for US$3.14 million to meet the cost increase on cables
and switching equipment due to the higher than anticipated price level. A
further cost increase of about US$3.5 million is anticipated on existing
contracts (mainly for switching and microwave equipment) due to recent exchange
variations between the Japanese yen and the US dollar. This is proposed to be
met from the proposed credit.



- 12 -
47.       After initial delays resulting mainly from longer than expected
time taken in preparation of specifications, procurement, and contracting,
and from delays in civil works, the project is now proceeding satisfactorily.
As of September 30, 1979, the credit was fully disbursed, and the project is
expected to be completed by mid-1980, six months behind schedule. It will
help improve local, long distance and international service. Some progress
in PTC's organization has already been achieved with the introduction of a
new Development Project Department in April 1978. A tariff increase in FY77
improved PTC's financial position. Another tariff increase scheduled for
April 1980 would help continue strengthening PTC's finances and maintain its
contribution to expansion at an acceptable level. Other institutional reforms
in areas of training and accounting are also proceeding satisfactorily. With
the improved accounting procedures and data processing equipment, PTC expects
to avoid delays in completing its audited financial statements in the future.
48.       The Government of Burma has now requested IDA financing for a
second telecommunications project to support PTC's FYs8l-85 development
program. IDA would continue to act as a catalyst in securing and coordinat-
ing other external sources of financing and would continue its support for
training and technical assistance and efforts to improve the organization,
planning, and productivity of PTC including labor productivity. In the course
of this continued cooperation, IDA would also have the opportunity to assist
in two major sector issues: (i) the optimum rate of expansion of the sector,
and (ii) tariff levels and structure.
IV. THE PROJECT
49.       The staff appraisal report entitled "Burma Second Telecommunications
Project" (No. 2216-BA) dated October 26, 1979 has been distributed separately.
The proposed project was prepared by PTC and was appraised in June 1978.
Appraisal was updated in July 1979. Negotiations were held in Washington in
September 1979. The Borrower's delegation was led by His Excellency U Ko Gyi,
Deputy Minister of Transport and Communications. A supplementary Project Data
Sheet and special conditions of the proposed credit are given in Annex III.
Project Objectives
50.       The project is part of PTC's FYs8l-85 development program.  The
project comprises the urgent works in the program and has the following
objectives:
(a)  to improve the quality of service to existing subscribers;
(b)  to provide access to new subscribers and extend telecommuni-
cations to the more important areas at present without
service;
(c)  to provide improved telecommunication services in order to
utilize more efficiently the limited transport capacity; and
(d)  to strengthen PTC as an institution capable of the efficient
operation and development of the sector.



- 13 -
Project Description
51.       The project provides for:
(a)  the installation of about 31,200 lines of telephone exchange
e(quipment (including about 7,200 lines for replacing existing
obsolete systems) together with the associated external net-
works and subscribers equipment including PABXs;
(b) the extension of telecommunication facilities to 54 townships
anad 13 villages by installation of small telephone exchanges
and public call offices connected to the national system;
(c) the extension of the long distance network by expanding
existing trunk exchanges by 1,800 lines, adding multiplex
equipment in existing microwave routes and providing new
microwave systems for Pegu-Meiktila, Meiktila-Taunggyi and
Mandalay-Lashio together with 11 VHF/UHF and about 26 open
wire three and tweLve channel carrier systems for spur
routes along with multiplex equipment;
(d) the installation of maritime radio telephone equipment at
the three main ports and mobile radio telephone systems
in support of the transportation sector and access to the
national telecommunication system from remote locations;
(e) the expansion of telex and gentex systems;
(f)  miscellaneous equipment and materials including improvement
of storage and transportation facilities, the installation
of a billing processor and the urgent rehabilitation of the
Rangoon telephone system;
(g) consulting services; and
(h) completion of ongoing works under the first Telecom-
munications Project (Credit No.551-BA).
Project Costs and Financing
52.       Total project cost, excluding cost overrun on the first project, is
estimated at about US$93.0 maillion equivalent. The foreign exchange cost is
estimated at about US$42.4 million equivalent and the local cost at about
US$50.6 million equivalent including about US$23.0 million equivalent in
customs duties and commodity taxes payable by PTC on its imported equipment.
53.       The proposed credit of US$35.0 million would provide US$3.5 million
equivalent to meet cost increases on the first project on account of exchange
rate variations (para 46), and US$31.5 million equivalent would finance 74%
of the foreign exchange cost of the proposed project. Financing the cost over-
run on the first project is proposed due to the scarcity of Burma's foreign



- 14 -
exchange resources and the pressing needs of other high priority investments
(paras 15-27). The Government of Japan has agreed in principle to extend a
loan of about US$11 million equivalent to finance the foreign exchange cost of
the extensions for local and long distance microwave systems and telex and
telegraph equipment. The Government of Japan's loan would be for 30 years
including a ten year grace period with interest at 2.25% per annum. Satis-
factory arrangements for a firm commitment for Japan's financing would be a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit (Section 6.01(b) of draft
Development Credit Agreement). The Burmese Government would finance US$23.6
equivalent of the local cost as a loan to PTC and PTC would finance the
balance of the local cost of US$27.0 million equivalent from its internal
resources. Proceeds of the proposed credit would be relent to PTC for a term
of 24 years including a five yqar grace period, with interest at 8-1/2% per
annum (Section 3.01(b) of draft Development Credit Agreement). 1/ Japan's
loan would be passed on to PTC on the same terms as received by the Govern-
ment, while the Government loan would be at an interest rate of 5% per annum,
with no firm schedule set for repayment. The execution of a subsidiary loan
agreement between the Government of Burma and PTC to relend the proceeds of
the proposed credit is a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit
(Section 6.01(a) of draft Development Credit Agreement).
Project Implementation
54.       PTC would carry out the proposed project and prepare the specifica-
tions and bidding documents for the cable networks. The civil works for con-
struction of buildings and access roads would be carried out by the Govern-
ment's Construction Corporation. The telephone exchanges and microwave and
UHF/VHF radio equipment would be installed by the suppliers. PTC would employ
consultants for the procurement, supervision and acceptance testing of tele-
phone exchange and radio systems (Section 3.02 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). PTC is seeking UNDP assistance to provide experts from ITU for
this purpose. In addition, a provision of US$0.2 million has been made in the
proposed credit for consultancy services for other technical assistance in
case UNDP support does not cover all PTC's needs. PTC's Director of Develop-
ment Projects Department would monitor execution of the works. These arrange-
ments are satisfactory.
Procurement and Disbursement
55.       All equipment to be financed by the IDA credit other than a number
of small items costing about US$1.0 million in the aggregate, would be procured
through international competitive bidding (ICB). Manual switchboards would
1/   In the three-year period, 1976-78, the average of the accumulated increase
in the Consumer Price Index (CPI) in Rangoon was only 4% per annum, and
the trend was decreasing: 22% increase in 1976, a deflation of 1% in
1977 and a further drop of 6% in 1978. The projections in this report
use an average annual inflation of 6%. Based on information provided by
PTC an average interest rate of 5% per annum for governmental lending has
been used for projections. The interest rates for Government loans to
corporations range from 5% to 8%.



- 15 -
be assembled in the workshop of PTC. It is estimated that imported compo-
nents, cosi;rg Ln- ut US$02 million, represent 30% of their ex-factory costs.
The items to be financed under the proposed Japanese loan would be procured
in accordance with the OECF Procurement Guidelines. The original systems
were supplied from Japan under ICB. The proposed extension by similar equip-
ment is necessary for standardization and economy.
56.       The proposed credit would be disbursed against 100% of foreign
expenditures for imported equipment and 30% of ex-factory cost of locally
assembled maLnual telephone switchboards. In view of the advanced stage of
deliveries of equipment procured from Japan under Cr. No. 551 (para 46 above)
retroactive financing of up to US$2.0 million equivalent is proposed on
account of payments made after September 1, 1979. The project is expected
to be completed by the end of 1983.
Organization and Staffing
57.       In April 1978, a Development Projects Department was created to
be responsible for all works in PTC's development program. However, PTC
is still not adequately organized for carrying out studies of demand, to
determine least cost solutions and prepare long-term (12 to 20 years) and
short-term (4 to 6 years) telecommunications development programs related to
Government's development plans. PTC would strengthen its technical planning
unit for this purpose (Section 3.06 of draft Development Credit Agreement).
58.       PTC has about 4,030 employees at present engaged in telecommuni-
cations giving a ratio of 118 employees per 1,000 telephones, which is
relatively high. With the substantial automatization of the telecommunica-
tions network, productivity should improve. PTC has recently completed a
manpower study which establishes feasible labor productivity targets. In
consultation with the Association, PTC would take the necessary measures to
meet these targets (Section :3.07 of draft Development Credit Agreement). UNDP
is currently providing training to PTC staff under a project due to terminate
in 1980. This training is expected to be extended. The telecommunications
training program shall continue at least until the end of 1984 (Section 3.08
of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Accounting and Auditing
59.       Since 1972, PTC's accounting system has been on an accrual basis.
The system separates posts and telecommunications operations. In FY77, PTC
modified the system but was still unable to produce timely and accurate
commercially-based financial statements. Therefore, in FY79, PTC introduced
a new system with a revised commercial chart of accounts and created a new
unit for accounting organization and methods. The expansion of operations
under the second project would require further development of the system.
This is being studied by PTC taking account of the imminent installation of
the subscriber trunk dialing system and the use of an automatic billing pro-
cessor. Solutions being considered should reduce the time required for



- 16 -
billing. PTC's collection control needs improvement; most of its accounts
receivable relate to Government. Existing government arrears would be paid
not later than March 31, 1981, and procedures satisfactory to IDA would be
introduced to insure that current bills would be paid within two months
(Section 4.03 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
60.       External audit of all government corporations is performed by the
Central Accounts Office which employs qualified accountants with experience
in commercial audits and assigns them to all divisions, regions and townships
in which PTC operates. Some auditors are permanently assigned to audit PTC's
accounts. These audit arrangements are satisfactory and would be continued
under the proposed project. PTC's internal checks and controls are also
satisfactory despite the absence of an internal audit department. This is
acceptable, given the thoroughness and continuity of the external audit. PTC
would furnish to the Association copies of its unaudited accounts as soon as
available and of audited accounts within six months of the end of the fiscal
year (Section 4.01(b) of draft Development Credit Agreement.)
Financial Aspects
61.       From FY76 to FY79, PTC's telecommunications operating income after
taxes and contributions increased from US$1.1 million to US$2.3 million. PTC
financed about 27% of its FYs76-79 capital expenses after covering debt serv-
ice. In FY79, PTC's current ratio was 1.9 and the debt/equity ratio was 59/41.
These ratios are satisfactory.
62.       Under Development Credit Agreement 551-BA PTC is required to achieve
a rate of return of 10% on average net fixed assets in operation. PTC achieved
a rate of return of 20% in FY76 because of the low value of PTC's existing
assets due to substantial depreciation. A number of recent developments
affect PTC's financial position. In FY77 the Government reduced the contri-
bution (in lieu of tax) required to be paid by State Economic Enterprises
(SEEs) from 50% to 20% and PTC raised its tariffs by about 30%. This raised
PTC's rate of return to 57% in FY77. PTC is now required under the new tax
system to pay custom duties, commodity taxes and other fees on its imported
goods of about 55% of the CIF costs. These duties and taxes inflate PTC's
capital outlays and create the need for substantial Government funding of the
local cost of PTC's development program. Furthermore, as of FY79, SEEs' con-
tribution has been increased again to 30%. PTC's debt service and contribu-
tions to the Government will produce a net fiscal surplus from PTC to Govern-
ment estimated at approximately US$15 million during the period FY80-85.
PTC would complete a study of the value of its fixed assets by April 1,
1980, and would review their value annually thereafter (Section 4.04(i) of
draft Development Credit Agreement). PTC would revalue its fixed assets in
operation for the purpose of calculating the rate of return in accordance with
methods to be agreed with the Association (Section 4.04(ii) of draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement). Taking into account the further tariff increases re-
cently approved by the Burmese Cabinet (paragraph 63) and the recent increase
in PTC's import tax liability and their impact on the base on which the rate
of return is calculated, present forecasts indicate that a 9% rate of return
on revalued assets would be adequate for PTC to internally generate enough



- 17 -
funds to finance 26% of its FY80-85 investment program after servicing its
debt. The Government would in future set PTC's tariffs at levels sufficient
to achieve at least 9% rate of return on average net revalued fixed assets in
operation (Section 4.05 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). This
would supersede the agreement under Section 4.05 of Development Credit
Agreement No. 551-BA.
63.       Given the scarcity of resources which can be allocated to the tele-
communicat:ions sector in Burma, tariff increases are needed to ensure a suit-
able contribution to PTC's capital expenditure program. During negotiations
the Burmese delegation confirmed Government's decision to increase tariffs by
an average of about 35% effective April 1, 1980. With these increases it is
expected that PTC will be able to fulfill the required rate of return through
FY85 without further tariff increase (para 62). Additionally, as of FY81,
PTC's net revenues are expected to be more than 2.1 times its debt service.
PTC would incur no debt unless its net revenues for the preceding fiscal year
covers maxcimum future debt service 1.5 times and would not undertake any
investment: in addition to the FYs81-85 program, exceeding US$1.0 million in
any one fiscal year, until IDA is afforded an opportunity to comment on such
additionaL investment (Sections 4.06 and 4.07 of draft Development Credit
Agreement).
PTC's Other Operations
64.       In addition to telecommunication services, PTC is also responsible
for the postal service which was operated at a loss during FY76 through FY79.
PTC is currently considering an increase in postal rates effective April 1980.
Up to the present the cash deficit on PTC's postal operations has been funded
by the Government and has not affected its telecommunication operations.
Development Credit Agreement 551-BA stipulates that funds from PTC's tele-
communication service would not be used for other operations until all
requirements for telecommunications have been met. This covenant has been
retained. PTC would set clharges for its services for other agencies such as
aviation, railways and broadcasting on a commercial basis (Section 4.08(b)
of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
65.       Due to inadequatie past investment in the telecommunications sector,
telephone density in Burma has remained one of the lowest in the world, and
the quality of service has fallen below acceptable levels. The program would
meet part of the forecast demand with about 66,000 direct exchange lines con-
nected after the completion of the first and second telecommunications proj-
ects by the end of 1983. The overall telecommunications development program
in Burma is specifically designed to support Government's economic development
programs. The proposed FYs81-85 telecommunications investment program would,
therefore!, increase the efficiency of government administration, public sector
corporations, and private businesses. In Burma, telecommunication is increas-
ingly becoming the least cost means of communication for a wide variety of
economic activities. In particular, the transportation sector including
railways, roads, and river navigation systems would achieve a significantly



- 18 -
better utilization of existing facilities, together with lower costs in the
collection and distribution of goods, and faster repair and turnaround. The
project would also provide for long distance microwave systems designed
primarily for telephone service but with the additional capability of carry-
ing television transmission channels at low additional cost. Government may
use these to transmit television information services and educational programs.
66.       In addition to increased government and business efficiency, the pro-
posed project would make a significant impact on access to telecommunication
service in currently unserved smaller urban and important rural communities.
Fifty-four small township administrative centers and thirteen villages with a
total population of about half a million, would gain local access to telephone
service for the first time through the introduction of small manual exchanges
and public call offices. Thirty larger regional centers (other than Rangoon
and Mandalay) with populations of between 4,000 and 180,000 would receive
expanded and upgraded service. Given this significantly increased communica-
tion access in both business and administrative centers and in provincial
areas, large segments of the population in Burma would benefit by the proposed
telecommunications development program.
67.       Additionally, Government receives significant revenues from PTC
by means of duties and taxes, and by using telephone tariffs partially as
a means of taxation. Over the period (FYs80-85), the net flow of funds to
Government, which can be made available for other general development activ-
ities, is estimated at approximately US$15 million equivalent.
68.       The proposed project provides the least cost solution for the pro-
posed development. The financial rate of return on the telecommunications
investment program would be about 16%. Applying a shadow wage rate which
is 0.8 of nominal cost and a standard conversion factor of 0.56 for foreign
exchange and quantifying a small portion of the consumer surplus from data
gathered for subscribers in the Rangoon area, provides an estimate of the
internal economic rate of return of 11%. This latter economic rate of return
understates total program benefits since it does not include a complete
estimate of consumer surplus, of the value of travel and call time which will
be saved through an increase in the proportion of successful calls, of all
benefits incurred by receivers of calls and by the existing subscribers when
new subscribers join the system. Further, it does not reflect benefits
received indirectly through the better administration of tourism, regional
development, health, transport, energy and agricultural programs and in-
creased urban and regional business and government efficiency.
69.       There are no major risks in project execution.  The proposed
project comprises a large number of technically independent works, and delays
in completion of any specific works will not generally prevent utilization of
those facilities which are completed. A sensitivity analysis of the internal
financial rate of return shows that a combination of 10% increase in capital
and operating expenditures and 10% decrease in revenues would give a rate of
return not less than 12%.



- 19 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
70.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Socialist
Republic of the Union of Burma and the Association, and the recommendation
of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of
Agreement, are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
71.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Execution of the subsidiary loan agreement between the Government
and PTC and making of satisfaictory arrangements between the Government and
Japan for a firm commitment of Japan's financing have been made additional
conditions of effectiveness of the proposed credit (Section 6.01 of draft
Development Credit Agreement).
72.       I am satisfied that: the proposed development credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
73.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
November 6, 1979



- 20-
ANNEX I
-SOLU IYDICATORS DATA 8                               Page  1  of  5  pages
E.Ri a   CwO7PS (ADJUSTED AvpAmS
tUD AXA tTNOtSANCD 50. ttS l                    A                            -MIEtT UCENT ESTIKtATB
TOTAL             A7I*                                                    $AMX        SE        Su MGM
AGmICvLTLAL      103.8                                 HMT RECEN         G7APUIC    INCOME E         C
1960  /b    1970 Lb ETSIVATE /l        ECION  C_  CRWOLP tj        l*_
CNr PER CAP TA (USS)                   50.0        1.0       140.0 D17.5                 161.9       430.3
ENERGY CONSUWeTION PER CAFITA
(KtLOCLA4S OF CO7.L tuivALZNT)       55.0        56.       49.0              9.1       *3;         292.I
POPVLATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, HID-VEAl (MILLIONS)      21.6        27.0      31.5
CUAN POPULATION (PEUCK    OF TOTAL) 19.0         23.0      25.0             13.2        18.2        24.8
POPLATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN "EAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       51.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MIUIONS)                          92.0
YEAR STATIONAR" POPULATION IS UACED                    2145
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. tI.                       32.0         40.0      47.0             1.8        49.4         45.3
PU SQ. KK. ACRICULTIUtAL LAND    204.0        253.0     304.0           330.2       252.0        149.0
POPULATION ACE STRUCTrE (PERCElT)
0-14 YIRS.                        38.4         40.0      41.0            4".3        43.1         45.2
15-44 YRS.                         59.0         57.0      55.0            52.4        33.2        31.9
8S t15. AND ABOVE                   2.8          3.0       4.0              3.1        3.0         2.8
POPULATION CROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               1.9         2.2       2.2              2.4       2L4           2.7
15AYm                              I.7          3.9       3.8             4.3         4.8         4.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      43.0        40.0      39.0             44.8       42.4         39.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (Pm  THOUSAND)      22.0        17.0      15.0             18.4       15.9         11.7
CROSS REPRODUCTICH RtATE               .          2.7       2.7              3.2        2.9          2.7
FANILY PLAIWIINC
ACCEPTOtS, ANN AL (THOUSANDS)        ..          ..        ..
USERS (PEtRCtNT Of IMRIED WOM4EN)    ..          ..        ..             7.9        12.2        13.2
FOOD AND NtITION
VIDEX Of FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71.100)         107.0        102.0      95.0             9.         3.2         99.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALOtRIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   90.4        101.0     103.0            93.0        93.3        98.7
PROTEINS (CRAM, PER DAY)          50.0         49.0      58.0            58.I        52.1        54.3
Or WHICh ANIMAL AND PULSE        12.1        13.0/f    12.9             10.4       13.8        17.4
CHILD (ACES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      25.0        18.0      15.0             19.2       I$.5         11.4
HEALTH
UFE EXPECTANCY AT 8URTH (YEARS)    43.0          49.0      52.0            49.1        49.3        5A.7
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
TWDSAID)                              ..          ..        ..               ..      35.4         is.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCEtT OF
POPL'LATION)
TOTAL                                ..        1.0       17.0             3.5        26.3         34.4
URBAN                                          35.0      30.0            S3.9        58.5        57.9
RURAL                                          1 33.0    23.0            20.1        13.5        21.i
ACCESS TO EXCRETtI DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        35.0      33.0             15.7       28.0        40.6
URUAN                               ..         45.0      38.0             64.        85.1        71.3
RlURAL                              ..         32.0      32.0             2.5         3.5        27.7
POPULATION.PER PHYSICIAN          9900.0/h    6970.0    5410.0           7107.9    11398.4       6799.4
POPULATION PER NUtSING PrESON         ..       7540.0    8120.0         12084.0      5552.4      1522.1
POPL1LATION PER HOSPITAL RED
TOTAL                           l400.0       1170.0    1220.0/tt       2738.4      1417.1       725.5
UUAN                                ..        250.0     250.0               ..      17.3        272.7
RURAL                               *.      15620.0   11920.0],j            ..     2445.9      1404.4
A3IiRS10NS PER HOSPITAL RED            ..        34.0      39.0/1                     24.0         27.5
tOUSING
AVtRACE SIZE OF HOUStHOLD
TOTAL                              4.4                                                3.3 i         4
LRtRAN                               .            .        ...                        4.9          3.3I
LRCtAL                              ..           ..        ..               ..        5.4          5.5
AVEIACF NL'NRER OF PEiSO    PB MOON
TouTL                                ..          ..        ..               .          .
URBAN                               ..           ..        ..
ICUtL                               ..           ..        ....
ACCES5 Tn CLFCTttl TTY (PERCENT
OF DWrLIANGS)
T1tAL                                                                                22 5         26.1
ltlRA                               ..           ..        ..               ..        7.6        45.*
OLItAl.                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9.9



- 21 -
ANNEX I
UJiU 3A                                     Page 2 of 5 pages
3URMA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEI!S
RUt                      URFENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AyERAGES
- MOST REtCENT FSTIMTE) -
SAKIE       SA1            HISGER
MOST RECENT     CIOGRAPCIC    u1COME      5I0C0
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTMATE /b       REGSION /C  GROUP /d   CLLOUP /*
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                56.0        87.0      80.0            59.5        63.3        82.7
MALE                 61.0        92.0      83.0            74.9        79.1        87.3
FElALE               52.0        83.0      78.0            43.7       48.4         75.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                10.0        21.0      22.0            19.5        16.7        21.4
MALE                 13.0        26.0      25.0            27.8       22.1         33.0
FEMALE                7.0        17.0      L9.0            10.0        10.2        15.5
VOCATtONAL ENROL. (2  oF SECONDARY)    0.5         1.4       1.4              1.3        5.6         9.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           42.0        47.0      52.0            42.2       41.0         34.1
SECONDARY                           ..        32.0        * -                       21.7       23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       59.7/h        ..      67.0            25.5        31.2        54.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER TROUSAND
POPULATION                         0.8         1.0       1.2             2.3        2.8          9.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PF  TIHOUSAND
POPULATION                         6.0        15.0      22.0            15.5       27.2         76.9
TV RECEIVUES PER T5OUSAND
POPULATION                          ..          ..        ..              ..        2.4         3.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAZLY GENERAL
ZTIEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   ..        15.0      10.0             6.2         5.3        18.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTEINANCE PER :APITA  6.0          ..       t.1/f            ..         1.1         2.5
LABOR FORCE
-0TAL LABiR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    10600.0     10920.0   12300.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  40.1        36.9      36.4            21.4       24.8        29.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             68.0        59.6      55.0            66.3       69.4         62.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                11.3        15.4      19.0             9.6       10.0         11.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
rOTAL                               47.8        42.9      41.2            35.8       36.9        37.1
MALE                                58.0        54.1      52.9            52.3        52.4        48.8
FEMALE                              37.8        31.1      29.8            15.7       18.0        20.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              0.8         1.1       1.1             1.3         1.2         1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOML
RECEIVED BY
H'IGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEEOLDS   14.6/i       ..        ..              ..         ..         15.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENr OF HOUSE}IOLDS  44.7/i     40.0/f      ..              ..         ..         48.2
tLWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.57iT      a.077      ..              ..         ..          6.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF ROUSEHOLDS   16.s7i      21.07       ..              ..         ..         16.3
PVLERTY TARGET GROUPS
3TIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY IliCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..      94.0            86.5       99.2       241.3
RURAL                               ..          ..      68.0            74.2       78.9        136.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PERJ WITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..      50.0              ..       91.9        179.7
RURAL                               ..          ..      36.0            50.4       54.8        103.7
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT3
URBAN                               ..          ..      35.0            44.3       44.1        24.8
RURAL                               ..          ..      35.0            52.4       53.9         37.5
Not available
Niot applicable.
NOTES
!a   The adjusted group averakges for each indicator are populationk-wighted. geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and che most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators deends on availability of data and is not uniform.
'b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970  between 1969
and 1971; and for Most itecent Estimat*, between 1974 and 1977.
.c    South Asia;  /d  Low Income ($280 or lesta per capita 1976);  1. Loawr Middle Income (S281-550 per capita,
1976);  /f  1972;  L/  General hospitals only;  /h 1962; 7:L1958. Rangoon.
Say, 1979



- 22 -                                                            ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5 pages
gone.:  ulthgh the dartae  dr f.t-a soreos  ganralyfjudged thea    aereale ad reIable, in abold aLto he tone  than  hay nay not ho inrrta-.
nl-na1y ca.pacabla became of rho lu  of  anadla   deintionse and na-pt. oted by diffPersor cootnias to  -oletIngt   nto data.  The dana  n., oooahaloss,
useful to daesoib. ordar. of eagleds, indicata treIds, erd chregranisttint  -amaro ealo  didffoas    batuean  -otsorla.
Th. adluetd troop ..angie for oaob indioatr Art popniatia-w gtgrd gt-eio  unse, oncldngift  aona alsesofb  indicatr tod  hi. roa  PoPoItand
coIane  in oacfh ar-,.  Dets no lak of dano, 5r-n  -vaagS.  of all indionar  for Caporti Surplus OIl Soortrsad oidicators of ..ico. no cae.                        ad-ct
disposal,      L"uin, ras dtrtibotion an  Pov,arry for othar cotury grou.ps art pouianioo-aSttltd gtaatric  teno without olu Ioof tro a-ton  vol  god
nba  est  opoatadcounry.Sinc  t     -&xsoo  of cotre   aea  b  indicators d-1rs       olaiin   of dent andItnruioncoiononhoacnd
lin    I rott.PIon storages od.   f on ioion   oaobr    haotsae   r  otv sfia   cnlain   of "esntrad" v-lnoter coneri:a tha valueso of one
indicanor at a tie   estncno   .   assesnn
LAND,,AREA (thuottdf, sq l.e                                                             Ac. .as to anorsta disensal            tata   on e nontao - tonAl  ocbn. and
Total - TotaL srt toeracpilg  ad               ea   n   ld L    srn                            s.ro   spi   ttlwubn   n P,rurl   ovdbscnade
Malutri -Mot recet -tallta   of ogrlcaItarlart  otad teporenily                  penal es paeearages of thoir rns psttvs popoLtaclon,Eooer. diopoati
orpatnaanoy fur orops, psstarss,  erkat and kirlse  gard-n  an tony L-Lada tbe  oilectba and dIsposaL, oitb or otthtnt troaart,of
use foLlo,                                                                             brats aocert  and oauts-rtar by ootnr-boramb  syrr, or th. usa of pit
pn,ivt  ad  aliar inoallatian-.
ClIPptgCAPIA ('ll)- SP. par  . opta atlnatn  annuna  er&j O4S.                   Prs Ltel     r sbvsicimn - P.poletia diridsd by oabnr of prs..ticing  pbyn-
oNPM CAlouleaad byul Oa  p caenion MerOW  as torid Sak   nt(17?  aiH                    cnsqtifted Er                                                              hyaia   tbo   talariylni
1960, 1970, ted 1977 data.                                                          Pnnatttion nee  noraine-am     - Popslaratt  dlrided by nitr of practicing
nal  ad fsta  raoan  urana  prsontcl                   MPre ..an   ssirt.to rsos.
cisucYCMIItPIOUP11l CAInIeI  ;- caalso tapla ofnr           a     -nary (coal      Pnelsi_ tar tosilbd     oa,oce,tdrra       otan                           crl
ted  ignSite, parolca  natura  gao ad bydrn-, n-I..a  and g'eotoeal                     orhe, ad  -o1s) divided by, their raspactiva ntaha  of hapitt:l boda
s      P'ti Ly Initlogreee of coal oqoirslt par capital i9602, 1970            avilabla in Public ad pni-tna nanra  an'd apnnialid fhapu  adw no-
and 1976 dons.                                                  hah~~~~~i litecia  --rm.  Hoapitulsarno   t hloerona parn-ocl  nioftod by
POPMJATtf ND VITAL STATISTICS                                                             atIsaavo  pbysiciao.  fEobtolstnPrrvtdtn   prtnripo11y o--rdia1
Tonal Roenatia_ nid-rnsr (nlin)- At of JloyS 1: 1960, 1970, abd                         cusaot inldnd.  Sr-l caitls  bo-rr, cl-uds healthiand -edi-
1977P.It                                  t.I  ub.'... dana.t                         cal. cmcat        par7e-tonly ntuffsd by a physfcian  (hut by A nadi    to.I
Ura   ortno  (I"nno  ttl_ttloo   ra   o  oe   onsn ;                            asa,   -oan  nidgifo,tan) ohioh offnr Ln-patsnataoac                       n
dlfflar d..n. on fthn  nstny tfdct capenahilLty of data                               provide A liited vegeo                               L dical-fantliriod
an   osrs;1960, 1970 ad 1975 data.                                         Aliotarheita%bd                       - Ttlmn    f tlsoooor dinnbagea
Ponlanion Prolactiona                                  E~P--.-  .   h...d    ra hospitals divided by the craar of bods.
1975 tonal popelatiaby age an  noraned`their nertalit  andfertility
nans,Prooeit  paratter   for na-liny retAn  -apion otf S Smlt                       vsaasaso  hIotbol  Iana     Srho Iood) -otl  urbanad  oa
asaraing life orpacrany atbrh lare...n  rISc1h c.t-try'. per capita.                     otsodcnit   fugopo   nilal   h   hr  lii                            d qoarsar
Inca  level,   d faala Life aontan    stbilainm  at 77.5 yeerS.                      and their  ain nest.    hA brder or 1d or nay or nay tot he inudad in rho
tepcotrn  for fo..tiliny rt   loby  I La-I. sassing datia                      hotsahbld for sastalporponas.
in 1 e lrtiiyacrigt   na    otadps lyptnngpr                                       cnal...  nabor of Iertat ca- on-total. enhon. and rural - Avtrg nS ta
toreo_.  tech conty is  hsto iand on  of nthaoa 9 cabicaL-n                          ofpra    e   o    n  I,ubn   n   urlocpe   ovntlcldelns
ot -ortality and ferIlity treedo for projactia purpoas..rsnnvl.                                                   g Illoo  et,d  c-sraee    cotoo   a    nccpIed parts.
SttoayPoultion - to aStstionary Ppolattia, than  is  ogot                      ussn   lcoii   arsto   wlI                          Itotl  urbac, ad  ruralI_
sli-  the hilc  erol in equal no tbo death ran, and eL.o tha AS.                     Cavanlora Iulig    ith clo-triclty in  Icing quarters anInerg   f
__rulue  enln  cttucat.  Thin in achiaved only aftor fertiitty rate                  total, urban, ad ru'ral dwellibar r-p-to-oly.
uscin  to the rorlaceotnl_vn  of uni  .t cneproduinto  rots.  h-ta  sach
_enero   Ioof ua   notoe  n f ...actly.  The.Stat Ionar-y Popnclatia           ...CATICl
isous  t.t lotedo   b ta.I. o  ito profctodcaont tIcof it                       hotiated .-roLoat ratio
p'p;:Ior% in cbs year h2c, and the rate of dsclino of fortilitty note                  r:fon  chol-   ttl   atadfenl-Cro-   toa,tleadIaberl-
torplsc   -,r  I_vel.                                                               'eIo all a      rtb       caty  ryL   s  prcncee    f rosatioPrtcan
tear nat imar  Pclulnia to tasobhd . Tb. yaar thta Statiosory Popola-                ashou-ege pcpulatiooa  nonalLy Lacluas  hildret aged h-It yAear  hot
nor sit  has be. en-hcbd.                                                            adjusted for dLfforert langiha of priatry adocation; for co..nt il  etch
donuti   danty                                                                    un-rart I.ndsoanion anr.t.e.  na  enean d ISO pariet elat  -s  puptln one
Par so  be.,  Mid-yea  populttnb  par oqoar  kilaten(SOhotrs 10bet   o  aov   h.' ofioila  onbhri  Sg..
Par no  b.  aelotua  land - Cannond aa abort for agicultural lad                       tiIaorsa  mo    a   er f epproved pnlatry inatnuotia; Proie
unv                                                                                 gaea   o :a,o Saho  trainin  inatr-ciova fun prupilt u-11 li   f
Ponutat  aa  eructuca  (ero)-Childna  (0-14yea)   -koir,g-ag                            2tS1.er  o    e  co.rropdnaitre   r   eeal   n dd
(15-h.ers,4     n  retired (65 y..n  and ove) a  pa       Inaa   f nid"-              eatoe Y-    cotnet Canno   of nodaryt    toai:al Lee tiutuian     lutids
veerpoplani; 160,  970and1977 dat.                                           tochnol. iduenil  orthbr prngra. obich cptreto tidapeedotly ora
?easarlo  troh  mnn (ermo) -total - easl gnat brat.. of tonal                 dpraet   f noonuy  etitutiout
ni-ya  pprulanbon  for        195060  19-70, and 19O-?0                           PiL-tahrrto-oia,  n   oodn      oa   rden   nvIdC
prMoio  eoh rate (strcect) - urbao     eta~l grouh cret.  of urban                prietr  and stiadarylevels divie  by na Ieof to...here irrhe.-Inr
yp.PJtstalon  for 1950-60. t96f-75,..ad 1970-75.                                     sPo-dinglm     n
-on itll, rat  (an nhuoatd)  .- ttI tiva biths- par thousand of                   Adult literac  rat  (prce-ti - Liceratnodulfo  (abI n read.: ao  uite:t
ol-nan  _ouaion_ SO  190td 1977 data.                                               apero...tgs of total edlt pupolb tia-nd 15 yersant            oer
Crude deah nate Car nhoooad)   ..-Inna  doatha per thonated of  ild-
yerpplto;1960, 1970 uod 1977 dat.
Cros  nap~ococrte-overtIga  nae   fduht-n  A   -oe   ill I-ha                   Pea....     ta t tan thusn  neu io.) - Pao....            oars cat  prio no-O  cr
In h(ra   .-eIa  rproduino  period if ebe aprtancen prsen- ag.-                      seating Is  h.n eight Podreona  scIudee sbhulanise. hearaso and ollnar
opcific fectllttyrcs  -saLly floe-ya  overseas godleg in 1960,                      vebiclt..
190   n 95.                                                                 rai   oseeSe   hocuand .o..tci)L                  oI  typea of neevefor radio
ocatro of hirth-vcrro1 deviao unaratpcoa of ottlonal fatly                        receivers in- c tratios aod Ic years  ha  roitab    f radIo sets uaa In
Fally otal tn-atn   omnIf esr,ied sael - Pneraa  of                                     aoihdIiol
"aried eaeIf chlId-berI:g ago (15-44 y...)boca h. lbrnh-otroi1                     T  recle    or thousad nonLtaial - TVrscnIran  for 1r,sia4 nogoanI.
danices to all -rnIad o-   In  at ago grop.                                           public pan thounand popolanba; encl.sdeaulcadT  reeier -               Ir I
tcisad1   nnuhorgnnno   of T                            Len  a  innfo
-005 ANt NITIITICWS                                        Issnaneer circulatIon Inac. thausand noooItaial - Shot the average cirtla
_nde   offnSrd.i   t   ala(997     10       na   fpript                                 i    f"al   g -1ra  inrort roapper". deflndasaprdia  ptabli-
annul phesnti  ofallroa 9oatd 1tao     Plouc()   s     detda  sad and        inadevote1d prtnaiiy toeodo    acltw.t  sooidsrdn
no.d.and Lo on naladar yea  heels.  Catoditins cove  prieay goodo                     he "daily' if in appear-  t lost f- or  ineeoL        k
(a  Maroe_ Insea  ofsgr_.--ogeibetdcnai   anete                                  CetenL attendea    ance rt an    -  - Btand on the eshbr of tica..
tag. vo fan andtoorar   aWesedl.  Aggraga   produtt-Io ef nab eOOtS'y        .oId daring nba year, taoing1  adlaia       driv-in olnea  and eabtls
Pan cuelte soecly  f talonien lament  fli resoiretnl-  - Captetd f(roin
eargy oqsrivstat of net foodspla  ovia Le laoutry par capita                       ag    2 cm
prday.  urilahia eupplino cani       -dasic prodrocnion  l.pov-  I...            ynajL    ore(bradt-tonial   cieprno,loolnee
opr,aSchengee inenob   Moo sppliae aolnde seal faed, anada,                    donna ad onaployad bar socliotg hosaoitao, etudort, etc.  taftni-
qoatritis  _sd"infod prasug  ted   ase  In dintnibotba.  ta-                          cia  in vanior  caseria  ar  non oq,rabLs.
quir-.tav   wre aeatted by FAr) beoad' a   iynil Ila  neda Oar nor-                 rain  Cannont) - reals labor force as panotags at  .tona  labor forcs.
-Li entiviny and health caidrnin   eniraenl  apra1              e,body            - saiuricare (ta-et) - Leho  fans. to fasniog, forestry. hunning ad fiohiog
utih,., age adno  ditrnihutia  of pptstaia, and aiimin   10 par-                    ae p.erentage of conti labor font.
ottfr  ae  h= braold  eve.                                                 I-rrne   ln rt) - Labor forte in ema,cstucin, -ne c.,Nl-rg and
Pa rielna  otelyof ernain(era  ar dat - Potalocanet ofpe-tsiriitry,  -err and gs.a.                       aretgso   otllbor forc.
capita en surpply of fad par dey.  Net eupply of fuodIndait-d as                    -acenart   a Ceu)- total. nets  ad talet  - Parniolpania or
above.  tquirenet  for ali toratnin  ostehblabhd by USDIA provide for                 aciiy   setaecpee             .s1ea, Mlb, ad fals  labor forc  a
ninLas alcan o -       it gn-  of -oaI protein par day sad 20 gre                   arnae   fnrl   aeadfaspplto    falaa   apviey
ofan Lad p       flo   gretr o   be   iga   hudb   ne  prori.                   t6   1970m  ad 1975 data.  Th.o. ar  TLo's partivipatia racsa re flootlo
Th...  teaedrda ar  lone  thee th..a  If 75 gnat of total proteIna                    og-ot  nni_ n  o.  f the popularly, and lag  tie  -roe.               for  _einenna
Srav   ofsinaL        Itone   ao enavrage for ch.  -Ird, Pr,:atd,b                  are fran nationa    -"oe.
ftu  inth ;Tir         L,vI  froodIfnayE.-oni. dasendena  ratio  -  oJi  of poputanian odor IS sod iS and ocer to
Pad-ln   nal   oat-r   aa    n  ones - P1.t.oLspp,y o  fad                            rtho labor force ie age group of 15-64 yas
Chi.ld Cae   -Atsrrolit  rats (an nh_uaedl - bana  deorhe p-r thoo-                 L       lTlI'rO
ed-  .Inag   gru d14yar,to n-ted rsnL in this ago. dopfrat                          Per.orte  of crivaro  ione (both In cash_and kind) r-itvd by  Itch-er
develplogcoanniesdentdoitd ta  lio  tales.pa-on, nibea  20 percen.t, poment lb pn.toon  -rA  pooren  47 rrnct-
1M.M                                                               o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f household-
Lift -ennonanY at birth (years) - A-erag. otbern   of yearn of life reeoto-
too en bIrch: 1960, 1970. -ed 1977 dae                                            0UDTPitTbfP
ofn    tralt  rn  (ann thoo_andf    toa  d-atb  of Lofrete codor            tateand   oooc oH' -r LcvCcabs  (,1)1 oar csnirat-u~rhan and cure) 
on Iea   ofs. per thonard I lobI rrhs.                                           uboolut  Povrty io-t  tol.   it thanmo    eot'o1h to  undr
uicsen to taco caner (arcen of ronalania  - total  uban, and rual-       voI  i_ally adequsro dirt ploi..        ta  onfo   e.irsoet  u
Itbo   f peopl  (oa,ubnadrrlaihrs beaieetaffordable.
Pronnmtduao   uhe   ha  fM rrco   aeon                    pig.lrSrlto    oety Inaslstlot- hin 1ofo-rage Per capita
-rd  -Lt-n   sIt  to r pa.iotagas  f theIr ... pstive popolatian.                     Pe     ltoct   of- the conty    rhsh   o leve  CodaLoe.       rnh   ua
of  hat'oot   It-usI  searaeslacoIoL,d icoply                                   Poel- v    -t of population   crer-rhv-          IP.,o'eo   hu' i
.h"   too,eaie      brreue, .i the fonohold do  o  bo  n   pand                                                                   s-Jsi  and   -Luo  Sae  tIluct
tl.rv.rrtuunrpurIf the day Cc (etc 6m   rh. fnilyv  otter ocodic.on ;v     Iod'ottto                                                                         opcrlc
'ta  14 (9



- 23 -
ANNES I
Paite 4 of ' pages
COUNTRY DATA - BURA*
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN FY 1978                                      ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (7., constant prices)
US $ Mln.        Z                     FY1965-70         FY1970-78        FY1965--78
CNP at Market Prices          4,216         100.0                        2.0               3.3              2.8
Gross Capital Fori_ation         595         14.1                       -3.6               2.7            -0.2
Gross Domestic Saving           421          10.0                        0.5              14.8              9.1
Foreign Capital Inflow          175           4.1                        0.2              13.7             8.3
Exports of Goods, NFS            252          6.0                      -13.5               1.6             -4.5
Imports of Goods, NFS           425          10.1                      -10.4              -0.4             -4.1
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1378
- Value Added                          Labor Force -                   V. A. Per Worker
V$Mln.        7.                      Mln.        %                     US $7.
Agricultur? b/                2,017       47.7                     8.5        67.5                  236            70
Industry c-                     491       11.6                    1.2          9.5                  411          123
Services/Trade                1,721       40.7                -   2.4         18.6                  731          218
Not elsewhere specified          .         .                      0.6          4.4         .*
Total                   -T7--29    1]00.0                   12.6        100.0                  335          100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE.
General Governmuent                             Union Government
(Kyats mln.)        % of GDP                  (Kyats mln.)        7. of GCP
FY78              FY78                         FY78              FY78
Current Receipts                      5,528g./            18.2 A/                     3,870             12.7
Current Expenditure                   4,148               13.7                        4,054             13.3
Current Surplus                       1,380                4.5                         -184             -0.6
Capital Expenditur-es                 3,64]Le/            12.0 el                        607             2.0
External Assistance (gross Y          1,738                5.7
* All data for Ff1978 are revised estimates of the Government of 3urma.
a/ Total labor force:  unEmployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.
b/ Includes livestock, fishery and forestry.
c/ Includes mining, power, and construction.
dJ Includes current surplu3/deficit of public corporations.
eJ Includes capital expenlitures of public corporations.
not available
not applicable



AM=l I
Paso 5  f 5 papa
COUNTRY DAT& - BURHA
MOM. CREDIT and PRICES                         1970     1973      1974     1975      1976     1977      1978
(Kyates mn  outstanding at end of period)    Sep.      Sep.     Mar.       ar.       ar.     Mar.      Mar.
Money and Quasi Money                        2422     3581      4065     5342      6052     6377      6631
Bank Credit to Public Sector                2616      4342      5040     6447      6663     6468      6869
Bank Credit to Private Sector                 537     1000       685      639       956     1489      1706
(Percentages or Index Nhbbers)
Moeey and Quasi Mneey as Z of GDPa           23.6     30.5      27.7     27.6      25.7      23.6     21.8
Consuoer Price Index (1972 - 100) -l         91.0    123.5    156.6    206.4    252.6    250.0    236.0
Amaual percentage changes in:
Consumer Price Index at Rangoon              -4.0     23.5      26.8     31.8      22.4     -1.0      -5.6
Bank credit to Public Sector                  9.1     18.1      16.1     27.9       3.4     -2.9       6.2
Bank credit to Private Sector                 3.9     49.7    -31.5      -6.7      49.6     55.8      14.7
tALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                    EURCUHDISE ZXPORTS (PY1978)
(USS mm)                             FY76      FY77       FY78
(U8$ sAllion)                                              U S$iln      %
Rice and rice produces               117      50
Merchandise Trade                  -30.9      -47.9    -174.6       Teak                                  53       23
Exports, mainly f.o.b.             179.9     192.8      238.6       Pulses and beans                      10        4
Imports, mainly f.o.b.            -210.8    -240.7    -413.2        Animal feedstuff                       8        3
Services and private transfers    -18.7       -9.4      -12.4       Base metals and ores                  12        5
Official grants (net)               23.3       24.9      18.5       All other commodities                 36       15
Current account              -26.3     -32.4    -168.5                 TOTAL                              100.0
Long-term capital                   25.0       22.4     195.8      EKN&IA  DEBT, March 31, 1978
Foreign loans                       39.8       66.4     169.1
Debt repayment                     -23.1      -39.3     -24.3                                                  U
Other capital (net)                  8.3       -4.7      51.0        Outstanding & Disbursed                      49.5
Short-term bank credit             -18.3     -18.8      -14.9        Outstanding, incl. Undisbursed              1187.1
Capital account                6.7       3.6      180.9
Errors and omissions                -9.2        8.9       2.9      DEBT SERVICE RATIO  FOR CY77
Overall balance              -28.8     -19.9       15.4
Ratio of debt service to
Gross Reserves (end year)          134.9      109.3     124.1           merchandise exports                    19.8
Net Reserves   (end year)           39.7       40.8      28.4
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                               IBRD/IDA LENDING. September 30. 1979 (Million USS):
Through Dec. 27  1971    From Feb. 19,1973 to Jan. 25. 1975                                          IBRD         IDA
US $ 1.00 * K 4.76        us$l.0O-K4.81
Outstanding & Disbursed                         106.9
From Dec. 27. 1971 to   From Jan. 25, 1975 to May 1, 1977  Undisbursed                                         130.4
Feb. 19. 1973           SDR 1.00 - K 7.74                    Outstanding incl. Undisbursed          -
US $ 1.00 - K 5.35
From May 2. 1977
SDR 1.00 - K 8.51
As of December, 1978
SDR 1.00 - K 8.51
US $ 1.00- K 6.70 (approx.)
a/   Annual average at Rangoon.
not available
not applicable
South Asia Progrms Department
Division C
October 1979



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5 pages
STATUS OF BANK/IDA OPERATIONS IN BURMA
A.   Statement cf Bank Loans and IDA Credits as of September 30, 1979
US$ Million
Loan or                                                Amount (less cancellations)
Credit No.  Year  Borrower           Purpose           Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
Three loans and three credits fully disbursed          33.1      53.3
483        1974  Burma   Lift Irrigation               -       17.0        1.7
493        1974  Burma   Forestry                      -       24.0        7.3
597        1975  Burma   Livestock                     -        7.5        5.2
642        1976  Burma   Paddyland Development         -       30.0       20.5
671        1977  Burma   Second Ports                  -       10.0        3.7
686        1977  Burma   Tin and Tungsten              -       16.0       12.9
745       1977  Burma   Seed Development               -        5.5        5.1
835        1978  Burma   Paddyland Development II   -          34.5       34.5
879        1979  Burma   Rubber Rehabilitation         -        4.5        4.5
949        1979  Burma   Forestry II                   -       35.0       35.0
Total                                    33.1    237.3       130.4
of which had been repaid               33.1       -
Total now outstanding                      -      237.3
Amount sold                   2.7
of which has been repaid  2.7
Total now held by Bank & IDA /a            -      237.3
Total Undisbursed                                 130.4
Total Disbursed                                   106.9
B.   Statement of IFC Investments
None
/a   Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5 pages
C.   Projects in Execution 1/
Cr. No. 483    Irrigation I Project; US$17.0 Million Credit of June 21,
1974; Effective Date: August 6, 1974; Closing Date:
March 31, 1980
The Project Implementation Committee was established on time and
has functioned effectively. An initial procurement of 10,000 pumpsets
(300 g.p.m.) and accessories was awarded to a local supplier, Heavy Indus-
tries Corporation. All of these units have been sold to farmers in the
project area. Favorable costs on various components of the project have been
sufficient to permit the purchase of 3,000 additional low lift pumps. These
units have been delivered and are expected to be sold by October 1979. The
construction of four jute baling plants is nearly completed. Some 550 units
of construction equipment were rehabilitated under the equipment repair pro-
gram. A reasonable inventory of spare parts remains for future maintenance.
The program to rehabilitate and extend flood embankments and drainage channels
has been completed. The Closing Date of the credit has been extended from
December 31, 1978, to March 31, 1980, in order to allow for completion of
disbursements covering consulting services for the preparation of final
design and specifications for the proposed Nyaunggyat Dam Project.
Cr. No. 493    Forestry Project; US$24.0 Million Credit of July 10, 1974;
Effective Date: February 27, 1975; Closing Date: March 31,
1981
Project implementation continues to improve. Spares availability
has increased, a revolving fund for emergency spare parts has been created
and urgently needed parts are now received via air freight. The Government
has taken effective action to improve mechanical maintenance. Progress in
sawmill rehabilitation and construction is excellent. Teak output has
reached its projected level, but hardwood extraction is presently limited to
about 35% of target due to a shortage of logging trucks. The Government
awarded on January 25, 1979, a contract for 140 trucks and 30 trailers which
will remedy this problem. Fuel supply has been a periodic difficulty, but a
new pipeline and increased refining capacity are expected to improve supply.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5 pages
Cr. No. 551    Telecommunications Project; US$21.0 Million Credit of May 30,
1975; Effective Date: July 23, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1980
Procurement action has been taken and the credit amount has been
fully disbursed. Due to initial delays in preparation of specification,
procurement and contracting and delays in civil works, execution of the proj-
ect is about a year behind schedule. The OPEC Special Fund is providing a
loan to finance a cost overrun of about $3.1 million. Cost increases due to
the recent exchange variation of the U.S. dollar with respect to the Japanese
yen on committed contracts and a few items of the project which are not yet
committed are being considered for financing under the proposed project. The
Posts and Telecommunications Corporation, the executing agency, is operating
satisfactorily and is meeting the prescribed rate of return.
Cr. No. 597    Livestock Project; US$7.5 Million Credit of December 30,
1975; Effective Date: March 26, 1976; Closing Date: March 31,
1981
The project is now without major problems following a reallocation
of responsibilities amongst project agencies and continuing improvements in
all aspects of implementation. Field services are being provided by the
Veterinary and Animal Husbandry Department (VAHD) to all 2,665 villages in
the project area. The Artificial Insemination Program continues to expand
and milk supplies are increasing as more high producing crossbreds enter the
national herd. Vaccine production will increase after commissioning of new
equipment in late 1979. Communal pastures and village waterpoints are being
developed by VAHD. The Livestock Development and Marketing Corporation (LDMC)
continues to collect milk both from its own farms and from the private
sector, and plans further expansion of private collection.  The Government
has agreedl to construct the milk plant and have requested interim investment
in the existing plant to metet growing demand for processing facilities.  Cost
escalation may necessitate some reallocation of credit funds amongst catego-
ries.  The Institute of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Science (IAHVS) has shown
considerable implementation improvement -- building program is about 80%
complete, the training component is underway and many of the training aids
have been procured.
Cr. No. 642    Paddyland Development Project; US$30.0 Million Credit of
June 21, 1976; Effective Date: August 20, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
The Credit was declared effective following the establishment of
the Project Implementation Committee and the Project Unit. Delivery has
been made on most of the construction equipment and it is being used effec-
tively. Progress on const-ruction has been very good during the 1978/79 season
and the Irrigation Department believes the construction program will be



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5 pages
completed on schedule. Early in 1977, the Agriculture Corporation initiated
an intensive agricultural extension program for five project townships.
Village and township level officers have been assigned full time to extension
activities. These officers are carrying out a program of periodic and
regularly scheduled visits to the farm areas (Training and Visits Program)
which has been well received by farmers. Consultants' studies on paddy storage
and handling have been completed. Consultants began work on the hydrologic
investigations in September 1977. These investigations are progressing
satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 671    Second Ports Project; US$10.0 Million Credit of January 13,
1977; Expected Date of Effectiveness:  March 18, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Spare parts for existing equipment, new cargo handling equipment,
and repair materials have been delivered to Burma Ports Corporation (BPC).
The rehabilitation of the suction dredger has been completed, and the repair
of the bucket dredger is expected to be completed by December 1979. A dredg-
ing expert has been appointed to train dredger crews in Rangoon and two
dredger masters have been in Holland for training. A training specialist
visited BPC to identify training requirements and courses and has submitted
proposals to BPC for various courses and needs.
Cr. No. 686    Tin and Tungsten Expansion Project; US$16.0 Million Credit
of March 25, 1977; Effective Date:  June 13, 1977; Closing
Date:  March 31, 1983
Following an approximately 9-month delay due to a Government deci-
sion to revise the basic procurement approach, progress on the project has
improved markedly and procurement is nearly complete. The dredge should be
delivered on site by April 1980, which would enable production to commence
only about 4-5 months later than originally scheduled. Training in Malaysia
of operating and supervisory staff has been underway since December 1978.
On-site works are progressing well. It is now expected that the project will
have a cost overruin of about 13% due to the delay, the change in procurement
approach and currency fluctuations. Steps are being taken to obtain financing
for cost overrun.
Cr. No. 745    Seed Development Project; US$5.5 Million Credit of November 14,
1977; Effective Date: February 14, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
Overall performance has been satisfactory, and is expected to
improve now that the major problem of project staffing is being effectively
addressed. Overseas training has been delayed one year and has now been
rescheduled over four years to lessen training-induced staff shortages. Pro-
curement was initially delayed due to unfamiliarity with IDA procedures but is
being conducted relatively efficiently. Physical development of the project



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5 pages
farms has commenced and it seems likely that the project agency will be able
to make up for past delays and come close to meeting development targets. The
research component is developing adequately.
Cr. No. 835    Paddyland Development II Project; US$34.5 Million Credit of
July 28, 1978; Effective Date: October 13, 1978; Closing
Date: April 30, 1986
The Project Implementation Committee and the Project Unit have
been estabLished as required and a project director and a project exten-
sion manager have been appointed. Procurement of equipment has been
initiated and construction work will commence next season (January 1980).
Cr. No. 879    Rubber Rehabilitation Project; US$4.5 Million Credit of
March 13, 1979; Effective Date: May 25, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The credit was declared effective on May 25, 1979. The project
agency, the Rubber Section of Agriculture Corporation, continues to perform
well, and the project has already made significant physical progress in
replanting 1,050 ac, or 80Z of the first year's target. Procurement is well
advanced. The UNDP-financed consultants started field activities in May 1979
and are operating satisfactorily. Arrangements are in hand to review recom-
mendations on planting material and techniques.
Cr. No. 949    Forestry II - East Pegu Yoma Project; US$35.0 Million Credit
of September 21, 1979; Planned Effective Date: December 20,
1979; Closing Date: September 30, 1985
The Credit is not yet effective.



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
BURMA
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (PTC)
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by country to prepare the project
About six months.
(b) Agency which has prepared the project
PTC
(c) Date of departure of appraisal mission
June 1978 and an updating mission in July 1979,
after cofinancing had been secured.
(d) Date of completion of negotiations
September 17, 1979
(e) Planned date of effectiveness
February 1980.
Section II:    Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III:   Special Conditions
(a) existing Government arrears would be paid not later
than March 31, 1981, and procedures satisfactory to
IDA would be introduced to insure that current bills
would be paid within two months (para 59);
(b) PTC would undertake and complete a study of the
value of its assets by April 1980, and would
review the value of its assets annually there-
after (para 62);



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(c) PTC's tariffs would be set at levels sufficient
to achieve at least 9% rate of return on revalued
average net fixed assets in operation (para 62);
(d)  funds from PTC's telecommunication services would
not be used for other purposes until all require-
ments for telecommunications had been met (para 64).
Additional conditions of effectiveness would be:
(a) execution of the subsidiary loan agreement between
the Government and PTC (para 53); and
(b) satisfactory arrangements for a firm commitment of
Japan's financing (para 53).






IBRD 13818
4p q                                                                                 B'                                                   lo                                      a AUGUST 1978
W M 4;N    Ws W ~ ~ ~ ~      ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    'r                      N                                            0
o  iJ  !~0             1                                   ' 
IC 'It
S   -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  
C                                                                                                       2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ZJ
Zo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
<1~~~~~~~~~~~~15
-~~~~~~~~~    -
00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   2
0   -  -    0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L 
tD~~~~



