c CREDIT NUNBER 958 BA
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Telecommunications Project)
between
TRE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF THE UNION OF BURMA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
N.Dated                             ,1 1   9


﻿11 IIEgI
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated   A41LA/                     , 197t between
THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF THE UNION OF BURMA (hereinafter called
the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (herein-
after called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)  the Project will be carried out by the Posts and Tele-
communications Corporation with the Borrower's assistance and as
part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to
the Posts and Telecommunications Corporation the proceeds of the
Credit as hereinafter provided;
(C) the Posts and Telecommunications Corporation intends to
contract from the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan a
loan (hereinafter called the OECF Loan) in an amount equivalent to
eleven million dollars ($11,000,000) to assist in financing part
of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agree-
ment (hereinafter called the OECF Loan Agreement) to be entered
into between the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan and
the Posts and Telecommunications Corporation; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02.   Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the


﻿-2-
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and the Posts and Telecom-
munications Corporation pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this
Agreement, as such agreement may be amended from time to time, and
such term shall include all schedules to such agreement;
(b) "PTC" means the Posts and Telecommunications Corpora-
tion, a state owned corporation established and operating under
the laws of the Borrower and shall include any successor or
successors thereto;
(c) "Investment Program" means PTC's investment program
covering fiscal years 1981-1985;
(d) "Kyat" means the currency of the Borrower; and
(e) "First Credit" means the Development Credit Agreement
(Telecommunications Project) dated May 30, 1975 (No. 551 BA),
between the Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to thirty-five million dollars ($35,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
t 'r


﻿-3-
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1984
or such later date as the Association shall establish.       The
Association 3hall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each January
15 and July 15 commencing January 15, 1990, and ending July 15,
2029, each installment to and including the installment payable on
July 15, 1999, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Managing Director of PTC or any other
person duly authorized in writing by him is designated as repre-
sentative of the Borrower for the purpose of taking any action
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section
2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through PTC with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and public
utilities practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to
PTC under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and PTC under terms and conditions which shall have


﻿Yi1
~4-
been approved by the Association. Except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, such agreement shall provide, inter alia, that
PTC shall pay periodically to the Borrower amounts representing
(i) interest on the amount relent at an annual rate of eight and
one half per cent (8.5%) per annum on the principal amount with-
drawn and outstanding from time to time; and (ii) amortization of
the principal amount relent over a term of twenty-four years,
including five years of grace from the date of the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes
of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. In order to assist PTC in carrying out studies,
procurement, supervision and acceptance of installations, the
Borrower shall cause PTC to employ engineering and telecommunica-
tion consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and
to the Association.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to cause. PTC to
insure, or to make adequate provision for the insurance of, the
imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish, or cause to be
furnished, to the Association, promptly upon their preparation,
the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
work and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain, or cause to be
maintained, records and procedures adequate to record and monitor


﻿-5-
the progress of the Project (including its cost and the benefits
to be derived from it), to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their
use in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, PTC's properties and equipment   and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish, or
cause to be furnished, to the Association at regular intervals
all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the
benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to,
or cause to be prepared and furnished to, the Association a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Association of their
respective obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Association, upon its request, evidence satisfactory to the
Association that such land and rights in respect of land are
available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall cause and assist PTC to
strengthen its technical planning unit in a manner satisfactory to
the Borrower and the Association. Said unit shall be responsible
for, inter alia, (i) carrying out studies of telecommunication
demand; (ii) determining least cost technical solutions; and (iii)
preparing short-term (4 to 6 years) and long-term (12 to 20 years)
telecommunication development programs especially related to the
Borrower's plans for national economic development.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall promptly take all such
measures as shall be necessary to ensure that PTC's produc-
tivity meets such feasible targets as shall be determined by the


﻿F- 6--
-6-
Borrower and the Association on the basis of the manpower study
carried out by PTC.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall cause PTC to carry out a
staff training program satisfactory to the Association until
December 31, 1984, or such later date as the Borrower and the
Association shall otherwise agree.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause PTC to maintain
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations and
financial condition of PTC.
(b) The Borrower shall cause PTC to: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by the Director General, Central Accounts Office, acting
on behalf of the Council of Peoples Inspectors of the Borrower;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available, copies of
its unaudited financial statements and, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the end of each
such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for
such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Associa-
tion such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of PTC and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause PTC:
(a) to manage its affairs, maintain its financial position
and carry on its operations all in accordance with sound admin-
istrative, financial, engineering and public utility practices
and under the supervision of experienced and competent management
assisted by qualified and competent staff; and
(b) to take all action required to maintain and renew all
rights, powers, privileges and franchises necessary or useful
in the conduct of PTC's business.


﻿-7-
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall (i) not later than April 1,
1980, implement procedures, satisfactory to the Association, to
ensure that 1harges for outstanding and future telecommunications
services provided by PTC to the Borrower shall be paid promptly,
and in any event not later than 60 days upon billing by PTC; and
(ii) not later than March 31, 1981, settle all its accounts in
arrears for past telecommunications services owed to PTC.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause PTC (i) to com-
plete and submit to the Association for its review and comment
not later than April 1 of each year, beginning April 1, 1980, a
study and review of the value of its fixed assets in operation
according to methods agreed on by the Borrower and the Associa-
tion; and (ii) beginning fiscal year 1981, revalue its fixed
assets in operation, according to such methods, for the purposes
of calculating the rate of return specified in Section 4.05 of
this Agreement.
Section 4.05. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause PTC to take from time to time all
such measures, including an increase in its tariffs,.as shall be
necessary to provide and maintain PTC's revenues from its telecom-
munications operations sufficient to produce an annual rate of
-return of not less than 9% in each of its fiscal years on the
value of its average net revalued fixed assets in operation.
(b) For the purpose of this Section:
(i) The annual rate of return shall be calculated by
dividing the net operating income of PTC from its
telecommunications operations for the fiscal year
in question by the average of the value of the net
telecommunications fixed assets of PTC in operation
at the beginning and at the end of the year in
question.
(ii) The term "value of the average net revalued fixed
assets in operation" shall mean the gross value of
such telecommunications assets, less the amount
of accumulated depreciation, as valued from time
to time pursuant to Section 4.04 of this Agreement.
(iii) The term "net operating income" shall mean the
difference between:
(A) gross operating revenue accruing from tele-
communications operations; and


﻿- 8 -
-8-
(B) the operating and administrative expenses
of telecommunications operations, including
taxes (if any) or any payment in lieu of taxes
(if any), adequate maintenance and straight-
line depreciation but excluding interest and
other charges on debt.
(c) The foregoing provisions of this Section supersede the
Agreements between the Borrower and the Association set forth in
Section 4.05 of the First Credit.
Section 4.06. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall ensure that no debt will be incurred
by or for the benefit of PTC, unless PTC's net revenues for the
fiscal year next preceding the date of such incurrence or for
any later twelve-month period ended prior to the date of such
incurrence, whichever net revenues are the greater, shall be at
least 1.5 times the maximum debt service requirements for any
succeeding fiscal year on all debt incurred by or for the benefit
of PTC and not cancelled, including the debt to be incurred.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the term "debt" means all debt incurred by or on
behalf of PTC, including debt assumed or guaranteed
by the Borrower for PTC, except debt incurred in
the ordinary course of business and maturing by its
terms on demand or less than one year after its
incurrence;
(ii) the term    "incur" with reference to any debt
includes any modification of the terms of payment
of such debt. Debt shall be deemed to be incurred
(A) under a contract or loan agreement, on the date
on which the contract or loan agreement providing
for such debt is entered into and (B) under a
guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
providing for such guarantee shall have been
entered into;
(iii) the term "net revenues" means total revenues from
all sources, adjusted to take account of PTC's
tariffs in effect at the time of the incurrence of
debt even though they were not in effect during the
entire fiscal year or twelve-month period to which
such revenues relate, less all operating and other


﻿-9-
expenses, including adequate maintenance, taxes, if
any, other than income taxes, and administrative
expenses, but before provision for depreciation and
debt service requirements;
(iv) the term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate amount of amortization (including sinking
fund payments, if any), interest and other charges
on debt; and
(v) whenever it shall be necessary to value in Kyats
debt payable in another currency, such valuation
shall be made on the basis of the rate of exchange
at which such other currency is obtainable by
PTC, at the time such valuation is made, for the
purposes of servicing such debt, or, if such
other currency is not so obtainable, at the rate of
exchange that will be reasonably determined by the
Association.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall cause PTC not to undertake
any investment in addition to its Investment Program which
exceeds, in any one fiscal year, the equivalent of one million
dollars (US$1,000,000) unless the Association is afforded an
opportunity to comment on such additional investment prior to its
undertaking by PTC.
Section 4.08. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause PTC not to apply funds arising
out of or obtained in connection with its telecommunications
operations for purposes other than its telecommunications opera-
tions unless such funds are in excess of its reasonable opera-
tional, debt service and investment requirements, including
the maintenance of adequate reserves in respect of its telecom-
munications operations.
(b) The Borrower shall ensure that PTC charges rates for all
its services, including lease of telecommunication channels and
technical operation and maintenance for other agencies, if any, in
accordance with sound commercial principles.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:


﻿- 10 -
(a) PTC shall have failed to perform any covenant, agreement
or obligation under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(b) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of PTC or for the suspension of its operations; and
(c) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of PTC to withdraw the proceeds of
the OECF Loan made to PTC for the financing of
the Project shall have been suspended, can-
celled or terminated in whole or in part,
pursuant to the terms of the OECF Loan Agree-
ment; or
(B) the OECF Loan. shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if: (A) such suspension, cancellation,
termination or prematuring is not caused by the
failure of PTC to perform any of its obligations
under such agreement, and (B) adequate funds for
the Project are available to PTC from other sources
on terms and conditions consistent with the obliga-
tions of PTC under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower and PTC; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) (i) (B) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit


﻿- 11 -
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement on behalf of the Borrower and PTC respectively have been
duly authorized and ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action; and
(b) the Borrower has made arrangements satisfactory to the
Association for a firm commitment of the OECF Loan.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, 'namely, that the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and
PTC and is legally binding upon the Borrower and PTC in accordance
with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date              .410  O)  49is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Article
IV of this Agreement and the provisions of Section 5.02 of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty-
five years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be
the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister or the Deputy Minister of Planning
and Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Planning and Finance
Office or the Ministers
Rangoon
Burma


﻿-12-
Cable address:
FINANCE
Rangoon
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF THE UNION OF BURMA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By   '                               1fA4
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Local telephone net-          17,250,000       100% of foreign
work with exchange                            expenditures
equipment cables
and subscriber
equipment
(2) Long distance network          6,500,000       100% of foreign
with microwave UHF/VHF                        expenditures
systems and open wire
lines
(3) Transportation/remote          1,800,000       100% of foreign
access radio telephone                        expenditures
and maritime radio commu-
nication equipment
(4) Miscellaneous equipment        1,400,000       100% of foreign
and material for                              expenditures
rehabilitating Rangoon
telephone system, billing
processor, etc.
(5) Rural telecommunica-           2,850,000       100% of foreign
tions with open wire                          expenditures
and radio equipment                           and 30% of
local expendi-
tures


﻿- 14 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(6) Existing contracts             3,500,000       100% of foreign
for equipment and                             expenditures
materials under
the First Credit
(7) Consultants' Services            200,000       100% of foreign
expenditures
(8) Unallocated                    1,500,000
TOTAL         35,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule: (a) the term "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than the Borrower; and (b) the
term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the territory
of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the-proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this agreement, except that withdrawals
in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $2,000,000
may be made in respect of Category (6) on account of payments made
for such expenditures before that date but after September 1,
1979.


﻿- 15 -
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if
such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such ex-
penditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category
may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been
made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way re-
stricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associa-
tion's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of PTC's Investment Program and con-
sists of:
A.   Installation of about 31,200 lines of telephone exchange
equipment (including about 7,200 lines for replacing
existing obsolete systems) together with the associated
external networks and subscribers equipment including
PABXs.
B.   Extension of telecommunication facilities to 54 town-
ships and 13 villages by installation of small telephone
exchanges and public call offices connected to the
national system.
C.   Extension of the long distance network by expanding
existing trunk exchanges by about 1,800 lines, adding
multiplex equipment in existing microwave routes and
providing new microwave systems for Pegu-Meiktila,
Meiktila-Taunggyi and Mandalay-Lashio routes together
with 11 VHF/UHF systems and about 26 open wire three and
twelve channel carrier systems for spur routes along
with multiplex equipment.
D.   Installation of maritime radio telephone equipment
at the three main ports and transportation/remote access
radio telephone systems along the major routes.
E.   Expansion of telex and gentex systems.
F.   Acquisition and utilization of miscellaneous equipment
and materials including the installation of billing
processor and the improvement of storage and transporta-
tion facilities and the rehabilitation of the Rangoon
telephone system.
G.   Utilization of consultants' services for studies,
procurement and supervision and acceptance of installa-
tions.
H.   Completion of on-going works of the Project under the
First Credit by financing existing contracts.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1983.
1i<~                                       -...-..~,                   I r


﻿III
-17-
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   General Procedures
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Association
shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods or
works remain to be procured on the basis of international compe-
titive bidding*
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on goods evaluated on
c.i.f. basis, and sales and similar taxes (applicable to finished
domestic products) on goods evaluated on ex-factory basis, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the
place of their use or installation shall be included*
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for the supply of (i) a 400 line extension of the
Hanthawaddy tandem exchange in Rangoon; (ii) rehabilitation of


﻿- 18 -
existing Rangoon telephone system; (iii) the addition of inter-
working equipment in existing Rangoon exchanges; and (iv) cabinet
and distribution boxes and accessories, estimated to cost in the
aggregate the equivalent of about $1,000,000, may be procured on
the basis of negotiated contracts with known suppliers on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, to-
gether with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Association of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) With respect to the procurement of the transportation/
remote access radio system under Part D of the Project, the
Borrower shall, in addition to its obligations under paragraph (b)
above, submit to the Association, before a final decision on the
award is made and in sufficient time for its review, a detailed
report by the consultants referred to in Section 3.02 of this
Agreement, together with the recommendations for award of said
consultants.
(d) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.


﻿- 19 -
(e) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
3. Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of the
terms and conditions of a contract, granting an extension of the
stipulated time for performance of such contract, and issuing any
change order under such contract (except in cases of extreme
urgency), which would increase the cost of the contract by more
than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform the
Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.
-I it


﻿g-J
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the   /±Lday of
197.-
F4
FOR SERETAR
J3


