The World Bank
Sierra Leone
Proposed Transport
Rehabilitation Project
Environmental Analysis                           n
and Mitigation Plan
June 1995
|   ~   ~Consltig  ngirieer /n Plnnr AS
I~~Gnutn nier n lncsS=                   =1 
I1/   s
I  .11 . 1. ,                                  ;l



The World Bank
Sierra Leone
Proposed Transport
Rehabilitation Project
Environmental Analysis
and Mitigation Plan
Final Report
June 1995
Report No.       26321-01
Issue No.        02
Datc of ssue   :  6 Juuc 1995
Prepared       :  Margot Mallcr Nickeu
Checked        :  Paul Iavior. Stecn 0. Dahl
Approved       *  Paul Taylor
C:\TEhST\263 I\TRP'BNNO1295.RAP                COWICOILqUIt



TRP: Environmental Analysis and Mitigation Plan                                  Pagc I
Table of Contents
0.   Summary                                                              4
1.  Introduction                                                         13
2.   Scope of Work                                                       15
3.   Project Components                                                  16
4.   Legal and Institutional Framework                                   18
S.   Rehabilitation and Maintenance of Roads                             20
Potential Environmental Impacts                                    20
Need for Training and Institutional Strengthening                  31
6.   Road Transport                                                      34
7.   Maritime Transport                                                  38
Rehabilitation of Freetown Port                                    38
Coastal and River Transport                                        39
Maritime Services Agency                                           41
8.   Improvement of Freetown Airport (Lungi)                             42
9.   Draft Mitigation Plan                                               44
10.  References                                                          48
C:\TEKM26321\TRP\BNNo1295.RAP                                              COWiconsult



TRP: Environmcntal Analysis and Mitigation Plan                                      Page 2
List or Annexes:
Annex l:     Terms of Referenec
Annex 2:     List of People Met
Annex 3:     Draft Mitigation Plan: Implemcntation Schedulc
Annex 4:     Draft Mitigation Plan: Cost Estimate
Annex 5:     Draft Terms of Rcfercncc for an environmental specialist at DOTC.
Annex 6:     Manual for Public Consultations
List or Flgures:
Fig. 5.1 -    The road network proposed to be rehabilitated under the TRP.
Fig. 5.2 -    National game reserves, forest reserves, and protectcd forests in Sicrra
Leone and the approximatc location of roads covered by the TRP.
Fig. 5.3 -   Prevention against erosion of cut slopes of the recently rehabilitated
between Freetown and Masiaka. Each step has drain ditches. Possible
soil erosion will be rcstricted to a limited number of steps.
Fig. 5.4 -    Sand extraction at Hamilton Beach.
Fig. 5.5 -   Lagoon at Sussex about seven kilometres south of Hamilton Beach. Con-
siderable siltation have taken place in the lagoon and mangrove has
disappeared since sand extraction activities started at Hamilton Beach
about 10 years ago.
Fig. 5.6 -    A typical gravel fecder road through a village.
Fig. 5.7 -    A labour gang rehabilitating a gravel road near Mamaka. The work,
which is the final part of a training course. is supervised by expens from
the Mile 91 Training Centre.
Fig. 8.1 -    The access road at Frcetown Airport. Due to improper fencing the road
is used by the local people and the airport area is used for grazing.
List of Tables:
Table 6.1 -   Enission factors for sclected vehicle types (g/km).
Table 6.2 -   Emission limits adopted by the EU for gasolinc and diesel powered
vehicles (g/km).
Table 6.3 -   Ernission limits adopted by the United States for light-duty automobiles
(g/km).
CA\TEKST\26321\TRP\BNNO1295.RAP                                               COWIconsult



TRP: Environmental Analysis and Mitigation Plan                                     Page 3
List .r Abbreviations
CO:          Carbon Monoxide
DLHE:        Dcpartment o1 Lands. Housing and the Environment
DOTC:        Department of Transport and Communications
DOW:         Department of Works
EA:          Environmcntal Assessmcnt
EPS:         Environmental Protection Sccrctariat
EU:          The Europcan Union
HC:          Hydrocarbons
HED:         Housing and Environment Division
LWDD:        Land & Water Dcvelopment Department
MSA:         Maritime Services Agency
NEAP:        National Environmental Action Plan
NEC:         National Environmental Council
NEP:         National Environmental Policy
NGO:         Non-Governmcntal Organisation
NO2:         Oxides of Nitrogen
OD 4.01:    The World Bank's Operational Directive 4.01: Environmental Assess-
ment
OMC:         One-man contractor
RRMP:        The Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Projecc
RTA:         Road Transport Authority
RTB:         Road Transport Board
RTC:         Road Transport Corporation
SL:          Sierra Leone
SLA:         Sierra Leone Airways
SLAA:        Sierra Leonc Airport Authority
SLNSC:       Sierra Leone National Shipping Company
SLPA:        Sierra Leone Port Authority
SLRA:        Sierra Leone Roads Authority
SO,:         Sulphur Dioxide
SPM:         Suspended Particulatc Matter
TRP:         Transport Rehabilitation ProLjcct. Sicrra Leonc
C:\TEK.q2632 1\TRP\BNNO1295 RAP



TRP: Environmental Analysis and Mitigation Plan                                      Page 4
0. Summary
0.1.        An environmental assessment is prepared for the proposed Transport Rehabilitation
Project (CRP) for Sicrra Lcone to mcet the nceds for a category B assessment in accord-
ance with the World Bank's Operational Directive No. 4.01 on Environmental Assess-
ment. The possible environmental impacts are assessed in gencral terms in preparation
for incorporation of remedial actions in the further planning and design of project
activities. Main emphasis is laid on road rehabilitation and maintenance as this is the
major component of the TRP. Special attention is drawn to the institutional strengthening
aspects as these constitute the fundainental potential to improve upon environmental
awareness and concerns within the transport sector in Sierra Leone.
Scope of Work
0.2.        Given the wide range of project activities and studies under the TRP of which a number
are not yet defined to a level which allows detailed environmental analysis, the following
approach was considered operational for this mission:
D The possible environmental impacts are described and assessed in general terms in
preparation for incorporation of remedial actions in the further planning and design of
project activities;
* special cmphasis is laid on road rehabilitation and maintenance as this is the major
componcnt of the TRP;
* significant impacts are compared with the impacts of not implementing the proposed
project activities, that is the "do-nothing" alternative:
* special attention is drawn to the institutional str-. -tlhening aspects as these constitute
the fundamental potential to improve upon environmenial awareness and concerns
within the transport sector in Sierra Leone; and
* based on the findings. a draft mitigation plan is prepared.
0.3.        The assessment is based on the assumptions that an adequate and efficient national
environmental regulation and administration will be implcmcnted concurrently with the
implementation of the TRP and that the general security situation in Sierra Leone will
improve substantially bcforc the projcct starts.
C:\TEKST\26321\TRP\BNNO1295.RAP                                               COWlconsult



TRP: Environmcntal Analysis and Mitigation Plan                                      Page 5
EnvIroinmental Strengthening of DOTC
0.4.        The TRP includes strengthening of transport sector institutions of which the Department
of Transpon and Communications (DOTC) is the main rcsponsible authority for devel-
opmcnt and implemcntation of a proper transpon policy for Sierra Lcone.
0.5.        To co-ordinate the environmcntal activities under the TRP i is recommcnded to build up
an environmental unit anl appoint an environmental co-ordinator at the DOTC. The
tasks of the co-ordinator will include among other things:
* Co-ordination of environmental activitics under the TRP. including regular joint
mectings;
* co-ordination of activitics with other authorities and institutions such as the Environ-
mental Protection Secretariat (EPS) and the Land and Water Developmcnt Depart-
ment (LWDD):
* arrange workshops and seminars for management and staff at the transport sector
authorities and institutions (DOTC. SLRA. SLPA. SLAA, RTC. RTA and MSA):
* prepare environmcntal project progress reports regularly: and
* possibly propose and implement corrective measures depending on project progress;
* a foreign advisor will be attached to the cnvironmental unit intermittently for a total
of 12 manmonths.
Rehabilitation and Maintenance of Roads
0.6.        The TRP enmmpasses a three year programme for implementation of labour based peri-
odic and routine maintenance for some 2,500 km of roads, including paved and gravel
trunk roads, gravel feeder roads and urban roads in provincial centres. Considerable
rehabilitation works are also needed. because cssential parts of the road network are
seriously affected by the lack of proper maintenance during the past two decades. Thus.
a number of roads are heavily deteriorated and are no longer useable by motorised
traffic. except for motor bikes.
0.7.        The key environmental issues related to the road rehabilitation and maintenance are
identified as:
* Protection against soil erosion. The mean annual rainfall ranges from about 2 metres
in the north to more than 5 metres in the coastal areas with rather over 3 metres in
major parts of the country. The bulk of precipitation falls from May to November
with the heaviest rainfall in July. The uppermost soil laycrs consist mainly of alluvial
deposits and mctamorphosed volcanic rocks which both are susceptible to erosion.
Due to the heavy rainfalls all kinds of disruption of the vegetation cover will increase
the risk of soil erosion. particularly on slopcs and in hilly arcas. Soil erosion from
road construction works and roads can be rcduced by several mcans:
- Land clearance during construction works can he minimised by: minimising the
width of the working 7one: utilising the ditched-up material from side drains as
C:\TEKS26321\TRP\BNN01295.RAP                                                 COWlconsult



TRP: Environmental Analysis and Mitigation Plan                                         Pagc 6
road construction material instead of using horrow pits (dcpcnding on the prop-
crtics of the soil material): and establishing borrow pits close to thc roads to avoid
the construction of signiricant sections of temporary roads.
- The roads can bc designed not only to protcct the road against erosion, but also to
proicct the surroundings against crosion. Possibic protection measures are sevcral
dcpending on the sitc condiions. They includc among othcr things: reinforcement
of cut slopes by introducing steps each of which having drain ditches; rcinforcc-
mcut of fillcd slopes and embankments by adding cxcess fill and subsequent
compaction: strengthening of slope surfaces by planting grass; implementation of
proper road drain systems. including sidc drains, culverts and possibly outicts at
appropriatc intcrvals: and preventing dmins against collapsing by strengthening the
drain surface (e.g. by planting grass and in some cases by surfacing the drains with
concrete).
- Temporarily cleared or otherwise disturbed land can be restored after completion
of the construction works by: restoring of the working zone along the road con-
struction by planting of trees or grass; rejuvenation of borrow pits by covering
with stockpiled top-soil and planting of trees and grass: and restoring of possible
camps.
P Potential disturbance of protected areas. The roads under the TRP do no seem to con-
flict with game or forest reserve interests, but some of the road sections interfere with
protected forests. During the design phase for the distinct road sections the exact
extent of interference with protected areas has to be clarified, and a specific mitiga-
tion plan must be prepared to remediatc the potential conflicts between road works
and protected nature. Specific conditions must be made for the contractors. SLRA
must inspect the road work to ensure that the work comply with the prescribed miti-
gative procedures. Realignment of the road may be considered.
* Sand resources. Sand for all concrete construction works in Sierra Lcone is extracted
from the sandy beaches. such as the sandy beaches at the Peninsula. Sand extraction
results in increased coastal erosion and conflicts with both tourism interests and
coastal settlements. The coastal erosion can be reduced by implementing proper coast
protection, such as groynes. at intervals.
O.S.         Other considerable impacts relate to human health and safety:
* Labour based road work constitutes a considerable occupational health risk duc to
sevcral factors. including physically hard working conditions. cxposure to dust and
bituminous vapours. and exposure to vibrations and noisc fiom machines. Measures
to reduce occupational health and safety risks include accomplishment of adcquate
training and cducation of pcrsonncl. use of appropriatc personal protectivc equipmcnt.
dust suppression during drv scasons. maintenance of lacilitics and equipment of
designed or regulated lcvcl of pcrformance. and the work being consistent with proper
operational proccdures and occupational health standards.
C:\TEKSr\2632l\TRP\BNNO1295.RAP                                                  COWIconsult



TRP: Environmental Analysis and Mitigation Plan                                      Page 7
* Othcr thing,s being cqual. the road improvements will introduce an increascd risk of
accidents duc to a gcncrally higher specd of the motorised traffic and due to an
expected increase in traffic amounts. Measures to mitigate adverse effects include
separation of non-motorised traffic from the motorised by establishment of footpaths.
establishment of laybys for buses and taxis to prevcnt against traffic congestion.
introduction of speed rcduction mcasures in town and village streets, and propcr road
marking. In addition surfacing of town and villagc roads will allow a more uniform
speed and partly prevent dust generation. Traffic safety measures should bc particu-
larly addressed for town and village roads and heavily trafficked trunk roads.
0.9.        Under the on-going Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project (RRMP) financed by
the 'World Bank. an environmental unit is being built up at the SLRA and an cnviron-
mental engineer has becn dcsignated. The following additional institutional strengthening
actions are recommended to mect the demand for environmental protection capability in
road planning and managcmcnt:
* Training of the cnvironmental cngineer on-site and abroad to achieve adequate qualifi-
cations:
* performance of workshops and/or seminars for management and staff at the SLRA to
increase the environmcntal awareness;
a training of SLRA supervisors as discussed above.
a training of management and supervisors of contractors as discussed above;
- technical assistance to implement and monitor the proposed actions.
0.10.       The tasks of the envirornmntal unit at the SLRA will include among other things:
- Preparation of environmental guidelines concerning road planning and management to
be approved by the EPS;
* performance of workshops, seminars and training in accordance with the proposed
institutional strengthening actions;
* preparation and implementation of mitigation plans for specific road projects;
* inspection of road works to supervise and control the implementation of mitigation
measures: and
* preparation of terms of reference for specific studies. such as a study for coast protec-
tion due to coastal sand extraction.
Road Transport
0.11.       A Road Transport Authority (RTA) is being established under the TRP to co-ordinate
road transport planning and management and to undertake inspection and testing of
vehicles and drivers and to undertake surveys and studies to plan and monitor the devcl-
opment within this area: including designation and up-grading of private workshops to
vehicle cxamination centrcs to undertake regularly vehicle standard examinations.
0.12.       The key environncntal issue related to the road transport is the extremely poor standard
of the currcnt Sierra Leonean vehicle fllcet resulting in cxtensivc emissions of air pollu-
tants.
CA1EKSTN26321%TRP%BNNO1295.RM                                                 COWIConsult



1-1i'   _    ~.  I . , -  7, I 
TRP- Environmental Analysis and Mitigation Plan                                         Page 8
0.13.       It is recommcnded to build up an cnvironmental unit under the RTA to mect the most
urgent demands for environmental prolection capability in road transport planning and
management. The following actions are recommended:
* Appointmcnt of an cnvironmcntal specialist to address the following issues:
- road transport planning and management;
- gencral quality standards for imported second hand vehicles, including emission
standards;
- fuel quality standards.
- traffic safety measures.
* training of the environmental specialist on-site and abroad to achievc adequatc quali'i-
cations:
* workshops and/or seminars for management and staff at RTA to increase the envi-
ronmcntal awareness:
* training of management and mechanics at the proposed vehicle cxamination centres:
* technical assistance to implement and monitor the proposed actions.
0.14.        The tasks of the environmental unit at the RTA will include among other things:
* Preparation of enviromnental standards for vehicle emissions, fuel quality etc. to be
approved by EPS:
* performance of workshops. seminars and training in accordance with the proposed
institutional strengthening actions;
* preparation of cnvironmental terms for the proposed vehicle examination centres and
subsequent supervision and control hereof;
* proposal of incentives to encourage vehicle operators to adopt standards; and
* preparation of terms of reference for specific studies, including a transport planning
and managenent study for Freetown.
Maritime Transport
0.15         A Port Rebabililation Study for Freetown Port is being executed as a preparation for
the TRP, including among other things evaluation of port trade, examination of port
roads. storage areas. sheds and equiprnent. investigation of the quay wall and coping.
slipway repair and paving of the container stacking area.
0.16.        A detailed environmcntal impact assessment will be an integrated part of the port reha-
bilitation study. However. a number of possible environmental impacts can be expected
from various activities encompassed in the rchabilitation study. This mission has ident-
ified the following major environmental issues to be addressed in the port rehabilitation
study:
* Establishment of oil wastc rcception and treatment facilities at the port is considrcrd
mandatory as is the implementation of an oil spill contingency plan for Sierra Lconc:
* implementation of proper operational proccdurcs. occupational health and safety
procedures and hazard managemcnt proccdures:
C:%TEKSTh26321hTRP\BNNO1295.RAP                                                  COW[consult



TRP: Environmcntal Analysis and Mitigation Plan                                         Page 9
* the necessity of clcan-up of port arcas - on-shou  as wcll as off-shorc: including
rcmoval of scrap ond wrccks and cicun-up of contaminated soil and sediments. and
* potential impacts on spawning. and fishing areas. Aberdccn west of Frectown is a
main snapper rishing area and the centire mouth of Sierra Leone River is an importani
bonga and sardine fishing srea.
0.17.        A Coastal and River Transport Study is being cxecuted as a preparation or the TRP to
review the cxisting coastal and rivcr transport system and determinc its adcquacy in
mceting thc existing and expected futurc demands as a part of an integrated multi-modal
transport system which is suggested in the Draft National Transpon Policy for Sierra
Leone. The study cxamincs among other things the possibilities for improving inland and
coastal waterways to facilitatc appropriate sizcd vessels to gain access to the inner parts
of the country and for improving existing port and landing facilities.
0.18.        The output or the study shall cncompass thc formulation of a short-term investment
package to rehabilitatc the existing inland water and coastal transport system. including
among other things an environmcntal impact assessment and a plan to mitigate adverse
cnvironmental cffects. A number of potentially severe adverse environmental impacts
can be expected from various activitics under this investment package which it is cssen-
tial to address:
* Possible deepening, widening and changc of a river courses will increase the drinage
of the catchment area, hereby changing the water-balance of the catchment area with
potentially severc permanent effects on wetland as well as agricultural, grassland and
forest ecology. This could be the case for the Sewa and Moa rivers in the castem part
of Sierra Leone. The catchmcnt area of Moa River contains a national wild life
sanctuary which could be adversely affected by an altered water balance. The catch-
ment area of Sewa river includes protected forests and large areas of inland swamps.
which are vulnerable to changes in the waler balance.
* These effects are considered particularly serious for protected forest and other types
of protected naturc areas in Sicrra Leone. Rivcrs and estuaries to be prepared or
improved for inland navigation arc not yct dctermined in detail. Therefore. it is not
clariried whether protected forests or other nature reserves in ccrtain catchment areas
could be affected.
* The change of hydrological characteristics of rivers may also increase the risk of rivcr
bank erosion and subscquent flooding of nearby areas.
* Rivcr and estuarine flora and fauna may be affected due to several factors. including
permanent changes of hydrological nature. siltation from dredging activities, possible
change in salinitv of cstuaries due to increased suppiv of fresh water to cstuarics and
due to cmissions of pollution. noise and vibrations from the maritimc traffic.
C:\TEKS=6321\TW\BNNO1295.RAP                                                     COWlconsult



TRP: Environmental Analysis and Mitigation Plan                                        Pagc 10
* Disposal (up-land disposal or otf-shore dumping) of dredged sedimentis may ciause
varying efecets on ccological hahitats.
* Improvement of river and coastal transport will, other things being equal. increase the
risk of oil spills and accidents in rivers and cstuaries. Adequatc reception and treal- 
ment facilities for oily wastC arc, therefore, required as an indispensable part of the
marine infrastructure development as well as are the dcvclopment of a set of cmerg-
ency responsc actions to unintentional oil spills and accidents. Special attention should
be paid to the ecologically sensitive wetland areas, such as the extensive mangrove
swamps in the Brontc arca and the swamp areas along the Sewa River.
* Locally, the improvemcnt of pons and jetties may imply adverse environmental
cffects to bc mitigatcd. Particularly, the requirement of oily waste reception and
treatmcnt facilities should be addressed as should the potential operation and man-
agement of hazardous goods.
Improvement or Freetown Airport
0.19.        The airport component of the TRP incluJes runway edge light repair, runway pavemcnt
evaluation, procurement of fire fighting and rescue equipment, perimeter fencing, and
mini watcr supply project. No significant environmental impacts are likely to occur in
relation to the proposed activities. However, the study for the watcr supply project
should include a survey on potential impacts on nearby water sources and propose
remedial actions. if rcevant.
Draft Mitgation Plan
0.20.        A draft plan to mitigate adverse cffects of the TRP is prepared. The plan proposes legal,
institutional strengthening. training, and technical measures to bc incorporated in the
TRP.
0.21.        Legal measures. The following legal mcasures arc recommended:
* Preparation of environmental guidelincs regarding road rehabilitation and maintcnance
works:
* preparation of proper standards for emission factors and noise from vehicles:
* preparation of fucl quality critcria;
* preparation of a programme for vehicle emission control and fuel quality control:
* preparation of proper operational procedures and occupational health and safety
procedurcs in connection with road works. vehicle examination centres, port and
airport operation:
CA\TEKSTC263Z1\TRP\BNNO1295.RAP                                                   COWlconsult



TRP: Environmcntal Analysis and Mitigation Plan                                    Page 11
* preparttion of adcquatc guidelines and cmergency rcsponsc action plans regarding
rehabilitation of Frectown Port which is in accordancc with the rccommcndations
madc in the port rchabilitation study; and
* preparation of adcquatc guidelines and emergency rcsponse action plans rcgarding the
improvement of inland navigation facilities in Sierra Leone which is in accordancc
with the rccommendations madc in the coastal and river transport study.
0.22.       Institulional strentthening measures. The following institutional strengthening
mcasures to be financed under the TRP arc recommended as a minimum to improve
upon the environmental protection capability within the transport sector in Sierra Leone:
* An environmcntal co-ordination unit should be built up under the DOTC to co-ordi-
natc cnvironmental activities under the TRP, including appointment of an environ-
mental co-ordinator (draft Tcrms of Refcrencc for the environmental co-ordinator arc
presented in Annex 5 of this report); and
- the existing cnvironmental unit under SLRA should be strengthened by training of
staff in environmcntal subjects related to road planning, design and construction
works.
0.23.       Training measures. The following environmental training and education measures
should be included in the TRP:
* Training of the environmental engineer at the SLRA and possibly also the environ-
mental co-ordinator at DOTC on-site and abroad to achieve adequate qualifications;
- workshops and seminars for management and staff at the transport sector authorities
and institutions to increase the general environmental awareness within the transport
sector in Sierra Leone;
- training of SLRA road construction supervisors; and
- training of management and supervisors of private contractors to undertake road
rehabilitation and maintenance (at the Mile 91 Training Centre).
0.24.       Technical measures. Regarding the road rehabilitation and maintenance, the mitigation
measures and remedial actions discussed in Chapter 5 should be implemented in the
detailcd design of the respective trunk and feeder roads in concem. The environmcntal
engineer at SLRA should be responsibic for preparation of specific mitigation plans for
each road or road section under the TRP. The mitigation plan for a certain road or road
section should be based on ficld inspections and available information from e.g. the
LWDD. The plan should includc:
* Short description of the proposed road project:
* identification and description of the potential environmcntal impacts of the proposed
project. including potcntial impacts on landscapc. nature. flora. fauna. protected arcas
and species. soil crosion potential. rivers and ground-water. resources demand and
C:\TEKS\26321\TxRP\BNNOL295.RAP                                               COWlconsult



TRP: Environmentall Analysis and Mitigation Plan                                    Page 12
availability, air pollution and noise. land use nnd socio-economic environment. occu-
pational health and safety, and traffic safety:
* proposals of project modifications or changes to reduce or eliminate negative envi-
ronmental impacts: and
* a supervision plan for the construction works, including an action plan for the con-
structors in case of unforseen impacts during the construction phase.
0.25.       Proposals of mitigation plans for project components apart from the road construction
component are considered beyond the scope of this project as planned. subsequent
studies. including detailed environmental impact assessments. are supposed to reveal the
needs hereof.
0.26.       An implementation schedule for the above proposed measures appears from Annex 3.
0.27.       The estimated costs to implement the suggested mitigation measures amounts to
804,600 USS expressed in fixed 1994 prices. Cust estimates appear from Annex 4.
CATE2KSra6321\TRP\BNNO129S.RAP                                                COWlconsult



TRP: Environmcntal Analysis and Mitigatio n Plan                                    Page 13
1. Introduction
1.1.        On rcquest from the World Bank. COWIconsult has undertaken an environmental
assessment for the proposed Transport RehabiliLation Projcct (TRP) for Sierra Leone.
This report prcscnts an analysis of potential environmcntal impacts and a draft mitigation
plan for the TRP. The assessmcnt follows the concept for a "catcgory B assessment"
outlined in the World bank's Operational Directive No. 4.01 on Environmental Assess-
ment.
1.2.        An environmental specialist (consultant for the World Bank) Ms. Margot Moller Nielscn
visited Sierra Leone from 14 November to 5 December 1994 and met with Mr. A.
Bishop-Gooding. Hon. Secretary of State. DOTC; and held discussions with manage-
ment and staff of the DOTC, SLRA. SLPA, SLAA, RTC and other government
agencies in connection with an environmental analysis of the proposed TRP. The con-
sultant also performed field reconnaissance of Freetown Airport (Lungi). Freetown Port.
a limited but representative number of roads under the TRP, a quarry outside Freetown
and sand extraction sites at Lakka and Hamilton beaches, respectively. and visited the
Mile 91 Training Centre for road sector operators.
Objectives
1.3.        The immediate objective of the environmental analysis is to identify, describe and assess
the significant adverse and beneficial environmental impacts of the proposed project
activities and to outline a mitigation plan to reduce or eliminate adverse environmental
impacts.
1.4.        The long-term objective of the study is to enable local staff to perform environmentally
sound transport planning and management and, thereby, contribute to the overall im-
provement of the environmental protection capabilities within the transport sector in
Sierra Leone.
Acknowledgements
1.5.        The consultant would like to express hcr thanks to all officials and individuals met for
the kind support anid valuahic intfrmation which she rcceived during her stay in Sierra
Leone and which highly facilitated the work. Particularly. tne consultant owes a dept of
gratitude to Dr. Samshu Mustapha and Mr. 0. Taylor-Pearche who kindly brought about
CATEKSW163Z I\TRP\BNNO 1295. P                                                 COWIconsult



TRP: Environmental Analysis and Mitigation Plan                                         Page 14
contacts and appuintmcnts with relevant institutions and persons and contributcd with
significant inputs to this report.
C: \lEKST\26321 rRP\BNNO1295.RAP                                                   COWlconsult



TRP: Environmental Analysis and Mitigattion Plan                                    Pagc 15
2. Scope of Work
2.1.        An environmcntal assessment of the TRP activitics has been prepared to mcct thc necds
of a category B environmental analysis and mitigation plan according to the World
Bank's Operational Directive on Environmental Assessment. OD 4.01. which corre-
sponds with thc Tcrms of Referencc for this mission (sce Annex 1). Given the wide
range of project activities and studics under the TRP of which a number is not yet
defined to a level which allows detailed cnvironmcntal analysis. the following approach
was considered operational for this mission:
* The possible cnvironmcntal impacts are described and assessed in general terms in
preparation for incorporation of remedial actions in the furthcr planning and design of
project activities;
* special emphasis is laid on road rchabilitation and maintenance as this is the major
componcnt of the TRP;
* significant impacts are compared with the impacts of not implemcnting the proposed
project activities. that is the "do-nothing" alternative;
* special attention is drawn to the institutional strengthening aspects as these constitute
the fundamental potential to improve upon environmental awareness and concerns
within the transport sector in Sierra Leonc;
* based on the findings a draft mitigation plan is prepared, including:
- Recommendation of measurcs to mitigate adverse cnvironmental impacts;
- implementation schedule and cost estimation; and
- suggestion of a monitoring and report procedure.
2.2.        The assessment is based on the assumptions that an adequate and efflcient national
environmental regulation and administration will be implemented concurrently with the
implementation of the TRP and that the on-going rebel war will come to an end bcfore
the project starts.
CA\TEKST\26321\TRP\BNNO1295.RAF                                               COWleonsult



TRP: Environmnicnl Anailysis and Mitigation Plan                                   Pagc 16
3. Project Components
3.1.        The proposed Transport Rehabilitation Project includes the following project compo-
nents and project activities to be implcmented during a 3-year programme from 1996 to
1998:
a. Road component:
- Periodic maintenance of 190 km of paved trunk roads;
- periodic maintenance of 1590 km of gravcl trunk roads;
- pcriodic maintenance of 630 km of feeder roads;
- periodic maintenance of 20 km of city streels in provincial centres; and
- development of small and medium sized. labour based contractors to undertake
periodic maintenance activitics.
b. Road transport component:
- Assistance to the proposed Road Transport Authority;
- establishment of urban traffic system management measures; and
- establishment of vehicle examination centres in private sector garages.
c. Port and maritime transport component:
- Rehabilitation study for Freetown Port;
- slipway repair. paving of container stacking area and quay repair at Freetown Port:
and
- study on improvement of coastal and river transport.
d. Airport component:
- Runway edge light repair,
- runway pavemcnt evaluation;
- procurement of fire fighting and rescue equipmentl and
- perimeter fencing.
e. Strengthening of transport sector institutions:
. Capacity building:
- manpower training; and
- tcchnical assistance.
3.2.        A National Transport Policy has bccn prcparced by the Govcrnment. which aims at
furthcr restructuring of the transport secor by reducing the Ministry's role to
coordinating and monitoring. and delegating all exCeCutive functions to semi-autonomous
C:\TEKST\2632l\TRP\BNNO2I95.RAP                                               COWlconsult



TRP: Environmental Analysis and Mitigation Plan                                         Page 17
authoritics and. wherc feisibic. to the privatc sector. The main emphasis of the TRP is
to assist this institutional changc and to maintain and rchabilitatc some of the kcy nation-
al infrastructurc.
C:\TEKSIU6321VTRP\BNNO1295.RAP                                                    COWiconsult



TRP: Environmental Analysis and Mitigation Plan                                     Pagc 18
4. Legal and Institutional Framework
4.1.        Environmental lelislation and administration. Sierra Leone is currently in the proccss
of strcngthening its environmcntal protection capacity and capability. Thus. an Environ-
mental Protection Sccrctariat (EPS) has recently becn established under the Departmcnt
of Lands, Housing and the Environment (DLHE). Housing and Environment Division
(HED). to undcrtake the dcvelopmcnt and implemcntation of environmental protection
policies and strategies in Sierra Lcone. Furthermore. a National Environmental Council
(NEC) has been cstablished to ensurc inter-ministerial cu-ordination regarding environ-
mental issues. EPS and NEC have initiatcd the formulation of a National Environmental
Policy (NEP). including a Draft National Environental Regulation and a National
Environmental Action Plan (NEAP). Both policy. regulation and action plan will be
presented and evaluated on a workshop to be held in late December 1994, followed by
formulation of sectorial environmental regulations and formulation of cnvironmental
assessment procedures.
4.2.        Sector policies. Environmental concerns within the transport sector are not addressed
particularly in the NEP, although a number of the sector policies consider issues directly
or indirectly relevant to the transport sector. These include:
* Land tenure, land use and soil conservation;
* water resources management;
* forestry and wildlife:
* bio-diversity and cultural heritage;
* coastal and marine resources;
* air quality and noise:
* working environment (occupational health and safety),
* energy production and use: and
* scttlements. recreational space and green-bclts.
4.3.        Proposals ror the transport sector. With the purpose of improving environmental
awarcness and considerations within the transport sector it is recommended to formulate
an environmental policy for this sector. including all transport categories and transporta-
tion modes. This sector policy should add on to the existing NEP. and a transport sector
strategy should consequently bc applied to the NEAP. EPS should be the rcsponsible
body. but thc policy formulation should bc preparcd in closc collaboration with DOTC.
SLRA. and other transport authorities and institutions. This is in agreement with the
inlcntions of the EPS. DOTC and SLRA. Thus. at a joint mecting with participants from
EPS. DOTC. SLRA and thc environmcntal specialist of this mission it was discussed to
C:\TEKSIV\26321\TRP\BNNO1295.RAP                                              COWIconsult



TRP: Environmental Analysis and Mitigiation Plan                                       Pagc 19
address the transport sector specifically in the NEAP. It was agrecd that reprcsentatives
of SLRA and DOTC should participate in thc abovc mcntioned workshop with thc
purposc of tfirmulating an operational cnvironmcntal transport sector policy and strit-
egy.
4.4.         With EPS being the principal responsiblc body regarding environmental concerns. it is
still considered requisitc lo build up an environmental proleclion capabilily within the
transport scetor authorities and institutions in order to ensurc an integrated environ-
mental approach in transport planning and managemcnt. This recommendation is further
supported by the fact that the EPS has a manpower capacity too limitcd to support the
sector institutions for the timc being. In a longer view, the transport sector should of
course draw on the expertise which will be built up within the EPS framework. how-
cver. In the context of the proposed activitics under the TRP, thc following ficids should
be given high priority with respect to environmental strcngthening:
* road planning and management, including environmental assessments and mitigation
plans for road construction. rehabilitation and maintenance;
* transportation planning and managemcnt, including formulation of emission stan-
dards, control of cmissions air pollutants and noisc from vehicles. fucl quality control
and traffic safety mcasures; and
* maritime transport planning and management. including environmental assessments
and mkiigation plans for improvement of inland and coastal waterways, rehabilitation
of port and landing facilities, emergency responses to oil spills etc.
To complete the range of environmental capabilities within the transport sector, it is also
relevant to strengthen the air transport sector environmentally. However, as no signifi-
cant environmental effects are identiried in relation to the proposed airport rehabilitation
activities under the TRP. the TRP may not be the appropriate framework for this
strengthening. Detailed discussions of the needs for capacity building, manpower train-
ing and technical assistance within each of the transport sectors are given in the sections
below.
C:\TEKSTM2632ITRPtBN 401295Y .P                                                  COW Iconsult



TRP: Envitonmcntll Analysis and Mitigattion Plan                                      Pagc 20
5. Rehabilitation and Maintenance of Roads
5.1.         The TRP encompasscs implementation of periodic maintenance for some 2.500 km of
roads. including paved and gravel trunk roads. gravel fecdcr roads and urban roads in
provincial centrcs. Considerablc rchabilitation works arc also nceded. because csscntial
parts of the road nctwork are seriously affccted by the lack of proper maintenance during
thc past two decades. Thus. a number of roads arc tremendously dcterioratcd and arc no
longcr uscabic by motorised trafTic. cxcept for motor bikes.
Figure 5.1 shows the roads proposed to be covered by the TRP.
5.2.         Pcriodic maintenancc of paved trunk roads normally includes pothole patching with
asphaltic concrcte and in some instances also overlaying of sections of the road.
5.3.         Periodic maintenance of gravel trunk and fceder roads normally include levelling of
depressed areas, patching with laterite. compaction and light and heavy grading. The
rehabilitation and maintenance work on gravel trunk roads is predominantly capital
based while on gravel feeder roads it is more labour based.
5.4.         The TRP includes rehabilitation and periodic maintenance of some 20 km of urban roads
in provincial centres. For these road sections traffic safeLy measures and measures to
reduce dust generation are key issues to be addressed in project mitigation plans.
5.5.         The rehabilitation of some roads will imply considerabic concrete construction work. for
instancc repair or reconstruction of bridges. ferry landing facilities. drains and culverts.
and change of palm tog bridges to box culvcrts or concrcte bridges.
Potential Environmental Impacts
5.6.         The overall environmental advantages of the road rehabilitation and maintcnance pro-
gramme arc:
* Incrcased fucl cfficiency and reduced cmission factors of the vehicics due to a gen-
crally reduced vehiclc movemcnt time and a more uniform speed (this cffect is.
howcvcr. expected to bc quitc limitcd until adequatc quality critcria for both rucl
quality aInd importation ofr sCtcond hand vehicles arc introiduced and an efficient con-
trol hercof is cstablished): and
a reduced vehicic maintenance cost due to thc improved road conditions.
C:\TF.KST26321lTRP\BNNO1295.RAP                                                  COWleonsult



TRP: Environmentdl Analysis and Mitigation Plan                                                      Pagc 21
SIERRA LEONE
CLASSIFIED NATIONAL
......... .....    i        ROAD  SVSTEM
> fir                 , t        "^ j"@1    /          lit#iZ         *Atbl!             t
Ili'~~~~~~~ ~  fM                        Stg          b(.flW   \        ig
J~~~~~i ~     rnfornsOMTWR
.~~~~~N -t                                                              ___.
,* . oh$e-  t-~                      .   .   '                      -  z's'
(<s..  _  .,',       K            , ..,4
'flUNK fiROAD NEI ?W.2
- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ECO&fl+ ' '"6   Nf?W)U" o rg
"4- 4 .   '} /- ,.. '1   P 1EEo RCAD NETWORN
Su't"4  ~*                rmct'.RC        fl
Legend:
Implementation
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Fig. 5.1 - Te road nerivork proposed to be rehabilitatde un&er the TRP.
CATEKSTM26321\11RP\BNNO1295.RAP                                                                COWiconsult



TRP: Environmcntal Analysis and Mitigation Plan                                         Page 22
5.7.         A numbcr of udvcrsc cnvironmental impacts are expeceted to varying degrecs depending
on the type and the cxtcnt of rchabilitation or mnaintenance work to hc undcrtaken aid on
the site conditions rclating to gcomorphological mnd ecological characteristics. Thc
proposcd roadt rchahilitation and maintcnance project may direcily or indirectly result in
significant adversc effccts within the following spheres:
* landscape;
* naturc, flora and fauna:
* protccetcd naturc arcas and monuments.
* geology and hydrogeology. including the risk soil crosion
* surfacc and ground-waler;
* resources:
* air quality (vehicle cxhaust gascs and road dust gcneration);
* acoustic cnvironment (traffic noise and noise from construction works);
* cultural heritage:
* land use and sociocconomic cnvironmcnt:
* occupational health and safety; and
* traffic safety.
5.8.         Landscape. The proposed work will in general not include re-alignments or consider-
able level adjustments of the roads, and the potential impacts on landscape features are
considered of minor significance. However, opening of borrow pits will disturb the
landscape as will the possible road camps. Even though these disturbances (land clea-
rance, damage to vegetation and possibly incrcased risk of soil erosion) may be of
temporary character the damagcd areas should be restored by covering of cleared areas
with top-soil and re-planting of the areas both for aesthetic reasons and to prevent
against soil erosion.
5.9.         Nature, flora and huna. The road rehabilitation and maintenancc works may affect
nature, flora and fauna directly or indirectly in sceveral ways:
* Clearing of land and extraction for laterite and other construction materials during the
construction works remove vegetation cover along roadsidc and at borrow pits. The
recovery of vegetation will in most cascs bc fairly fast (few years) because of the
plentiful rainfall and the fertile nature of most surface soils in Sierra Leone. Never-
theless, by using the narrowest possible working zone, part of the vegetation cover
can be preserved and the effects on the vegetation reduced. A 30-60 m wide working
zone is norrnally used in Sierra Leone depending on the class of road. It is possible to
reduce this zone considerably depending or) the site conditions. It is possible to reduce
the damages from laterite extraction too by stockpiling top-soil from the borrow pits
and using it for restoring cxploited areas.
* Indirectly. road improvements may also result in loss of vegetation and forest covcr.
As a result of improved road infrastructure and casicr access to products. the markets
for agricultural products and fucl-wood may increase. thereby increasing the demand
for cultivation of new areas and increasing the forcst degradation. This should be
C:\AEKS\2632l1TRP\BNNO1295.RAP                                                    COWIconsult



TRP: Environmential Anilysis ainid Mitigation Plan                                     Page 23
carcfully followed nnd controllcd by the Lald and Wnter Dcvclopmcnt Division
(LWDD). which is the responsibie lanid usc authority. to minimise the dtvcriortItion of
nature arcas.
* If exploited borrow pits arc le't uncovered as deep holcs pools of stagnant watcr may
arisc being breeding areas for mosquito larvae and other unwanted insects. This can
be avoided easily by simply not digging deep holes or by rcstoring the exploited
areas.
* Dust gencration from the roads may disturb or damagc fauna and flom along the
roadsidc during the dry scason. This will particularly bc the case for gravel and carth
roads. Road dust cannot bc prevented cfficiently. Dust gencrntion is in gencral
expected to bc reduced by the improved maintcnance duc to increased road stability
and decrcased surfacc roughness. Howevcr, it may be further be reduced by consoli-
dation of road shoulders and ditches with grass or with a concrete surface and by
proper compaction of the carriageway. In addition. newly constructed gravel and
earth roads may be sprinkled in the dry season to consolidate the construction works
and prevent against road dust.
* Flora and fauna may be affected by air pollutants from the vehicles. During the dry
season, atmospheric particulate mattcr, including lead and hydrocarbon containing
particles, will deposit on leaf or soil surfaces close to the roads and accumulate in soil
and vegetation while gaseous substances (NO., C02, CO etc.) will be dispersed far-
ther away or absorbed by the vegetation. During rainfalls. most of the particulate
contaminants will be washed down by the rain close to the roads. The measurable
effects of air pollutants will typically be restricted to a narrow zone along the road
(less than 50 m to each side of the road). Agricultural land and sensitive ecosystems
can be partly protected against contamination by planting a green belt along the
roadside to absorb the contaminants.
5.10.        Protected nature areas and monuments. including game reserves, forest reserves. pro-
tected forests etc. should be paid special attention as they may contain a unique flora or
fauna, endangered, vulnerable or endemic species or make up a irretrievablc bio-diver-
sity potential. The road rehabilitation projects covered by the TRP do no seem to con-
flict with game or forest reserve interests, but some of the projects interferc with pro-
tected forests, such as the Kamakwic-Yana-Mcdina Doula road south west of Kuru Hills.
the Magdosi-Yonnibana-Magburaka road near Milc 91. and the Sumbuya-Bumpeh-
Tikonko-Bendu road in the southern country (see Fig. S.2). A number of other minor
areas of protected forest may also be intcrfered with by some of the roads in concern.
During the design phase for the distinct road sections the exact extent of interference
with protccted areas has to bc clarified. and a specific mitigation plan must be prepared
to remcdy the potcntial conflicts bctwcen road works and protcctcd nature. Specific
conditions must bc madc for the contractors. SLRA must inspect the road work to ensure
that the work comply with the prescribed mitigativc procedurcs. Realignmcnt of the road
may be considered.
C:\TEKST\26321\TRP\BNN0129S.RAP                                                   COWlconsult



TRP: Environmcnmal Analysis and Mitigation Plan                                             Pago 24
THE FORST STATE          -                            ,                         F   5
41~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
011W ~ ~     ~      =,V  WO b ISIMS
A        iu.au      "Ulm U1n  )
Roads covered by the TRPI
Fig. 5.2 - National gamie reserves, forest reserves, and protected forests in Sierra Leone
(After Clarke 1969) and the approximnate location of roads covered by the TRP.
5. 11.       Soil erosion. Potcntial soil crusion is a key environmental issuc in thc proposed road
rehabilitation and maintenance programmc. Thc tmcan annual rainfall range from about 2
metres in the north to morc than 5 mctrcs in the coastal areas with rather over 3 metrcs
C:\TEKST\26321\TP.P\BNNO1295.RAP                                                      COWleOnSlILt



TRP: Environmentnil Analysis and Mitigation Plan                                        Page 25
in major parts of the country. The hulk uf precipitation falls from May to November
with the heaviest riinltll in July. The uppermost soil layers consist mainly of alluvial
deposits and metamorphused volcanic rocks which both are susceptible to erosion. Duc
to the heavy rainfall disruption of thc vcgetation covcr will increase the risk of soil cro-
sion. particularly on slopcs iind in hilly arcas, such as the mountain areas in the northern
and castern parts of Sicrra Leonc. Soil crosion from road construction works and roads
can be reduced by several mcans:
* Land clearance during construction works can bc minimised by:
- Minimising the width of the working zone as discussed above,
- utilising the ditched-up material from side drains as road construction material
instead of using borrow pits depcnding on the propcrtics of the soil material; and
- establishing borrow pits close to the roads to avoid the construction of significant
scctions of temporary roads.
* The roads can bc designed not only to protect the road against erosion, but also to
protect the surroundings against erosion. Possible protection measures arc sevcral
depending on the site conditions. They includc among other things:
- reinforcement of cut slopes by introducing steps each of which having drain ditchcs
(see Fig. 5.3);
- reinforcement of filled slopes and embankmcnts by adding excess fill and subsc-
quent compaction;
- strengthening of slope surfaces by planting grass;
- implementation of proper road drain systems, including side drains, culverts and
possibly outlets at appropriate intcrvals; and
- preventing the drains against collapsing by strengthening the drain surface (e.g. by
planting grass and in somc cases by surfacing the drains with concrete).
Further information on protective measures will be found in 'Road Maintenance and
the Environment' prepared by the World Bank. Africa Region in August 1994.
* Temporarily cleared or otherwisc disturbed land can be restored after completion of
the construction works by:
- Restoring of the working zone along the road construction by planting of trecs or
grass;
- rejuvenation of borrow pits by covering with stockpilcd top-soil and planting of
trees and grass: and
- rcstoring of possible camps.
C:\TEKSr\26321\TRP\BNNO1295. iWP                                                  COWIconsult



TRP: Environmental Analysis and Mitigation Plan                                  Page 26
Fig. S.3 - Prevention against erosion of cut slopes of the recently rehabilitated trunk
road between Freetown and Masiaka. Each step has a drain ditch. Possible soil erosion
will be restricted to a Limited nwumber of steps.
5.12.       Surfice and ground-water. Road rehabilitation and maintenance, including accessory
activities such as borrow pits and temporary roads, may affect waler sources in several
ways:
* Run-off from the road surface will contain a number of contaminants which, poten-
tially, may contaminate the receiving surface and ground-water;
* run-off during the construction phase may cause siltation and contamination of surface
waters;
* surface run-off may contribute significantly to the through-flow of streams and,
thereby, influencing the water balance in certain receiving waters;
* drainage and lowering of ground-water levels in connection with construction works
may affect adjacent water sources; and
* excavation works may interrupt adjacent water-bearing layers.
Special precautions must be taken if the receiving water is sensitive to pollution or
disturbance.
CATEKUM\2632\TRP3NN01295.RAP                                                 COWIconsult



TRP: Environmental Analysis nnd Mitigotion Plan                                          Page 27
5.13.        Resources. The predominant rmsource l'or roatd coinstruction ond rehabilitation is lateritc
which is nolt  limited rcsourec in Sicrra Lcone. Lakerite deposits arc nbundant in a
north-south going helt covering most olf the western nnd central Sierra Leone anld occur
spot-wise in other parts of thc country. In most caNses it will bc possiblc to l'ind lalterite
sources close to the roads to be rchabilitated.
5.14.        Stone quarries providc the grtvol uscd for asphallic concrcie constructions. The
incrcased demand for gravel during the construction works will incrcasc the loss or vcg-
ctation and soil covcr at quarry sites and increasc the dust gcncration at crusher sites.
hercby constituting a hcalth risk for the crusher sitc workers. The hcalth risk can be
reduced by using personal filter masks.
5.15.        Sand for all conctete construction works in Sicrra Lconc is extracted from the sandy
coasts, such as the beaches at the Peninsula. The mnajor consumer of sand for concrete
constructions is the building sector, but also the road sector will take considerable sand
amounts, for example, bridge and dam construction, The sand extraction results in
incrcased coastal erosion and conflicts with both tourism interests and coastal settle-
mcnts. Thus, exploitation of the sand extraction site at Lakka Beach at the Pcninsula
coast ceased about ten years ago because some villas wcre washed to the sea and because
of risk of erosion of the nearby tourist hotel and disturbance of the bathing beaches.
Today. sand cxtraction takes place south of Lakka at Hamilton Beach. As a rcsult of
thcse extraction activities sand particles are suspended in the sea and transported by the
current causing sedimentation in calm bays and lagoons. Figure 5.4 shows the sand
extraction site at Hamilton Beach, and Figure 5.5 shows the lagoon at Sussex which is
affectced by siltation duc to the sand extraction activities at Hamilton Beach.
The coastal erosion can be reduced by implcmcnting proper coast protection, such as
groynes at intervals.
5.16.        Bituminous substances may cause contamination of soils due to spills and accidents
during construction works and due to Icakage frorn paved surfaces. The risk of spills and
accidents can be reduced by following proper operational proccdures. The leakage of
bituminous substances cannot be avoided efficiently.
5.17.        Vehicle emissions. Air pollution from the traffic has not been calculated. Other things
being equal, the road improvements will facilitatc the trafric flow. hereby. reducing the
emission of air pollutants such as particles, NO,. CO and lcad. On the contrary. the
improved road conditions are expected to increase the traffic amount, thereby increasing
total vehicular cmissions. Compared with the do-nothing alternative, the ovcrall impacts
of vehicular emissions on the air quality are considered of minor significance. In towns
and villages. howevcr. traffic incrcascs may rcsult in air quality deterioration locally,
This cffcct can bc reduced to somc degree by designing the town and village roads with
smooth surfaces (such as asphaltic concrete) and with layhys to prevent against traffic
congcstion.
C:\'hEKSI\26.321\TRPkBNNO1295 .P                                                   COWlconsult



TRP: Environmental Annlysis and Mitigationi Plan                                         Page 29
5.18.        Rtiad dust. Dust generation durinlg the dry scason will he must prominent foir gravcl andi
earth roaids. The potentiatl impacts un nature anld possibic ways of mitigation tare dis-
cussed alhoyc. In addition to the impacts on nature, dust tonstitutes a health risk for roiad
workers and roa;d-users, The health risk for roald workers c:an he rcduccd by sprinklinig
the cleared arcas or by using personal filtcr masks during the dry season. In towns and
villagcs paving of roads should bc considered to prevent against dust generntion.
5.19.        Noise. Traffic noisc has not becn calculated, The facilitation of thc traffic flow will
causc two opposite effects. Firstly, thc decline in number of accclcrations and
deceierations will decrease the noisc cmission from the traffic. Sccondly, the increased
mean speed and the expected incrcase in traffic amounts will, other things being equal.
rcsult in increased noise emissions. Comparcd with the do-nothing alternative. impacts
on the acoustic environmcn are considered of minor environmcntal significance. During
the construction phase. noise emissions will temporarily incrcasc due to construction
works, hindering of the traffic flow, cec.
5.20.        Cultural heriage. It is anticipatcd that the road rchabilitation will not cunflict with any
cultural heritagc as no major rcalignmcnts of the roads are cxpectced.
5.21.        Land use and socioeconomic environment. Rehabilitation of the road network in Sierra
Leone may have several impacts on the socioeconomic environment most of which are
indirect effects of the improved road infrastructure. These include:
* An expected change in the occupational pattern due to some local people leaving
agriculture for road works,
* overworking of land and withdrawal of virginal land due to and increased demand for
agricultural products and fuel-woods;
* impacts of enhanced economic activities in provincial centres; and
* enhanced migration and incrcased ethnic diversity.
No need for resettlemcnt due to land acquisition is foreseen as no signiricant realign-
ments of the roads arc cxpccted.
5.22.        Occupational health and safety. Labour bascd road work is usually physically hard
work and constitutes a considcrable health risk duc to scvcral factors. including:
* Exposurc to dust and bituminous vapours:
* exposure to noise from machines:
* exposure to vibrations from compactors and other machincs: and
* risk of accidents.
Actual figurcs of accidents arc not known to the consultant. but they are probably quitc
low duc to the l:act that virtuallv nt road work has taken placc during the past 20 years
except lur the on-going RRMP. Mcasures to reduce occupaitionial health and safkty risks
include:
C:\1EKS-\26321\TRP\B NN1295 .P                                                    COWIconsult



TRP: Environmental Analysis and Mitigation Plan                                       Page 30
* use of appropriate personal protective equipment;
e accomplishment of adequate training and education of personnel;
* rehabilitation and maintenance work be consistent with proper operational procedures
and occupational health standards;
* dust suppression during dry seasons; and
* maintenance of all facilities and equipment of designed or regulated level of per.
formance.
5.23.        Traff0c safety. The road improvements will Introduce an increased risk of accidents due
to a generally higher speed of the motorised traffc and due to an expected increase in
trafflc amounts. Statistics on traffic accidents are not known to the consultant. Measures
to mitigate the adverse effects on traffic sarety include:
* Separation of the non-motorised traffic from the motorised by incorporating distinct
footpaths along the roadside in the projec. design, e.g. on the road shoulder;
* design of lay-bays for buses and taxis to prevent against congestion, particularly in
city streets;
* surfacing the city roads with asphaltic concrete to reduce the dust generation;
* introduction of speed reduction measures in city streets (e.g. bumps); and
* proper road marking of paved roads.
Traffic safety measures should be particularly addressed for city streets and heavily traf-
ficked trunk roads.
Flg. 5.6 - A typ;cal gravel road through a village.
C:\TEKST\6321\TRP\BNNO1295.RAP                                                   COWIconsult



TRP: Environmcntal Analysis and Mitigation Plan                                     Pnge 31
Need rfir Triining and Institutional Sirengtheninit
5.24.       Devel.opment ar small and medium sized contractors to undertake periodic mtaintnil-
-  nce oft runk ald lfecder rOuds is proposed as a part of the TRP. At the Mile 91 Training
Centre lor rotid operators training courses are performed lor managemcnt. supervisors
and mcchanics of the contractors (sec Fig. S.7). It is recommended to include environ-
mental issues in the courses for managcmcnt and supervisors, rcspectively, with the
purpose of increasing thc environmcntnl awareness and enabic supervisors to consider
environmcnial conecrns during their work. The lccturcs can bc provided by the environ-
mental enginecr at SLRA at a very littlic cost.
5.25.       Develhpment *r one-man crntractors (OMCs) to undertake routine maintenance of
trunk and fecdcr roads was initially implemcnted under the RRMP and is going to he
further strcngthened under the TRP. SLRA has proposed that by the year 2000 the vtast
majority of the road network in Sicrra Leonc will be under OMC routine maintenance.
I ne routine maintcnance work includes cicaring of vegetation (brushing. grass cutting).
drain clearing and cxcavation. culvert clearing and for earth roads also pothole patching
and road shaping. The OMCs will work under dircction by SLRA supcrvisors and each
of the contractors will be rcsponsibic for maintenance of a certain road section. It is not
envisaged by the TRP to give specific training courses to the OMCs. With the purpose
of enabling the SLRA supervisors to convey environmental awareness to the OMCs it is.
therefore, proposed that the SLRA supervisors should receive training in environmental
issues similar to the training course for supervisors from small and medium sized con-
tractors.
5.26.       In the design of speciric roads under the TRP, specific environmental analyses should be
performed and mitigption plans should be prepared by SLRA to be incorporated as
conditions for the contractors. The required public participation to achieve local accep-
tance of the road work and to hirc road workers locally should be addressed particularly
in the mitigation plan. The need for environmental inspcction of the construction work at
a certain road or road section depends on the extent of expected adverse impacts and
should be evaluated by SLRA. The cnvironmcntal inspection should be carried out either
by the environmental enginecr or by SLRA supervisors depcnding on the complexity of
the proposed correctivc mcasures to bc implemented.
5.27.       Environmental guidelines should bc prepared by SLRA for road construction. rchabili-
tation and maintenancc to introduce the concept of 'good cnvironmental practisce as an
integrated part of road planning and managemcnt.
C:\ThKsFt631 \TRPMBNNLI1295 .RAP                                               COWlcunsult



TRP: Environmental Analysis and Millgation Plan                                    Page 32
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
S4
P.._ ~ ~~ ~ ~ ~~~ ~ .:.
Flg. 5.7 - A tabour gang rehabilitating a gravel road near Mamaka. The work, which is
the final part of a training course for small sized contractors) is supervised by experts
from the Mile 91 Training Centre.
5.28.       lnstItutional strengthening. Under the on-going P.R.M  an environraental unit is being
built up at SL.RA and an environmental engineer has been designated. The following
additional institutional strengthening actions are recommended to meet the demand for
environmental protection capability in road planning and management:
* Training of the environmental engineer on-site and abroad to achieve adequate qualifi-
cations;
* workshops and/or seminars for management and staff at SLRA to increase the envi-
ronmental awareness;
* training of SLRA supervisors as discussed above;
* training of management and supervisors of contractors as discussed above;
* technical assistance to implement and monitor the proposed actions.
5.29.       The tasks of the environmental unit at SLRA will include among other things:
* Preparation of environmental guidelines concerning road planning and management to
be approved by EPS;
* performance. of workshops, seminars and training in accordance with the proposed
institutional strengthening actions;
C:\TEKST\26321\TRP\DNNO1295.RAP                                               COWlconsult



TRP: Environmental Analysis and Mitigation Plan                                       Page 33
' prepa ration and implementiatiolt * lrmitig atiton plans tir spc:ific road projects;
* inspection or road works to supervise and control the implementition tif miligation
measures; and
* preparation oIf terms ol rferernec for spceific studics.
5.30.        At minimum. the following equipment is needed to execute the tasks:
* A 4 wheel drivc vehicle:
* training cquipment, including a.o. portable ovcrhend projcctor and photo camera:
* test equipmcnt;
* computcr cquipmcn. including computer. software and printer.
5.31.       It is propused that the abovc actions and cquipment should be financed by the TRP.
C:\TEKST\26321\TRPBNNO1295.Ftj                                                  COWiconsult



TRP: Environmentil Analysis amd Mitigaitin Plan                                      Palge 34
6. Road Transport
6.1.         A Road Transport Authority (RTA) is being established under the TRP to co-ordinalte
road transport planning and management and to undertake inscpection and testing of
vehicics and drivcrs and to undertakc surveys and studies to plan and monitor develop-
ment within this area. including designation and upgrading of workshops to vehiclc
cxamination ccntres.
6.2.        The cstimated vehicic leet in Sierra Leonc amounts to 57,000 (1993 figurcs) most of
which are imported second hand vehicics from Europe. The actual agc distribution is not
known to the consultant, but based on obscrvations from other countries it is estimated
that 50% or more of the vehicic lleet is more than 15 years old and less than 25% is less
than S years old. The current vehicle standards arm extremely poor and the fuel quality is
generally of low quality resulting in unacceptably high emission factors for the vehicles.
6.3.        There is an urgent need to improve upon the regulation and control of standards ror
imported vehicles, including standards for emission of air pollutants. At present, Sierra
Leone has no regulation on vehicle quality standards and emission limits. It is strongly
recommended that vehicle emission standards are introduced to control and reducc the
air pollution from the trafric. In addition, fuel quality criteria should also be set. How-
ever, standards should be set with suitable regard to the actual economic capabilities in
Sierra Leone.
Typical emission factors for various vehicle typcs arc shown in Table 6.1. and Tabics
6.2 and 6.3 shows emission limits adopted by the European Union and the United States.
respectivcly. It is suggested that the Sierra Leonean regulations should be based on e.g.
the age-dependent emission limits adupted by the United States (see Table 6.3) - maybc
with two sets of standards: One sct of quite gentle standards valid and attainable for the
cxisting vehicic feet and another set of morc strict standards valid for import of
vehicies.
6.4.        A precondition for efficicncy of emission limits is that emissions can be controlled
properly. Concurrcntly with the introduction of emission limits and fucl quality. a
vehicle examination programme should be introduced. including emission control at
rcgular intcrvals. It is suggested that the proposed vehicic examination centrcs under the
RTA should he trained and equippedJ to attend to this control.
C . rEKST\26321 kTRP\BNNOI 295 . R                                              COWleonsull



TRP: Enviro nmental Analysis aniid Mitigatioin Plan                                 Page 35
6.5.        It is recommenwded to huild up an environmcnial ullit under the RTA to mect the most
urgent demainids lor civiriimimenial protection capability in road transport planniiing inid
management:
* Appointnient of an environtmenial specialist to aiddress the following issues:
*  road transport planning  and management:
* gencral quality standards for imported second hand vehiclcs. including emission
standards:
fucl quality standards:
* traffic sarcty measures.
* training of the cnvironmental specialist on-site and abroad to achievc adequale
qualirications;
*  workshops and/or seminirs lor managemcnt and staff at RTA to increasc cnviron-
mcntal awareness:
* training of managemcnt and mcchanics at the proposed vehicle examination centrcs:
* technical assistancc to implement and monitor the proposed actions.
6.6.        The tasks of the environmental uniL at RTA will includc among other things:
-  Preparation of environmental standards for vehicic cmissions. fucl quality ctc. to bc
approvcd by EPS;
-  performance of workshops. seminars and training in accordance with the proposed
institutional strcngthening actions;
-  preparation of cnvironmcntal terms for the proposed vehicle examination centres and
subsequent supervision and control hereof;
- proposal of incentives to encourage vehicle operators to adopt standards; and
e  preparation of terms of reference for speciric studies, including a transport planning
and management study for Freetown.
6.7.        A minimum. the following equipment is needed to execute the tasks:
* training equipment, including a.o. portablc overhead projector and photo camera;
* computer equipment. including computer. software and printer.
6.8.        The abovc actions arc in gcncral proposed to be financed by the RTA while the equip-
ment and the technical assistance arc proposed to bc financed under the TRP.
C:\l-EKS1\26321\TRP\BNNO1295.RAP                                               COWiconsult



TRP: EnvirOnmCnItl ArnIlysiS isn!d Milig0lti;0n Plati                                                    PiigC 36
TalMe 6.1 * J'missifr,I flcirsW Jfir xelecteed vehJicle types fg/ktl).
Sl'M        So         No,         iIC         ('0       l.ead
Autonshilues iuuIn
Nepal',                      18.33       0.08        2.0)        4.0         24         n.l
u UrbaJI tramC              0.06.0.1      n.i.      1.6-2.6    2.2-4.5      12.29       III.
local IFamC               0.04-0,08      n.i.      1.9.2.9    1.0.1.5    4.2-8.3       n..
*highway traMcle          0.04U0.08      n.I      3.0-4.8    0.9.1.4    4.5-9.0       ni.
Mauriius"                (0,054C.5       ni.       2-2.5        n..       35-60      001
Autnmrbil.s. (diesel)
NepIl"                        1.5         0.4         t0         0.3         1.1
Europe"                     0.5-1.0       n.i.      I.1i1.3    0.3-1.1     I.a-3.5
Light duly vehicles
,lasoiIne)
Nepal"                       0.45        0.10        3.0         6.0         40         n.;.
Europe"a                   0,05.0.11      n.i.     2.6-5.2     1.2-4.0     7.2.35       n.i    I
Light duty vehicles
(diesel)
L europe2                     0.5-1.2       n.j.     1.3-1.4    0.5.1.3    0.9-3.0
lleavy duty vehicles
(diesel)
Europe"                     1.0-3.5       n.i.       6-25      0.8-12       1.16
Mauritus"                     1-3         n.;.        IS         n.;.       8-12
Autobuss (dieel)
Nepal"                        1.0         1.5         20         2.1        12.5
Europe"                      1.5-5        n.i.      15-17       2-10        2.14
Motorcycles
Nepal"                        0.2        0.02        0.05         5          8
Europea                    0 03-0.25      nA.      0.1-0.5     0.6-10       6-20
Mauritius"                   0.02         n.i.       0.2         n.i.        10
Mopeds
Nepal"                        0.1         0.01       0.02         3          5           -
Europea                    0.02-0.06      n.i.     0.05-0.l      2-4        5-10            -
n.i.: No information available.
1) Argaval (1992).
2) Veldt and Bakkum (1988).
3) Government of Mauritius (1993).
C:A\IT:KST\2632.21\TRP\BNNO 1295. RAP                                                             COWlconsult



TRP: Environmental Analysis aind Mitigation Plan                                                 Page 37
Table 6.2 - Einission limits addopted by the EU for gasoline und diesel powered vehicles.
(g/kmr).
.Sroke valunie                            NO,            IIC + NO,            Co
> 2 lhires             0.35               I.1               2.0               7.4
1.4-2 litres           0.35                                 2.5               8.9
c 1.4 litres         0U35                                  2.5               8.9
1) Dicsel powcred vehicles only.
Tuble 6.3 - Emission limits adopted by the United States for gasoline and diesel powered
light-duty vehicles (g/lkm).
Vehicle (model         SPM"I              NO.               HC                CO
year applicable)
1972                                                        2.1               24
1973-74                                   1.86              2.1               24
1975-76                                   1.93             0.93               9.3
1977-79                                   1.24             0.93               9.3
1980                                      1.24             0.25               4.4
1981-92                                  0.62              0.25               2.1
1993-95                0.124             0.25              0.16               2.1
1) Diesel powered vehicles only.
CATEKST\26321\TRI\BNNo0295.RAP                                                             COWIconsult



TRP: Environmentill Anilysis alnd Mitignittin Plan                                     Page 38
7. Maritime Transport
Rehabilitation or Freetown Porl
7.1.        A Port Rehabilitation Study l'or Frectown Port is being executed is a part or the TRP,
Terms of Rcfercnce for the study wias propared by SLPA in October 1994 and SLPA ntre
presenily waiting for proposals from scitcted consultants.
7.2.        Thc study will cover the following issues:
*  Evaluate existing trade through the port and propare forcansis of future dry cargu
throughput;
*  investigate the relationship bctween port and ferry opcrations and determine lcvels of
cross subsidisation;
*  examine and evaluate the port roads, storage areas, sheds and equipment;
-  undertake detailed invcstigations and physical inspection of the quay wall and quay
coping from berth 3 to berth 6, Inclusive;
*  produce a phased rehabilitation plan for Freetown Port, including emergency preser-
vation work, short and long term rchabilitation for the years 1998 and 2005;
*  review present customs practice procedures within the port and prepare customs
action plan;
*  review ferry operations and prepare ferry operation plan;
*  undertake environmental assessment of the present situation in Freetown Port; and
*  preparc detailcd enginecring design and contract documentation for the trhabilitation
of the cofferdam quay wall, stabilisation and paving of the container yard and purt
roads.
7.3.        A detailcd environmcntal impact asscssment will bc an integrated part of the port reha-
bilitation study. Howevcr. a number of possible environmental impacts can bc expectcd
from various activitics cncompassed in the rehabilitation study. This mission has ident-
ified the following major cnvironmcntal issues to bc addressed in the j. inr rehabilitation
%tudy:
*  Establishment of oil wastc reccption and treatment facilities at the port is considered
mandatory as wcll as arc the implemcntation of an oil spill contingency plan for
Sicrra Lcone:
*  implemcntation utf proper operational procedurcs. occupational he,i:b and safety
procedurcs and hazard managcment proccedures:
C:\T EKSr\26321\TRP\BNNO1295.RAP                                                 COWIconsult



TRP: Environmienial Analysis nnd Mitigation Platn                                       Page 39
*  the necCssity ofl clan-up of port areas * on-shore as well as off-shore; including
removal of scraps nnid wrecks and clean -up of cn:ntaninitctd soil and sediments: anid
*  potential impacts tin spawning and fishing arcas, Aberdeen west of Freetown is a
main snapper fishing arcn annd thc cntire mouth of Sierra Leonc River is an imporlant
bongta and sardine fishing arca.
7.4.         Slipway repair at Freetown Ptirt. The slipway repair itself is considered of minor cnvi-
ronmental significance. Howevcr. al the slipway site a largc quantity of scraps and
wrecks arc accumulated and somc parts of thc facility is visibly contaminated with oil.
Clean-up on the arca anid removal of scrap in conncction with the slipway rcpair will
improvc the cnvironmental conditions at the site significantly.
7.5.         Paving of the container stacking area at Freetown Port is considered of minor envi-
ronmentnl significance.
Coastal and River Transport
7.6.         A Coastal and River Transport Study is being executed as a part of the TRP to review
the cxisting coastal and river transport system and determine its adequacy in meeting the
existing and expected future demands as a part of an integrated multi-modal transport
system which is suggested in the Draft National Transport Policy for Sierra Lcone.
Terms of Rcference for this study was prepared by SLRA in April 1994 and prcsently
contract ncgotiations are going on with a selcited consultancy firm.
7.7,         The study will aim at:
D  improving the level of service of the facilities now available to the offshore islands
along the Sierra Leonean coast;
* improving the ferry services between Freetown and Tagrin;
* improving inland and coastal waterways to facilitate appropriate sixed vessels to gain
acccss to the inner parts of the rivers:
* improving services of the rivcr ports through the installation of navigation aids,
radio communications and other safety devices associated with river and coastal
transport:
* providing advisory services to the local boat building industry;
* examining the cxisting ports and landing facilities and making recommendations for
their improvements and construction of new facilities wherc necessary; and
* introducing safcty rules and regulations to safeguard the operation of thc vessels and
landing facilities.
7.8.         The output of the study shall encompass the fl;rmulation of a short-term investment
package to rchabilitatc the existing inland water and coastal transpurt sysctm. including
among other things an cnvironmcntal impact asscssmcnt and a plan to mitigatc adverse
environmcntal effects. As for the port rehabilitation study. wc do not attempt to prejudge
the outcome of that assessment in this prcliminary study. However. a number or poteni-
C:ATEKST'\26321\TRP\BNNO129S 1P,                                                   COW1consult



TRP: Environmental Analysis and Mitigaliont Plan                                           Pngc 40
iilly severe atdverse cnvironmenital impacits can he expected trom various activities
under this invcstnirne  paickage. This mission hns identified the following major environ.
mental issues which indispensably has to he addressed in Lhc coastal and river transport
study:
* Possible deepening. widcning and changc of a rivcr courses will incrmasc the drain-
agc of thc catchmcnt arc. hereby changing the watcr-balance of the catchmcnt arci
with potentially sevcrc permanent effects un wetland as well as ngricultural, griss-
land and fiurcst ccology. This could be thc case for the Scwu and Moa rivcrs In thc
eastern part of Sicrra Lconc. The catchmcnt aren of Moa River contains a national
wild lirc sanctuary which could bc audvcrsely affected by an altered wnacr balance.
The catchmcnt area ol' Sewn river includes proticcted forcsts and large arcas of iniland
swamps. which are vulncrable to chaknges in the water balance.
*  These effects are considered particularly serious for protected forest and other typcs
of proiccted nature areas in Sierra Leone. Rivers and estuaries to be prepared or
improved for inland navigation arc not yct detcrmined in detail. Thercfore, it is not
clarified whether protccted forcsts or other nature rcserves in certain catchment arcas
could be affected.
*  The changc of hydrological characteristics of rivers may also increase the risk of
rivcr bank erosion and subscqucnt flooding of ncarby areas.
* River and estuarine flora and fauna may be affectcd due to several factors, including
permanent changes hydrological nature, siltation from dredging activities. possiblc
change in salinity of cstuaries due to increased supply of fresh water to estuaries and
due to emissions of pollution, noise and vibrations from the maritime traffic.
* Disposal (up-land disposal or off-shore dumping) of dredged sediments may cause
different effects on ecological habitats.
* Improvemcnt of river and coastal transport will other things being cqual increase the
risk of oil spills and accidents in rivers and cstuarics. Adequate reception and treat-
ment facilities for oily waste are, thercfore, demanded as an indispensable part of the
maritime infrastructurc development as well as are the development of a set of
emergency responus actions to unintentional oil spills and accidents. Spccial attention
should bc paid to the ccological sensitive wetland arcas. such as the cxtensive man-
grove swamps in the Bronte area and the swamp areas along the Scwa River.
* Locally. the improvement of ports and jetties may imply adverse environmental
cffcts to bc mitigatcd. Particularly, the requiremcnt of oily waste reception and
treatment facilities should bc addressed as should the potential operation and man-
agcment of hazardous goods.
C:kl'EKS\26321\TRP\BNNO1295.RAP                                                      COWiconsult



TRP: Environmental Analysis itid Miigtigatin Plan                                    Pnge 41
Ma4ril0me Servickx Agency
7.9.        Ptrallcl to thc proposed Roatd Transport Authority. a Muritime Services Agcncy (MSA)
to he financed by the freight lcvy. MSA activilies are not covered by the TRP, though it
was previously discussed to include the csiaiblishment of MSA in the TRP, MSA should
havc the responsibility for implementation of environmenial action plans and mitigation
plans rclatcd lo harbour managemcnt and maritimc transport. including an oil spill
contingency plan for Sicrra Leonc. port rchabilitation and the cxpected reinfortc or
inland navigation in Sicrrn Leone. At present, the existing port and maritimc transport
authoritics havc no capaibility to asscss environmental aspects or conduct cnvironmental
surveys. It Is. therefore, proposed that an environmental specialist should be nttnched to
the MSA. possibly with assistinec from consultants until the adequatc capability is
achieved.
7.10.       It is recommended to build up an cnvironmcntal unit under the MSA meet the demand
for environmental protection capahility within the maritimc transport sector:
*  Appointment of an environmental specialist to address the following issues:
- Oils spill contingency;
* reception and treatment facilities for oily waste;
- operational procedures for port operation;
- hazards managemcnt;
- occupational health and safety; and
- environmental impacts of inland navigation;
* training of the environmental specialist on-site and abroad to achieve adequate
qualifications;
*  workshops and/or seminars for management and staff at MSA and SLPA to increase
the environmental awareness;
*  other training needs depending on the recommendations of the port rehabilitation
study and the coastal and river transport study:
-  technical assistance to implement and monitor the proposed actions.
7.11.       The tasks and the necd for cquipment of the environmental unit under the MSA should
bc defined on the basis of the findings in the port rehabilitation study and the coastal and
river transport study.
7.12.       It is proposed that environmental activities under the MSA should be rinanced by the
freight levy.
C:\TEIcSTM26321\TRp\BNNO1295.RAP                                                COWIconsult



TRP: Environmental Analysis and Mitigation Plan                                    Page 42
8. Improvement of Freetown Airport (Lungi)
8.1.        It is anticipated that runway rehabilitation (edge light repair and pavement evaluation),
replenishment and supplementation of fire-fighting and rescue equipment, and perimeter
fencing are of minor environmental significance. All the above actions will contribute to
the improvement of safety and security of the airport.
~~~~~~~~~-   -,q,,    ........     
--                                      ,..
Fig. 8.1- The access road at Freetown Aiiport. Due to inappropriate fencing thc road is
used by the local people and the airport area is used for grazing.
8.2.        A water supply project for Freetown Airport is also included in the TRP. Terms of
Reference for the project is in preparation by the SLAA.
8.3.        The airport has currently approximately 8 hours of water supply per day from the public
waterworks at Lungi. 24 hours supply is required for sanitation and fire fighting pur-
C:\TEKST\26321\TRP\BNNO1295.RAP                                               COWIconsult



TRP: Environmentili Analysis ankd Mitigntion Plhn                                        Page 43
poses it the airport. The advcrse environmental impiacts or the proposcd water supply
prtjcct is prohabhly insigniricanit. However, on the basis of the existing inlormation Ln
the project negative environmenitl implications ciannot bc excluded, The poicntial
impacts includc:
*  possible pollutioni of the water source from septic tanks upstrcam the proposed well
site: antd
*  possibic changc of hydrological conditions at n nearby swamp.
The possible impacts have to bc itssessed under the proposed water supply study.
C:ATEKSM\26321\TRP\BNNO1295.R    .                                                  COWIconsult



TRP, Envirotnmental Analysis and Mitigation Plan                                 Page 44
9. Draft Mitigation Plan
9.1.        This section outlincs a draIft plan to mitigate adverse errects or the TRP. The plan is
hascd on the following assumptions regarding cxternal factors influcncing the project
activitics:
*  an adequatc and efficient national environmental regulation and administration will
bc implemented concurrently with the implementation of the TRP;
*  adcquatc training and cducation of personncl will be accomplished;
*  the rehabilitalion and maintenancc work will be consistent with proper and approved
operational procedures and occupational health standards; and
-  all facilities and equipment will be maintained at designed or regulated level of
performance.
9.2.        Legal measures. The following legal measures are recommended:
* preparation of environmental guidelines regarding road rc-habilitation and mainten-
ance works; the guidelines should be prepared by SLRA to be approved by DOTC
and EPS;
*  preparation of proper standards for emission factors and noise from vehicles. the
standards should be prepared by RTA to be approved by DOTC and EPS;
*  preparation of fuel quality critcria; the critcria should be prepared by RTA to be
approved by DOTC and EPS;
* preparation of a programmc for vehicle emission control and fuel quality control: the
programmc should be prepared by RTA to be approved by DOTC; the programme
should be executed by the proposed vehicle examination ccntrcs;
*  preparation of proper operational procedures and occupational health and safety
procedurcs in connection with road workls. vehicle examination ccntrcs, port and
airport opcration: the proccdurcs should hc prepared by thc rcspcctive authorities
(SLRA. RTA. SLPA and SLAA) to tic approved by DOTC:
c:\IEKsr2h6l3\TRP\BNN01295 . RiP                                           COWiconsult



TRP: Environmental Anialysis and Mitigation Plan                                    Page 45
a  preparation t,r adequate guidelines antd emergency resptniise actlioin plans reglarding
rehahilitution of Freetown Ptir which is in accordance with the recummendaitions
mandc in the purt rehahilittio n study, these shoiuld he prepared by SLPA to he
aliproved by DOTC: anid
*  prepiration o,f adcquatc guidelines and cmergency responsc action plans regarding
the improvemcnt ol initind navigation facilities in Sierra Lconc which is in accord-
annc with the rccommcndations madc in the coastal and river trinsport study. these
should bc prepared by the proposcd MSA to bc approved by DOTC.
9.3.        The proposed legal mcasurcs should be co-ordinated by the environmental co-ordinator
at DOTC in order lo ensurc consistency of the activities.
9.4.        Institutional strengthening meaures. The following institutional strengthening
menasurcs are recommended as a minimum:
*  An cnvironmental co-ordination unit should bc built up under the DOTC to co-
ordinate environmental activitics under the TRP;
*  the environmental unit under SLRA should bc strcngthencd by training of staff in
environmcntal subjects relatcd to road planning, dcsign and construction works;
*  an environmental unit should be built up under the RTA to be responsible for the
introduction and control of emission standards. vehicle cmissions and fuel quality.
and
*  an environmental unit should be built up under the MSA to meet the demand for
environmental protection capability within the maritime transport sector.
In addition, it is also relevant to build up an environmental unit under SLAA to mect the
demand for environmental ptotection capability within the air transport sector. However.
as no signiricant environmncntal impacts arc identified in relation to the proposed airport
rehabilitation activities under the TRP. the TRP may not bc the appropriate framework
for this strengthening. Speciric environmental subjects related to air transport should as a
start bc covcred by the cnvironmcntal co-ordination unit at DOTC.
9.5.        It is proposed Lhat the environmental co-ordination unit at DOTC and the strengthening
of the environmental unit at SLRA should bc financed under the TRP while the cnviron-
mcntal units under the RTA and the MSA. rcspectively. should bc financed by road
taxes and frcight levy.
9.6.        To co-ordinate the cnvironmcntal activitics undcr the TRP it is rccommendcd to appoiit
an environmental co-ordinator at DOTC. Thc tasks of the co-ordinator will include
among other things:
CATEKSr\26321\TRP\BNNO1295 RAP                                                 COWlconsult



TRP: Environmental Analysis and Miligation Plit                                     Page 46
*  co-ordination tit cnvitnniviintl activilics uider the TRP. inxcluding regularly j inlt
meLtii1gs nimtiing the cnivironmntciiil tispeciatlists:
*  co-ordination ol' activilies with other authoritics and Institutio ns such as EPS and
LWDD:
*  perlormance Of workshops and seminars for management anld starf at DOTC. SLRA.
SLPA. SLAA. RTC. RTA and MSA:
* prcparc projects progrcss reports regularly. e.g every six months: and
* possibly propose and implement corrcctivc measures depending on the project
progrcss.
9.7.        A forcign advisur will he attached to the DOTC with the purpose ur trainsferring his/her
skills to the local cnvironmental co-ordinator. Thc forcign ndvisor will bc attached for nn
extended period with intcrmittent visits (12 manmonths).
9 8.        At minimum. thc following cquipmcnt is needcd to cxecutc the tasks:
* computer equipmcnt. including computcr, softwarc and printer; and
* training equipmcnt. including u o. portabic ovcrhead projector and photo camer.
It is anticipaLcd that the nced for a vchicle can be provided for by the TRP projcat co-
ordination office which. however, not had acquired a vchicle when the consultant left
Sierra Leone in December 1994.
9.9.        Draft Terms of Reference for the proposed environmcntal co-ordinator at DOTC arc
presented in Annex S.
9.10.       Under the on-going RRMP an environmental unit is bein. built up at SLRA and an
environmental engineer has been dcsignated. The following additional institutional stren-
gthening actions are recommended to meet the demand for cnvironmental protection
capability in road planning and management:
*  training of the environmcntal cnginecr on-site and abroad to achievc adequate quali-
fications:
*  workshops and/or scminars for managemcnt and staff at SLRA to increase the envi-
ronmcntal awareness:
* training of SLRA supervisors;
* training of management and supervisurs of contractors: and
*  technical assistance to implement and monitor the proposed actions.
9.11.       The tasks of the environmental unit at SLRA will include among other things:
*  prcparation of cnvironmcntal guidelincs concerning road planning and management
to be approved by EPS:
* performancec of workshops. seminars and training in accordancc with the proposed
institutional strengthening actions:
*  prcparation and implementation of mitigation plans f'or speciric road projects.
*  inspection 0t road works to supervise and conitol the implementation of mitigation
measurcs: and
* preparation Of terms ol rcfcrencc ftor specific studies.
C \TEKSI\26321\TRP\B3NNO295 RAP                                                COWlconsult



TRP: Environmental Analysis and Mitigation Plan                                          Pnag 47
9.12.        Ai minimum. the IollowinIg equipment s lIeeded to execute the tanks:
* A 4 whecl drive vehiclc:
*  trining cquipment. including ao, ptortahle overhead projector and pht*l cameria:
* test cquipment;
*  computer equipment. including computer. softwiare aid printcr.
9. 13        Technical measures. Regarding the road rehbhilltittion and maintcnnnce. the mitigation
mcasurcs and remedial actions discussed In Chapter S should be implementcd in the
detailed design of the respective trunk and fceder roads in conccrn. The environmelitill
engineer at SLRA should bc rcsponsilic for preparattion of specific mitigation plans flir
cach road or roaxd section under the TRP. The mitigatiot plin ior a certain road or roald
section should be hased un field inspections and avatilable inlformation from. for
exiample. the LWDD. The plan should includec:
*  short decscription of the proposed road project:
*  identification and description of the potential environmcntal impacts of the proposed
project; including putential impacts on landscapc. nature, flora, fauna. protected
areas and species, soil crosion potcntial. rivers and ground-watcr. rcsources dcmandl
and availability, air pollution and noisc, land use and socioeconomic environment,
occupational health and safety, and traffic safcty;
*  proposals of project modifications or changes to reduce or eliminatc negative envi-
ronmental impacts; and
*  a supervision plan for the construction works. including an action plan for the con-
structors in case of unforscen impacts during the construction phase.
9.14.        Proposals of mitigation plans for project components apart from the road construction
component are considered beyond the scope of this pruject as planned. subsequent
studics, including detailed environmental impact assessments, are supposed to reveal the
nceds hereof.
9.15.        An Implementation sehedule for the abovc proposed measures appears from Annex 3.
9.16.        The estimated costs to implement the suggested mitigation mcasurcs amounts to
480.600 US$ expressed in fixed 1994 prices. Cost estimations appear from Annex 4.
C: \113-KSfl2632 1 \1'RP\BNNO 295.RAP                                              COWIconsult



*   '1.1r....   ; 1 r.r cm
TRP: Environmental Alnlysis ind Mitigation Plan                                    Piage 48
10. Rererences
Agarval, G.D.: Lecture notes. Short cuurse in air quality moniltoring and management.
Katmandu. Nepal. Novenmber 1992.
Boubel. R.W. et al.: Fundamentals of Air Pollution. Third Edition. Acaidcmic Press.
1994.
Department of Lands Housing and the Environmcnt, Sierra Leone: National Environ-
mental Action Plan. Volume 1. October 1994.
Departmcnt of LUnds Housing and the Environmcnt. Sierra Leone: National Environ-
mental Policy. Revised Edition. October 1994.
Department of Lands Housing and the Environment, Sierra Leone: Draft National Envi-
ronmcntal Regulation. October 1994.
Department of Transport and Communications, Republic of Sierra Leone: Draft National
Transport Policy. October 1994.
Government of Mauritius. Ministry of Health: Environmental Investment Programme.
Project No. 7A. Final Report. Prepared by Norwegian Institute for Air REsearch and
COWiconsult. June 1993.
National Danish Environmental Agency: Emission Litnits for Vehicles. Information No.
3/1989. (In Danish).
Richard Meakin Consultancy: The Transport Rehabilitation Project - Sierra Leone. The
Organisation and Regulation of Urban Public Transport. Report of a Mission to Sierra
Leone June 19 - 30 1994. 25 July 1994.
SLAA: Tcrms ol Refercnce for Construction of a Perimeter Fence at the Freetown
International Airport. Lungi: Consultant Services for Enginecring and Design Studies.
1994.
SLPA: Terms of Refercncc l'or Mastcr Plan Study to Rehabilitate Freetown Porl.
Rcstorc Customs Scrvices & Prcparc t' r Rcstructuring thc Ports Authoritv. October
1994,
C::Cl'EKSIE26321\TRP\BNNOI295 RAP                                             COWiconsult



TRP: Environmental Antlysis tand Mitigation Plin                                   Page 49
SLRA and DOTC: Tcrms of Reerciticc l;r thc Coastil and River Transport Study. April
SLRA: Transport Rehabilitation Project. Drafl Paiper on the Road Maintenance Compo-
nent. 1994.
Veldt. C. and A. Bakkum: Emission Factors. Commission of the European Commun-
itiCs. DC Xi Corinair. 88-355. November 1988.
Waliter. H and S.-W. Breckic: Ecological Systems or the Geohiosphere. Vol. 2: Tropical
tand Subtropical Zonobiomcs. Springer-Verlag. 1984.
The World Bank: Sierra Lconc Proposed Transport Rehabilitation Project. Aide-
Mcmoire (June 30. 1994). Signed: Anil S. Bhundairi. Task Manngecr (World Bank) and
Mr. Shcka Mansaray. Permancnt Secrctinry (DOTC).
The World Bank: Sierra Leonc Proposed Transport Rehabilitation Project. Pre-Appraisal
Mission. Aide-Memoirc (November 10. 1994). Signed: Dieter Schelling. Task Mnnager
(World Bank) and Mr Sheka Mansaray. Permanent Sccretary (DOTC).
The World Bank: Opcrational Directive 4.01: Environmental Assessment.
The World Bank: Sierra Leone Proposed Transport Rehabilitation Project. Aide-
Memoirc (April 14, 1994). Signed: Anil S. Bhandari. Task Manager (World Bank).
The World Bank. Africa Region: Road Maintcnance Initiativc. Road Maintenance and
the Environment (Contracting out Road Maintenance Activities: volume V). Guidance
Takin Care of Environment hen Preparing and Carrying out Road Maintenance Activ-
itics. Prepared by J.M. Lantran. J. Baillon and J.-M. Pages.
World Bank Technical Paper Number 139: Environmental Assessment Sourcebook.
Volume I: Policics. Proccdurcs. and Cross-Sectorial Issucs. Environmental Department.
1991.
World Bank Tcchnical Paper Number 140: Envirorunental Asscssment Sourcebook.
Volume 11: Sectorial Guidelines. Environmental Department. 1991.
C ElvEKS-T2632I\11RP\BNNO1295.RAP                                            COWiconsult



TRP: Environmetital Analysis itnd Mitliitiowi Plnn                           Annex 1, Pny,e I
Annex 1: Terms of Reference
C:\TEKSr\26321\TRPKBNNO1295.RAW                                                 COWlconsult



TRP' E;wiriinrncntii Anolysis i,nd MItIgoi n PIrn                    Annox 1. PIge 2
SIERRA LEONE.
TRANSPORT REBABlLTATION PROJECT
TIeMI or Rference tor the Prgenratign of in EnvIronmental a,.Ivsis and
?Iitiartlon Plsn
1.    Ba.ckund. Sierra Leone is a snmll country (populadon 4.4 nillion in 1992)
with a relatively simple transport system which primarly consists ofthe road network. Its
railway was closed in 1973, there is little inland ir or water transport, It has an
intenmtional airport at Lungi and its major port st Freetown. The country hu about
12,000 kmn of roads, of which 1,260 km arc paved and 5820 km gravoled trunk roads, and
about 4,250 km arc feeder and village access roads. Public cxpenditure in the transport
sector in FY93 amounted to 8% of total expenditure.
2.    The Department of Transport and Communications (DOTC) has the responsibility
for general transport poticy, civil aviation, and maritime and inland water trsport. It also
supervises the Sierra Leone Port Authority (SLPA), the Sierra Leone Airport Authority
(SLAA), Sierra Leone Airways (SLA), Sierra Leone Road Transport Corporation
(SLRTC) and the Sierra Leone National Shippinig Company (SLNSC). The newly
established Sierra Leone Roads Authority (SLRA) under the Department of Works
(DOW), has the responsibility for development and management of all roads in the
country (except village ac=ess roads). DOTC is supposed to initiate polcies, replations.
by-laws and transport sector development projects. Due to lack of capacity, it has not
been able to perform these functions in the past.
3.    The government recently initiated the process offormulating a trnsport sector
poicy at a workshop with all the transport seor stLkeholders. FoUowi.o are some of tbe
key policy actions as recommended at the workshop: (a) road user charges to be adjusted
annually to fWly cover costs of routine and periodic maintenance; (b) establishment of a
Road Transport Authority, charged wvith managing the subsector and collection of
licensing fees; and (c) establishment of a Maritime Transport Authority to coordinate and
regulate maitime and related traffic.
4.    Government has made good progress in the roads sector. Under the on-going
Road Rehabilitation and Mainteance Project (RWMP, Credit 2451-SL, US S45.0 million)
supponed by IDA, UNDP, EC and AfDB, the road unit of DOW has been transferred to
the newly established SLRA. About 8000 excess staf have been retrenched, a four-year
time slice of the seven-year program for road network rehabilitation and maintenance is
being implemented, small scale domestic contractors are being trained and equipped and
the bulk of road maintenance is gradually being assigned to private contractors, including
a large number of one-man-contractors perfonning routine maintenance. The road
network condition has already visibly improved and the public is appreciative of that fact.
C:\TEKST\2632lTRP\BNNO1295.RAJ                                          COWIuinsult



TRP: Envirm nmcninl AniilyNit iind Mitigaltiorn Pliin                  Annex 1. Pogp 3
S.    A Road Fund financed from a levy on ul oonsumption - hu bew net up to
cover the cot of road maintenance, However, the eurrent levy of 4 US ceUts per Uter
accrues an equivalent of S 2.7 million only which Is about IS% of the estimated longeterm
maintenance requirement. The fanding crisis Is compounded by the fact thl SLRA must
finance its tff and overhead cost from the road flnd allocation (currently SOY) nd tsht
current fuel consumption is about 50% of the 1989 level due to the rebel Incursion. In
short, Sierra Leone hu a highly efficient road agency vith an increuing executve
capacity, bowever, there is a serious shortfall of road maintenance funding.
6,    Proiect OWectives. The goal of the proposed project Is to build on the succass%l
capacity building process in the road subsector initiated through RPW  and to usist to
develop the other transport subsectors including transport sector coordination to a
Sustainable level, in order to facilitate the economic deveopment ofthe country.
Specifically the objectIves arc to (a) further strengthen and consolidate SLRA and to asst
it to economically maintain the entire road network under its responsibility, to clear the
mAintenance backlog, and to increase private sector capacity; (b) enhance road trwport
managemem capacity and to decrease urban congeston; (c) preserve exdsting port
capacity, reduce operating costs and promote coastl and river transport; (d) enhance air
eaffic safety; (e) continue to promote village level transport initiated under the ongoing
project; and (f) enhance sector coordination capacity.
S.   PZoil. usdgt!og. Due to the amportacce of the road sector and due to the
-istidng rehabilitation backlog major empbasis of the prqject will continue to be on
Mehabiliton and maintenance of trunk and tfeders and further strengthening the SLRA
(70'h of proposed fincing). The project will consist of (a) contrat executed periodic
maintenace of 2000 km of tunk Toads Cincluding 1500 km of heavy grading), spot
improvement of 600 ion of feeder roads, repair and overlaying of 20 km of city street,
and routine maintenance by contract of 500048000 km of tmnk aAd feeder roads, further
development of medium sized and labor based contrctors, as well u fUrther strengthening
of the management capacity of SLRA (b) financing of urban traffic system management
(TSM) measures and assistance to the proposed Road Transport Authority, (c) financing
of slipway repair, paving of container stacdng area, procurement of a ferry for SLPA,
priority investments in coastal and river transport (based on results of proposed study) and
support to te proposed Maritime Transport Authority; (d) airport fencing, procurer mnt
of priority navigation uads and fire tender, as well as runway repair, (e) improvement of
village level transport infrastructure, promotion of non-motorized means of transport and
assistance to river transporters; and (t) technical assistance to DOTC.
6.    Priect Benef. The main benefit from the road component of the project will
be a more efident and cost-effective highway subsector that will permit a higher level of
economic activity, especially in the agiculture sector. Eco: nmic retuums for road
rehabilitation and mantenance are expected to range between 15-100/e. The beneits
from the ports and airporu components will be the preservation of e)dsting infrastructure
which is expected to provide high returns, The benefits from the village level component
will accrue mainly to the rual poor.
C STEKSln26321\1RP\B3NNO129.KAP                                          COWiconsult



TRP: Envirtinmcnial Analysis ittid Mitigntlno Pliwn                    Annex 1. Pna c 4
7,    Scope ojfWork  This TOR is prepared to meet the noeds of an environmental
category B environmental analysis and miigation plan. The mitigation plin will: (a)
ideny a set of repons  to potendially adverse environmental impacts; (b) determine
requirements fbr ensuring that those responses are made effectively and in a timely
manner, and (c) describe the means for meeting those requirements.
8.    The environmental coultant will vislt and valuate on-sito all the  actors and
areas that may contain environmental issues relating to the project, The consultant's
evaluation will include, but not be limited to, the foUowlng:
(a)   Possible adverse and beneficial environmental consequences from any of
the project acivities or rehilitation works to be undertaken.
(b)   Wthin the context of the above, pay spedal attention to drainage
problems, and propose the necessary safguards. Consider both the
immediate construction/rehabMtation works as well as the long term
maitenance of the roads, streets and other traffic improvement meaures
(c)    Environmental safeguards needed in roads design and
reabiltltion/reconstruction plans.
(d)   Traic sfey measures needed with paticular attention to pedestrian
treffic.
(e)   Pay special attention to ny need for resetlement or relocation of
inhabitats and businesses caused by the project
(t)    Dtailed review and asalysis of the envionmental impacts to be expected
from the project including any potential social impacts.
(g)   Environmental safeguards relating to the operations and works to be
undetaken including workers safety.
(h)   Evaluation of the institutional capacity at the state level to undertake
adequate future environmental supervision and monitoring of the project
works.
i)    Necessity for consultation with affected groups, including city iustitutions,
NGOs and other organizations.
0j)   Identify negative and positive impacts of the airport and port rehabilitaon
components, and the non-motorized transport component.
C:\TEKST\26.42IhP\B3NNO1295.RAIP                                          COWlconsul



TRP: Environmentil Analysit alnd Mitignitiuii Plan                      Annex 1, Page 5
9.    MEntlo- lzn         Bued on the findings of the above evaluaton and in Sierm
Leone, the consuant wuil prepua the drat mitigion plan following the guidelines in the
Banks Operational D1rhive 4.01, Annex C.
10.   As a minimum  the mitigation plan should describe in detil th miiation actions
needed, esimate their costs, aang neets, and dming for corretive measures and aecon.
11.   The plan wil specifically include:
(a)   Description and technical details of the buis for each suggested mitigadon
meare.
Cb)   A review of the insti>tionl capaciy for Implementing the mitigaton plan.
Assign responibillties, Including the responsIbIies for mitigative actions,
operations, supervision, financing, monitoring, repording and taining
needs.
(c)    Suggest an Implenentation schedule that must be carried out us part ofthe
project, showing phuing and coordination with projec activities.
(d)   Suggest a monitoring and report procedure that will follow the normal
supervision of project activities,
(e)   Estiate the detaBed costs involved so as to enable the inclusion of the
mitigaon plan expenses in the overall project costs. the mitipaon costs
esimated shall include detailed esmates of costs for technical assistance,
stff development, procurement of supplies, and public
participation/consultion.
12    Summan:  Prepare a "stand alone" summary ofthe mitigation plan, Including a
vefy short project description with baseline data, and all significant environzmemal and
social impacts, and the measures to be undertakcen. If no impacts are found, a detailed
explanation should be given of how this conclusion was reached. Mention any public and
NGO consultations undertLken.
13.   Tme           n _r the Ass    ent and US_a  u        Time allocated to the
assignment is as fouows:
Traveing between Deimari and Sierra Leone     2 days
Preparation time in Denmacrk                  2 days
Working days in Sierra Leone                 16 days
Report production                            10 days
Total time allocated                         30 davs
C:ATEKST\26321\TRP\BNNOIZ95.RAW                                           COWiconsult



TRP: Environmentitl Anlysiis iind Mhi,ig iulin Plitn                       Annex 1. Nige 6
14.   The consultant will be supported the Technical Coordinators of SLRA and ThP
(with DOTC), both Sierra Leone national consultants responsible for preparatory actitities
in rspect of TRP.
15.   RenlrtinL, A drat report shall be prepared and discussed  ith DOTC, SLRA
and other relevant institutions prior to departre from Sierra Leone,
16.   The draft final report shall be subritted to the Task Manager within 30 days after
the end of the mission. The format of the report shall be suitable for inclusion as uuax to
the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) for TAP.
C:\TEKST\26321\TRP\BNNO1295.RAP                                              COWlconsult



TRP: Environmcnial Anilysis and Miligntitin Plitil                              Annex 1. Poge 7
Tax WORtBD BN  OPRATIONA.L MANu^L                                            October 1991
OD 4.01-A .nC
Operational Directive                                                 .am.1 t2
Ernvroeta  Mitlption or Envimmental Masament Plan
1. A  poje's miupdon  of  avironMuM l               (d) Imprmenudoa  ebsdae for mtam
wmg      Lplan cusiao of th at of meuui                   tt must be cstrined out u prt of th
to be akea dufig implemmdon ud oprdon                    project, showing phulang and woordin.
t    ellnia, oftu; or "iduct advese Ceii*                adon with overnl project lmppezen-
menal lmpacs  to accepuble levels.  Alo                  udon plas;
Ircluded in fth plan  re the aedons nadd to
iroplemmit tm. MdIpgon plain are esndal             (e) moninring and repordag procedurs u
elcens of auury A pmrjcu (me Anncx E).                   (1) sure  urly detdon of condidas
4d3padon pan alow suffice for many ciepg                 tat ace5s51We pardicar mitpdon
9 prjec. Dudn du pmamtion of a ruuupon                   musur, aid (U) prkvid Infortion
plan, project poc u  d tk EA desIg  emm                  on ft  prors  and mIt of mbit-
(a) 'dfy to at of  oUP" tO PotentU pialy                        A
advse  lmaci. (b) 4emrm leqnizma  for
ewzrn tat toe raps  art mud   effedvely            (   Intgatlon too the toa poetp cat
and In a tmely mnur, ad (c) desrbe te                    ubles of  a cam  udmat and N  un
means for meeti  txe  rquerWnnm.                        of Azds for bod     Inital bwusmm
and t  retmrniz; epemss for imple-
2. A mitipdoon or mnunem   plan sbald                    mea   ft  mitdpton plan.
Include te foUowing h=us:
3. To smzgtn  e onmmial manapem
cepoblity  In  te  agencies  rsporulie  Sr
(a) ideacadon and mmamasy of al te          IpmlMentdn, momt ndtiption pin  vmr one
siulfcu     adveaza  eavironmeal        or me  of the adional topics identted below:
i=pacu st am anticipand;
(a)  icbncal aisnce programs.
(b) deescpioip     and  cniacl deils for        (b) suff development.
each mitipiion  emm, incuding th            (c) procuremee of equipment ad supplits,
ypC of impact to which It relas and             and
fe coc&dons unde which it is required       (d) orpnizamol chans.
(e.z., contuoudy or in the event of
comngenies), tpgther with designs,      4. The boowers decision to promeed with a
eu3pmeat descripions, and oeat          ptoje  and tbe Dariks decision to support it, wvl
pcrcedrs, as appropriate;               be In pn predicated on the expecwmon dat th
mid;x6on plan will be exewuted effctively.
(c) InstivAonal amngulneau-the asi-          Comquenty, it is impormzt to intem aic t  pln
mnet of ft vazious  spoabiUdes for      io the project's overU pllarning, desi, budget,
Canying out the Mitidg y Measures       and implementdon. Such integedon shud be
(e.g., responsibilities which Involve   achieved by esblishing the midpdon plan as a
operato, sperviuion, enorczent,         co=powat of the project.  This peaution
mo&zoring of i=plenem=tioo,remdial      esues tat dt  plan will rceive funding :d
ac:ion,   ccing.  reportig,  and        supmvWoo  along  with  the  other  Invest-
s=ff training);                         =Mt omponnt.
(.. .EKST\26321\TRP\BNN01295.RAP                                                 COWIconsult



TRP: Environmentul Analysis mnd Mitigniion Plan                       Annex 1. Pngc 8
U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
ToJ Womb 8A    OwnoKwA MN'HUM.                                      Ckabr IM
OD 4.0t- C
Operational Directive                                         OD40
S. Speafflo abf dId uidm fr (a) fuah,       dve n.dllpw  am ia, TX         W& kI
(b) ma_inms ak vahln (emg ng local          rmmio pmvkde a caidin psih fot bqWaa-
pebildo, &ad (c) monioudg. Tc piu   of      sdosan d Xmbleb X  wS m o 9anv      m
dX  am    I b la u I==  dX *.cd             evlika the ncn of ldpda  u a pn of
au  adeqaly fiumd  71a            help      projec inmluiozauM as a man fr Iqwlg
bald I  dW oveA  MgeMA plN dv              loe pci.  mU            mbe petaof do
b3il,    mad aeisms, sufring. an adwr       coMdomik  In Law Aptesn   or im dX
Imiloui smgdvg  XMcdadl   iupu              Mim   of Neodsdom
C:\TEKST\26321\TRP\BNNo1295. RAP                                        COWiconsult



TRP: Envirolnmental Analysis jind Mltiatlitoin Plan                          Annex 2. Page I
Annex 2: List of People Met
Department or Transport and Communicatlons (DOTC):
Mr. Arnold J. Bishop-Gooding      * Scretary ol State
Mr. Shcka Munsaray                * Permanent Secrcary
Mrs. E. Nelson-Harding            * Deputy Sceretary
Dr. Shnmsu Mustophn               * Technical Co-orditintor. TRP
Mr. Suimucl K. Dugbn              * Secrctary of the Road Transport Board
Mr. Francis Bockari               * Principal Planning Officer
Mr. Sudiq M. Kapuwa               - Assistant Secretary
Mr. Musa Randy Kabin              * Statistician, TRP
Sierra Leone Roads Authority (SLRA):
Mr. Aki Beckley                   * Director Gcncral
Mr. A.D.E. Jackson                . Director of Development
Mr. Dzul G. Iscandary             - Technical Co-ordinator
Mr. A.D.E. Jackson                  Director of Development
Mr. Charles Powers                - Road Planning and Development Expert
Mr. 0. Taylor-Pearche               Environmental Engineer
Road Transport Corporation (RTC):
Mr. D.R.W. Faux                   - General Manager
Mrs. C.H. Johnson                 - Personnel Manager
Mr. F.M. Kamara                   - Training Manager
Mr. H.L. Sesay                    - Corporation Secretary
Mr. F.A. Bangura                  - Works Manager
Sierra Leone Ports Authority (SLPA):
Capt. Helmut M. Friedrichs        * Gencral Manager
Capt. Benjamin 0. Davies          - Counterpart General Manager
Ms. Pauline Floode                - Counterpart Director
Mr. Michael J.S. Momoh            - Managcr. Planning and Development
C:\TEKST\26321\TRP\BNN0125 .RAP                                                 COWlconsult



TRP: Environmential Analysis ald Mitigatlion Plan                            Annex 2. Pa:g 2
Sierra Leone Airport Authority (SLAA):
Mr. H.N.M. Swnrny                 -Gcncral Mannger
Mr. Sheikh A. Swarriay-Deen         Engineering and Mnintenance Manager
Dr. Gunz M. Juanna                   Chief Planning Enginecr
Mr. Gcorgc Jones                    Workshop Officcr
Environmental Protection Secretariate (EPS):
Mr. Joscph Muania                    Head of Sccrctarintc
Mrs. Jcmimah Colc                   Environmcntal Officer
International Lahour Organisation (ILO):
Mr. M.C. Gupta                      Chief Tcchnical Advisor
Mr. Narong Swangpol               - Training Advisor. Labour Intcnstivc Rural
Works Programme
Land & Water Development Division (LWDD):
Mr. Osmond L.A. Gordon            - Director
Mrs. Isatu A. Deen                - Agronomist/Land Use
C \TEwKS\26321\TRP\BNN01295 RA                                                 COWlconsult



TRP: Environmcntal Annlysis alnd Mitigiition Plan                               Annex 3. Page I
Annex 3: Draft Mitigation Plan:
Implementation Schedule
C:\TEKST\26321\TRP\BNN01295.RAP                                                    COWiconsultI



'  Draft Mitigation Plan: Implementation Schedule
F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fpmuu .  _                                                                                                                               .
Activity:
m/pttnt elT f Traup    ansd Commukarns (DC)                             .                                          Y       .       K                                      s
E fstablishmcnt ofrcnvimnmcnlal unit                                                                    - - - - - - - - - - -- --        ______ .:
4    4       p~~~~o envinnmenwak oordinator.:                                                         ..                        
Gi    On~-si training of cnvitonnental co-odinatorl)>.                                             [                
z  "     Training abroad of the environmental co-ordinaltor I)                    i                          -  .
Wotkshops and seminars within transport sector                       _
Co-ordination with Envirnmental Proection Secretaiat activities     . _ L                                                a a _
%A       lFoctnuattion of cnvironmental policy for the tanspoft SeCtIO               a .   t           I
Preparation of legal measures
Appointment of fg4i% Lexpen
Preparation or status evaluation epons                                       0t                                                                                           -
terra Lronw  Rands Asthor;ri (SLRA)
Strengthening of he existing environmental unit                       a   a a _   *  a _a ao a           a   a _           a a
Training on-site of the environrnental engineer                   _  _
Training abroad of the environmental engineer                                                          |
Workshops and seminars within SLRA                                                               Ji
Preparation of draft environmental guikelines for the road sector
Training of SLRA supervismrs by the environmental engineer                   -                                        - _
Training of private contractors by the environmental engineer                                                     -
Prcparalim of mitigation plans                                          ._                                         .
Supervision of construction works                                        La_ .                Ijt
Preparatitm or input to envirmmcnial statusrep"                         11
Road TranspotAthwity (RTA)2                                                        I         !
1 J(    Establishment of an cnvimnrnental unit.________ _   _   ____.___   ____
<   4VuM_  m   of an emission contrm! expent                                         .
Workshops and seminars within the road transport sector              _              _                          a.t 
Prupation of draft vehicke emission standands               _              :
Preparation of fuel quality criteria                                            _ a a a -
Formulation of a vehicle examination programrme (incL impklmentation)
Preparation of inpul to environmental status reposi                          *        *
Stfaja.nw Seres Age.ncy (M.4SA)
Establishmcnt of environmental unit                                            a          a C _ _ _  a a a _ .m
Appoiniment of envirmnmental specialist                                                                I              &
Workshops and seminafs within die maritime trAnspon setor                                a _   -                _     |
Preparation of environmental guidelines and Ktion plans                                                  >.
Preparation of input to environmental status trports 
2        EIA expert. technical assistance to DOTC an SLRA                            a        a .  __   ,                  _ 
Emission contml cApen. technical asssisane to RTA 4)                                                                                                                       1 __.___.__T________
jC                                                                                .8    i                        ii             i. 1-_                       *.            *



TRP: El,1vittilnmciqliil Aniuilysis IIiid MitiHtuilili Pl;iti                Anillx 4, Puge I
Annex 4: Draft Mitigation Plan: Cost Estimate
Draft Mitigation Plan: Cost Estimate
Activity                                                             Estimated cost US$
Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 TOTAL
Training
Local tralning (seminars, workshops etc,)                      20,000  20,000  20,000
Training abroad for the DOTC, SLRA and RTA environmentalists           B0,000  60,000
SUB-TOTAL                                                      20,000  80,000  80,000   180,000
Technical Assistance
Project mobilisation, on-site training, studles, monitoring and evaluation  60,000  40,000  60,000
Foreign expert (12 manmonth, 5 travels, accomodution)         150,000  50,000 100,000
SUB-TOTAL                                                     210,000  9Q0j000 160,000  460,000
Equipment
Training equipment to SLRA, DOTC, and RTA                      15,000  13,000  13,000
Test equipment to SLRA                                          5,000    500    500
Computer, software and printer to SLRA, DOTC and RTA           28,000
4 WD vehicle to SLRA                                           30,000
SUB-TOTAL                                                      78,000  13,500  13,500  105,000
SUB-TOTAL                                                     308,000 183,500 253,600  745,000
8% price condingency                                           24,640  14,680  20,280   59,600
TOTAL                                                         332,640 198,180 273,780  804,600
NOTE: All figures are in fixed 1994 prices,
c(\T.I'l.KST\2)632 1 rRP$IINNO1295.RAJ'                                         COWIctilnSult



TRP Environmentiail Analysis and Mitiigatiton Platn                            Annex S. Pa,ge I
Annex 5: Sierra Leone, Transport Rehabilitation
Project
Drult Terms or Refrrence for an Environmental Co-ordinsitor at DOTC
1.          Background. Sierria Leune is a small country (population 4.4 million in 1992) with it
rclatively simple transport system which primarily consists of the road network. Its
railwaty was closcd in 1973. therc is litle inland air and watcr transport. it has an inter-
national airport at Lungi, and its major port at Freetown. The country has about 12.00l
km of roaids ol' which 1.260 km are palved and 5.820 km gravellcd trunk roads. and
about 4.250 km arc fcccr tind village access roads. Public cxpcnditure in the transport
sector in FY93 amounted to 8%, of the total expenditure.
2.          The Department of Transport and Communications (DOTC) has the responsibility for
gcneral transport policy, civil aviation, and maritime and inland water transport. It also
supervises the Sicrra Leone Port Authority (SLPA), the Sicrra Leone Airport Authoritics
(SLAA), Sierra Leonc Airways (SLA). Sierra Leone Road Transport Corporation (RTC)
and the Sierra Leone National Shipping Company (SLNSC). The newly established
Sierra Leonc Roads Authority (SLRA) under the Departmcnt of Works (DOW) has the
responsibility for development and management of all roads in the country (except
village access roads). DOTC is supposed to initiate policies, regulations, by-laws and
transport sector development projects. Due to lack of capacity, it has not been able to
perform these functions in the past.
3.          The government recently initiated the process of formulation a transport sector policy at
a workshop with all the transport sector stakeholders. Following are some of the key
policy actions as recommended at the workshop:
(a) road uscr charges to bc adjusted annually to fully cover costs of routine and periodic
maintenance:
(b) cstablishmcnt of a Road Transport Authority. charged with managing the sub-sector
ad collection of licensing feces and
(c) establishmcnt of a Maritimc Transport Authority to co-ordinatc and regulate mari-
timc and rclated traffic.
4.          Govcrnment has madc good progress in the roads sector. Under the on-going Road
Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project (RRMP) supported by IDA. UNDP. EC and
AfDB. the road unit of DOW has heen transferred tto the newly established SLRA.
About 8.000 excess staff have been rctrenched. a four year time slice of the seven year
programme for road netwoirk rehahilitation and mainhenance is heing implemented. small
sCale dtinicstic contractors arC beinig trained and cquipped and the hulk olf road maintein-
ance is gradually being assigied ItO private contractors. including a largc nuniber ot one-
C:AThKS26321\TRP\BNNO 1295,RAP                                                   COWIconsulI



TRP: Environnmentall Analysis and Mitigiationl Platn                             Anmex S. Page 2
ninn-contractors perlirining rouLilic iniitiiinieace. The roaid network conditiionis hns
already visibly improved nnd the publi is apprecilttive of that alct.
5.           Ohjevtives. Thc objective of the itetivities of the Envirountienil Co-ordinator Is to assist
the development of a framework lor environmental mainagement within the transport
sector.
6.           Scope of Work. The activities or the Environmcntal Co-ordinator under DOTC should
comprise, among others:
*  facilitanc thc establishmcntl o environmcntil units in RTA and MSA and strcngthen
the existing unit in SLRA;
*  establish working procedurcs for cooperittion between the environmental units atnd
Environmental Protection Sccrettrint:
- carry out consultation with NGOs and affected groups living along recently rehabili-
taled highway in ordcr to take note of public concerns relatcd to environmental
aspects of road rehabilitation (rcfer to Annex 6):
- raise environmental consciousncss and awareness at all levels of SLRA staff;
-  expedite the formulation of an environmentat policy and support strategy for the
transport sector;
- expedite the preparation of lcgal measures including regulations curbing adversc
environmental impacts of roads and road construction;
- prepare procedures for enforcement of regulations;
- organize training courscs in Environmental Impact Assessment;
- prepare guidelincs for mitigation in the Sicrra Leonc transpurt sectoT contcxt;
- follow and assist the environmental management activities under TRP:
- proposc and facilitatc implementation of corrective measures under TRP:
-  preparc semiannual status reports on cnvironmcntal management activitics and
quanerly progrcss reports.
7.           Profile of the Candidate. The cxpcrt's qualifications shall includc:
- a Mastcrs degrce in environmental cnginecring. biology. gcology or other relevant
natural scicnces:
-  extensive experience of environmental asscssmcnts of transl.on infraistructure pro-
jects:
C:\TEKST\26321\TRP\BNNO1295. RAI                                                   Cowlconsult



TRP: Environmental AnIlysih and Mitigation Plan                                  Annex S. Pnao 3
*  hrond expurience ol niiminisitrniionl. irglnlsititih, manygomenit and inMlitutIt,nal
development:
*  hiuerpcrstonil eommuniciit ion skills-
*  experincve tl hurniin rcsources dIvelopment alnd training;
*  goud knowledge of cOmputerized inlormatlon systems;
*  famillarity with io phioss ol' trilnsport infrmgrueture pinining and Implementiutiun.
including policy mriking;
*  experience from cnvironnmential aiiessrnnts lin developing counitriesa nnd
*  proficiency in English,
tl           Time Allocation fWr the ArNiglnment. The co-nrdlinnior IN propoxsed employed l'or an
inilmtl period ol' threc years.
C: \T KMST\26.1\TRkBN NO L295, AP                                                   COWIconsult



TRP Finvironmenuil Analysis ind Miligation Plan                                Annex 6. Piip I
Annex 6: Manual for Public Consultations
1. Introductlirn
Poople living ailtng roadsN 1t he rehahllitatoed may have concerns and knowledge thlit may
not hc aipplarent to engineers or environmentaligst  Public panricipation maty titereloire
prtve to he beneficial ltr the quailly *ol an onvironmnieitl mitigiilon pinn and sihould he
welcomed.
ThiN shirt minual propoNes key public consultation telivities tlihnt hould he carried out
In connection with the ipreparation ol environmental mitigatlon plians for specric rehil.
hilitation project.
The manual addresses ruod rehabilitaition prrojects in particular, but the prlnciplc ipplies
to otler projects at well.
2. Ohjeetive
Public consultations are to be carried out for all projects undor the PTR in ordor to
secure that the public is Informed about the project and its consequences, and to enable
suggestions and opinions from affected groups and N1Os to be included in the environ.
mental mitigation plans for the projects.
3. Activities
3.1    General
Communication between the responsible authority and the public is the key to public
participation. The communication should be initiated as early as possible, comprise as
many people as possible. and carried out through as many different mcans as possible.
312    Cionsultations with Affected Grioups
Consultation with affected groups should be initiated by contacting people living along
th rehabilitttion projcct. typicailly through chies. ol villages. It is important to involvc
as many as the villagers as possibic in the consultations. The involvement of the vil-
lagcrs could prck' rahly takc pitice t a villagc mecting where the project is prcsented hy
the rcsponsible person from SLRA. including the f illowing initormationi:
*  alignment:
* cosstrueli1t1 iiictlollds:
C:1\TEKSr6o321vPr\IN NNl 1 29S .A'                                               COWIconxult



TRP: Environtmentil Analysis nnld Mitigation Planl                               Ainnex 6. Patgc 2
c* onlstruction peritl)d
*  dcrnand or wtorking Iircii nnd it cess rtadiis during construction:
*  pssibhle dcnianiid ft'r locial wtorkcrs:
*  pernmncnti impacts;
*  trn1mirary lmpirats relited to ctnstruction;
*  mitigatting mcisures, including maintenianec platns,
At the villayg  meecting thc villa gers should he encouraged to contributc with-
* eoncerns rclated to environmental ii nd social eflects;
*  infLrmation on local environmeit ntnd ecology which could bhe afleted;
*  prtoposalss tor mitiilgiting nmetsurc4.
Each proposal made by the affecled groups should he earefully examined ntnd the lotiel
community informed to which extent thc proposals havc bccn incorporated in the pro-
ject.
3.3    Meetings with Environmental NGOs
Specific sections of road rehabilitation project under the TRP may interfere with forest
rescrves and other protccted or valuabic naturc arcas. In such case, rclevant Environ-
mental Non-Governmental Organisations (NOOs) should be identified and eonsultcd by
the SLRA as carly as possibic.
The NGO shall be given a presentation of the project including the following informa-
tion:
* alignmcnt and construction method;
- construction period;
* expected environmental impacts,
* mitigating measures.
The NGO could contributc to thc project by
* providing additional data and information;
* suggesting relevant environmental specialist to be consulted,
* suggesting additional mitigating measures;
* suggesting alternative alignment.
Each suggestion made by the NGO should be examined and the NGO informcd to which
extent their proposals have hcen incorporated in the mitigation plan for the project.
Cn\TrKsi\6321 \TrP\BNNO I9 29 P .                                                   COWlcolisult



TRP: Envirunmuntil Anitlysis iind Miligiititin Plin                              Annex 6. Pni  3
4. Oulplut
A summary of the et nsulhtlunK shiklI hc prepnrcd nnd included in thc miligatiun plin lt'r
thc specific pruject. The Aummary should describe ail concerns iand suggcstions mrlde at
the consultiations nind to which extent itey have heen taken into account In the final
mitlgiation plni.
C \.TEKST26321v\TRP\BNN129S. RAP                                                    COWlconsult






