Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15552-SL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
May 30, 1996
Infrastructure Division
Western Africa Department
Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit               =               Leone (Le)
US$1.00                     =               Le 948
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                 =               3.28 feet (ft)
I hectare (ha)              -               2.47 acres
I kilometer (km)            -               0.625 miles (mi)
I liter (1)                 -               0.220 Imperial gallons
I Imperial gallon (Ig)      -               4.545 1
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB                African Development Bank
ADT                 Average Daily Traffic
ASSP                 Agricultural Sector Support Project
CBD                  Central Business District
CMU                 Coordination and Monitoring Unit
DOTC                Department of Transport and Communications
DOW                 Department of Works
EIB                  European Investment Bank
EU                  European Union
FIRP                Freetown Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project
GDP                 Gross Domestic Product
GOSL                Government of Sierra Leone
ICAO                International Civil Aviation Organization
MTCE                Ministry of Transport, Communications
and the Environment
MWTM                Ministry of Works and Technical Maintenance
PERDIC               Public Enterprise Reform and Divestiture Committee
PMCU                 Project Management and Coordination Unit
RRMP                Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
RTA                 Road Transport Authority
RTD                 Road Transport Department
SLAA                Sierra Leone Airports Authority
SLNSC               Sierra Leone National Shipping Company
SLPA                Sierra Leone Ports Authority
SLRA                Sierra Leone Roads Authority
SLRTC               Sierra Leone Road Transport Corporation
SNA                  Sierra National Airlines
TSP                  Transport Sector Project
UNDP                United Nations Development Programme
UWSP                 Urban Water Supply Project
FiSCAL YEAR
Government of Sierra Leone and SLRA      January 1 to December 31
SLAA                                     April I to March 31
SLPA                                     July 1 to June 30



TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
l. BACKGROUND .......................................... .1..                                                      .................... I
A. INTRODUCTION ................................................................... 1
B. MACROFCONOMIC CONTEXT ................................................................... I
C. RoLE OF THE TRANSPORT SECTOR IN THE ECONOMY ................................................................ 2
D. THE BANK GROUPs ASSISTANCE STRATEGY ..............................................                           ..................... 3
2. THE  TRANSPORT  SECTOR ...................................................................                                                 4
A. OVERVIEW ...................................................................                                                   4
B. TRANSPORT SECTOR ORGANIZATION ...................................................................                              6
C. FISCAL ISSUES AND AFFORDABILITY .................................................................... 7
D. LESSONS LEARNED FROM  BANK GROUP AND OTHER DONORS .......................                               ............................. 8
3. TRANSPORT  SECTOR  POLICY ......................................................................................................... 9
A. OVERALL TRANSPORT  SECTOR POLICY ........................9...............................                                    ... 9
B. INSTSITEONAL REFORM.10
C. RESOURCE MOBILIZATION .1
D. PROMOTION OF PRIVATE SECTOR .11
E. TRANSPORT SUBSECTOR POLICIES ............................... .......................................................... 11
4. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM .13
A. INTRODUCTION                                                                                                                  13
B. PROGRAM OBJECTIVES                                                                                                            13
C. PROGRAM DESCRIPTION, COST AND FINANcNG .13
D. THE PROPOSED TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT.                                                                                        1 7
1. Project Objectives .17
2. Project Description .17
3 Project Costs and Financing Plan .18
E. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .20
1. Status of Project Preparation ........ .             ...................................................................... 20
2. Implementation Arrangements .20
3. Project Implementation Schedule .21
4. Procurement .21
5. Disbursement .22
6. Accounting and Auditing .24
7. Project Monitoring, Reporting and Supervision .24
This report is based en the findigs of Bank appraisal and preappraisal missicns viich visited Sirra Leee in March/April 1996 and June
1995, respectively. The appraisal missiea comprised Messrs. Nguyen Tin (Princpal Operaticns Officer/Missin Team  Leader), Pierre
Henault (Highway Engineer), Takeshi Sato (Emcmanit), Ms. Sapna Gupta (Financial Analyst) and Mr. Jean Grosdidier de Matams (Port
Managenent Cnsultant). The preappraisal  uisien cempwised Messrs. Diter Schellmig (Highway Engineer/Missica  Leader), Nguyea
Tin, Pierre Heaault. Ms. Kavita Sahi (Ecnomist), Jeen-Luc Aka-Adjo (Financial Analyst) and Ms. Christina Malmberg-Calvo (Rural
Tranpcot Econroist). Ms. Bigitta Mitchell (Principal Sedcor Ecnomit), Mess. Ian Heggie (Principal Highway Speciaait), Christo-
pher Hoban (Senior HiLghway Engineer), and Robert Tillman (Senior Envircnmeintal Specaliat) acted as peer reviewers. Mr. Birger
Fredrik-en is the mana&gig Director and Mr. Albato Harth is the mnanaging Division Chief for the qperatcin. Ms. Caroline Moissen
Antczak and Ms. Barbara Machado provided tedcnical suppert.



5. THE  IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES ...............................................                                                                               25
A. SERRA LEONE ROADS AUTHORITY ...............................................                                                                 25
B. SmERRA LEONE AIRPoRTs AUrHORITY ...............................................                                                             28
C. SmIRRA LEONE PORTS AUrHORITY ...............................................                                                                29
6. BENEFITS AND RISKS ...............................................                                                                                        32
A. GENERAL ...............................................                                                                                     32
B. BENEFITS AND ECONOMIC RETuRNs ...............................................                                                                32
C. SocIAL BENEFITS AND POVERTY  IMPACT ...............................................                                                         34
D. ENviRoNMENTAL IMPACT ...............................................                                                                        34
E. RISKS ...............................................                                                                                       35
7. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ...............................................                                                                     36
A. AGREEMENTS REACHED ...............................................                                                                          36
B. RECOMMENDATION ...............................................                                                                               38
ANNEXES
2-1          National Road Network Classification and Transport Sector Statistics
3-1          Letter of Transport Sector Policy
3-2          MTCE - Organizational Structure
3-3          RTA - Organizational Structure
4-1          Transport Sector Investment Program 1996-1999
4-2          Detailed Project Description
4-3          Project Cost Estimates
4-4          Implementation Schedule
4-5          Details of Procurement Arrangements
4-6          Disbursement Schedule
4-7          Supervision Plan and Monitoring of Performance Indicators
5-1          SLRA - Organizational Structure
5-2          Road Fund - Revenue Structure
5-3          SLRA - Estimated Revenues and Expenditures
5-4          SLAA - Organizational Structure
5-5          SLAA - Historical and Projected Financial Statements, 1991-2005
5-6          SLPA - Organizational Structure
5-7          SLPA - Historical and Projected Financial Statements, 1991-2005
6-1          Economic Analysis
6-2          Summary of Environmental Analysis and Mitigation Plan
7-1          Documents in Project File
MAPS
IBRD No.27951 National Road System, Program Works (1996-1999)
IBRD No.27952 Sierra Leone Ports Authority, Port Rehabilitation



REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECr SUMMARY
Borrower:                  Republic of Sierra Leone.
Beneficiaries:             Ministry of Transport, Communications and the Environment
(MTCE); Sierra Leone Roads Authority (SLRA); Sierra Leone
Ports Authority (SLPA); Sierra Leone Airports Authority
(SLAA).
Povertv Categorv:           The project does not include a specific targeted intervention to
reduce poverty. However, it will have a significant impact on
poverty alleviation for the rural and urban poor, by providing
employment opportunities particularly in road rehabilitation and
maintenance, improving access to markets for agricultural prod-
ucts and to social services such as health and education.
Amount:                     SDR 24.3 million (US$35.0 million equivalent).
Terms:                      Standard IDA, with 40 years matunty.
Commitment Fee:             Standard (a variable rate between 0 and 0.5% of the undisbursed
credit balance set annually by the Executive Directors of IDA).
Onlendi! Terms:             About US$8.3 million and US$2.5 million equivalent of the
Credit would be onlent from the Government to SLPA and
SLAA, respectively, for 20 years including a grace period of 5
years at 6.9% per annum. SLPA and SLAA would bear the for-
eign exchange risk.
Description:               The project will support a four year time-slice (1996-1999) of
Government's ten year sector investment program and will have
three main components: (a) capacity building to: (i) build up the
Coordination and Monitoring Unit at MTCE; (ii) establish and
support a new autonomous Road Transport Authority (RTA) re-
sponsible for road transport regulation, vehicle registration and li-
censing, and vehicle examination; and (iii) develop small and me-
dium sized and labor-based enterprises for road works; (b) para-
statal restructuring and privatization to: (i) improve the organ-
izational structure of SLRA including the creation of a Finance
Department; (ii) restructure SLPA, including possible devolution
and/or privatization of some of its functions, and restructure the
Freetown-Tagrin ferry operations, and (iii) privatize the Sierra
Leone Road Transport Corporation (SLRTC), the Sierra National



11
Airlines (SNA) and the Sierra Leone National Shipping Company
(SLNSC); and (c) investment to include: (i) a program of peri-
odic maintenance of about 460 km of trunk roads, spot improve-
ment of about 550 km of feeder roads and repair/overlaying of
20 km of city streets; (ii) traffic management measures in Free-
town; (iii) in the port, slipway repair, quay rehabilitation and
pavement of container stacking area; (iv) in the airport, runway
repair, and edge lighting, procurement of safety equipment, and
protective fencing; and (v) for coastal and river transport, reha-
bilitation/provision of landing and storage facilities.
Befefits:                   The project's direct, tangible but unmeasurable benefits are as
follows: improved, more transparent sector management, includ-
ing more effective management and monitoring of sector parasta-
tals and their operations on a commercial basis; increased direct
private sector participation in road maintenance, waterway
transportation, port and airline operations, and vehicle examina-
tion, and indirect private sector participation through user repre-
sentation on the boards of transport parastatals; through a steady
volume of road maintenance works, expanded capacity of small
and medium construction enterprises and of local consultants in
project preparation, implementation, auditing and supervision;
training of skilled and unskilled labor, which can move to other
construction activities; savings in travel time by households to
jobs, schools, markets and health facilities in urban and poor pefi-
urban areas as well as rural areas; improved airport safety
through compliance with the International Civil Aviation Organi-
zation (ICAO) security regulations for the airport; and support to
the Transport Sector Policy consistent with overall macro-
economic objectives, in particular Sierra Leone's competitiveness
in local and regional markets, and poverty alleviation resulting
mainly from increased domestic employment and training of labor
and contractors.
The project's direct, measurable benefits are based on quantifi-
able benefits arising mainly from user cost savings. The road
component has an overall EIRR of 25% and NPV of US$8.0 mil-
lion discounted at 12%, with all subcomponents yielding EIiRRs
greater than 12%, except for a few sections classified as gravel
main roads. These sections are expected to yield higher EIRRs if
uncaptured benefits to farmers are incorporated. The non IDA-
financed portion of the program is estimated to yield EIRRs be-
tween 12% to 40%. The road transport component has an EIRR
of 25% and NPV of $1.6 million, discounted at 12%. The port
rehabilitation component has an overall EIRR of 24% and NPV
of US$7.1 million discounted at 12%. Five typical landing sites
of the coastal and river transport component have EIRRs ranging
from 16% to 97% for the selected locations. The air transport
component yields an EIRR of 19% and NPV of US$0.7 million



iii
discounted at 12%. It is estimated that about 1,600 person-years
of the employment would be generated by the project.
Risks:                      The principal risk is related to the political and security situation
caused by the rebel activities which have in the past rendered all
areas of the country except the Freetown Peninsula and the Lungi
Airport area unsafe for economic activities. However, the expec-
tation is that the recent inauguration of the newly elected demo-
cratic government on March 29, 1996, a cease-fire currently in ef-
fect, and on-going negotiations with the rebel movement will
further contribute to the marked improvement in the security
situation observed over the few months prior to the cease-fire.
Since many of the components of the project (rehabilitation of
port, airport, coastal and river transport, establishment of RTA,
sector management and coordination) are located in safe areas, a
first phase of the proposed project could be implemented even un-
der the situation that existed before the cease-fire. However,
should rebel activities recur, a deteriorated security situation
could make economic growth unlikely and hence the justification
for the planned investments in isolated areas questionable. It
could also lead to delays in project implementation. Another po-
litical risk is related to the Government having to find the balance
between the need for improved road infrastructure and the elec-
torate's willingness to pay for it. In particular, it may not be fea-
sible for the Government to increase and maintain the road main-
tenance levy on fuel and other road user charges at levels neces-
sary for adequate funding of road maintenance. This risk would
be minimized, considering: (a) that the increase in road mainte-
nance levy on fuel and other road user charges will be phased; the
first phase being at the same level of about US$0.08 per liter
which was first effected in December 1994; (b) that the private
sector and road transport stakeholders are represented on the
Board of SLRA, and had approved this level of levy at that time;
(c) that SLRA is widely recognized by the public as one of the
most effective Government entities; and (d) that the public has
come to appreciate the improvements that SLRA has made on the
road network in the past few years. There are no significant
technical risks, as the work will be carried out using conventional
construction methods by qualified contractors and consultants un-
der proven management capability, especially in the case of
SRLA.



iv
Estimated Prolect Costs:
Local      ~ForeignToa
Local         (JUSS million)       Total
Proiect Component
Support to Transport Sector (MTCE)                      0.4                1.6              2.1
Road Rehabilitation & Maintenance                       4.1               11.5             15.5
Support to Road Transport Subsector                     0.6                2.4              3.0
Support to Port Rehabilitation                          2.0                8.0              9.9
Coastal and Inland RiverTransport                       0.7                1.4              2.1
Support to Sierra Leone Airport Authority               0.6                2.1              2.6
Base Cost Estirnate (March 1996)               8.4               26.9              35.3
Physical Contingencies                                  0.8                2.7              3.5
Price Contingencies                                     0.5                1.7              2.2
Total Project Cost                              9.8               31.2             41.0
Financino Plan:
IDA                                                     6.3               28.7             35.0
Govemment/Authorities                                   3.5                2.5              6.0
Total                                           9.8              31.2              41.0
Estimated Disbursement:
IDA FY                                             1997        1998       1999      2000      2001
(UJS$ million)
Annual                                               3          9          12         8          3
Cumulative                                           3         12          24        32         35
Economic Rate of Return and NPV Discounted at 12 Percent:
The road component has an EIRR of 25% and NPV of
US$8.0 million; road transport component: 25%, US$1.6 mil-
lion; port rehabilitation component: 24%, US$7.1 million; Lungi
Airport runway rehabilitation: 19%, US$0.7 million; coastal and
river transport component - landings: from 16% to 97%.
Mans: IBRD No.27951  National Road System, Program Works (1996-1999)
IBRD No.27952 Sierra Leone Ports Authority, Port Rehabilitation



REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
1. BACKGROUND
A.    INTRODUCTION
I.1    This is the first time that a sector-wide investment approach has been adopted for the sus-
tainable development of the transport sector in Sierra Leone. The proposed Intemational Devel-
opment Association (IDA) credit, together with pledges from other donors, would help support
implementation of the 1996-1999 Transport Sector Investment Program and the proposed Trans-
port Sector Project (TSP) jointly developed by the Govemment, sectoral agencies, user groups,
non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and all donors active in the sector. The main differences
between the sector approach and the traditional system of donors negotiating on an individual basis
with the Government are that the sector approach: (a) covers the entire sector including mainte-
nance as well as the more conventional capital investment, policy reform and institutional issues;
(b) has been jointly prepared with local stakeholders (Government and private/public road users)
and donors, with the former taking the lead, (c) is supported by all donors active in the sector;
(d) makes better use of scarce local resources; and (e) promotes standardized implementation pro-
cedures.
1.2    Previous projects supported by the Bank and other donors have attempted to address the
issues of a senously deteriorated transport sector and necessary institutional and policy reform on a
somewhat piecemeal basis. This project, therefore, adopts a comprehensive sector wide approach
as a means of directing and coordinating the efforts of Government and all donors towards sustain-
able development.
B.    MACROECONOMIC CONTEXT
1 3    Sierra Leone is a small country (71,740 square kilometers) located on the Atlantic Coast
of Afnca. It has a humid, tropical climate with rainfall averaging more than 200 inches per year.
The country is hilly to mountainous and traversed by many navigable rivers. It has considerable
water resources, a rich soil, ample cultivable land and a climate favorable to the culture of rice and
other subsistence crops, as well as cocoa, coffee, palm kemels, piassava and other export cash
crops. It is endowed with substantial mineral wealth, particularly large deposits of diamonds
(alluvial deposits and kimberlite pipes) and rutile (used in the manufacturing of paints), and sig-
nificant deposits of bauxite, iron ore, chromite and gold.
1.4   In spite of these substantial natural resources, Sierra Leone is rated by the United Nations
as one of the least-developed and poorest countries in the world. With a population of 4.4 million
(1994), growing at an annual average rate of 2.4%, Sierra Leone's per capita income has dwindled
to US$150 in 1994 due to the inadequate development efforts and ill-conceived economic policies
of the past. Income distribution is uneven and over two thirds of the population live in absolute
poverty. Infant mortality is one of the highest in the world (163 per 1,000 live births), and life ex-
pectancy among the lowest (40 years ). The economy is based primarily on agriculture and min-
ing, which account for 47% and 8% of GDP (1994), respectively. The modem sector is small and



2
dominated by a few public corporations and private mining concems. It coexists with a largely
traditional agricultural sector, which sustains more than two thirds of the population, generally at a
bare subsistence level. Since 1991, real per capita income has fallen further, due to the negative
impact of the rebel activities on economic activity. Close to 2 million people have been displaced
because of the security problems, which has further exacerbated poverty. The population in
Freetown, the capital city is estimated to have more than doubled to 1.5 million during the past
four years. On top of this, Sierra Leone has to cope with the influx of over 200,000 refugees from
Liberia. Many rural areas have been isolated during the conflict and the infrastructure is in disre-
pair.
1.5    To reverse past trends, the Government embarked in December 1989 on the daunting task
of correcting two decades of economic mismanagement by implementing a significant economic
reforms package, which was instrumental in winning back intemational confidence and support.
Since 1992, the Govenmment's economic reform program has been implemented with financial sup-
port from IDA. The major goals of the structural adjustment program are to lay the foundations
for sustainable private sector-led economic growth, and poverty alleviation. The Program com-
bines macroeconomic stabilization measures (restrictive monetary and budgetary policies) with
structural reforms aimed at liberalizing domestic and foreign trade, reforming the civil service and
privatizing/rehabilitating public enterprises.
1.6    The escalation in rebel attacks at the end of 1994 and during the first half of 1995 seri-
ously interfered with policy implementation. In particular, rebel attacks led to the closure of the
rutile and bauxite mines, drastically reducing foreign exchange receipts and fiscal revenues. Fur-
thermore, the uncertainties created by the rebel attacks negatively affected business confidence and
general economic activity. This, in tum, caused large revenue shortfalls, in particular in the col-
lection of petroleum taxes and custom duties. In addition, emergency defense expenditures in-
creased as the Government intensified its campaign against the rebels. As a consequence of these
developments, the govemment budget deficit for 1994/95 widened to 7.3% of GDP, compared with
a target of 5.2%. Monetary policy, nonetheless, remained on track, largely because of weak pri-
vate sector credit demand and active use of open market operations by the central bank. After be-
ing reduced to less than 20% in 1993, and 1994, inflation rose to 30% in 1995 as a result of a
sharp depreciation of the exchange rate and a jump in the price of imported rice and wheat, adding
to the hardship of people already affected by shortages in domestic food production. The interrup-
tion of bauxite and rutile exports in early 1995, followed by the loss of diamond export proceeds in
mid- 1995, compounded by lower than expected donor flows, gave rise to increasingly severe bal-
ance of payments pressures during the course of 1995. In order to avert an unduly sharp deprecia-
tion of the exchange rate, the central bank sold foreign exchange and reserves fell to US$10 mil-
lion, or 0.9 months of imports, at the end of October 1995. With the significant improvement in
the security situation over the past 8 months and national elections of February and March 1996,
which resulted in the inauguration of a newly elected democratic Government on March 29, 1996,
the Government should be able to restore and intensify the ongoing economic reforms.
C.    RoLE OF THE TRANSPORT SECTOR IN THE ECONOMY
1.7    The new Government's priorities are to (i) ensure peace and nation-wide security;
(ii) reintegrate internally and externally displaced people, refugees and ex-combatants into normal,
productive life, and (iii) create an environment for sustained labor-intensive, private sector-led
growth. Improvements in physical infrastructure in the transport sector will have a key role in the
Government's strategy for achieving these objectives by facilitating the supply response to the



3
streamnlined incentives that have been implemnented as part of the structural adjustment program.
Improvements of rural feeder and trunk roads and in coastal and river transport system would help
alleviate poverty by providing market outlets for fanners and increasing food availability. Indi-
rectly, through the use of labor intensive methods for road maintenance throughout the country,
employment and income opportunities would also improve. Improvement in the transport network
will also help integrate the different parts of the country and thus reduce the isolation and depriva-
tion that has provided a ground for the rebel insurgency. Implementation of this strategy will re-
quire substantial investments in rehabilitation and a strengthening of institutional mechanisms to
maintain the newly rehabilitated facilities.
1.8    The proposed TSP will contribute: (a) to enhance country-wide mobility of goods and
people and reduce transport costs through maintenance, rehabilitation and reconstruction of the
highest priority section of the transportation network, (b) to ensure that the improvements will be
sustained by developing and implementing cost recovery policies, building and utilizing local ca-
pacity in the public and private sectors, and improving financial management and control; and
(c) to strengthen donor coordination.
D.    THE BANK GROUP'S ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
1.9    Since the resumption of Bank lending to Sierra Leone in 1992, IDA, in conjunction with
various cofinanciers, has provided financial support for the Government's program through a Re-
construction Import (Credit 2352-SL) and a successor Structural Adjustment (Credit 2546-SL).
These credits helped implement an economic reform which facilitated macroeconomic stabilization
and economic activity by financing essential support. A public Sector Management Support Proj-
ect (Credit 2435-SL) was approved in 1993 to strengthen the Government's capacity to implement
structural reforms, particularly in the area of fiscal management. Four investment credits to re-
habilitate infrastructure have been approved to supplement these efforts: the first to rehabilitate
power supply and distribution (Credit 2356-SL; approved by the Board on April 21, 1992); the
second (Credit 245 1-SL, US$45.0 million, January 27, 1993) for the Road Rehabilitation and
Maintenance Project (RRMP), a four-year slice of a seven year road rehabilitation program, at a
total cost of over US$93 million, and funded by IDA, AfDB, the European Union (EU), and the
United Nations Development Programme (UNDP); the third (Credit 251 1-SL, US$26 million, June
10, 1993) for the Freetown Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project (FIRP), which includes a compo-
nent to rehabilitate some access roads in Freetown; and the fourth (Credit 2702-SL, US$36 mil-
lion, April 11, 1995) for the Urban Water Supply Project (UWSP) to rehabilitate and expand the
water supply and sewerage system in Freetown.
1.10   IDA's involvement in the TSP is consistent with the broad objectives of the Country As-
sistance Strategy (CAS) reviewed by the Board on October 14, 1993, which is to establish a
firm basis for sustained private sector-led economic growvth and poverty reduction. The proposed
project would directly support the objectives outlined in the CAS by helping to create a supportive
environment for resumption of normal economic activity, develop the national construction indus-
try, restructure or privatize the principal sector agencies and improve their management and opera-
tional efficiency, and support labor-intensive works.



4
2.   THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.    OVERVIEW
2.1    The country's transport sector consists of: (a) about 11,300 km of roads, of which
900 km are paved, over 3,200 km are graveled trunk roads, and 7,200 km are feeder and village
access roads; (b) a poorly maintained, over-aged road vehicle fleet of about 52,000 motor vehicles
(including motorbikes); (c) a principal sea port located in the capital, Freetown, and two private
ports, Niti and Pepel, used primarily for mnineral exports; (d) one major intemational airport
(Lungi) and one domestic/regional airport (Hastings) near Freetown and several minor airfields,
only two of which are operational; and (e) about 400 km of shallow but navigable river stretches,
although river transport remains insignificant. Sierra Leone's rail network was phased out during
the early 1970s when it became uneconormic. The national road network classification, together
with statistics of the transport sector (vehicles, traffic accidents, port and air transport), are shown
in Annex 2- 1.
2.2    Road Infrastructure. The road network is the dominant intemal transport mode account-
ing for over 80% of the domestic traffic flows, with the rest being carried on waterways. The
length and coverage of the Sierra Leone's road network is satisfactory. However, the quality re-
mains below acceptable standards after two decades of neglect and inadequate maintenance largely
due to lack of funding, poor maintenance practices and institutional weaknesses. The density of the
total road network at 2.8 km/I000 inhabitants is above the average of 1.17 km for Sub-Sahara Af-
rica and above the average of 1.20 km in Nigeria and 2.0 km in Ghana. Paved main roads link
Freetown with most district centers, with the exception of Kabala in the North and Kailahun in the
East. However, a few fertile rural areas previously served by the now defunct railroad still need
connections to the road network. Due to t'e past under-allocation of funds for maintenance, nearly
30% of the paved roads, 55% of the gravel and 70% of the earth roads are rated in poor to very
poor condition and are near collapse. As a result, the country is estimated to incur an additional
cost of $35 million per annum in vehicle operating costs, which could be avoided if the roads were
properly maintained. The former Department of Works (DOW) managed the road network until
early 1993, when this responsibility was devolved to the Sierra Leone Roads Authority (SLRA)
2.3    Road Transport. Road transport is almost entirely operated by small private operators.
There is free market entry for operator of trucks or passenger vehicles, subject to minimal registra-
tion and licensing requirements. Passenger fares and freight tariffs in the private sector are not
regulated in practice, although the tariffs charged by the Sierra Leone Road Transport Corporation
(SLRTC), a public authority, are subject to Government control. The national vehicle fleet com-
prises approximately 43,000 vehicles, including about 25,000 private cars, 6,000 taxis, 3,600
trucks, 1,000 buses and 7,300 jeeps and vans. Most vehicles are imported used; spares are expen-
sive. Drivers are poorly trained. Many roads and streets are in dire condition. The vehicle fleet is
poorly maintained and inefficient.
2.4    The unreliable supply and poor quality of public passenger transport cause considerable
hardship to the middle and low-income public who must rely on it. While some of the country's
areas remained isolated during the war, buses are overloaded with long waiting time and frequent
delays because of breakdowns. These problems are compounded in the Freetown area by lack of
traffic management and poor road conditions, resulting in constant traffic congestion. It is ex-
pected that these problems will be alleviated by the current rehabilitation program covering most
streets in the Commercial Business District (CBD) of Freetown.



5
2.5    SLRTC operates a fleet of 30 buses and currently has less than a 5% share of the passen-
ger transport. Its buses are operated mostly in Freetown due to the security situation, although
normally about half would be assigned to inter-city routes. SLRTC's tariffs provide concessional
rates for school children and women. The corporation operates at a loss due to low tanffs for sev-
eral services provided as public service obligations, but also because of inefficient management,
high operating costs partly due to poor road conditions, and a shortage of spares which reduces
fleet availability. It does not receive revenue subsidies, but the Government has passed on limited
bilateral assistance in the form of buses, spares and technical assistance to the corporation on con-
cessional terms. Although SLRTC's performance has improved somewhat during the past two
years, the overall situation in public passenger transport has worsened because of the influx of
refugees into Freetown.
2.6    Non-motorized transport, such as bicycles, cycles trailers and other types, are not widely
used in Sierra Leone, though they would provide sustainable low-cost transport, particularly for
the rural and urban poor. The on-going RRMP, financed by IDA and other donors, includes a pi-
lot component to promote the use of non-motonzed transport based on recent Bank experience in
Ghana.
2.7    Port Facilities and Traffic. The main port of Sierra Leone is located in Freetown, in a
natural harbor which permits a draft of almost 10 meters. There are six public berths (quay length
1,100 m), five transit sheds and a total area of 32 acres, workshops and a small dockyard Sepa-
rate dedicated terminals handle petroleum and fish traffic, both of which are also handled at an-
chorage. Freetown port handles most of the country's general cargo and all of its petroleum import
traffic. The ports of Niti and Pepel are loading wharves for bulk exports (up to 1.0 million
tons/year of bauxite and rutile). These exports were interrupted by rebel incursions in early 1995
and the ports have not been operated since. Total dry cargo traffic through the public berths at
Freetown in 1995 was 451,000 tons, down from 638,000 tons in 1979. It has been fairly static
over the last six years. Exports are negligible. Fourteen percent of traffic is in bulk, 56% is con-
ventional break-bulk; 30%, which is almost all cargo suitable for containers, is containerized. The
port facilities are in a general need of rehabilitation, specially the main quay, the dockyard, port
roads and storage areas; some obsolete cargo-handling equipment also needs to be replaced. Op-
erational performance on cargo handling is average (400 tons per ship day on general cargo, 600 to
900 tons on bags, 10 to 12 containers per hour), but not markedly low by the standards of similar
ports on the West African Coast.
2.8    Port Administration. Since 1964, the port of Freetown is managed by the Sierra Leone
Ports Authority (SLPA). established as a statutory public corporation administered by a Board of
Directors, to develop and operate the port in the public interest. It is also responsible for all marine
and shore services in the country and has some regulatory role in maritime administration. It is
under close supervision of MTCE. SLPA operates the port as a service port, conducting pilotage,
stevedoring, cargo handling and storage on force account and has its own workshop and slipway.
Niti and Pepel were operated by the mining companies, which paid pilotage fees and channel dues
to the SLPA. SLPA has been managed for nearly ten years under a consultancy, advisory and
training services contract with foreign consultants. Expatriates are still in most of SLPA's execu-
tive positions. IDA reviewed SLPA's management during the implementation of the RIC and found
it to be in need of restructuring and improvement as discussed in Chapter 5.
2.9    Ferry Services. By order of Government, SLPA operates and finances the ferry service
between Freetown and Tagrin (about 8 kIn), which provides a vital link between the capital and



6
Lungi International Airport and the north-west region. The alternative to this ferry service is a
180-km road detour via Masiaka and Port Loko. The fleet has consisted of two 600-ton ferries
dating from 1981, both of which have recently been retired from service, and one fairly moden
second hand vessel (486 tons) purchased in 1993 from Greece. 210 employees from SLPA work in
ferry services (19% of the SLPA workforce). Two additional passenger ferries are needed to en-
sure continued adequate services. The Government plans to commission a feasibility study, to be
financed by AfDB, of a shorter road to Lungi, by-passing Port Loko; this would reduce the road
distance to the airport to 100 kIn, and would necessitate the construction of two bridges. Con-
struction would be a major project and its economic viability will have to be considered careflly.
2.10   Shipping and Manitime Administration. The government-owned Sierra Leone National
Shipping Companv (SLNSC) now operates only as a shipping agent, freight forwarder and slot
charterer in competition with private firms. It collects from importers and shippers a freight levy
of US$1.50 per ton of cargo on imports and US$0.60 per ton of export, based on the 1965 Geneva
Convention (Code of Conduct of Conferences). The levy, which had been used to finance Mari-
time Administration expenses, is no longer used for this purpose and now accrues to general reve-
nues.
2.11   Coastal and River Transport This form of transport is used to barge bauxite and rutile
ores from Niti to Sherbro Island for transshipment to ocean-going vessels; and to serve the Kambia
and Port Loko districts of the Northem region. Its share of the domestic transportation market has
increased to around 20% especially since road transport has been constrained by rebel activities. It
is estimated that total navigable distance is 400 km for vessels of 2.0 meter draft throughout the
year, taking advantage of favorable tides. Also, Pampers (local boats) are operated by several
small private operators and are not regulated. No operating data are available on this mode of
transport. A study recently completed by consultants recommended a program for the rehabilita-
tion and construction of jetties and landing sites, including training for proper maintenance of the
facilities and safe operations of vessels.
2.12   Air Transport. Sierra Leone's only intemational airport is located at Lungi, reached
mainly by a one-hour ferry/road connection from Freetown. Lungi Intemational Airport is man-
aged by the Sierra Leone Airports Authority (SLAA), a statutory corporation established in 1988
with UNDP assistance. SLAA is managed efficiently and is operating on a commercial basis at a
profit. However, extensive repair and modermization of navigational aids, landing lights, pavement
and perimeter fencing are urgently required.
2.13   After two decades of steady growth, international air traffic has declined from 133,000 in
1991 to 113,000 passengers in 1994 because of the prevailing insecurity. Intemational travel is
offered by two major international carriers, KLM and Sabana, and EAS, which exploits the traffic
rights of the Sierra National Airlines (SNA). Several regional African airlines provide service to
the neighboring countries. Due to the security situation, intemal air travel services by helicopter
are currently available between Freetown and a few other major towns.
B.    TRANSPORT SECrOR ORGANIZATION
2.14 Private and Public Sector Roles. The private sector is dominant in the road and coastal
and river transport subsectors. Except for the extended management contract, the private sector
plays no role in the port sector; it is represented in the shipping subsector by shipping and forward-
ing agents. The public sector is currently responsible for road construction and maintenance with



7
major works camred out by private, mostly foreign, contractors. It manages ports and airports,
including commercial activities such as stevedoring in port and aircraft handling in airports. It has
small shares in freight forwarding (SLNSC), intemational air transport (SNA), and road transport
(SLRTC). With the exception of SLRTC, all transport parastatals operate at a profit, and withut
direct subsidies from the Government, but inadequate maintenance and renewal of equipmat have
resulted in decapitalization.
2.15   Sector Administration. Transport sector administration was, until recently, divided be-
tween the Department of Transport and Communications (DOTC), which supervises SLPA,
SLAA, SLRTC and SLNSC and has responsibility for civil aviation, and the Department of Works
(DOW) which oversees SLRA. Under the recently elected democratic Government, the DOTC has
been transformed into the new Ministry of Transport, Communications and the Environment
(MTCE) that will oversee all public transport sector entities, except SLRA which is under the new
Ministry of Works and Technical Maintenance (MWTM). MTCE is charged with initiating poli-
cies, regulations, and transport sector development plans for the country. With Bank assistance
through Project Preparation Facilities (P-872-SL and 872-1-SL), MTCE's Coordination and
Monitoring Unit (CMU) has been strengthened and its supervisory role has correspondingly besn
enhanced and made more effective.
2.16   The reform of Sierra Leone's road sector management has become a model in Africa, par-
ticularly with (a) the creation of a commercially-oriented organization responsible for road man-
agement, and (b) the creation of a road fund, financed from user charges/fuel levy, to cover the cost
of road maintenance. The former DOW administered public roads until 1992/93 when this re-
sponsibility was devolved to the newly established SLRA in a far-reaching road sector reform pro-
gram supported by IDA under the RRMP. DOW was overstaffed at the non-professional level,
with about 12,000 staff in January 1992. Excess staff at DOW have been retrenched. It now has
less than 1,000 employees. Some engineers and technicians have been employed by SLRA, while
others have become small maintenance contractors. The organization, managaeent and finances of
SLRA, SLAA and SLPA are discussed in Chapter 5.
C.    FiSCAL ISSUES AND AFFORDABaIrry
2.17   To estimate the financial contribution of the transport sector to the economy, the revenues
generated by the various parastatals were calculated. In 1994/95, the sector as a whole generated
about US$13 million and about US$1 million equivalent in gross and net revenues for services
provided by SLPA, SLAA, SLNSC, and SLRTC. However, revenue generation is misleading
since it results partly from lack of maintenance and renewal of facilities and equipment. In fact,
there is loss of substance and decapitalization. There are no subsidies from the govenment to the
sector organizations; however, SLRTC received funds in 1994 from the Freight Levy for the pur-
chase of buses, thus obtaining an indirect subsidy. But SLPA has been subsidizing the Govem-
ment for years (in some cases through tax compensation) by financing ferry acquisition and making
good for the deficit of ferry operations. There is no formal agreement between the Government and
SLPA, which is lacking for management purposes. While the sector as a whole is a net contributor
to the economy, the revenues generated could be substantially increased.
2.18   Road Fund. A Road Fund was initially set up in 1989 through a cabinet decision to fi-
nance road maintenance work nationwide through various user fees. It was subsequently incorpo-
rated in the SLRA Act in 1992, which stipulated the creation of this Road Fund for the collection
of: (a) road user charges levy on fuel; (b) vehicle licensing fees; (c) vehicle registration fees; and



8
(d) any other road user charges that may from time to time be allocated to the fund by law, toll
charges, for instance. The proceeds from this fund are intended specifically to defray expenses for
routine, periodic and emergency road maintenance. It was anticipated that rehabilitation and re-
construction and backlog maintenance would be supported by foreign funding, while road user fees
would cover all regular maintenance needs of the network. As agreed under the RRMP, fuel levy
was raised to US $0.08 per liter equivalent (or Le 200 per Ig) in December 1994. But with the
depreciation of the Leone since then, the fuel levy has now been reduced to US$0.05 per liter
equivalent.
2.19   The current revenue of the Road Fund is inadequate for financing routine and periodic
maintenance of the road network; it is estimated that the current levy would only cover 30-50% of
the planned ten year maintenance program of the national road system, totaling 8,200 km. It
should be noted that this levy does not cover the routine and periodic maintenance costs of local
roads and streets, totaling 3,000 km. An analysis of the revenue structure of the Road Fund is
shown in Chapter 5.
2.20   At present, the fuel levy is the sole source of funding for the Road Fund, other fees are
collected by the Road Transport Department (RTD) of MTCE for vehicle examination and com-
mercial authorization, and the Police Department for license, registration and issuance of driver's
licenses. The collection system for various fees is inefficient and inadequate. To overcome the
limitations imnposed by an uncoordinated system of fee collection and to establish the linkage be-
tween road usage and road maintenance expenditure, the Government is proposing the following
changes: (a) the collection of various road transport fees by different agencies will be transferred
and undertaken by the new Road Transport Authority (RTA), and (b) vehicle related user charges,
such as vehicle registration, vehicle exammnation arid license fees, will be channeled into the Road
Fund beginning January 1, 1997.
D.    LESSONS LEARNED FROM BANK GROUP AND OTHER DONORS
2.21   The Bank has financed three operations in the transport sector, all highway projects, which
were signed in 1971, 1981 and 1993. The First Highway Project financed the construction of the
Bo-Kenema road and the first phase of a road maintenance program. The project experienced de-
lays and cost overruns. The Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) in 1978 noted an ex-post
economic return of 25%, higher than at appraisal, and that the project's achievements in routine
and periodic maintenance were far below targets. The Second Highway Project focused on the
rehabilitation of 800 km of trunk roads and on improving routine and periodic maintenance, with
cofinancing from AfDB and the OPEC Fund. The project was completed in 1988, after delays and
suspensions due to the Government's defaults in repayment of past debts. The Project Completion
Report (PCR) in 1991 noted that only about 55% of the physical works were completed, with long
delays in execution, poor performance by the Borrower and serious interruptions in counterpart
funding. However, a post-evaluation of the resealed and regravelled roads indicated a satisfactory
economic intemal rate of return (ERR) of 60%.
2.22   The ongoing RRMP, with cofinancing from AfDB, EU, and UNDP, focuses on trunk road
rehabilitation and maintenance, strengthening of road management institutions, promotion of pilot
non-motorized transport and support to transport sector institutions. It took account of the lessons
leamed from previous operations including: establishment of an autonomous commercially-
oriented agency with substantially reduced labor force (SLRA); creation and maintenance of a road
fund to ensure adequacy and timeliness of counterpart funding; and providing for a shift from



9
maintenance by force account to maintenance by contract and for training of domestic contractors.
Project implementation has been on schedule, except for two major road contracts having been
terminated due to rebel attacks.
2.23   Building on the successful expenrences of the RRMP, the proposed transport sector in-
vestment project will deepen and reinforce the reforms already achieved or in progress in the road
subsector and will generalize the approach to the rest of the transport sector. The main lessons
include, the establishment of commercially oriented, semi-autonomous authorities for each of the
transport subsectors, with management shielded from political interference and with sustained
budgetary resources derived from user fees on the use of transport infrastructures, adequate staff
compensation and incentives, emphasis on coitract execution of works and subcontracting to the
private sector, and introduction of labor intensive maintenance methods. Technical assistance is
being provided for line positions with time-based plans for transfer of knowledge to local staff.
Emphasis is on cost recovery and enhancement of the transport sector coordination and monitoring
capacity.
2.24   Donor coordination has been improving through existing cofinancing arrangements. It has
been further strengthened during the preparation of the proposed TSP through donor meetings with
the Government and stakeholders in 1994 and 1995. The Government will organize similar confer-
ences each year to streamline dialogue with donors and report on progress of implementation of the
proposed project, review projected plans for subsequent years, and to seek additional funding. The
Government intends to adopt common arrangements for implementation, monitoring, accounting,
and reporting for all donor assisted project components. Understanding has been reached that these
common arrangements will be detailed in the project implementation manual and reviewed with
IDA before being presented to the donors at the first donor conference scheduled before December
1, 1996.
3.    TRANSPORT SECTOR POLICY
A.    OVERALL TRANSPORT SECTOR POLICY
3. 1    In June 1994, the Government of Sierra Leone organized a workshop to develop a national
transport sector policy. The workshop included all major stakeholders -- Government, parastatals,
private sector and intemational donors -- having a stake in the development of Sierra Leone's
transport sector. The workshop was highly participative and resulted in a basic consensus on the
majors goals and objectives for each transport subsector (road infrastructure, road transport, water
transport and air transport). Based on this consensus, DOTC's Planning Unit completed in March
1995, after reviews by the major stakeholders, a draft National Transport Policy, consistent with
national economic reforms objectives, and compatible with available domestic and intemational aid
resources. The National Transport Policy presents the Government's medium-term objectives and
action plan for the sector. It was approved by the Government and presented to a Donors' Meeting
in June 1995. It is the basis for the Transport Policy Letter, dated April 24, 1996, shown in An-
nex 3-1, and for the four-year investment program for the transport sector discussed in Chapter 4.
3.2    The overall goal of the National Transport Sector Policy is to rehabilitate the transport
infrastructure, and transform it into an efficient, reliable, safe, environment-friendly, equitable and



10
self-reliant system, capable of supporting a sustainable private-sector led economic growth, assist-
ing in poverty alleviation and rehabilitation of the war-affected areas.
3.3    The Government's main objectives are to put the management and financing of the roads,
road transport, ports, and airport, on a sustainable long-term basis, managed with commercial
principle and to clear the large backlog of rehabilitation and maintenance works in the transport
infrastructure systemn. To this end, it has adopted the following objectives: (i) clear the backlog of
rehabilitation and maintenance of the road network an increase labor-intensive works; (ii) base
transport sub-sector investment decisions on economic and environmental analyses; (iii) ensure
adequacy of funds for routine and penodic maintenance via user charges; (iv) improve cost recov-
ery in all transport sector parastatals to ensure sustainability; (v) vigorously promote private sector
participation in the execution of works and delivery of transport services; (vi) reduce dependence
on foreign technical assistance and increase training and perfonnance of local staff; (vii) improve
capacity to assess the financial, economic and environmental impacts of alternate transport infra-
structure investment strategies; (viii) streamline regulations and effectively enforce them; (ix) cre-
ate institutional capacity to monitor, collect, and analyze transport data and information; (x) create
capacity for sector coordination, policy formulation and planning; and (xi) strengthen donor coor-
dination.
B.     INSTITUTIONAL REFORM
3.4   In order to improve the overall operational efficiency and service quality of the transport
sector, the Government's goal is to re-engineer the sector, based on a new definition of the respec-
tive roles of Government, commercially-run autonomous agencies and the private sector. In such a
concept, the Government no longer is directly involved in running transport services, unless they
are strategic or there is no private candidate to perform these services. The role of the Government
is redefined to: (i) a regulating role, seting up and enforcing a clear set of standards and regula-
tions pertaining to safety, energy, environmental protection, as well as market entry and exit condi-
tions and competition rules; (ii) a provider of basic infrastructure (as opposed to transport serv-
ices); and (iii) developing the transport policy. Regulatory functions are performed by semi-
autonomous agencies funded by user fees, with users represented on the Boards. Basic infrastruc-
ture services are provided on a commercial basis by existing parastatals. Transport services would
be commercialized or privatized, whenever feasible.
3.5   In the new organizational setting, the primary role of the MTCE will be to develop and
oversee transport policy and to coordinate and monitor semi-autonomous agencies, each responsi-
ble for a transport mode. Its current organizational structure is shown in Annex 3-2. The Ministry
would be streamlined to a CMU, a number of semi-autonomous transport sector agencies and
authorities, and an Environmental Department. The terms of reference of the CMU are included in
the Project Files.
3.6    As mentioned in para. 2.15, the transport sector organization of Sierra Leone has already
been substantially modernized through staff reduction and the creation of semi-autonomous com-
mercial authorities in charge of the key transport subsectors for roads, ports and airports. How-
ever, in the past, the capacity to develop sector policies and to coordinate and oversee the activities
of the authorities by the parent ministries was very limited. Efforts, which were made under
RRMP to enhance the capacity of the Planning Unit at the former DOTC failed to aclieve signifi-
cant results. The lack of a transport sector policy and of oversight capacity by the previous parent



I1
rninistnres led to uncoordinated plans in the various transport subsectors, with potential conflicts
and waste of investments.
C.    RESOURCE MOBILIZATION
3.7    Road Fund revenues collected from users intended for road maintenance expenditure will
increase with the inflow of fees associated with the possession of vehicles and fuel levy collections.
As indicated in paras 5.5 to 5. 11 , it is estimated that the average annual maintenance require-
ments of the existing road network would be in the range of US$11.5-14.5 million. Assuming that
the secun'ty situation in the country is normal, and there is a modest growth in traffic of 4% over
1996-2005, projected Road Fund revenues would be sufficient to meet road maintenance require-
ments by the year 2005, assuming a largely rehabilitated network.
3.8    SLAA's landing fee rates and other levies are already relatively high. SLPA is charging
rates for berthing, pilotage and other services, that are close to the maximum. A new tariff struc-
ture is being reviewed in consultation with users. It is not possible to increase revenues via in-
crease in rates for services; total revenues for the SLAA and SLPA will increase with an increase
in the traffic when the overall economic situation in the country improves.
3.9    As part of the new transport sector policy effort, the Government plans to establish a Re-
source Mobilization Committee, comprising representatives of MTCE, and the Ministnes of Fi-
nance, Planning and Economic Development, and Foreign Affairs and Intemational Cooperation, to
review transport sector investment and maintenance programs and seek funding locally and inter-
nationally.
D.    PROMOTION OF PRIVATE SECTOR
3 10 A key objective of the Government's Transport Sector Policy is greater participation of the
private sector in the execution of works and the provision of transport services. This would be
achieved through a reduction in transport activities undertaken by Govemment parastatals and
through changes in the regulatory framework governing sector activities. Specific objectives and
actions regarding private sector development or privatization for the various transport subsectors
are discussed in the ensuing sections. This includes further development of labor-based and me-
dium-size contractors for routine and periodic road maintenance and road works, contracting out
repairs of government vehicles and privatization of transport entities. MTCE has prepared action
plans for pnvatizing SLRTC and SNA and an updated schedule for the ongoing pnrvatization of
SLNSC Agreements have been reached on these action plans and their implementation schedule.
privatization of SLRTC is expected by June 30, 1997; SNA by March 31, 1997; and SLNSC by
December 31, 1996
E.    TRANSPORT SUBSECTOR POLICIES
3.11   Road Infrastructure. The principal goal for road infrastructure subsector is to rehabili-
tate the national road system to an acceptable level of serviceability and to maintain it in good
condition, so that it can fulfill its strategic role in the development of the national and local
economies. The main objectives of SLRA are: (i) to have the entire National Road System under a
regular, sustainable program of routine and periodic maintenance by 2005; (ii) to bring at least
60% of the pnrmary network (2,000 km) to a paved standard and at least 60% of the secondary



12
network to all-weather standard; (iii) to complete the Sierra Leonean portion of the Trans-West
Africa Highway to adequate paved standard by the year 2010; (iv) to complete the construction of
permanent bridges, where economic, on all main roads by 2005; and (v) to continue to upgrade the
tertiary network to gravel surfacing to improve year-around access to important agricultural and
mineral productive areas.
3.12   There has been some capacity increase in the private construction industry with the train-
ing of ten labor based contractors under the ongoing IDA-financed Agricultural Sector Support
Project (Credit 1501 -SL). Under the new policy, SLRA will continue to move from force account
to contract execution of works and further encourage the development of small domestic firms ca-
pable of bidding on small routine and periodic maintenance contracts involving labor-intensive
works. To encourage the development of small contracting firms, bids will be called for on a con-
sistent basis. This will provide firms with the incentive to gradually build up small equipment
holdings, so that they can eventually bid for larger works. This would be accompanied by continu-
ing the current personnel training and hiring out of tools and equipment to develop such firms.
Routine maintenance is executed almost entirely by one-man contractors. The proposed project
would support the development of another ten labor-based contractors and medium-size contrac-
tors. Up to 90% of the planned periodic maintenance program will eventually be executed by these
contractors.
3.13   With respect to road user fees and cost recovery, the Government will adjust and monitor
closely fuel levy revenues and examine the adequacy of the levy level, and gradually adjust road
user charges to fully cover the costs of routine and periodic maintenance (paras. 5.5 to 5 .1 1 ).
3.14   Road Transport. Under the new policy, the main objectives for road transport are: (i) to
set up a new autonomous RTA financed by user fees and responsible for developing and imple-
menting the road transport policy, specifying vehicle standards licensing of dnrvers, vehicles and
transport services firms, monitoring the subsector and pricing policies, (ii) to establish a clear set
of safety, energy and environmental standards, and traffic regulations; (iii) to develop comprehen-
sive and effective enforcement programs for violations of road-related laws and standards, (iv) to
encourage the growth of the private sector in road transport services, private maintenance and in-
spection services and contracting of maintenance services for government vehicles and through the
privatization of SLRTC. The organizational structure of RTA is shown in Annex 3-3.
3.15   Maritime and Water Transport. The main objectives under the new policy are: (i) to
redefine the role of Government in the subsector as regulator and provider of basic infrastructure
services and delegate to a semi-autonomous Marine Services Administration the coordination and
regulation of all marine, coastal and inland water transport activities; (ii) to improve the efficiency
of SLPA, including reorganization of the authority into autonomous profit centers or companies
(maritime services, harbour operations, ship repair, ferry), and the commercialization and/or pos-
sible privatization of certain services; (iii) to improve cost recovery of maritime administration;
(iv) to comply with intemational maritime standards and inmprove intemational maritime coopera-
tion; (v) to complete the privatization of SLNSC, and (vi) to rehabilitate the coastal and river
transport infrastructure, where feasible.
3.16   Air Transport. The main objectives under the new policy are: (i) to reorganize the
overall administration of the air transport subsector by restructuring the MTCE's Directorate of
Civil Aviation and transforming it into a semi-autonomous Civil Aviation Agency, to be financed
from aviation-related users fees; (ii) to strengthen the SLAA as a semi-autonomous, commercial,



13
self-sustained provider of airport infrastructure services with funding based on airport users fees;
(iii) unbundle functions that can be more efficiently contracted out to the private sector, (iv) to re-
habilitate and maintain Lungi Intemational Airport to Intemational Civil Aviation Organization
(ICAO) safety standards; (iv) to improve security and safety at Hastings and remaining operational
airfields, whenever it is cost-effective; and (v) to privatize SNA.
4.  THE TRANSPORT SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM
A.    INTRODUCrION
4.1    A ten-year investment program for the transport sector has been prepared by the various
government agencies, sector parastatals and authorities on the basis of the National Transport
Policy, and discussed during the June 1995 Donors' Conference (para. 3.1) with various stake-
holders and donors active in the sector. While there is no full consensus on the longer term vision
and expenditure program of each of the implementing agencies, there is wide agreement on the pri-
orities in first four years, which include priority rehabilitation expenditures and investments. This
Transport Sector Investment Program, therefore, includes all the investments planned for the initial
four-year 1996-1999 period for the road, port, airport and water transport subsectors, on which
agreement could be reached.
B.    PROGRAM OBJECTIVES
4.2    The overall aims of the Program are: (a) to support the implementation of the new trans-
port sector policy as enunciated in the Letter of Sector Policy (Annex 3-1); (b) to build local ca-
pacity by expanding the successful process of institutional reform and strengthening; (c) to further
enhance sector planning and coordination through MTCE, (d) to further support stakeholder par-
ticipation and an integrated approach to all sector investments financed by intemal and extemal
sources; (e) to promote private participation in transport activities, including road network mainte-
nance by private, small and medium enterprises; (f) to enhance managemnent of road transport and
alleviate urban traffic congestion; (g) to improve maritime transport by preserving existing port
capacity, improving its management, and promoting coastal and river transport; and (h) to sustain
investments and enhance air traffic safety at Lungi airport.
C.    PROGRAM DESCRIPTION, COST AND FINANCING
4.3    The four-year Program comprises investments and maintenance with total estimated cost
of about US$299.0 million equivalent, excluding physical and price contingencies. The detailed
cost estimates of the program investments and indicative financing plan are shown in Annex 4-1
and summarized in Table 4.1 below. The main components of the Program are summarized in the
following paragraphs.



14
Table 4.1. Transport Sector Investment Program 1996-1999
(excluding physical and price contingencies)
Sub-Sectors/Sub-Progrms                                             Length        Cos          Permt
(kin)      (USS)            %
SECTOR ADMINISTRATION                                                              21            1%
ROAD COMPONENT                                                                   272.1           91%
Redabilit/in/Reestiudicm ofPaved Roads                          482        122.2
Paving of SLrategic Gravel Roads                                  62          0.7
Ddfered Penodic Mainteance of Paved Main Roads                   227         10.3
Rebabiitatim of Gravel Main Roads                                 84          6.0
ReshapingRegravelmingofGravel Main Roads                         1229        11.8
Tnrnk Roads Smnall Rdhabilitatio Woks                             81          5.0
Feeder Roads                                                     1990        20.0
Urban Roads & Streds (ExcL ROW)                                  165         26.9
Special Projects & Tedmical Assismce                                         29.0
Routine & Periodic Maintenance (SLRA)                                            40.1
Natiamal Newcwk - Routme mantmeance                                           9.8
National Netwcrk- Periodic maitnance                                         23.4
Local Roads (Penodic & Routme Mainteace)                                     6.9
ROAD TRANSPORT COMPONENT                                                           3.0           1%
Traffic Mana2gneit Civil Works                                                2.0
Road Transpft Aulhority                                                       1.0
PORT COMPONENT                                                                     j.9           3%
Rehabflitation and Pncrity Inmprovnments (Phase I)                            8.1
C1iattoSV  Slipway                                                            1.8
COASTAL AND RIVER TRANSPORT                                                        2.1           1%
FREETOWN FTRRY                                                                     4.5           2%
AIR TRANSPORT COMPONENT                                                            5.4           2%
Comnmunicadons and Naviption Aids                                                 1.0
Acraul:uical Coammmicaticm Equipment                                          0.7
Radio/Navaid Mlaingnee                                                        0.4
Aerodrome and Ground Aids                                                         3.5
Aurodrome Civil Wraks                                                         0.9
Buildings                                                                     0.5
Acerodroe Eledsical Works                                                     1.0
Acrodrme Service Equipamt                                                     1.1
AdminIstration and Traing                                                         0.8
Adminisraticm equipment                                                       0.5
Training                                                                      0.3
Total Transport Sector Expenditures (1)                                          299.0          100%
(1) Excludes aeminisrative and mo operatimns expeadiures, except for Roads.
4.4      Financing of this four-year investment program is summarized in Table 4.2 below. The
total funds already committed or earmarked from external sources would amount to US$93.3 mil-
lion equivalent, including IDA funds of US$49.5 million equivalent. IDA contribution comprises
about US$19.4 million committed for ongoing projects (JU*MP, ASSP, FIRP), and the proposed
credit of US$35 million equivalent (US$30.1 million base cost). There is a gap of US$131 million
to be bridged by external donors. This gap could not be filled at appraisal since major donors have
withheld assistance until the installation of a democratically elected government. The Government
has resumed discussions with donors and it is expected that this gap will be filled over the next two
years. Should it be impossible to fill the entire funding gap, the TSP would not be in jeopardy
since most components are independent.
4.5      Financing by the various transport authorities and the Government would total
US$74 million, including counterpart funds for yet unsecured external funding. It is estimated that



15
about US$40 million would come from road user charges, fuel levy and license fees, deposited in
the road fund in order to finance routine and periodic maintenance of the roads. Counterpart funds
required from the development budget amount to about US$27 rmillion and are well covered by the
sector revenues raised through an excise tax on fuel and import duty on fuel and vehlcles, estimated
at more than US$20 million annually (Annex 5-2). The remaining US$2.8 mnillion and
US$0.8 mnillion will be financed by the SLPA and the SLAA, respectively.
Table 4.2. Program Financing Plan
(excluding physical and price contingencies)
Donor                    Road       Road        Port      Coastal &   Freetown   Air    Sector   TOTAL
Component  Transport Rehabiitatdon River Transp.  Ferry  Transport Administr
IDA ongoing              19.4        0.0         00(        0.0        00       00       0.0      19 4
IDA proposed             14.2        2.8         71          1 9       0 0      2 1      2 0      30 1
EU                       20.5        0.0        0.0         0.0        0 0      0 (      0.(      2o 5
NCAP                      1.8        0.0        0.0         00         0.0      0.0      (.0       I 8
UNDP                      2.3        0.0        0.(         0.0        0 0      00       0         2 3
ELO                       0.5        0.0        0.0         0.0        0 0      0.0      0.(       0 5
Kuuuitfund               13.5        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0    010        0.()     l 3 5
VARIOUS                   5-9        0.0        0.0         0.()      00       00      0         5 9
GOSLlAuthor.             69.4        0.3        2.8         0.2        0.5      0.8      ( I      74 0
Ext. Gap                124.6        0.0        0.0         0.0        4.1     2.5       00      131 1
Total                   272.0        3.0        9.9         2 !        4.5      5.4      2 1    299 (
FINANCING
Secured etanal fimdmg    78.3        2.8        7.1         1.9        0.0      2 1      2 0      9I 3
Liscuredextemal fimdmg    124 6      0.0         0 0        0.0        4 1      2 5      0) ()    131 1
Fntirelyfmancedby        47.1        0.0         0()        0.0        00       00       0()      47 1
GOSLUAuthorities
Ccunteapmvt funds for secured    8.5  0.3       2.8         0 2        0 0      0 5      0 1      12.3
dextnal fmmacmg
Coumteqpart fimds for unse-    13.8  0 0         0.0        0 0        0 5      0 3      0.(      14 6
cured funding
Total                   272.0        3.0        9.9         2.1        4.5      5.4      2.1    299.0
4.6     Sector Administration. The CMU at MTCE will be strengthened through trained man-
power and by the creation of an advisory unit employed on a contract basis and paid competitive
salaries. The CMU will oversee the transport sector, establishing standards, guidelines and code of
conduct, and more particularly review the Transport Sector Policy and morutor its implementation,
and ensure sector donor coordination. The CMU will be equipped (office equipment, computers,
vehicles) to deliver its tasks, and funds will be made available for studies in the sector Cost of
specific items supported by the program, including studies for the preparation of the project, are
estimated at US$2.1 million and are financed by IDA and the Government.
4.7     Road Infrastructure. SLRA's four-year investment program includes: rehabilita-
tion/reconstruction of 482 km of main roads, paving of 62 km of major gravel roads, deferred peri-
odic maintenance on 227 km of main roads, rehabilitation/periodic maintenance of 1,313 km of
gravel main roads, spot improvements on some 1,990 km of feeder roads, improvement of 165 km
of urban roads. These investments would all be extemally financed with the Govemment providing
counterpart funding estimated at 10% of total costs. In addition, SLRA would finance entirely and
carry out annual routine and periodic maintenance campaigns covering an ever increasing portion
of the road network so that full coverage would be expected in the year 2005.
4.8     The four-year program includes technical assistance financed by EU, IJNDP, and IDA to
support further development of SLRA's capacity and implementation of proposed structural re-



16
forms that would transform the existing Equipment and Supplies Department, which supports force
account operations, initially into a self-accounting profit center, and a commercial entity in a sec-
ond phase. Other "software" components of the program include development of contractors, ex-
pansion of training schools facilities and training program, as well as consultancy services for
studies, design and supervision of works.
4.9    Total base cost of the four-year road program is estimated to be US$272 million equiva-
lent, of which the Government is expected to contribute US$69 million, mainly from the proceeds
of the Road Fund, for the annual routine and periodic maintenance campaigns, and for counterpart
funding, while the remaining funds are expected to come from donor contributions. US$78 mnillion
out of US$203 rmillion to be financed extemally have already been secured, of which US$63.8 mil-
lion represents the estimated cost of completing operations that have already started under ongoing
IDA-financed projects.
4.10   Road Transport. To support the objectives relative to road transport, the proposed proj-
ect will finance the physical installation of RTA, vehicles and equipment, short term technical as-
sistance for the installation of management tools, road transport studies, and training/workshops
for RTA personnel. Total cost for the creation and equipping of the authority is about US$1 mil-
lion. Operating costs will be supported by road user fees. To improve traffic flow inside the con-
gested Freetown, priority traffic management measures amounting to US$2 million have been
identified and will be implemented.
4.11   Freetown Port. The Freetown port rehabilitation component aims at preserving the exist-
ing port infrastructure in order to decrease operating cost of SLPA and to put it into a position to
maintain its infrastructure sustainably with its own funds. Total investments required are esti-
mated to be US$9.9 million which include deferred maintenance of the quays, placing a heavy duty
paving on the container stacking areas and internal roadways to cope with container loads up to
40 tons, and urgent rehabilitation of the slipway at Clinetown whose current condition does not
allow the maintenance of the ferries. The focus of the component is placed on rehabilitating the
existing port facilities and, where necessary, on strengthening them to cope with the containeriza-
tion of marine transport, without increasing port capacity.
4.12 Coastal and River Transport. A study has been carried out to determine short- and long-
term investments for the development of coastal and river transport. The short-term investment
program provides for about 37 storage buildings and 9 piers suitable for pampers (local boats) at
35 selected landing sites for an estimated cost of US$2.1 million.
4.13   Lungi AirporL The Lungi Airport rehabilitation program is estimated to cost
US$5.4 million. It focuses primarily on items that are security related and are necessary to bring
the airport to ICAO standards, without increasing the capacity. The component includes: commu-
nications and navigational equipment; aerodrome and ground aids; runway improvement; rehabili-
tation and improvements of the terminal and the cargo buildings; runway lighting; purchase of res-
cue equipment comprising a rescue boat, ambulance and fire-fighting equipment; and office equip-
ment, vehicles, and training.



17
D.    THE PROPOSED TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
1.     Project Objectives
4.14   The development objectives of the proposed TSP are: (a) transport policy: support the
implementation of the new sector policy and strategy; (b) capacity building: expand the successful
home-grown process of institutional reform and strengthening; and (c) emnployment generation:
increase the use of labor-intensive methods in road works and road maintenance. The specific
project aims are (a) sector/investment planning: further enhance planning and coordination
through MTCE, and support a sector-wide approach to all investments financed by intemal and
extemal sources, (b) private participation: economically maintain the road network through pn-
vate, small and medium size enterprises, (c) regulatory capacity: enhance management of road
transport and alleviate urban traffic congestion; (d) maritime transport: preserve existing port ca-
pacity, reduce operating costs and promote coastal and river transport; and (e) civil aviation
safety: preserve investments and enhance air traffic safety at Lungi International Airport.
2.     Project Description
4. 15   The proposed project will support a four year time-slice (1996-1999) of the Govemment's
ten year sector investment program and will have three main components. A detailed descnrption of
the project is shown in Annex 4-2.
(a)    capacity building to:
(l)    build up the CMU of MTCE for a period of three years, including an ad-
visory group comprising Sierra Leonean personnel (including a transport
economist, an accountant/financial analyst, an environmental coordinator,
a statistician, and support personnel), and operating costs until arrange-
ments are completed by MTCE to ensure its sustainable financing,
(ui)   support a new autonomous RTA including studies for its creation, reha-
bilitation/construction of office facilities, provision of essential equipment,
short-term technical assistance and training/workshops for staff; and
(in)   develop small and medium-size and labor-based enterprises for road
works, through works for spot improvements of 550 km of feeder roads in
the Westem part of the country reserved for bidding by labor based con-
tractors who have been developed and trained under ongoing projects and
reshaping and regraveling works on main roads available for bidding by
medium size contractors. While 40% of the routine maintenance and none
of the periodic maintenance works are being executed by contractors in
1996, it is planned to increase overall private sector execution of road
maintenance to about 90% in 1999;
(b)    parastatal restructuring to:
(l)    improve the organizational structure of SLRA including: creation of a Fi-
nance Department and transformation of the Equipment Division in a first
phase into an a semi-autonomous profit center Plant Pool hiring out or



18
leasing equipment to contractors; and a study to further commnercialize
and pnrvatize the Plant Pool;
(ii)   restructure SLPA. including a study to restructure SLPA and the ferry
operations including plans and legal documents, the possible devolution
and/or privatization of some of its functions, such as cargo handling and
storage and the slipway and marine workshop, and restructuring of Free-
town-Tagrin ferry operations; and
(iii)   privatize SLRTC, SNA and SLNSC including the carrying out of time-
bound action plans for their privatization.
(c)   investment to include:
(i)    road maintenance including: the overlaying of the 15 km Tagrin -Lungi
Airport Road; reshaping and regravelling works on the 62 km Lungi-Port
Loko Road; the 1997 calendar year program for Reshaping/Regravelling
Gravel Main Roads (312 km), and about 68 km of the 1998 program;
spot improvements on 550 km of designated Feeder Roads in the westem
part of the country, and, drainage and pavement repairs on 20 km of des-
ignated streets in the upcountry towns of Bo, Makeni, Kenema, Port
Loko, and Moyamba;
(ii)   traffic management measures in Freetown: including improvement and/or
provision of 20 major intersections, 16 lay-byes on three main arteries; a
40 car off-street parking lot, and traffic signs and markings for new one-
way street operation;
(iii)   port improvement, including: quay rehabilitation; pavement of container
stacking area; slipway repair including provision and installation of a
cradle, rail lines and haulage gear; access roads, and minor improvements
(drainage and lighting) of the newly paved areas; and works supervision;
(iv)   airport improvements, including: runway repair and edge lighting, pro-
curement of safety equipment, protective fencing, and improvements to the
airport terminal; and
(v)    coastal and river transport rehabilitation, including: provision of 37 stor-
age buildings and 9 piers suitable for pampers (local boats) at 35 selected
landing locations and their detailed engineering and supervision.
3.     Project Costs and Financing Plan
4 16   The estimated costs of the proposed IDA-financed components, including duties and taxes,
are shown in Annex 4-3. A summary of the project costs together with the financing plan are
shown in Table 4.3 below.
4.17   Total project cost including physical and price contingencies amounts to US$4 1.0 rnillion,
including US$31.2 million in foreign exchange and US$9.8 million equivalent in local currency. It



19
would be financed by a proposed IDA credit of US$35 million equivalent; the balance would be
financed by intemally generated resources of SLPA and SLAA for their respective port and airport
components, and by Government contribution for road works, road transport, and coastal and river
transport. Part of the proceeds of the proposed IDA credit would be passed on to MTCE
(US$3.0 million) and SLRA  (US$21.2 million). The remaining balance would be on-lent to SLPA
(US$8.3 million) and SLAA (US$2.5 million) for 20 years including a grace penrod of 5 years at
6.9% interest rate per annum. SLPA and SLAA would bear the foreign exchange risk. This fi-
nancing plan was confirmed dunng the negotiations. Agreement has been obtained that the Gov-
ernment will establish a Project Account in the name of SLRA for the implementation of the road
works, road transport and coastal and river transport components with an initial deposit of Le 100
million pnor to credit effectiveness, and, thereafter, make quarterly payments into this account for
counterpart funding
Table 4.3. Summary Project Costs and Financing Plan
(USn million)
Component                                              Total        IDA         GOSL
Sector Coordination                                     2.06         2.01         0.05
'I *duoical Assistance to DOI'C                    0.20         0.20         0.00
I kquipnicnt                                       0.50         0.45         0.05
I rainmg                                          0.30         0.30         0.00
tudiLes                                            0.50         0 50        0.00
Studies ftr Project Prcparati(n (PPF)              0 34         0.34        0.00
I AlIk'qtiipt for Project PreparatiLm (Pl'F)      0.22         0 22         0.00
Roads Infrastructure                                   15.54        14.15         1.39
I'Priodic Maintmnance/Rihabilitatijm               9.55         8 60        0.96
I)evelopment Contractors - hquipment               3.65         3.29        0.37
EI 'xansion of Training School Facilities          0.66         0.59         0.07
Tramiing 1rogram for SLRA                          0.66         0.66         0.00
Desi)gn I lngineermg & Supervisirn                 0.30         0.30        0.00
fIcdmical Assistance                               0.42        0.42         0.00
luslitutirial Study - Plant Pool                   0.30         0.30        0.00
Road Transport                                          3.00         2.75        0.25
rraffic Syst.m Managerent Measures                 2.00         1.80         0.20
Consstruction of RTA Faclities                     0.30         0.27         0.03
Vehicle and Equq)mpmt for RTA                      0.20        0.18         0.02
'I cdiaical Assistance to R1'A                     0.20         0.20         0.00
*Iraining for RTA                                  0.30         0.30         0.00
Port Rehabilitation                                     9.94        7.12          2.82
Port Rehabihtation                                 7.76        5.43         2.33
Clmncilov"n Slhpway                                1.63         1.14        0.49
Civil Works Supervisimra                           0.55         0.55         0.00
Coastal and River Transport                             2.10         1.92        0.18
Phase I Investment Inland Waterways                0.30        0.30         0.00
C oastal & Inland River Transport Study            1.80         1.62         0.18
Air Transport                                           2.63         2.14        0.49
Runway Inprovement                                 0.46         0.37        0.09
Perimeter fencing                                  0.40        0.32         0.08
Terminal Building Improvement                      0.19         0.15         0.04
Airfield Lighting                                  0.76         0.61         0.15
Foam Tender & Rescue Craft                         0.66         0.53        0.13
1'raming                                          0.09         0.09         0.00
Super% ision of Civil Works                        0.07         0.07         0.00
I'tal Base Cost                                       35.27        30.09         5.18
Total Phivsical Contingencies                           3.53         3.01         0.52
Total Price Contingencies                               2 22         1.89         0.33
'I'otal Project Cost                                   41.02       35.00         6.02'
l Includes taxes estimated at US$4.8 million.



20
E.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
1.     Status of Project Preparation
4.18   Two Project Preparation Facilities (PPFs 872-SL and 872-1-SL) have been effective since
the beginning of 1995 and most of the preparation activities are being financed by them. A Tech-
nical Coordinator, who heads the CMU of MTCE, oversees the preparatory activities. Studies for
the port rehabilitation, coastal and river transport, RTA, SLRA organization and management, and
Freetown traffic management have been completed. Detail designs and bidding documents have
been prepared for a number of components, including the office facilities of RTA, slipway repair at
the port and airport fencing. The detailed designs and bidding documents of a number of major
project components are under preparation. Local consultants have been selected by SLRA to pre-
pare the designs and bidding documents for the periodic maintenance road works component.
2.    Implementation Arrangements
4.19   The Transport Sector Program and proposed TSP will be implemented by MTCE, SLRA,
SLPA, and SLAA. MTCE will monitor the implementation of the project through its CMIU, which
will be strengthened under the project. The CMUJ will be responsible for: (i) coordinating, inte-
grating into a consistent framework for monitoring the transport sub-sector planning prepared by
the sector agencies and authorities, and (ii) monitoring the economic, financial, social and envi-
ronmental performance in the sector. It will be staffed with national professionals (including
a transport economist, a project accountant/financial analyst, a statistician/database analyst, an
environmental coordinator and support staff), and the former Planning Unit will be dissolved.
Agreement has been obtained that MTCE will retain this contract-employed advisory group for a
period of three years and will propose ways and means to sustain this coordinating and monitonng
capacity for review with IDA during the mid-term project review. SLRA will be responsible for
implementing: (a) the road component, (b) the traffic management component; and (c) on behalf of
MTCE on an agency basis: (i) the coastal and river transport component, and (ii) the construction
and establishment of the office facilities of RTA. SLPA and SLAA will implement the respective
port and airport rehabilitation components. MTCE and SLRA have signed the agreements under
which SLRA will provide management services for the implementation of part (c) above on a fee
basis. These services will be financed under the existing PPF (para. 4.18) and the proposed credit.
4.20   RTA would consolidate the existing functions of road transport regulation and the collec-
tion of vehicle registration and license fees for the Road Fund. Its operating budgets will be met
from a portion of the fees that it collects for the Road Fund. Draft legislation is currently being
prepared for the establishment of RTA. MTCE has prepared an implementation schedule for
RTA, which is to be established and be fully operational by January 1, 1997; this schedule was
reviewed and agreed with IDA dunng negotiations. Agreement has been obtained that RTA legis-
lation will be enacted prior to credit effectiveness.
4.21   SLRA will implement the coastal and river transport component and the establishment of
RTA through its existing Project Management and Coordination Unit (PMCU). The PMCU of
SLRA was initially set up in mid- 1993 under the FIRP, and is currently responsible for implement-
ing, on behalf of the Freetown City Council, this project as well as the low-cost sanitation compo-
nent of the UWSP. SLRA will implement the rehabilitation and provision of landings at selected



21
sites using a stakeholder/community participatory approach, to involve the stakeholders in the
construction of these sites.
4.22    During project implementation, systematic user and stakeholder consultation and donor
coordination will continue to be sought through regular meetings and workshops and through rep-
resentation of users on the Boards of the authorities. Progress of implementation will be monitored
by the implementing authorities and the CMU against appropriate performance indicators which
were agreed during negotiations. Agreement has been also reached that the Government will organ-
ize, by December I of each year, joint annual reviews attended by donors, implementing agencies
and representatives of user groups to review progress and the proposed investments and recurrent
expenditures of the implementing agencies for the following year. A mid-term review of the project
will be held by December 1, 1998, to assess overall progress and to determine whether any adjust-
ments are required.
3.       Project Implementation Schedule
4.23    The project implementation schedule for the various components is shown in Annex 4-4.
The rehabilitation of the port and airport infrastructure, the construction of the RTA office facility
and the various institutional building components, are expected to be substantially completed
within 24 months of credit effectiveness. The proposed project would be completed by December
31, 2000.
4.      Procurement
4.24    The procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 4.4 below and shown in detail in
Annex 4-5. All procurement of goods and works to be financed by IDA would be in accordance
with Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD and IDA credits (January 1995).
Table 4.4. Procurement Arrangements
(USS million)
Project Components                         ICB   NCB  Other   Total
A. Civil Works                             18.1   11.6    0.0   29.7
(13.9)  (10.4)   (0.0)  (24.3)
Road Works                                  5.8    7.7            13.5
(5.1)  (7.0)          (12.1)
Port Works                                 10.9                   10.9
(7.7)                 (7.7)
Airport Works                               1.4    0.7             2.1
(1.1 )   (0.5)        (1.7)
Other works                                         3.2            3.2
(2.9)          (2.9)
B. Consultants Services for Design, Supervision,
Technical Assistance and Training
5.5    5.5
(5.5)   (5.5)
For MTCE, RTA mad SLRA                                     4.7    4.7
(4.7)   (4.7)
For SLPA                                                    0.6    0.6
(0.6)   (0.6)
For SLAA                                                   0.2    0.2
(0.2)   (0.2)
C. Equipment, Vehides and Materials         5.2    0.3    0.3    5.8
(4.6)   (0.3)   (0.3)   (5.2)
For MTCE, RTA and SLRA                      4.4    0.3    0.3    5.0
(4.0)   (0.3)   (0.3)   (4.6)
For SLAA                                    0.8                    0.8
(0.6)                  (0.6)
TOTAL                                      23.3   11.9    5.8   41.0
(18.5)  (10.7)   (5.8)  (35.0)
Nte: Figures betwee parenthesis are amatmts to be fmanced by IDA.



22
4.25   Procurement for all civil works contracts above US$1.0 million would be carried out under
Intemational Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures. Five such contracts valued at about
US$18.1 million would be awarded. Civil works valued at less than US$1 mnillion per contract
would be procured under National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures. NCB procedures will
include national advertising, public bid opening, clearly stated evaluation criteria, award to the
lowest evaluated bidder, and non-exclusion of foreign bidders if they wish to participate, which are
acceptable to IDA. Four such contracts for building works valued at about US$1.8 million in to-
tal, and about five contracts for piers and storage buildings worth a total of US$2.1 mnillion would
be awarded. About eleven contracts valued at about US$5.1 million in total would be awarded for
periodic maintenance of roads. These works are scattered throughout the country and are spread
out over a penod of two years. Contracts for feeder roads rehabilitation would be awarded to na-
tional contractors meeting qualification cnteria and including those who have been trained under
the AASP LDA supported project (para. 3.12) and have demonstrated their capacity to bid for
small contracts estimated at about US$100,000 each, not to exceed US$2.6 rnillion in aggregate.
The first NCB document for each of the three types of works will be reviewed by the Bank before
it is released to Bidders. Contracts for goods valued at more than US$200,000 each would be
awarded under ICB. Contracts for goods that are available locally and valued less than
US$200,000 each and not more than US$0.3 million in aggregate would be awarded under NCB
procedures. Other miscellaneous goods, such as office equipment, vehicles, etc., estimated to cost
less than US$50,000 per contract and not more than US$0.3 million in aggregate would be pro-
cured through national shopping procedures with the evaluations of price quotations from at least
three suppliers. FDA guidelines (August 1981) will be used for procurement of consulting services.
TIhe proposed credit would finance about US$3.9 million of consultant services including
US$2.7 million for studies and construction supervision and US$1.2 million of technical assis-
tance, and US$1.6 million of training activities.
4.26   Review. Bank-financed civil works contracts above a threshold of US$200,000 and goods
contracts above a threshold of US$50,000 will be subject to Bank prior review. The review proc-
ess will cover more than 90% of contracts by value. Smaller contracts would be subject to post
review. Bidding documents will be based on the latest Bank's Standard Bidding Document for
Small Works, Goods, and consultant procurement on the Bank's standard Letter of Invitation
package/Standard Contract Form. Prior IDA review of the consultant invitation package would be
required for all contracts over US$100,000 in value for consulting firms and US$10,000 for indi-
vidual consultants. Procurement standard times have been agreed with Government and beneficiar-
ies during negotiations. All implementing agencies are equipped to plan, manage and monitor pro-
curement activities. The General Procurement Notice for the Project has been issued for publica-
tion in the Development Business.
5.     Disbursement
4.27   The proposed LIDA credit would be disbursed against the following categories:



23
Table 4.5. Allocation and Disbursement of IDA Credit
(US$ million)
Category                               Amount of       % of Expenditures to be flnanced
Credit               from IDA (1)
(USS milHion)
1 Civll Works
(a) SLRA                                  12.5     100% of foreign and 900/o of local expenditures
(b) SLPA                                   6.5                     80%
(c) SLAA                                   1.4                     80%
2 Equipment, Vehicles and Materials                 100% of foreign and 90% of local expenditures
(a) MTCE                                   0.5
(b) SLRA                                   4.0
(c) SLAA                                   0.6
3 Consultants' Services for Design, Supervision,
Technical Assistance and Training                                 100%
(a) MTCE                                   1.3
(b) SLRA                                   2.5
(c) SLAA                                   0.2
(d) SLPA                                   0.6
4 Refinancing PPF                            1.7
5 Unallocated                               3.2
TOTAL                                     35.0
(1) net of taxes and duties
4.28   The estimated disbursement schedule for the proposed IDA credit is shown in Annex 4-6.
It is faster than the profile for Bank/IDA financed transport projects in Africa, which reflects the
advanced preparation and actions taken to expedite procurement in anticipation of the IDA credit
as well as the implementation arrangements that have been put in place. The closing date of the
proposed credit would be June 30, 2001.
4.29   Two special accounts, MTCE and SLRA, covering four months of eligible expenditures
not likely to be the object of direct withdrawal application will be established at commercial banks
acceptable to IDA. The MTCE special accounts will cover expenditures by MTCE, SLAA and
SLPA. The authorized allocation for the special accounts will be: for MTCE: US$0.6 million;
SLRA: US$1.0 million. Upon effectiveness of the credit, 50% of the initial deposits will be made
available to each special account, and the remaining balance when cumulative disbursement and
outstanding commitments reach US$10 million. Replenishments of the special accounts should be
made on a monthly basis. Disbursement request will be fully documented except for expenditures
under contracts value of (i) less than US$200,000 equivalent for civil works, (ii) less than
US$50,000 for goods; and (iii) for services, less than US$100,000 for consulting firms and less
than US$10,000 equivalent for individual consultants and all training expenditures, which may be



24
claimed on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). All credit beneficiaries will maintain
all supporting documents in their respective offices for review by visiting IDA supervision missions
and the extemal auditors.
6.    Accounting and Auditing
4.30   Each implementation agency, MTCE, SLRA, SLPA and SLAA will account for its own
expenditures and will maintain project and special accounts as well as statements of expenditures.
MTCE/CMU will be responsible for the maintenance of accounts and records to reflect, in accor-
dance with Intemational Accounting Standards, the financial situation of the project and of its
sources and applications of funds. These will be supported by and reconciled with project ac-
counts maintained by each implementing agency. They will include management accounts to re-
flect the financial performance of each component of the project and to permit timely and reliable
monitoring of project funding availability. Each implementing agency will also maintain accounts
and records in accordance with Intemational Accounting Standards and produce annual financial
statements therefrom in a form suitable for audit. These accounts will allow the easy identification
of expenditures and assets under the project. A qualified accounting firm will assist in designing
and installing the project accounting system for CMU under terms of reference acceptable to IDA.
Agreement has been obtained that (i) the project accounting system of CMU will be operational
prior to credit effectiveness; (ii) the project accounts, together with the special account and state-
ment of expenditures, will be audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; and (iii) MTCE
will submit the audited accounts, together with the auditors' management letter, to IDA not later
than six months after the close of the fiscal year. Agreement has also been obtained that the ac-
counts of each implementing agency will be audited annually by qualified independent auditors ac-
ceptable to IDA, and that the audited accounts and the auditor's reports will be submitted to IDA
not later than six months after the end of the fiscal year.
7.    Project Monitoring, Reporting and Supervision
4.31   A monitoring and information system will be developed and maintained at the CMU to
monitor key performance indicators against pre-established input and outcome indicators. Agree-
ment has been reached on the time-bound performance monitoring indicators shown in Annex 4-7.
Agreement has been reached that the Government will: prepare a Project Implementation Manual
before credit effectiveness; and organize a project launch workshop soon after the credit becomes
effective but not later than December 1, 1996; and hold annual reviews by December 1 of each
year and mnid-term review by December 1, 1998, with the participation of all implementing agen-
cies and donors. Representatives of beneficiaries, including NGOs, will be invited to attend.
During the course of implementation, the project will be supervised by Bank staff in accordance
with the supervision plan shown in Annex 4-7. At the annual implementation review, the progress
of the program will be evaluated and the expenditures program and financing plan for the following
year, as well as the updated Transport Sector Policy paper, will be reviewed. The mid-term review
will be jointly carried out with the Government, MTCE, SLRA, SLAA and SLPA. Corrective
measures may be proposed as a result of this review including necessary modifications in the scope
of the proposed project. A completion report will be prepared in accordance with Bank guidelines
by the Government (MTCE), with assistance of the implementing agencies, within six months of
the final disbursement.



25
4.32   SIRA, SLPA, SLAA and RTA will prepare quarterly progress reports in standardized
formats which will have to be submitted to MTCE not later than one month after the end of each
quarter. MTCE will collate these reports into one project progress report and will include all ac-
tivities executed directly by the Ministry. These reports will include: (i) progress achieved against
agreed implementation and disbursement schedules and key performance indicators during the
previous quarter and since the beginning of the project, (ii) work programs for the coming quarter;
and (iii) financial statements from project and special accounts. At the end of the fiscal year the
report will be an annual report and should contain achievements during the previous year as well as
plans for the coming year.
5.   THE IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES
5.1    As mentioned in para. 4.19, the proposed project would be implemented by MTCE,
SLRA, SLAA, and SLPA. Furthermore, parts of the proceeds of the proposed [DA credit would
be passed on to MTCE and SLRA as grants for the implementation of their respective project
components. The remainder would be onlent to SLAA and SLPA for the implementation of their
respective components, i.e. the rehabilitation of the airport and port facilities and the strengthen-
ing/restructunrng of their operations. The organization and management, and finances of SLRA,
SLAA and SLPA are discussed in the following paragraphs.
A.    SIERRA LEONE RoADs AUTHORITY
5.2    Organization and Management. SLRA was established under legislation enacted in Feb-
ruary 1992 as a semi-autonomous ent!ty responsible for the administrative control, planning, de-
velopment and maintenance of all roads in the countrv. It has the authority to hire and fire staff, fix
salary levels higher than Govemment pay scales, sign and award contracts, receive the bulk of its
funds for road maintenance from the Road Fund as allowed by Parliament and to levy other road
user charges subject to approval of Parliament. As shown in its organizational structure in An-
nex 5-1, it is managed by a Director General under the direction of a Board of Directors appointed
by the President. The Board has strong representation from the pnvate sector/organizations of
road users. It reports administratively to MWTM and is subject to extemal audit by independent
auditors. SLRA became operational in early 1993, with technical assistance from UNDP, EU and
IDA. SLRA currently has 640 employees. The accounts of SLRA have been audited by auditors
acceptable to the Bank every six months as required by its charter. These audits are unqualified.
5.3    Although SLRA has proven to be one of the best performing public entities in Sierra Le-
one, its Board of Directors and management, with donors' support, carried out a review study of its
organization in 1995. Based on the recommendations of this study, SLRA will improve its organ-
izational structure to cater for emerging needs, including the creation of a Finance Department and
the restructuring of its Equipment Department. SLRA has communicated to the Bank an action
plan for the improvement of its organization structure. Agreement has been obtained that SLRA
will implement the organizational improvements in accordance with an action plan which was
agreed dunng negotiations. Agreement has also been obtained that SLRA will: privatize routine
and periodic maintenance in accordance with a progressive schedule agreed with IDA; maintain the
terms and conditions for rental of plant pool equipment on commercial basis; complete the study
for the second phase of the restructuring of its Equipment Department by August 1, 1997, and im-
plement the recommendations, as mutually agreed with IDA, by July 1, 1998. Agreement has also



26
been obtained that responsibilities of SLRA relative to the public road network will be stipulated in
the amendment to the SLRA Act. The agreed progressive schedule to privatize routine and peri-
odic maintenance is reflected in the agreed project performance indicators shown in Annex 4-7.
5.4    As mentioned in para. 4.21, a PMCU was established under the ongoing IDA-financed
FRP (Credit 2511 -SL) to assist the Director General of SLRA in implementing this project. The
PMCU will implement the RTA and coastal and river transport components of the proposed proj-
ect. SLRA has appointed an engineer to assist its PMCU in implementing these project compo-
nents.
5.5    Road Fund. As mentioned in paras. 2.18 to 2.20, the Road Fund was initially set up in
1989 by a cabinet decision to finance road maintenance work nationwide through user contribution.
It was subsequently incorporated in the SLRA Act of 1992, which stipulated the creation of this
Road Fund for the collection of: (a) road user charges levy on fuel; (b) vehicle licensing fees;
(c) vehicle registration fees; and (d) any other road user charges that may from time to time be al-
located to the fund by law, toll charges, for instance. The proceeds from this fund are intended
specifically to defray expenses for routine, periodic and emergency road maintenance.
5.6    Despite its legal stipulations, funding of the Road Fund has been secured exclusively by
levies charged on motor gasoline and diesel. Consequently, the Fund has had to face severe finan-
cial difficulties to meet with routine and maintenance demand of road network in Sierra Leone. For
this reason, the fuel levy has been raised several times for the past few years; in 1991, the levy was
26 Le/Ig (or 0.01 US$/liter). It has been raised to 100 Le/Ig (or 0.04 US$Aiter) in July 1992, and
to 200 Le/Ig (or 0.07 US$/liter) in December 1994, which was close to the long-term level esti-
mated necessary to ensure funding of routine and periodic maintenance. The sharp depreciation of
the Leone has reduced the already low fuei 'evy in.real Lerms and it is currently equivalent to
0.05 US$/liter, which makes it impossible for the Road Fund to cover the planned routine and
maintenance costs. In the meantime, the Government has regulated the pnrce of petrol and raised it
by 100% to 900 Le/Ig (0.40 US$/liter) in 1991, 1,375 Le/Ig (0.53 US$Aiter) in 1993, 1,650 Le/Ig
(0.57 US$/liter) in 1994, and 1,950 Le/Ig (0.45 US$Aliter at current price) in 1995.
5.7    The current structure of the Board of the Road Fund reflects well-balanced interests of
vanous stakeholders, including the Chairperson, the Director General of SLRA, a representative of
MWTM, a representative of Sierra Leone Motor Drivers Association, a representative of Sierra
Leone Institute of Engineers, a representative of Sierra Leone Chamber of Commerce, Industry and
Agriculture, two provincial representatives and a representative of Ministry of Finance. In accor-
dance with Article 13 of the SLRA Act, the Directors remain in office for a term of three years
which expired in October 1995. This term has been extended until a new Board is constituted.
The Road Fund has been audited by independent auditor every six months. These audits have been
submitted to IDA and are unqualified.
5.8    At present, the sole source of revenue for the Road Fund is the fuel levy. Taxes and user
fees, as summarized below, currently remain with the collecting agencies or go into general con-
solidated account. In general , the collection system for user fees, except for the fuel levy, is not
cost effective and inadequate - a mere US$0.3 million was collected in 1995.



27
Table 5.1. Taxes and User Fees Revenue (1995)
TYPE                           COLLECTOR              RECIPIENT           REVENUE (1995)
1. tJSER FEES
(a) Fuel Lesvy                Customs Depatment     Road Fund (SLRA)        3.954 mail. S
(b) Licase Fee                    Pohce                 GOSL               0.095 mnil. S
(c) Regisration Fee                Police                GOSL               0.025 mil. S
(d) Driver's License Fee           Police                GOSL               0.093 mnil. S
(e) Commercial Authonzaticn Fee    RTD                   GOSL               0.036 nil. S
(f) Vehicle Examainaticrn Fee      RTD                   GTOSL              0.065 mil. S
2. TAXES
(a) Excise cn Fuel            Customs Deparament         GOSL               14.112 nail. S
(b) Import Dutv n Fuel        Customs Deparlnent        CTOSI.              6.325 mil. S
(c) Import Duty (n Vdiicles   Customs Department         GOSL                  a.a.
5.9    Assuming that the current structure of fuel levy and user fees remain unchanged, the Road
Fund will be able to cover merely 35-76% of the planned maintenance program for the years 1996
to 2005. Although the rate of coverage could be improved through (a) cutting back the planned
periodic and routine maintenance program, (b) achieving cost savings through greater operational
efficiency, and (c) enforcing stricter rules on axle load control in order to minimize damage to the
road, they are not substantial solutions to the existing problems. A more efficient and rationalized
revenue collection system will be implemented under the proposed project to establish the sustain-
able road maintenance in the country.
5.10    Financial Covenants. A Task Force, composed of MTCE, SLRA and 1DA, has proposed
a new user fee system that would comprise the following elements: (a) all user fees, currently col-
lected by RTD and Police, will be collected by the newly established RTA and deposited directly
into the Road Fund; in addition, the current user fee structure will be rationalized and simplified to
make collection more efficient, (b) the current fuel levy will be raised to US$0.08 per liter equiva-
lent; (c) an additional fuel levy of US$0.02 liter equivalent will be effected for financing the main-
tenance of local roads and streets; (d) commercial authorization fee will be abolished and will be
merged with license fee; (e) license fee will be raised in steps reflecting the principle of cost recov-
ery based on relative damaging effect on road infrastructure by the various types of vehicles,
(f) registration fee will be raised; (g) driver's license fee will be raised; and (h) vehicle examination
will be conducted and fee will be collected by private garages authorized by RTA, a small percent-
age of which will be remitted to RTA. The current and proposed fee structure is shown in An-
nex 5-2. An understanding has been reached with the Government on a time-bound Road Fund
revenue raising schedule. Agreement has been reached that the Government will raise the road
maintenance charge (fuel levy) to US$0.08 per liter equivaient before credit effectiveness. Agree-
ment has also been reached that SLRA's accounts will be audited annually and will be submitted to
IDA, together with a management letter, within six months after the close of the year, and such
accounts and audits will also include the project accounts, the special account and statements of
expenditures, as well as technical audits based on terms of reference satisfactory to IDA.
5.11   SLRA's projected revenues and expenditures under the agreed fee increase schedule are
shown in Annex 5-3. Annual expenditures are to equal revenues. Out of the US$0.08 per liter
equivalent fuel levy, US$0.07 per liter equivalent would be used for financing maintenance of the
national road network; the remaining US$0.01 per liter equivalent for rural and local roads.
RTA's operating costs estimated at about US$230,000/year would also be financed from the Road



28
Fund. The Road Fund would cover close to 90% of the routine and periodic maintenance in the
planned Five-Year Program for the national road system (Annex 4-2). The only sizable shortfall is
expected in 1997 because of the phasing in of the revenue structure of the Road Fund.
B.    SIERRA LEONE AWRPORTS AUTHORrrY
5.12   Organization and Management. The SLAA was established as an independent, autono-
mous agency in July 1988. It is responsible for the management of the Freetown International Air-
port at Lungi and Hastings Airport. As shown in its organizational structure in Annex 5-4, SLAA
is supervised by a Board of Directors whose chairman is a former director of the Department of
Civil Aviation. The general manager and the members of the management team, all Sierra Le-
onean, have extensive management and professional experience. SLAA is considered to be an ef-
fectively managed institution. Its total work-force numbers 275 and most labor-intensive activities
are contracted out when necessary. It has the capacity to execute the air transport components of
the project. Its accounting system and auditing procedures, which are computerized and well-
maintained, are adequate to monitor day-to-day operations as well as long-term investment opera-
tions. The accounts have been audited by auditors acceptable to the Bank with a qualification on
the valuation of the assets taken over from the Department of Civil Aviation.
5.13   SLAA's Financial Performance. SLAA's past financial statements are highlighted in
Table 5.2 below and detailed in Annex 5-5. They have been restated in nominal prices in US Dol-
lars at the average exchange rate effective during each fiscal year.
Table 5.2. SLAA's Financial Situation
(US $ '000)
Fiscal year                        1991     1992     1993      1994     1995
Nd Inoone for the Year             160      414       174      21       156
AcauedCasBalamce                    51      196       67       103       254
Net Profit Margin                  10.4%    22-9%    10.9%     1.1%     6.8%
Net RenunTca1 Assets               17.2%    33.4%    13.1%     1.6%     11.9%
Currit Ratio                       0.8       1.0      0.8      0.9       0.7
Debt to Equity Ratio               N.A.     N.A       N.A.     N.A      N.A
AverageCo11edionPeod(days)         94       90       118      113       100
5.14   SLAA eamed healthy net incomes over the period 1991 to 1993, with an average net profit
margin of 14.7%. However, as its net income declined markedlyto US$21,000 equivalent in 1994,
SLAA raised the landing and airport charges as well as other fees. As a result, its net income in-
creased to US$156,000 equivalent in 1995. SLAA's liquidity position has been tight; its cash bal-
ance of US$254,000 at the end of 1995 was equivalent to 1.7 months of its total cash operating
expenses. SLAA is free of long term debt. Accounts receivable declined from 118 days in 1993 to
100 days in 1995, while accounts payable were paid within 37 days on average. Tighter internal
controls should improve the situation.
5.15   Financial Projecfions. Summaries of SLAA's projected financial statemanets for the years
1996-2005 are highlighted in Table 5.3 below and detailed in Annex 5-5. The assumptions for the
projections are also detailed in Annex 5-5.



29
Table 5.3. SLAA's Future Financial Situation
(uS $ '000)
Fi3cal year                 1996  1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  2005
Nd Income for the Year      238   308   255   261   297   354   334   281   336   378
Acaued Cash Balance          24    3    334   506   775   659   579   845   815   825
NdeProfitMargin            9.9%  12.2%  9.6%  9.4%  102%  11.5%  10.4%  83%   9.5%  10.1%
NdRetumonTotalAssds        14.8%  7.00/%  4.3%  4.0%  4.1%  4.4%  4.0%  3.2%  3.7%  4.1%
Current Ratio               0.7   0.8    1 2    1.4    1 8    1.7   1.6   1.8   1.8    1 9
Debt to Equity Raio         N.A  0.70  0.74  0.72  0.68  0.66  0.65  0 61  0.59  0.56
Debt Service Coverage       N.A.  N.A.  N.A.  NA.  NA   N.A   3.1   3.2   3.5   3.9
Average CoUedion Peiod (days)    90    90    90    90    90    90    90    90    90    90
5.16    Airport revenues are highly sensitive to the country's macroeconomic and political envi-
ronment, and the current situation cautions for a worst case-type scenario on traffic projections;
accordingly, the traffic growth projections are conservative. Under these conservative assumptions
for traffic growth, the financial projections for the years 1996 to 2005 indicate that SLAA's fi-
nancial performance would be satisfactory. It would maintain, during this period, net profit mar-
gins ranging from 8.3% to 12.2%. Its liquidity position will continue to be tight through 1997, but
will improve thereafter. The debt-equity ratio would increase to 0.74 in 1998, but would decline
gradually thereafter as SLAA begins to service the outstanding long term loans. SLAA's debt
service coverage would exceed 3.1.
5.17    Financial Covenants. Agreements h2ve been reached with SLAA that it will: (i) submnit
to IDA, not later than six months after the close of the fiscal year, its annual audited accounts, to-
gether with the auditor's management letter, and the audit of the project accounts and statements
of expenditure, (ii) generate sufficient revenues to meet its operating expenses including deprecia-
tion, and debt service; (iii) maintain a mrinimum debt service coverage of 1.5; and (iv) not carry out
any investment(s), other than those included in the Project, larger than US$1 million equivalent,
without prior consultation with IDA.
C.      SIERRA LEONE PORTS AuTHoRrry
5.18    Organization and Management. The organization of the SLPA, as shown in Annex 5-6,
reflects the multiplicity of tasks performed on force account by the agency (marine services, regula-
tory duties, handling and storage, infrastructure, superstructure and equipment maintenance, se-
curity, ferry services, and slipway and marine workshop). Operations are highly centralized and
communication is inadequate. Since there is no involvement of the private sector, all investment or
financial risks fall on the SLPA. The port structure should be modified so that the SLPA concen-
trates on the duties which it is in a better position to perform. This can be done by either (i) licens-
ing of operators for commercial activities, in accordance with the 1964 Ports Act; or, better, (ii) by
transforming the SLPA in a holding corporation, which would perform the core duties of a public
port authority, and be a minority shareholder of profitable, licensed private or/and mixed compa-
nies operating commercial and industrial activities. Cargo handling, storage, the slipway, and the
marine workshop are obvious candidates for licensing to private operators or for privatization.
Restructuring and re-staffing is necessary for improving the cargo-handling performance. Agree-
ment has been reached that (i) SLPA shall assist MTCE in carrying out the study for the restruc-
turing of SLPA, including a management and financial review; (ii) a time-bound restructuring ac-
tion plan will be submitted to IDA by March 1, 1997; and (iii) SLPA will thereafter implement the



30
action plan as agreed with IDA. Outline terms of reference for the restructuring study by inde-
pendent consultants have been finalized. The study's findings and recommendations will be re-
viewed in consultation with IDA. The accounts of SLPA have been audited by auditors acceptable
to the Bank. The audits are unqualified.
5.19   SLPA has been operated by a port management consulting firm under a managernent con-
tract since 1987. The management contract, financed from the port's own resources, was extended
for one year and for a reduced foreign expert team, starting from April 30, 1996. The currertly
employed consultants have been managing day-to-day operations and have organized training for
the counterparts, in Freetown, Ghana and Europe. Results of the management contract have been
disappointing in policy formulation, definition of strategies, accounting and management systems,
and, particularly, the transfer of management responsibilities to nationals. The performance of
individual consultants or firms freely sub-contracted by the present consultants has not been satis-
factory in all cases. A new management plan, for the transfer of management to nationals, was
agreed to during negotiations and the implementation of this plan will be a condition of credit dis-
bursement against the physical components for the port rehabilitation and slipway repair. SLPA
will prepare and submit by September 1, 1996 a program for back-up support to ensure that the
Sierra Leonean managemnent team will manage port operations effectively. Government policy and
practices regarding the SLPA are also a cause for difficulties either because all management deci-
sion are de facto to be approved a posterioni by Government, or because Government agencies do
not pay their bills to SLPA, even when they have the budget for it. This jeopardizes the port's cash
flow; on the side of the debtor agencies, drawing on the port is equivalent to obtaining additional
budget allowances, which is not for good financial discipline. Measures to rectify the situation will
be spelled out in the Ferry Services Agreement (see para. 5.21).
5.20   After its creation in 1965, SLPA' staffing had grown and reached 2,064 employees.
Through continuing attrition, it is currently 1,740; staff is in excessive number, overage, and un-
derqualified; qualifications are low but many staff cannot be retrained due to lack of basic educa-
tion. SLPA needs fewer, younger, and more skilled workers. The average age of SLPA employees
is 45. In Operations and Stevedoring, the average age is more than 50 and is one of the causes for
low productivity in cargo-handling. A voluntary retirement scheme will be added to the present
retirement plan and a system of extended special leave will be implemented. This cannot be done
before the restructuring has been decided upon. The present attrition program is based on a 1994
Manpower Study which estimated staffing needs at 1,250 employees. The staffing aspect will be
reviewed as part of the restructuring study
5.21   Ferry services. The Government has handed over the care of ferry services to SLPA
without a written mandate, concession, or other agreement, which would stipulate the respective
rights and duties of both parties to the agreement. The ferry service is a drain on SLPA's finances.
Accumulated ferry losses from 1990 to 1995 are estimated at Le 6.7 billion, wiping out 67% of
SLPA's surplus over the period; in addition SLPA paid the equivalent of some US$1.5 million to
repay hard currency loans contracted by Government for the purchase of a ferry. The ferry service
absorbs a large part of the time and energy of SLPA's General Manager. Agreement has been
reached that national consultancy services will prepare a draft agreement between the Govenmuent
and SLPA, acceptable to IDA, for the management and operation of the Freetown-Tagrin ferry



31
services (Ferry Services Agreement). This agreement will also define respective obligations and
rights of Government and SLPA as may be required (para. 5.19). Execution of this agreement will
be a condition of disbursement against expenditures related to the physical components of the port
rehabilitation and slipway repair (para. 4.11).
5.22    SLPA's Financial Performance. Summaries of SLPA's past financial statements are
highlighted in Table 5.4 below and detailed in Annex 5-7. These financial statements have been
restated in nomninal prices in US dollars at the average exchange rate effective during each fiscal
year.
Table 5.4. SLPA's Financial Situation
(US $ '000)
Fiscal year                                    1991      1992      1993      1994     1995
Na Incmne fbr the Year                         3,265     3,939     982       156      (59)
Accrued Cash Balance                            1,859    1.832     1,625     548       155
Net Profit Margin                              21.5%     28.7%     8.4%     1_6%     -0.5%
Net Retumn   Total Assds                       23.5%     32.2%     8.8%     1.7%     -0.7%
Current Ratio                                   2.3       2.3      2.2       2.9       3.4
Debt to Equity Ratio                            N.A      N.A       N.A      N.A       N.A
AverageCoUectioniPenod(days)                    140       110      121       101       90
5.23    Due to a significant decline in traffic resulting from the deteriorated security situation in
the country in recent years, SLPA's revenues decreased from US$15.2 million equivalent in 1991
to about US$11.0 million equivalent in 1995. As a result, SLPA's net income declined markedly,
from US$3.3 million equivalent in 1991 to US$156,000 equivalent in 1994 and a loss of
US$59,000 equivalent in 1995. The net profit margin declined steadily from an average of 26% in
1991-1992 to below 2% in 1994 and -0.5% in 1995. Most of the recent traffic consisted of food-
aid shipments whose handling was unpaid. An examination of the port's financial statements re-
veals that all departments are profitable, with the exception of the ferry services, which has consis-
tently incurred a loss. SLPA's subsidy of ferry services from its port operations will be addressed
in the Ferry Services Agreement to be executed beween SLPA and the Government (para. 5.21).
As part of the port restructuring (para. 5.18), the port will institute an overhaul of its accounting
controls system and control operating expenses. As traffic volume increases, the port's revenues
will increase, boosting net income. In addition, the expiration of the management contract, which
includes expatriates, will significantly reduce SLPA's operating expenses, as it is paid out of the
port's revenues and is equivalent to the entire payroll of the port. SLPA currently has no long-term
debt.
5.24    Financial Projections. SLPA's projected financial staternents are highlighted in Table 5.5
below and detailed in Annex 5-7. The assumptions for the projections are also detailed in An-
nex 5-7.
Table 5.5. SLPA's Future Financial Situation
(US s '000)
Fiscal year                     1996  1997  1998   1999  2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005
NdIncomiefxrtheYear             231   813   1,198  1,021  1,184   1,165   495    512    555    134
Nd Pnoift Margin                2.2%   7.0%   9.6%   7.7%   8.5%    8.0%    3.2%    3.2%    3.3%    0.8%
NdRdumcmToalAssets              2.7%  4.7%   4.4%   3.5%   3.5%    3.0o   1.2%    1.2%    1.1%    0.3%
Current Ratio                    3.2   2.4   2.3   3.1    2.9    3.0    3.4    3.4    3.3    3.6
Debt to Equity Ratio            N.A.  0.50   0.64   0.63   0.65    0.66    0.67    0.67    0.71    0.71
Debt Suvice Coverage            N.A   N.A   N.A   N.A    N.A    N.A    1.9    2.0    2.2    2.0
Average Collecticm Penod (days)  90    90    90    90    90         90     90      90      90     90



32
5.25   Projections for traffic growth are conservative, as the growth rate will be affected by the
new political situation. The financial projections for the period 1996 to 2005 indicate that, on the
basis of historical values of the assets and current tariff structure, SLPA's net income would rise to
US$1.2 million in the years 1998-2000, and would decline from the year 2001 as it begins to
charge interests on long term debts to operations. Similarly, its net profit margin would rise to
8.5% in the year 2000, and decline steadily after 2001. The financial projections indicate that
SLPA would maintain a healthy cash balance. While the debt-equity ratio increases as SLPA
takes on debt to finance its investment program, it would remain at an acceptable level. Debt
service coverage ratio would be at least 1.9 during the projected period.
5.26   Financial Covenants. Agreements have been reached with SLPA that it will: (i) submit
to IDA, not later than six months after the close of the fiscal year, its annual audited accounts, to-
gether with the auditor's management letter, and the audits of the project accounts, and statements
of expenditure; (ii) generate sufficient revenues to meet its operating expenses including deprecia-
tion, and debt service; (iii) maintain a minimum debt service coverage of 1.5; and (iv) not carry out
any investment(s), other than those included in the Project, larger than US$2 million equivalent,
without prior consultation with IDA.
6.    BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.    GENERAL
6.1    This chapter discusses the economic and social benefits, poverty alleviation and environ-
mental impacts, and the risks associated with the project and the program. The project will have
important but unmeasurable benefits as well as several direct, tangible and measurable benefits
describe below.
B.    BENEFITS AND ECONOMIC RETURNS
6.2    The project's direct, tangible but unmeasurable benefits are as follows:
*   improved, transparent sector management, including more effective management and
monitoring of sector parastatals and their operations on a commercial basis;
*   increased direct private sector participation in road maintenance, waterway transpor-
tation, port and airline operations, and vehicle examination; and indirect private sec-
tor participation through user representation on the boards of transport parastatals;
*   through a steady volume of road maintenance works, expanded capacity of small and
medium construction enterprises and of local consultants in project preparation, im-
plementation, auditing and supervision;
*   training of skilled and unskilled labor, which can move to other construction activi-
ties;



33
*   savings in travel time by households to jobs, schools, markets and health facilities in
urban and poor peri-urban areas as well as rural areas;
*   improved airport safety through compliance with the ICAO security regulations for
the airport, and
*   support to the Transport Sector Policy consistent with overall macro-economic ob-
jectives, in particular Sierra Leone's competitiveness in local and regional markets,
and poverty alleviation.
6.3    The project's direct, measurable benefits are based on quantifiable benefits arising mainly
from user cost savings. Economic internal rates of return (ERR) calculations and sensitivity
analysis are estimated in Annex 6-1 for the road infrastructure, road transport, port rehabilitation,
water transport and the air transport components, and summarized as follows:
(a)    Road Infrastructure Component: The cost-benefit analysis for the IDA-financed
portion of the Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Program was carried out us-
ing data on road and traffic collected by SLRA. Benefits were approximated by
savings in vehicle operating costs. The road component has an overall EIRR of
25% and NPV of US$8.0 million discounted at 12%, with all subcomponents
yielding EIRRs greater than 12%, except for a few sections classified as gravel
main roads. These sections are expected to yield higher EIiRRs if uncaptured
benefits to farmers are incorporated. The non [DA-financed portion of the pro-
gram is estimated to yield EfRRs between 12% to 40%. Sensitivity analyses indi-
cate that the overall EIRR of the road component would decrease to 22% if there
is a cost overrun of 10%, and to 17% if project implementation is delayed by one
year.
(b)    Road Transport Component: Economic retums were calculated for the IDA-
financed component of road transport. Benefits were quantified by saving in
transportation in terms of time and vehicle operation costs. The ERR is 25% and
NPV is $1.6 million, discounted at 12%. The result of the sensitivity analysis
shows that the base ERR decreases from 25% to 23 with a 10% cost-overrun and
to 21% with a one-year implementation delay.
(c)    Port Rehabilitation Component: The cost-benefit analysis was carried out for the
IDA-financed component of port rehabilitation, the paving of the unsurfaced areas
of the port and a program of deferred maintenance. Benefits were approximated
by savings in operation and maintenance costs. This component has an overall
EIRR of 24% and NPV of US$7.1 million discounted at 12%. This return would
be reduced to 22% if there is a cost-overrun of 10%, and to 20% if project imple-
mentation is delayed by one year.
(d)    Coastal and River Transport Component. Economic retums were calculated for a
sample of 12 out of 77 landings studied. Benefits were calculated from vessel,
passenger, handling and spoilage savings. Five typical landings in Phase I invest-
ment were analvzed. These calculations show ERRs ranging from 16% to 97%
for the selected locations. Sensitivity analyses against risks of 10% cost-overrun
and 10% decrease in benefits still supported the viability of these landings.



34
(e)    Air Transport Component. Economic retums were calculated for the IDA-
financed component. Benefits were calculated savings in maintenance. NPV is
estimated as $0.7 million, discounted at 12%, and ERR is 19%. The sensitivity
analysis against the cost-overrun by 10% reduced the ERR to 17%, and the im-
plementation delay by one year reduced it to 16%.
C.    SOCIAL BENEFITS AND POVERTY IMPACT
6.4    The Transport Sector Investment Program and the IDA credit will deliver direct and indi-
rect benefits to the poor. Direct benefits will arise from:
(a)    improved access of remote rural areas, included areas isolated by the conflict, to
social services such as health and education;
(b)    easier access by farmers to inputs such as fertilizers, pesticides, extension services
and even credit,
(c)    increased employment opportunities in rural areas through the promotion of labor-
based construction and maintenance of roads;
(d)    better access roads to low income areas in the main cities;
(e)    improved non-motorized and pedestrian facilities in urban areas - the former will
provide a lower cost alternative to public transport for goods as well as individuals
and the latter will improve safety, and
(f)   improved traffic flow and reduction of congestion in Freetown.
6.5   Indirect benefits will arise from the reduced cost of transporting goods and personnel on
improved roads. In some cases the possibility of marketing a production surplus will become fea-
sible for the first time, while in others, improved roads will result in lower transport cost through
increased competition and/or better prices through access to more lucrative markets. The program
will assist in creating employment both directly in transport civil works and indirectly through ex-
pansion of farming and other economic activities. Road safety improvements under the program
will help reduce the high rate of road accidents and fatalities, which affect the poor disproportion-
ately.
D.    ENVIRONMENTAL IMEPACT
6.6    The proposed project has been placed under environmental category B. The main envi-
rornental impacts of the proposed project are: (i) minor soil erosion caused by road rehabilitation
works; (ii) sand extraction on beaches for various construction works; (iii) increased vehicular
speed due to improved roads; (iv) increased emissions of air pollution due to the poor standard of
the vehicle fleet; (v) risk of an oil spill and waste disposal at the port; and (vi) negative impacts of
possible deepening, widening and change of river courses related to river transport improvements.
An environmental assessment was carried out for the proposed project and a specific study on the
port rehabilitation was prepared, a summary of which given in Annex 6-2. The final report con-
taining an environmental analysis and a mitigation plan addressing these impacts was presented to
IDA in June 1995 and the final draft of the port rehabilitation study was presented to IDA in Janu-



35
ary 1996 (see Project File). Most of the above conditions would be improved with the project
through the implementation of the proposed mitigation plan.
6.7    The study recommends a mitigation plan which encompasses the following: (i) legal and
regulatory measures relating to: environmental guidelines and standards for road rehabilitation and
maintenance works; vehicle emission and noise; proper operational procedures and occupational
health and safety procedures in connection with road works, vehicle examination centers, port and
airport operation ; (ii) coordination of environmental activities to be carried out under the project
by an environmental coordinator working in the Environmental Department within the MCTE and
attached to the CMU; (iii) strengthening of the existing environmental unit at SLRA and introduc-
tion of a new road safety unit; and (iv) various technical measures to be incorporated in the design
of the physical components of the proposed project. The Environmental Department will coordi-
nate and implement the mitigation plan through an environmental coordinator in the CMU to be
appointed by MTCE (para. 4.19). The terms of reference for the environmental coordinator is in-
cluded in the Project Files. All future feasibility studies and design of public works under the pro-
posed project will incorporate the recommendations of the Environmental Impact Assessment and
Mitigation Plan.
E.    RISKS
6.8    The principal risks of the proposed project are political and related to the rebel war in the
country. Dissident groups of the armed forces had until recently rendered many areas of the coun-
try except the Freetown Peninsula and the Lungi Airport area unsafe for economic activities.
However, the expectation is that the recent inauguration of the newly elected democratic govem-
ment on March 29, 1996, a cease-fire in effect and on-going negotiations with the rebel movement,
will further contribute to the marked improvement in the security situation observed over the few
months prior to the cease-fire. Since many of the components of the proposed project (port, coastal
and river transport, airport, sector management and coordination, establishment of RTA) are lo-
cated in safe areas, a first phase of the proposed project could be implemented even under the
situation that existed before the cease-fire. However, if the rebel war recurs, it would make eco-
nomic growth unlikely and hence the justification for some of the planned investments question-
able. The political and security situation could also lead to delays in project implementation, in-
cluding the privatization of designated entities.
6.9    Other risks and the measures to be taken to mitigate them are.
(a)    benefits arising from roads improvement not sustained due to inadequate funding
of maintenance: agreement has been obtained during the negotiations that the
Government will raise the levy on vehicle fuel to US$0.08 per liter equivalent;
(b)   increase in cost and/or decrease in benefits arising from unforeseen factors: sensi-
tivity analyses on the economic retums of the various project components, shown
in para. 6.3, indicate adequate EIRRs;
(c)    non-availability of Govemment counterpart funds: the Government's creation of a
project account in SLRA's name with an initial deposit of LelOO million and its
quarterly deposits thereafter will diminish this risk, and



36
(d)    management performance may not be up to expectations: the monitoring system
installed at CMU and the monitoring indices developed for the project will allow
early detection of management shortcomings. Also, the planned improvements and
restructuring of project implementing agencies and the training program for their
staff will minimize this risk.
7.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
A.    AGREEMENTS REACHED
7.1    Agreements have been obtained from the Government, SLRA, SLPA and SLAA that:
(a)   the Government will onlend parts of the proposed credit proceeds to SLPA and
SLAA, for 20 years including a grace period of 5 years at 6.9% interest rate per
annum (para. 4.17);
(b)   the Government will establish a Project Account in the name of SLRA with an
initial deposit of Le 100 million before credit effectiveness; and, thereafter, make
quarterly payments as per the cashflow requirement for counterpart funding (para.
4.17);
(c)    MTCE will retain a contract-employed advisory group (national professionals) in
its CMU for a period of three years to be financed under the project; and will pro-
pose ways and means to sustain this monitoring capacity for review with IDA
during the mid-tern review of the project (para. 4.19);
(d)   the Government will enact the RTA legislation before credit effectiveness (para.
4.20);
(e)    MTCE will have the project accounts, special accounts and statement of expendi-
tures audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA and subrnit
them, with management letter within six months after the close of each year (para.
4.30);
(f)   the Government will hold joint mid-term review with SLRA, SLPA, SLAA, and
IDA not later than December 1, 1998 (para. 4.31);
(g)   the Government/MTCE will organize a transport sector donor's conference before
December I each year; at which conference, MTCE will present a status report on
the sector investment program (para. 4.31);
(h)   the Government will prepare, in collaboration with SLRA, SLPA and SLAA, a
Project Implementation Manual before credit effectiveness and hold a Project
Launch Workshop by December 1, 1996 (para. 4.31); the common arrangements
for implementation, monitoring and accounting for all donor assisted projects will
be elaborated in the Project Implementation Manual and presented to donors at the
first conference by December 1, 1996 (para. 2.24);



37
(i)    the Government will define the road network under the responsibility of SLRA in
the amended SLRA Act (para. 5.3); and
(j)    the Government will implement the agreed revenue structure; and the road mainte-
nance fee (fuel levy) will be raised to US$0.08 per liter equivalent before credit ef-
fectiveness (para. 5. 10).
7.2    Agreements have been obtained from SLRA that:
(a)    the terms and conditions for rental of plant pool equipment will be on commercial
basis acceptable to IDA (para. 5.3);
(b)    SLRA will complete the study for the implementation of the second phase of the
restructuring of its Equipment Department by August 1, 1997; and wvill implement
the recommendations of this study, as mutually agreed with IDA, by July 1, 1998
(para. 5.3),
(c)    SLRA will implement, in accordance with the agreed action plan, the organiza-
tional improvements, including the creation of a Finance Department (para. 5.3);
and
(d)    SLRA's accounts will be audited annually and will be submitted to IDA, together
with management letter, within six months after the close of the year, and such ac-
counts and audits will also include the project accounts, the special account and
statements of expenditures, as well as technical audits based on terms of reference
satisfactory to IDA (para. 5.10).
7.3    Agreements have been obtained from SLAA that:
(a)    SLAA will generate sufficient revenues to meet its operating expenses including
depreciation, and debt service (para. 5.17);
(b)    SLAA will maintain a minimum debt service coverage of 1.5, and will not carry
out any investment(s), other than those included in the proposed project, larger
than US$1  million equivalent without prior consultation with IDA (para. 5.17),
and
(c)    SLAA will submit to IDA, not later than six months after the close of the financial
year, its annual audited accounts, together with management letter, and the audits
of the project accounts and statements of expenditures (para. 5.17).
7.4    Agreements have been obtained from SLPA that:
(a)    (i) it will assist MTCE in carrying out a study for the restructuring of SLPA, in-
cluding a management and financial review, to be completed by December 1,
1996; (ii) a time-bound restructuring action plan will be submitted to IDA by
March 1, 1997; and (iii) SLPA will, thereafter, implement the action plan as
agreed with IDA (para. 5.18);



38
(b)   the implementation of the plan for the transfer of management to Sierra Leonean
nationals will be a condition of credit disbursement against the physical compo-
nents for the port rehabilitation and slipway repair (para. 5.19);
(c)    an agreement acceptable to IDA will be executed between the Government and
SLPA for the ferry operations; execution of this agreement will be a condition of
disbursement against expenditures related to the physical components of the port
rehabilitation and slipway repair (para. 5.21);
(d)    SLPA will generate sufficient revenues to meet its operating expenses including
depreciation, and debt service (para. 5.26);
(e)    SLPA will maintain a minimum debt service coverage of 1.5, and will not carry
out any investment(s), other than those included in the proposed project, larger
than US$2 million equivalent without prior consultation with IDA (para. 5.26);
and
(f)    SLPA will submit to IDA not later than six months after the close of the fiscal
year, its annual audited accounts, together with management letter, and the audits
of the project accounts and statements of expenditures (para. 5.26).
7.5    Before credit effectiveness:
(a)   the Government will execute the subsidiary loan agreements with SLAA and
SLPA and the subsidiary financing agreement with SLRA on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the IDA (para. 4.17);
(b)   the Government will establish a Project Account in SLRA's name with an initial
deposit of Le 100 million for counterpart funding (para. 4.17);
(c)   the Government will enact the RTA legislation (para 4.20);
(d)   the project accounting system of CMU/MTCE will be established and operational
(para. 4.30);
(e)   the Government will prepare the Project Implementation Manual (para. 4.31); and
(f)   the Govemment will raise the road maintenance charge (fuel levy) to US$0.08 per
liter equivalent (para. 5.10).
7.6    SLPA's implementation of the management succession plan and execution of the agree-
ment between the Government/MTCE and SLPA for the Freetown-Tagrin ferry operations will be
conditions of disbursement against expenditures related to the physical components for the port
rehabilitation and slipway repair (paras. 5.19 and 5.21).
B.    RECOMMENDATION
7.7    Based on the above agreements, the proposed project is suitable for an IDA credit of SDR
24.3 million (US$35.0 million equivalent) on standard terms to the Republic of Sierra Leone.



39                                                      Armex 2-1
Page I of 2
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
NATIONAL ROAD NETWORK CLASSIFICATION
(km)
CLASS                                                PAVED                 GRAVEL/EARTH                      TOTAL
Nsicmua Road Syste
Prumaryroutes(A)                                  756                         1,384                        2,140
Seouadary routes (B)                               24                         1,880                        1.904
Feeda roads (F)                                      -                        4,152                        4,152
Urbaa anials (outside NRS)                         35                             1                           36
Sub-toba                                               815                        7,427                         8,232
Local roads and sreds                                   80                        2,988                         3,068
Public Roads Network                                   895                       10,405                        11,300
VEHICLE STATISTICS
NUMBER OF MOTOR VEHICLES LICENSED AND TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS, 1986-1995
Table A: Number of Vehicles Licensed
1986       1987        1988        1989        1990        1991        1992       1993        1994        1995
Privae Cars         20,026      21,725     22,049      23,150      23,822      24,760      26,145      26,683      27,485      24,737
Taxis               3,214       3,244       3,418       5,862       5,970      5,995       6,113       6,810       6,803       6,123
Li  VaMs            5,018       6,095       6,281       6,809      6,520       6,543       7,717       8,081       8,114       7,303
L4xaes              1,190       1,260       1,312       2,502       3,748      3,858       3,101       3,282       3,997       3,597
Pods Poda/Buses      574         650         702         850        985         1,010      1,143       1,261       1,103        993
mocrcycdes          8,302       9,060       9,486       9,827      9,938       10,134      10,393      10,718      10,977      9,879
TOTAL               38.324     42,034      43 248      49,000      50,983      52,300      54,612     56,835      58,479      52,632
Table B: Traffic Accidents
NatueofAc4idodfs            1986        1987       1988       1989        1990       1991        1992       1993        1994       1995
RoadAccidens                1,888      1,434       1,249      1,216       986        1,091       823        1,945      1,276       2,129
TcutCamakes                 2,302       1,498       686        551        445         827        646        1,945      1,310       1,196
Fgtily Ijured                133        124         71         52          62         67         62          112        122         140
Seiously lnjied              978        764        222         198        180        346         285        794         355         199
S*ity Injured               1,191       610        393         301        203        414         299        1039        833        857
Sowce: Ron Road Polce Stiom, Freotou



40                                                    Annex 2-1
Page 2 of 2
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
SIERRA LEONE AiRPORTS AUtTHoRT
Airport Traffic Statistics
1987        1988        1989        1990        1991         1992        1993        1994
1. AIRCRAFT MOVEMENTS (NOS.)
1.1. Dmnestic/Hatmgs                     5,258       6,157       6,174       3,122         808        1,208         708         NA
1 2. Intenaticnal Sdcedule               1,614       1,898       2,429       2,031        2,297       1,961       2,038       2,237
1.3. IntemnatimalNon-Schedule              528         153         305       3,673        4,712       3,033       2,263        1,636
TOTAL                                    7,400       8,208        8,908       8.826       7,817       6,202       5,009          NA
2. PASSENGER VOLUME (NOS)
2.1. Disanbarked                        35,291      34,212      43,967      50,508       47,917      44,997      39,208       43,567
2.2 Embarked                            34,219      36,498      45,777      52,653       56,656      49,944      40,746       43,275
2.3. Transit                            20,803      27,001      37,878      26,995       28,570      24,027      28,127      26,597
TOTAL                                   90,313      97,711     127,622      130,156     133,143     118,968     108,081      113,439
3. CARGO VOLUME (KG)
3.1. (Snladen                          940,084     944,124     1,072,429   1,329,770   1,242,588   1,446,494   1,097,308   914,361
3.2. Laden                             140,316     257,988     376,561     825,252     782,364      525,331     623,482     533,819
TOTAL                                  1,080,400   1,202,112   1,448,990   2,155,022   2,024,952    1,971,825   1,720,790   1,448,180
4. MAIL VOLUME (KG)
4.1. Unladen                            95,580      70.062      78,884      96.593      85,897       78,773      90,893      92,945
4.2. Laden                              10,649      17,174      16 3'       17,203       13,781      18,177      15,451      26,266
TOTAL                                  106,229      87,236      95,253     113,796      99,678       96,950     106,344     119,211
Traffic Statistics in '000 Metric Tonnes (1986-1994)
YEARtrrRAFFIC                     1986       1987        1988       1989        1990        1991       1992        1993        1994
IMPORT                         409,915    338,338    306,487    379,293    369,637    384,091        375,736    403,794    400,239
FXPORT                           47,938     33,897      30,083     21,991      83,771      20,763     25,202      30,213      33,379
TOTALTHROUGBUT                  457,853    372,235    336,570    401,284    453,408    404,854    400,938    434,007    433,618
(a) The SLPA does not handle the disdcarge of pdroleum producLs. This is done by the oil conpanies thenselves.
(b) Loading of minerals, bauzite and rutile is dime by the mining companies themselves from the Port of Niti and not by SLPA at the Pnt of Freowt.
Container Traffic
1986      1987      1988       1989      1990       1991      1992       1993      1994
IMPORTS TOTAL UNITS -TEUS                5,885     6,949     6,480      8,029     8,251      6,764     6,963      7,902     7,560
IMPORTSTOTALTONNAGE-TEUS                76,913    98,258    89,812    115,426   124,540   104,117    97,453    116,420   103,336
EXPORTSTOTALUNITS-TEUS                   5,326     6,414     6,100      7,184     7,738      5,985     7,291      7,676     7,513
EXPORTS TOTAL TONNAGE -TEUS            20,899    17,069    19,986    26,932    39,567    26,197    24,039    25,388    26,651
GRANDTOTALLUNITS-TEUS                   11,211    13,363    12,580    15,213    15,989    12,749    14,254    15,578    15,073
GRANDTOTALTONNAGE-TEUJS                97,812    115,327   109,798   142,358   164,107   130,314   121,492   141,808   129,987



41                                      Annex 3-1
Page 1 of 6
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
LETTER OF TRANSPORT SEcrOR POLICY
SIERRA  LEONE GOVEBZNT
MC\655
24th April, 1996
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C.
USA
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn,
Re: Sierra Leone - Proposed Transport Sector Project - Letter of Sector Policies
Our Ministry has been working with your staff on the Transport Sector Project which is due to go
to the IDA Board in June 1996. In order to place this project in its proper policy context and in
advance of its presentation to the Board, we are writing to inform the Intemational Development
Association of the initiatives we are currently taking in the transport sector in Sierra Leone.
Govemment attaches high priority to the sector's role in increasing human welfare and economic
growth. This letter therefore highlights the main constraints facing the sector and the strategies
designed to address them. This policy and strategy framework will be used to underpin the design
and implementation of the proposed IDA-supported Transport Sector Project (TSP), as well as
other donor supported projects.
Backeround
The transport sector in Sierra Leone is currently characterized by inadequate infrastructure and
inefficient services; poor maintenance practices, an ineffective inland water transport system;
continued impediments by non-physical barriers such as inappropriate policies, excessive
regulation, and cumbersome procedures, all of which inhibit efficient traffic flow; inadequate and
undeveloped indigenous capabilities to plan, design, manage, and operate the sector; the absence of
reliable data for planning and application of modem management systems; and obsolete regulatory
rules which were inherited from the colonial period.
In view of the shortcomnings listed above, a fundamental transport policy reform is essential to
increase the role and operational significance of transport in the economnic development process. A
reformed and well - structure transport sector can help reduce the drain on public funds and raise
the level of savings by charging tariffs and rates that cover the cost of services, and by transferring
transport services to private enterprises, thereby releasing public funds for other uses. Similarly,



42                                      Annex 3-1
Page 2 of 6
the sector could strike an optimal balance between construction, rehabilitation and maintenance,
ensuring that no investments are undertaken that do not have an acceptable economic rate of retum.
In addition, the sector could increase its own efficiency by improving the management o its human
resources and physical facilities, by promoting competition, and by increasing the use of the private
sector for maintenance and construction works. In this way, the transport sector could also
contribute some funds to supplement the Government's investment in the sector.
STRATEGIES AND ACTIONS
Transport Sector Coordination. Government is seeking to improve the operational efficiency,
service quality, and availability of transport services by implementing appropriate policies and
administrative measures that will increase their competitiveness, productivity, and profitability,
while at the same time ensuring social and economic development. In pursuit of the above, the
following lines of action are proposed:- strengthening of the Co-ordination and Monitoring Unit at
the Ministry of Transport Communications and the Environment in terms of trained manpower and
logistics support by the creation of an advisory unit (comprising of Transport Economist and a
graduate Data Analyst) financed from a percent levy on transport sector revenue and staffed with
Sierra Leonean professionals who are employed on contract and paid competitive salaries;
establishing standard reporting and audit formats for the various transport-related parastatals; the
issuance of a manual on the qualifications, code of conduct, and performance of Board Members of
these parastatals; reviewing the Transport Sector Policy periodically and monitoring its
implementation; and transport sector donor co-ordination.
Financin!flnvestment. In the short and medium term, govemment proposes to establish efficient
methods of resource mobilization to ensure sustainability of the project of rehabilitation and
expansion of the transport sector; establish a Resource Mobilization Committee comprising the
Ministries of Transportation Communications and the EnWoronment; Finance; Development and
Economic Planning; Foreign Affairs; and Work and Technical Maintenance which will draw up
programmes and seek funding, locally and intemationally; introduce user fee charges for services;
and establish subsidy criteria. Transport services will also be improved through the promotion of
enterprises, the liberalization of services, and the creation of an enabling framework for
strengthening the private sector.
Manpower Development.   Govemment intends to promote human resources planning,
development, and utilization in order to improve the quality and availability of personnel at all
levels for efficient management and operation of transport modes. Along these lines the following
actions will be undertaken:- training of personnel in all transport fields, improvement of conditions
of service and career opportunities; provision of opportunities for national experts; establishment
and adequate funding of training institutions locally; provision of opportunities for specialized
training overseas; and, promotion of exchange programmes for local personnel.
Roads Infrastructure. The overall of the roads infrastructure policy is to rehabilitate and
maintain, in good condition, the existing road network nation-wide, in order to maximize its
contribution to the economic development programme. The objectives are to remove physical
bottflenecks in the road network in order to unleash a strong supply response in support of the
econonic recovery programme, through rehabilitation and maintenance; to build institutional
capacity to improve management and planning and to foster market-oriented policies, to strengthen
road infrastructure institutions by restructuring if necessary, to provide an independent source of



43                                      Annex 3-1
Page 3 of 6
funding through user fees, to encourage new methods of infrastructure rehabilitation, using
appropriate labour-intensive technologies and local resources and inputs, in order to generate jobs
and provide a sustainable maintenance system; to increase the role of the private sector in road
maintenance, and develop the capacity of small and medium-sized local contractors to perform
road maintenance.
The actions to be undertaken will include the implementation of phased and balanced programmes
of development and management of roads infrastructure, taking into account the needs and
requirements of the production and marketing centres, rehabilitation, upgrading, and maintenance
of the most critical elements of the existing roads infrastructure so as to improve their efficiency
and capacity utilization, as well as to prolong their economic life, and assessment of the adequacy
of the existing road network in terms of geographic distribution, integration with other modes, and
responsiveness to road transport demands.
In the area of user fee pricing and cost recovery, government will closely monitor fuel levy
revenues and examine the adequacy of the levy level; gradually adjust road user charges to fully
recover the costs of routine and penrodic maintenance; pay directly to the Road Fund all fees
collected by the Road Transport Authority (vehicles and drivers license fees, vehicle examination
and registration fees, and commercial authorization fees), examine other local sources of funding
and contributions in kind; develop local sources of funding for the construction, rehabilitation and
mostly maintenance of rural feeder roads in connection with local communities; and develop
cooperation with the Intemational Labou (rganization (1LO) and Non-Government Organizations
(NGOs).
To facilitate institutional strengthening, action will be taken to provide logistic support to SLRA in
the form of vehicles and improved office equipment and facilities, provide Technical Assistance to
SLRA at all levels of management, continue to develop tiie Road Infrastructure Management
Information System, and develop and implement better planning techniques to optimize the road
investment programme, taking into consideration network planning or optimization techniques and
economic rates of return on investment.
In the field of human resources development, the following programmes are planned: the
implementation of the Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project (RRMP) human resources and
training programme, development of civil engineering, and other transport planning and
management curncula in Sierra Leone's institutions of leaming, and the formulation of training
programmes for private road maintenance contractors.
In an effort to facilitate private sector development, private road contractors will be encouraged
through the award of small road maintenance contractors, using labour-intensive technologies,
training programmes for contractors, and leasing of equipments to contractors.
Environmental protection and control will be ensured by the following measures: a review of
transport investment programmes to determine which road projects are likely to have a significant
impact on the environment: the commissioning of an environmental impact study in the design
phase for these projects, taking action to preserve arable lands, restrict deforestation, preserve
natural areas (classified forests, animal reserves and parks, tourist and archaeological sites);
undertaking reforestation, in conjunction with road infrastructure works, giving close attention to
air pollution in the cities, mostly Freetown, and creating and maintaining in SLRA an in-house



44                                        Annex 3-1
Page 4 of 6
environmental division with its engineering staff in charge of environmental impact assessment and
monitoring.
Road Transport. The main goal of this subsector is to establish a road transport system that will
be available, safe, reliable, efficient, cost effective, sustainable, and capable of facilitating the
exploitation and evacuation of resources and the movement of persons within and between towns.
In order to reach these goals, Sierra Leone's policy in the Road Transport Subsector will focus on
the following objectives: the creation of an autonomous user financed Road Transport Authority
(RTA), responsible for developing and implementing the Road Transport Policy, specification of
vehicle standards, licensing of vehicles, licensing of drivers, and monitoring the Road Transport
Sector and its pricing policies; the establishment of a clear set of safety, energy and environmental
standards, licensing requirements for vehicles, drivers, transportation service, firms, traffic
regulations etc., the development of comprehensive and effective enforcement programmes through
clear schedules setting fines and penalties for violations of standards and traffic laws; the creation
of a special corps of traffic wardens and public information campaigns; encouragement and
promotion of the private sector in road transport related activities; the development of private
maintenance and inspection services, and contracting of maintenance services for government
vehicles; and the initiation of measures to privatize the Road Transport Corporation.
The plans of action envisaged include the creation of a Road Transport Authority (RTA), a review
of road transport legislation and the setting up of standards and regulations which will cover the
following areas: minimal standards for imported new and used automotive vehicles; standards for
imported automotive parts: standards for imported automotive fuels, safety, energy, and
environmental standards for automotive vehicles (private cars, taxis, vans, light lorries, heavy
lorries, buses), including standards for axle loads, trar-sportation of liquids and hazardous
materials; a programme for the certification of approved maintenance and repair facilities and
inspection stations; criteria for the certification of road transport carries, and traffic laws and
regulations.
A study is to be undertaking on the appropriate pricing of user fees for vehicle licenses and
registration, vehicle inspection fees, drivers licenses, business licenses for certified inspection
centres and maintenance shops set to fully cover the regulatory agency's expenses. In addition,
another study will be commissioned on the appropriate pricing, regulation, and guidelines for
transport services (taxis, intra-urban buses, inter-urban buses, road freight, etc.)
Private sector development will be encouraged through the privatization of the Road Transport
Corporation (within six months); the promotion of the development of certified private automotive
inspection centres to verify vehicle compliance with emission standards, mechanical fitness, etc.;
the development of a private competitive automotive insurance industry; the development, through
duty-free concessions, of private automotive maintenance, repair and rehabilitation shops and
stations; and the contracting of maintenance and repair of government vehicles to private facilities.
Maritime and Water Transport. The overall goal of the Maritime and Water Transport
Subsector is to develop and efficient, safe, reliable and competitive maritime, coastal and infland
waterways system in support of Sierra Leone's economic development programme. Based upon
the goals and objectives set for the maritime and water transport sector, the following action plan is
proposed: the setting up a semi-autonomous Maritime Services Agency (MSA) to coordinate and
regulate all maritime, coastal and niland transport activities, as compared to the existing



45                                        Annex 3-1
Page 5 of 6
arrangernents; the commissioning of a strategic planning study on the future of the Sierra Leone
Ports Authority (SLPA), involving the re-organization of SLPA into autonomous profit centres or
companies (maritime services, harbour operations, ship repair, ferry) and the feasibility of
privatizing some of the activities, such as cargo handling and ferry services; the privatization of the
Sierra Leone National Shipping Company (SLNSC); an investigation of the possibility of
converting the Port of Freetown into a free trade zone; and the possibility of developing the port of
Niti into a second National Port.
In the area of intemational maritime cooperation, the relevant intemational standards on safety and
the environment will be ratified and implemented; intemational cooperation with multilateral
agencies - UNCTAD, the International Maritime Organization (IMO), the Regional Maritime
Academy, and the Ports Management Association will be enhanced; and regional cooperation
(through MINCOMAR), will be strengthened.
Air Trasport Policy. The main thrust of the air transport sector is on the provision of an
adequate, safe, secure, reliable, efficient, affordable and sustainable air transport service, in
support of the country's programme of economic and social development. The achievement of the
above will facilitate the development of Sierra Leone's intemational trade; contribute to improving
the business climate by facilitating the movement of national and intemational business executives;
facilitate the development of intemational tourism in Sierra Leone and promote tourism, especially
in areas like the Gola Forest, Lake Sonfon, Outamba Kilimi Game Reserve, Bonthe, Kabala, etc.;
develop intemational technical cooperation in aviation; facilitate trade and economic integration
within the West Africa subregion; contribute to a better integration of the national economy; and
facilitate commerce, particularly the evacuation o huigh value precious minerals from the interior of
the country.
Under the proposed Transport Sector Project, govenmment will restructure and reorganize the
overall administration of the air transport subsector; create a semi-autonomous Civil Aviation Unit,
with funding from user fees; strengthen the Sierra Leone Airport Authoonty, as a semi-autonomous,
self sustained provider of airport infrastructure services, with funding from airport user fees;
investigate areas that can be run by the private sector; exploit intemational traffic rights and
improve intemational air service to Sierra Leone through inter-line agreements and joint-venture
agreements between Sierra Leone National Airlines and foreign airline partners; maintain Lungi
Inteational Airport to ICAO standards, maintain Hastings airport to acceptable standards; and
improve access from Freetown to Lungi Airport.
In order to achieve these objectives, government will implement the following lines of action:
commission a feasibility and cost/benefit analysis of restructuring the Directorate of Civil Aviation
and transform it into an autonomous Civil Aviation Agency financed with (a portion of) the
proceeds of fees generated from aviation; amend Civil Aviation Legislation to reflect the reform of
the Civil Aviation administration; review existing multi-lateral treaties and agreements (ICAO,
etc.); examine existing bilateral agreements on intemational traffic rights; negotiate bilateral
agreement with other countries to develop intemational scheduled traffic; develop a liberal policy
with respect to foreign charter airlines; and develop a liberal policy with respect to foreign freight.
Government will also assess the situation of other domestic regional airfields; commission a study
on the feasibility of redeveloping a schedule domestic air service; and, in conjunction with the local
communities and the private sector, rehabilitate provincial airfield; and develop policy with respect
to domestic air taxis.



46                                      Annex 3-1
Page 6 of 6
The Sierra Leone Airport Authority (SLAA) will perform an analysis of airport user fees structure;
develop and implement a multi-phase action plan and investment programme with priority on
security and safety; develop a Long-Term Master Plan for the country's international airports;
develop an integrated Airport Management Information System; develop an air terminal in
Freetown; and conduct and Institutional and Financial Review of the Sierra Leone Airports
Authority with a view to privatizing certain functions of the Authority.
Meteoroloey. The goal of this sector is to make available reliable weather and climatic data to
protect property and to assure citizens of their safety from natural hazards. Govemment proposes
to look into the possibility of restructuring the Meteorology Department in to a viable self-
financing entity, and to establish investment requirements to enable the Department to perform its
functions more efficiently.
Proiect Sustainability. This would be enhanced by the following measures: key stakeholders and
private sector involvement in management, monitoring and implementation; SLRA's commercial
orientation and capacity to program and contract out road maintenance works; maintaining full
cost recovery level of the fuel levy and other road user charges; enhanced local capacity and
stronger sector coordination and monitoring by MTCE; and financial viability of the autonomous
self-financing beneficiaries (SLRA, SLAA, RTA) and their capacity to maintain competitive
salaries and inceitives to attract and retain qualified staff.
In conclusion Mr. President, I wish to assure you that the Govemment of Sierra Leone attaches the
highest priority to the implementation of the policies outlined above.
Your sincerely,
Sulaimanej~an-Jalloh
Minister of Transport,
Communications and the Environment



47                         Annex 3-2
Page 1 of I
IX   X
I    I



REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
RTA - Organizational Structure
BOARD of DIRECTORS
|      DIRECTOR sGENERAL  
INTRNL AUDIT 
00
HEDUESING DEPT                              EATRSDETHEAD FIN & ADM{IN DEPT
S/O            S/O            S/O             S/O            S/O             S/O            5/0            S/O             S10
DRJLIC        VEH/REG          MON &        PUB TRANS        FREIGHT       PL & POLICY        FIN          ADMIN            MIS
& LIC      INSPECTORATE
SNR CLERICS    SNR CLERKS    SNR INSPECTORS    SNR CIERK      SNR CLERK       ECON/ENG         ACCTS      GFN       PERS  PROGRAMERS
CLERKS         CLERKS      CLK INSPECTORS     CLERKS          CLERKS    CLERK INSPECTORS    CLERKS    CLERKCS    CLERKS    CLERKS
O WA



SIERRA LEONE
TRANSPORT SECTOR EIVESTMENT PROGRAMME
1996-1999
Detailed Cost Table and Annual Estimated Expenditures
Red No.    Project Description                                                Km               Base coats in UsS                             Costs Breakdown          Source of  Program
1996      1997      1998      1999      Total   Foreign     LAl       Taxes funding (1)
A.          SECTOR ADMINISTRATION                                                       0.56      0.54      0.53       0.43      2.06      1.65       0.17      0.25
I            Technical Assistance to DOTC                                                         0.04      0.08      0.08       0.20      0.16      0.02       0.02 IDA       TSP
2            Equipment                                                                            0.20      0.20       0.10      0.50      0.40       0.01      0.09 IDA        TSP
3            Trainig                                                                              0.10      0.10       0.10      0.30      0.24      0.03       0.03 IDA       TSP
4            Studies                                                                              020       0.15       0 15      0.50      0.40       0.05      0.05 IDA        TSP
5            Studies for Project Prepration (PPF)                                       0.34                                     0.34      0.27      0.03       0.03 IDA       TSP
6            TechnicalAssistance/EquipmentforProjectPreparation(PPF)                    0.22                                     0.22      0.18       0.02      0.02 IDA        TSP
B.          ROAD COMPONENT                                                             48.70    100.03     75.57     47.75    272.05    201.13      41.01      29.92
I           Rehabilitation/ReennsructionofPavedRoads                          482      21.60     47.80     39.60      13.20    122.20     97.76      9.73      14.66
1.1          Goderich - Waterloo Rural Coastal Road
(i)W.JohnsonBridge-Tokeh                                        21       7.60       7.60      3.80               19.00      15.20      1.52      2.28 Gap(EU)
(ii) Tokeb -Kent lct                                             16                7.00       7.00               14.00      11.20      1.12       1.68 Gap (Qatar)
(iii)KentVillage-KentJct-Waterloo                         o     26       9.00      6.00                           15.00     12.00      120       1.80 Koveitfund
1.2          Rogber-Lussar-Makeni                                              70       3.00      7.00      3.00                13.00     10.40       1.04      1.56 EU        RRMP
1.4          Freetomn - Conakry Road (contr. doc. prepared)
(i) M_iaka- Rcgbere (incL Rokel River Bridge)                   29       2.00       5.00      5.00               12.00       9.60      0.96       1.44 Gap (EU)   (Lomne V)
(ii)Rogbere-Punelap(GuineaBoader)                                80                 8.40      8.40      4.20     21.00      16.80      1.68      2.52 Gap(EL)   (LomelV 
1.5          Tsumna-Bo-KenemNa(deferredexecution)                             121                 6.80      6.80      3.40      17.00     13.60       1.36      2.04 Gap
1.7          Matstca - Sefadu                                           p    119                            5.60       5.60     11.20      8.96      0.90       1.34 Gap (ADB)
2           Paving of Strategic Gravel Roads                                   62       0.00      0.70      0.00       0.00      0.70      0.53       0.11      0.07
2.1         Lungi-PortLoko (fmststae: reshape. spotregrav.)                    62                 070                            0.70      0.53       0.11      007 IDA         TSP
3           DderredPeriodicMaintenanceofPaved MainRoads                       227       0.00      1.30      3.65       5.35     10.30      8.24       0.82      1.24
3.1          Tin Point - Lungi Airpott                                         15                 1.30                           1.30      1.04       0.10      0.16 IDA        TSP
3.2          Bo-K iKamsdu-B ndajumn                                            52                           1.20                 1.20      0.96       0.10      0.14 Gap
3.3          Masiaka-Mile 91                                                   70                           2.45      2.45       4.90      3.92      0.39       0.59 Gap
3.4          Makeni - Fadugu - Kabala (previous contrat cancelled)      p      90                                     2.90       2.90      2.32      023        0.35 Gap(EU
4           Rehabilittion of Grave Main Roads                                  84       0.40      0.80      2.80       2.00      6.00      4.80      0.48       0.72
4.1          Psalap Jct. Kmak-wie (first stage: drain., spot regrv.)           84       0.40      0.80      0.80                 2.00      1.60       0.16      0.24 EU
-   (second stmge: rehabilitation)                                                  2.00       2.00      4.00      3.20       0.32      0.48 Gap (EU)
5           ReshapiigtRegraveUinagof Gravel Main Roads                       1229       0.00      3.10      5.70      3.00      11.80      8.85       1.77      1.18
5.1 to 5.23  1997 Pregnm                                                      312                 3.10                           3.10      2.33      0.47       0.31 IDA       TSP
5.1 to 5.23  1998 Pregram                                                      68                           065                  0.65      0.49      0.10       0.07 IDA       TSP
5.1 to 5.23  1998 Program                                                     524                           5.05                 5.05      3.79      0.76       0.51 Gap
5.1 to 5.23  1999 Program                                                     325                                      3.00      3.00      2.25      0.45       0.30 Gap
O *



Ret No.    Projed Desaiption                                                      Km                Boe costs in Us$                                 Cob Bredadan               Sole of  Proge
1996      1997       19         1999       Total   Frtga        L1a        Taxes fa mihg (1)
SBIS         Truk Roads Snil Relahiliattsn Waks                                    31        *.96       1.34      1.34       1.34       4.99       3.25       1.25       0.50
-dinrge                                                      a       54       0.96       0.66      0.66       0.66       2.94       1.91       0.73       0.29 EU         SASP
-drinageandipvement                                           0      27                  0.69       0.69      0.69       2.06       1.34       0.51       0.21 EU         SASP
6            Feeder Roads                                                        199S        4.61       7.59      3.44       4.37      20.01      10.01       9.00       1.00
6.1 (a)       Rehabilitation ofAgricultunl Feeder Roads - ASSP (LCB)         0    240        1.20       1.20                            2.40       1.20       1.08       0.12 IDA        ASSP
6.1 (b)       Rehabilitation ofAgricultral Feeder Roads - ASSP (ICB)         0     170       1.75       4.20                             5.95      2.98       2.68       0.30 IDA        ASSP
6.2           Rehabilitation of Feeder Roads                                 o    280        0.56       0.70       0.70                  1.96      0.98       0.88       0.10 EU
6.3           Rebabilitation of Feeder Roads                                 a    200        0.75       0.75       0.50                 2.00        1.00      0.90       0.10 NCAP
6.4           Spot improvemn  (West)                                               550       0.35       0.74       0.74       0.37      2.20        1.10      0.99       0.11 IDA        TSP
6.5           Spot Improvement                                                     550                             1.50      4.00        5.50      2.75       248        0.28 Gap
7            Urbtan Rb & Street (Exd ROW)                                          165       3.20       932       4.86       4.52      26.90      21.52       2.15       3.23
7.1           Clinetown-WellingtonRoad                                       o       9       1.50                                        1.50       1.20      0.12       0.11 IDA         RRMP
7.2           Freetown CBD Street Rehabilitation                             o      15       1.70       1.70                             3.40       2.72      0.27       OAI IDA          RRMP
7.3           Major Streets in Up-country Towns                                     20                             0.80       0.80       1.60       1.28      0.13       0.19 IDA         TSP
7.4(a)        Freetown PavedRoads (outside CBD)                                     90                  3.60       2.70       2.70       9.00       7.20      0.72       1.08 Gap
74(b)         Freetown Paved Roads (outside CBD)                             0      27       5.00       3.00                             8.00       6.40      0.64       0.96 IDA         FIRP
7.5           FreetownHillsideRoad(incl. supervision)                                4                  1.02       1.36       1.02       3.40       2.72      0.27       041 Gap
9            Spedal Projea & Technikal Astance                                               5.34      16.96      2.26        1.47     29.03      18.14       7.44       3.46
9.1 (a)       DevelopmnntofContractor (Smar  &Mediumn) -Equipmcnt                 -                     3.40                             3.40      2.72       0.07       0.61 IDA         TSP
9.1 (b)                                          -Equipmnent                                            3.31                             3.31       2.65      0.07       0.60 Gap                                   
9.1 (c)       Workshop Equipment                                                                        0.25                             0.25       0.20      0.01       0.05 IDA         TSP
9.2           Expansion ofTrainisg School Facilities                                                    0.66                             0.66       0.43      0.17       0.07 IDA         TSP
9.2 (bis)     Regional Staff Housing                                                                    0.60                             0.60       0.39      0.15       0.06 Gap
9.3 (a)       Training Program                                                                          0.22       0.22       0.22       0.66       0.53      0.07       0.07 IDA         TSP
9.3 (b)       Traing Program                                                                            0.28       0.25       0.25       0.78       0.62      0.08       0.08
9.4           Procurenent of ROW forFreetowl Bypssses                             -          3.50       3.50                             7.00       0.70       5.60      0.70 GOSL
9.5           Consultncies for Feasibility Studies & Prelimn Design               -          1.50       1.50                             3.00       2.40       0.30      0.30 Various (2)
9.6(a)        Corwulttncies forFinal Design& Supervision                          -          0.10       0.10       0.10       0.00       0.30       0.24      0.03       0.03 IDA         TSP
9.6 (b)       Coinultancies for Final Design & Supervision                                   0.85       0.90       0.95       1.00       3.70       2.96      0.37       0.37 Various (2)
9.7           TAtoSLRA-lzut.devtt&proj'ctmonitoring(26nun)                   o    -          1.01       1.01       0.50                  2.52       2.02       0.25      0.25 UNDP        RRMP
9.8           TAtoSLRA- lrt.dev't&proj'ctmonitoring(62 rn-m)                 o               0.40       0.43                             0.83       0.66       0.08      0.08 EU          RRMP
9.9           TAtoSLRA-lnst.dev't&proj'ctnmonitoring(28mn-rn)                a               0.29       0.03                             0.32       0.26       0.03      0.03 IDA         RRMP
9.1           TAtoSLRA-Feederroads/DevSofSrmallContrctors(99rn-rn)           o               0.26       0.26       0.02                  0.54       0.43      0.05       0.05 ILO         ASSP
9.11          TA to SLRA - Inst. devl & proj'ct monitoring (30 m-rn)                         0.13       0.21       0.08                  0.42       0.34       0.04      0.04 IDA         TSP
9.12          TAtoSLRA-lnst.dev't&proj'ctnionitoring(48rm-m)                      -          0.20       0.20       0.04                  0.44       0.35       0.04      0.04 Gap(EEC/JNDP)
9.13          ConsultanciesforlnstitutionalStudies(SLRA)                                     0.10       0.10       0.10                  0.30       0.24       0.03      0.03 IDA         TSP
1i           Routine&PPaoidic Matenance (SLRA)                                              4.60      11.12     11.91      12.50      40.12      20.05       3.21       3.36 Road Fund
10.1          National Road Network                                                          4.60       5.31       9.60     10.19      33.19      23.20       6.33       3.16
10.1 (a)       Roudne maintenanee                                                            1.46       2.51       2.77       3.07       9.32      5.67       332        8.33 Road Fund
-PrimaryandSecondaryRoads-OneManContractors                                   0.11       0.41       0.47       0.53       1.51      0.30        1.13      0.08
-Feeder Roads - One Man Contractors                                           0.37       0.41       0.35       0.45       1.57      0.31        1.18      0.08
-Primary and Secondarv Roads - Gradin4 patcbing, concrete                     0.63       1.28       1.48       1.61       5.00       3.75      0.75       0.50                                   t
-Staff,OH,FuelforSupeivision&Sundries                                         0.37       0.41       0.48       0.49       1.74       1.31      0.26       0.17
0 p



Ret No.      Prject Deptn                                                            Km                Bse csnts is LSi                                  Costs Breakdown            Soure of  Program
1996       1997       1992       1999       Total   Foreign       Local     Taxes funding (1)
16.1 (b)       Pradbm utnace                                                                   3.13       6.29       6.22       7.12      23.36       17.52       3.50       2.34 Road Fund
I Heavy Gradirg                                                     2950       0.32        0.63       0.63       0.88       2.46        1.84      0 37       0.25
- RegraveIing                                                        460        0 70       1.55       1 57       1.27       5.10       382        0.76       0.51
- Resealing                                                          520       0.68        2.04       2.04       2.04       6.80       5 10       1 02       0.68
- Overlayirg                                                          93       0.57        1.07       1.43       1.79       4.87       3 65       0 73       0.49
-Stuff OHKFuelforSupervision&Sundries                                          0.86        1.00       1.15       1 14       4.14       3.10       062        041
16.2         Local Roads (Parodic & Routine Maintene)                                          0.00       2.31       2.31       2.31       6.93        4.25       1.39       2.69 Road Fund
C.           ROAD TRANSPORT COMPONENT                                                          6.45       0.95        1.10      0.50       3.00        2.36       0.29       6.36
TraMe ManagnentCvil Worsa                                                                     0.00       6.56       1.06       0.50       2.00        1.60       016        024 IDA          TSP
2            Road Traport Autho ity                                                            6.45       6.45       6.10       0.00       1.00        0.76       0.13       0.12
2.1           Conbstxtion of RTA facilities                                                    0.15       0.15                              0.30       0.20       0.08       0.03 IDA         TSP
2.2           Vehicles andEquipnentforRTA                                                      0.10       0.10                              0.20       0.16       0.00       0.04 IDA         TSP
2.3           Technical Assistance to RTA                                                      0.10       0.10                              0.20       0.16       0.02       0.02 IDA         TSP
2.4           Training for RTA                                                                 010        0.10        0.10                  0.30       0.24       0.03       0.03 IDA         TSP
D.           PORT COMPONENT                                                                    6.00       5.66       4.06       6.00       9.94        7.95       1JI        1.13
I            Relsoldmllatlon ..  Prirty InUovev_b (Ple 1)                                      6.00       4.06       4.06       6.00       2.16        6.53       6.66      6.97
1.1 (a)       Dofeud Matcance                                                                             1.14        1.14                 2.28        1.82       0.18       0.27 IDA         TSP                       -
1.1(b)        Pavingof Roads andContainer rea                                                             2.00       2.00                  4.00        3.20       0.32       0.42 IDA         TSP
1.1 (c)       Minor impovementa                                                                           0.74       0.74                   1.48       1.19       0.12       0.18 IDA         TSP
1.2           Superiion of Port Rehab. and Defened Maird. Wokis                                           020        0.20                  0.40        0.32       0.04       0.04 IDA        TSP
2            Cll_own Slpway                                                                    0.00       1.73       0.60       0.60       1.72        1.42       6.15       6.21
2.1           Clinctovm Slipsy Repair                                                                     1.63                              1.63       1.30       0.13       0.20 IDA         TSP
22            Stwevision of Clioeto%%n Sipv.oy                                                            0.15                              0.15       0.12       0.02       0.02 IDA         TSP
E.           COASTAL AND RIVER TRANSPORT                                                       630        1.30       0.66       6.66       2.10        1.41      6.43       6.21
1             Coutal & Intl   Rivet Tranmport Study                                            0.30                                        0.30        0.24       0.03       0.03 IDA         TSP
2             Phne I lnvesmens nlaid  WatenrAys                                                            1.80                             1.80       1.17       0.45       0.18 IDA         TSP
F.           FREETOWN FERRY                                                                    6.00       2.77       1.77       6.06       4.54       3.63       6.15       6.76
I             Procoreoro of 2 Psenger Boats                                                               1.77       1.77                  3.54        2.83       0.07       0.64 Gap
2             GoveezndrtWhtf andTBrinTermimal Modidicatiom                                                1.00                              1.00       0.80       0.08       0.12 Gop
G.           AIR TRANSPORT COMPONENT                                                           1.12       2.59       1.05       6.53       5.35        4.15      0.45       6.76
1            C,omn m              ad Navlgodsn AMa                                             1.63       6.60       6*86       6*68       1.03       6*3        0*4        6.16
1.1           Aald    Co_             t    Equ11t                                              0.63        .0        0*.6       6*.6        .6"        0.55        .i1      2.12
Dowler VOR                                                                     0.52                                         0.52       0.41       0.01       0.09 Gop
A&fC o         ionau Equipnt                                                   0.07                                         0.07       0.05       0.00       0.01 Gap
Navgasa1 Aid Equpsnctt                                                         0.10                                         0.10       0.08       0.00       0.02 Gap
1.2           Radio/Nay  M       asl                                                           0.35                                        6.35        0.28       0.03       0.04
O 0



Ref. No.    Project Description                                             Km               Base costs in UsS                           Costs Breakdown          Source of  Program
1996     1997      1998      1999      Total   Foreign     Local    Taxes funding (1)
2           Aerdrorme and Ground Aids                                                 0.00     2.42      0.84      0.26      3.53      2.69      0.37      0.47
2.1          Aerodrome CMi Works                                                      0.00     0.92      0.00      6.60      0.93      6.68      0.14      0.10
Runw,ay improvement                                                              0.46                          0.46      0.37      0.04      0.06 IDA       TSP
Perimeter Fencing                                                                0.39                          0.40      0.26      0.10      0.04 IDA       TSP
Supervision ofcivil %wrks                                                        0.07                          0.07      0.06      0.01      0.01 DA        TSP
2.2         Buidings                                                                 0.00      0.17      0.26      0.06      0.49      0.32      0.12      0.05
Terminal Building lmprovement                                                    0.07      0.06      0.06      0.19      0.12      0.05      0.02 IDA       TSP
Freetov.n Terminal & Headquarters                                                0.10      0.20                0.30      0.20      0.08      0.03 Gap
2.3         Aerodrome Electrical Works                                               0.00      0.38      0.38      0.20      0.96      0.77      0.08      0.12
Improvement to Power Supply                                                                          0.20      0.20      0.16      0.02      0.02 Gap
Airfield Lighting                                                                0.38      0.38                0.76      0.61      0.06      0.09 IDA       TSP
2.4         Aerndrome Service Equipment                                              0.00      0.95      0.20      0.00      1.15      0.92      0.02      0.21
Aviation Security                                                                0.29                          0.29      0.23      0.01      0.05 Gap
Foam Tender and Rescue Craft)                                                    0.66                          0.66      0.53      0.01      0.12 IDA       TSP
Ambulance                                                                                  0.20                0.20      0.16      0.00      0.04 Gap
3           Administration and Traing                                                0.09       0.17     0.21      0.32      0.79      0.63      0.04      0.12
3.1          Admin tration equipment                                                  0.03      0.09      0.13     0.24      0.49      0.39      0.01      0.09
Computer Netvork System                                                          0.03      0.03                0.06      0.05      0.00      0.01 Gap
Furniture & Equipment                                                  0.01      0.02      0.02      0.20      0.25      0.20      0.01      0.05 Gap
Vehicles                                                               0.02      0.04      0.08      0.04      0.18      0.14      0.00      0.03 Gap
3.2         T raining                                                                 0.06      0.08      0.08      0.08     0.30       0.24      0.03      0.03
Management                                                             0.06      0.05      0.05      0.05      0.21      0.17      0.02      0.02 Gap
Technical                                                              0.00      0.03      0.03      0.03      0.09      0.07      0.01      0.01 IDA        TSP
TOTAL                                                                    51.14    114.54     84.10     49.26    299.05    222.28     43.35     33.42
Legend: o: ongoing projects and programmes p: partial execution only during TSP period
(1) IDA already committed under other programmes or proposed under TSP.
(EU): parenthesis indicates the the financing is in an exploratory stage only.
(2) Not segregated, considered committed.
o  4l



53                                     Annex 4-2
Page 1 of 8
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
DESCRIPTION OF PROJECT INVESTMENT COMPONENT
GENERAL
1.    The Transport Sector Project provides financial assistance for the implementation of a four
year time slice (1996-1999) of the 10-year investment programs developed by the SLRA, the
SLPA and the SLAA, and for Coastal and River Transport, on the basis of the Transport Sector
Policy adopted by the MTCE/the Government- The investment programs were discussed during
the Donor's Conference held in June 1995 with the participation of EU, AfDB, UNDP and IDA.
Other donors are in various stages of discussions with SLRA, including the Kuwait Fund, Qatar
Fund and IsDB. In the road sector, the program also builds upon the RRMP and ASSP presently
being carried out with financing from EU, UNDP and IDA. The main elements of the 1996-1999
investment programs, their costs, schedule and secured or anticipated financing are shown in
Annex 4-3 of the Staff Appraisal Report where the numbering system and the nomenclature used in
the 10-year programs of the various authorities and entities have been maintained as much as
possible in order to ease follow-up and monitoring.
(a)    Roads: reconstruction of 482 km of paved roads that have deteriorated and partly reverted
to gravel roads because of years of neglect of maintenance, construction having already started on
217 km including the 121 km Taima-Bo-Kenema Road whose reconstruction contract was
terminated in early 1995 because of security problems; deferred periodic maintenance and
rehabilitation of 1502 km of gravel and paved main roaas including reshaping and spot regravelling
of a 62 km strategic gravel road slated for paving later in the 10-year investment program, deferred
periodic maintenance of 227 km of paved main roads, spot regravelling and drainage improvements
of 84 km of gravel main roads, and reshaping/regravelling of 1229 km of gravel main roads; spot
improvement of 1150 km of feeder roads in addition to the programs being completed under
ASSP, and with EU and NCAP; rehabilitation/overlay/deferred periodic maintenance of 90 km of
Freetown urban roads in addition to the programs being carried out under RRMP and FIRP on
36 km of Freetown urban roads, and of 20 km of major streets in Up-country towns; priority traffic
management civil works in Freetown; acquisition of ROW for and construction of the 4 km
Hillside Bypass in Freetown; routine maintenance of a share of the national and local road network
increasing from 2800 km to 7200 km over the four-year period as rehabilitation and deferred
periodic maintenance are completed, and periodic maintenance of 794 km of roads, including
regravelling of 326 km, resealing of 400 km, and overlaying of 68 km of roads and streets;
reconstruction and expansion of Training School Facilities at Mile 91 severely damaged by the
rebellion and implementation of SLRA's training program for its staff and small and medium size
contractors' personnel; technical assistance for SLRA; consultancies for feasibility studies,
preliminary design, final.design and supervision.
(b)    Port: repairs of the Clinetown slipway essential for the maintenance of the ferries;
essential maintenance of the port infrastructure and provision of pavement for the container storage
area with attendant minor improvement to the drainage and lighting systems; study for
restructuring the SLPA; and, technical assistance to support the local management of SLPA.



54                                     Annex 4-2
Page 2 of 8
(c)    Freetown Ferry: provision of two passenger ferries and related installations at landings, to
rationalize operations of the ferry system while improving service frequencies to the pedestrian
travelers.
(d)    Coastal and River Transport: Provision of piers at 9 selected locations to facilitate
pampers landings, and provision of storage facilities at 35 locations.
(e)    Airport: priority works and equipment for the airport to comply satisfactorily with
minimum ICAO standard, including completion of the airport perimeter fence to keep trespassers
away from the runway, provision of edge lights for the runway, provision of PAPI installation at
the runway thresholds, procurement of a foam tender to replace the existing, obsolete and
inadequate tender and of a sea rescue dinghy necessary because of the proximnity of the airport to
the sea; and, essential maintenance of the runway joints and filling of wide cracks allowing
deferment of major maintenance for some 10 years; and, training for technical personnel.
(f)    Transport Sector Administration: Funds for the rehabilitation of the RTD buildings to
become the offices of RTA, provision of vehicles, equipment, technical assistance and training.
Costs estimates for the various program components the IDA credit will support are summanrzed
on the table in Annex 4-1 of the Staff Appraisal Report. The essential details of the program and
IDA supported (TSP) components are described in more details below.
ROAD SUBSECTOR
2.    The road conmponent (Map IBRD 27951) is a four year time slice (1996-1999) of the 10-
year investment program including all planned expenditures for reconstruction, deferred periodic
maintenance and periodic and routine maintenance of the national road network and the local roads
and streets during the period, and the technical assistance and training required to implement the
Sierra Leone strategy for the road sector. The overall goal of the program is to progressively catch
up with rehabilitation and deferred maintenance with donor assistance while using self generated
funds to progressively increase the share of the road network under routine maintenance and to
carry out periodic maintenance. The four-year road program has been scaled back by some
US$55 million relative to the initial planning (July 1995) and is now estimated to cost
US$272 million excluding price and physical contingencies.
3.     The paved roads rehabilitation/reconstruction program (US$122 million) covers
reconstruction of the 63 km Peninsular Road, reconstruction of the 109 km Sierra Leonean section
of the Freetown-Conakry Road, completion of the reconstruction of the 121 km Taima-Bo-Kenema
road, and start of rehabilitation works on the 199 km Matotoka-Sefadu road. Peninsular Road:
reconstruction of the Peninsular Road (US$48 million) is planned in three sections and work has
started on the Kent Village-Kent Junction-Waterloo section where two contracts are financed by
the Kuwait Fund. Approaches are being made to EU and the Qatar Fund to finance the other two
sections. A new feasibility study is required as the existing study dates from 1983 when it was
found already that traffic had suffered a severe decline because of the deteriorating paved road
condition. Justification for this investment would lie largely in economic development of the
Peninsula area which includes the highest potential tourist sites in Sierra Leone. Freetown-
Conakrv Road: reconstruction of the Sierra Leonean section (US$33 million) of this regional road
including a bridge over the Rokel Creek to replace the current ferry crossing will improve the road
connection to Conakry. Plans and contract documents have already been prepared. Financing,



55                                     Annex 4-2
Page 3 of 8
although not concluded is planned under EU Lome IV. The Rogbere-Lunsar-Makeni Road is the
principal link to the rich agricultural an mining areas of the North and Northeast. Traffic is over
500 v.p.d. Because it has not had periodic maintenance in the 20 years since its construction the
pavement and shoulders are in need of rehabilitation. The rehabilitation of the Taima-Bo-Kenema
Road had been started with IDA financing under RRMP but contracts had to be terminated
because of the rebel war. Financing for resumption and completion of works has yet to be
identified. Matotoka-Sefadu is another road whose periodic maintenance neglect has brought
about the needs for its rehabilitation. The rehabilitation was scheduled to be contracted in 1994
with AfDB financing within the framework of RRMP but tendering was canceled because of
insecurity in the area. AfDB whose financing was canceled will be approached to finance the
rehabilitation once security is reestablished in the area.
4.    Paving of strategic gravel roads. It is envisaged to pave six strategic gravel main roads
(482 kIn) dunrng the 10-year program. However, only the first stage improvement of the Lungi-
Port Loko Road (62 kIn) comprising reshaping and spot regravelling is included in the Four-Year
program (therefore shown on Map IBRD 27951 as reshaping/regravelling of gravel main roads).
Lungi-Port Loko is a link in the sole road connection between Freetown and the Lungi Airport.
This work will be financed on the IDA Credit. Detailed studies and tender documents remain to be
done.
5.    Deferred periodic maintenance of main paved roads. Four roads (221 km) are scheduled
for deferred periodic maintenance consisting of patching and overlays or resealing during the 10-
year program, and are all included in the initial Four-Year time slice. The IDA credit will finance
works on the first road section in that program, Tagrin Point-Lungi Airport. The Tagrin Point-
Lungi Airport Road traveled by 800 v.p.a ,ill be patchod, the shoulders repaired, and will receive
a general ox erlay. Detailed studies and tender documents remain to be prepared. The Bo-
Koribundu-Bandajuma Road whose traffic is estimated at 400 v.p.d will be patched and resealed.
Heavy patching and overlay is planned for the last two roads, Masiaka-Mile 91 and Makeni-
Fadugu-Kabala . Detailed studies will be carried out to evaluate the road condition and determine
the final engineering solution, especially as regards the second road which carries an estimated 280
v.p.d.
6.     Rehabilitation of gravel main roads. Six gravel roads are planned to be rehabilitated in the
10-year program. However, only the first stage of the rehabilitation of the Panlap Jct. Kamakwie
Road, consisting of drainage repairs and construction and spot regravelling is included in the Four-
Year program.
7.    Reshaping/Regravelling of Gravel Main Roads: This sub-program comprises 1229 km of
gravel main roads to be reshaped and regrave!led during the 1997-1999 period at an average cost
of US$10,000/km. Traffic varies between 20 and 150 v.p.d. Studies to determine the detail of the
works are being carnred out by a Consultant on 500 km located in relatively secured areas. This
program will be the main proving ground for the development of medium size contractors to road
works (see para. 11 below).
8.    Feeder roads. Feeder roads are the lowest classification in the National Road Network.
One thousand six hundred kilometers are to be rehabilitated ($10,000/kin) or "spot-improved"
($3,700/kin) under the ongoing ASSP, and EU and NCAP funded programs, and the TSP.
Rehabilitation includes the construction of a continuous laterite wearing course whereas spot
improvement includes laterite wearing course only on selected stretches of the road. Funding of the



56                                       Anmex 4-2
Page 4 of 8
remaining 410 kn, completing the 2000 km Four-Year Program, is being searched. All the feeder
roads part of the various programs have been identified, except for a few sections of the ASSP
program now being relocated in the safer Lungi and Northeast location (240 Iam) where altemative
sections are being chosen in conjunction with Ministry of Agriculture, because of the lack of
security. The IDA supported ASSP is to improve 510 km of feeder roads while training
contractors to labor intensive methods. Ten contractors have already been trained. These
contractors are expected to lease/purchase a portion of the equipment necessary to carry out the
works (they presently rent the equipment - agricultural tractors, etc.) and will be in a position to
bid for works. Works under that program had to be relocated. There remains about 240 km to be
improved by the small contractors under that program. The TSP will support, with IDA financing,
the improvement of 550 km of feeder roads ( see Map IIBRD 2795 1) located in the Westem area of
the country.
9.     Urban Roads and Streets. Programs underway incl de the reconstruction of the Clinetown
Wellington Road and of 20 km of Central Business District Roads in Freetown, both under RRMP
and with IDA financing. Also ongoing is a program for the rehabilitation of 16 km of streets
outside the CBD in Freetown under the FIRP also with IDA assistance. The TSP IDA credit will
support the rehabilitation of 20 km of major streets in Up-Country Towns (Bo, Kenema, Makeni,
Mile 91, Port Loko) whose riding condition is fair to poor (US $1.60 million). Existing drainage
system will be repaired or improved, distressed road sections will be rebuilt with laterite or crushed
rocks road base and overlaid with Dense Bitumen Macadam (DBM) while road surfaces with poor
condition will be improved with DBM and asphalt concrete surfacing. No street maps are
available of up-country towns. The list of streets is shown below. Studies and tender documents
(and supervision) will be prepared by consultants with SLRA Development Department,
procurement by ICB. Rehabilitation of additional roads in Freetown is planned as well as the
construction of the Freetown Hillside Road, a bypass around Freetown to alleviate present
congestion, preferred over the Coastal Bypass for superior economnic justification and lower cost.
List of Major Streets in Up-Country Towns
Repair and Rehabilitation Program
Number         Name of Road           Region          Lengtb (KW         Average width
(meter)
1           Mahei Boima              Bo               2.40                7.25
2           Tikonko Road             Bo                1.90               7.25
3           Dambara Road             Bo                1.25               7.50
4           Barracks Road          Makeni              1.34               6.10
5         Old Magbnuraka Rd.       Makeni              1.40               6.10
6             Teko Road            Makeni              0.65               7.20
7            Blama Road            Kenema              2.90               6.30
8           Koroma Street          Kenema              0.90               6.00
9           Combema Road           Kenema              1.50               6.50
10           Wharf Road            Port Loko           0.48                8.00
11           Modu Street           Port Loko           0.30                5.00
12          Barracks Road          Port Loko           0.50                7.60
13          Easmond Street         Port Loko           0.43                4.0
14          Siaka Stevens St.       Mile 91            1.35                6.00
15          SembehunRoad            Mile91             2.7                 6.00
TOTAL                                                    20.00



57                                        Annex 4-2
Page 5 of 8
10.    Routine and Periodic Maintenance. SLRA has developed a five-year 1996-2000 routine
and periodic maintenance, road fund financed, program and budget presented herein on page 8.
Individual road sections to benefit from the various types of periodic maintenance works, heavy
grading, regravelling, resealing, and overlay have all been identified (TSP Project Files). The
program/budget also includes a summary of the EU funded Trunk Road Small Projects, providing
drainage and pavement rehabilitation/reconstruction of city streets in conjunction with the
development of small contractors; the list of streets is also in TSP Project Files. District Council
Roads to be maintained with funds from a share of the Road Fund levy (.01 to .02 cents per liter)
remain to be identified. Also appearing on the summary is the feeder road program (see para. 8)
carned out by the Feeder Road Department.
11.    Development of Contractors Small and Medium. While in 1996 40% of the routine
maintenance and none of the periodic maintenance works are executed by contractors SLRA plans
to increase private sector participation to 90% by 1999. The privatization schedule for
maintenance works is as follows.
(% works executed by private contractors)
1996   1997   1998   1999
Routine Mlaintenance
One man contractor          100    100    100    100
Pothole patchingg             0     70    90    90
Light grading                 0     70    90    100
Drainage works                0     60    90      90
Periodic Mfaintenance
Heavy grading                 0     20    60    90
Regravelling                  0     50    80    90
Resealing                     0     50    80    90
Overlaying                    0     30     50    80
Road markings                 0     50    70    90
Small rehab. project        100    100    100    100
Bridges & ferries             0     40    60    80
Due to traditional force account maintenance operations there is no local private capacity for
mechanized routine and periodic maintenance in Sierra Leone. There is however a core of local
building contractors. The project will create an environment favorable to the development of a
local contracting industry in the road sector by opening the market for mechanized road works to
the private sector and ensuring a reasonable annual work volume, by making SLRA owned
equipment available for hire, by preparing contracts of scope and size carefully chosen to attain the
objective. Payment procedures are already adequate to ensure timely payment of contractors. The
SLRA Equipment Division will become a profit center within SLRA, in effect being transformed
into a Plant Pool which will rent equipment at commercial rates to both force account brigades and
private contractors. The possibility of using equipment lease/purchase agreements between SLRA
and local building contractors is also being considered. SLRA does not have all the equipment
necessary to attain these objectives and there are no other local operations in Sierra Leone owning
such equipment. The TSP IDA credit will finance the acquisition of US$3.7 million worth of
selected construction and workshop equipment. The tentative list finalized at negotiations is shown
below. Additional equipment requirement will be submitted for donor financing. Bidding for



58                                            Annex 4-2
Page 6 of 8
works on gravel roads, particularly the TSP IDA financed reshaping/regravelling of gravel main
roads will be opened to Contractors who may not be able to demonstrate previous realization in the
road sector but can demonstrate sufficient annual tumover, financial capacity, and the availability
of essential experienced personnel such as highway engineer with road construction or maintenance
experience, works superintendent, topographer. Transformation of the Equipment Division into a
Plant Pool is the first stage of its transfomiation into a share company. IDA credit will finance
studies and preparation of legal documents for the second stage.
Additional Equipment Required for the Plant Pool
under Transport Sector Project
Item                  Equipment
no.                    Type
Reqd. No.          Unit           Amount
Of Units         Cost S            USD
I    Motor Grader                                    8            160,000          1,280,000
2    Vibratory Roller 8 Tons                         2             45,000            90,000
3    Bulldozer                                       2            175,000           350,000
4    Water Rowser                                    2             66.000           132,000
5    Towed Water Bowser                              6              7,200            43,200
6    Tipper Tracks                                   10            65,000           650,000
7    Loader                                          2             65,000           130,000
8    Prime Mover & Trailer                           1            175,000           175,000
9    Farm Tractor                                    5             19,000            95.000
10   Tipping Trailer                                 10             4,500            45,000
11    Water Pump                                     10              800              8,000
12   Field Service Ti uck                            1             60,000            60,000
13   Spare                                                                          342,000
Sub Total U.ST)                     3,400,000
Workshop Equipnnt and Tools          250,000
Toia                                3,650,000
12.    Technical Assistance: The Four-Year program includes technical assistance financed by
EU, UNDP, and IDA to support further development of SLRA and implementation of proposed
structural reforms that would transform the existing "Equipment Department", which supports
force account operations, into a self-accounting profit center. The TSP would finance extension of
the contract of the Equipment Management Specialist presently financed by UNDP.
13.    Expansion of Training School and Training Program: The TSP will finance the
reconstruction and expansion of the training school facilities at Mile 91 estimated at US$660,000.
The TSP will also finance US $ 740,000 out of the proposed US $1.44 million SLRA three-year
training program for 1996-1998, including fellowships, short courses and participation to
Intemational Conferences and Seminars to be mutually agreed during implementation.
FREETOWN PORT
14.    Repair of the Clinetown Slipway is the highest priority investment, essential for continuous
ferry operations; the TSP will finance provision and installation of a cradle, rail lines and haulage
gear, and supervision of the works. The Port Rehabilitation Contract - Phase I (see Map IBRD
27952) includes the essential maintenance to the quays, block paving of the container stacking area



59                                      Annex 4-2
Page 7 of 8
and access roads, and minor improvements (drainage and lighting) of the newly paved areas.
Supervision will also be financed under the TSP.
COASTAL AND RIVER TRANSPORT
15.    Based on the conclusions of the Coastal and River Transport Study financed with PPF
funds, provision of 37 storage buildings and 9 piers suitable for pampers (local boats) at 35
selected landing locations. Building and landings standards and types have been determined based
on local sites and river traffic. Final determination will be made in participation with boat
operators, neighboring villagers and transport users. Detailed engineering and supervision will be
financed under the TSP.
FREETOWN FERRY
16.   Provision for two 150 passenger capacity ferries and of adapted landing facilities (floating
pontoon and/or pier) at Tagrin and Government Wharf. Financing of the two ferries will be sought
from other donors.
LUNGI AIRPORT
17.   Investment planned at Lrmgi airport comprise runway repair, rehabilitation of instrument
landing system, procurement of safety equipment and protective fencing. These investment aim at
keeping the airport in close conformity to ICAO security regulations. One contract will be let to
improve existing fences and to complete fencing the airport perimeter to prevent pedestrian and
animal traffic from entering the runway; the tender documents have been prepared under the PPF.
T-he second contract is for runway repairs (joint replacement and wide cracks repairs) essential to
postpone major rehabilitation about another 10 years, pavement markings, provision of edge
lighting and PAPI installation at the threshold to replace obsolete systems, and minimum
improvements to runway shoulders by stabilizing the surface on a three meter width. Supervision
of both contracts will also be financed under the TSP. The TSP will also finance provision of a
8,000 liter foam tender for fire protection to replace the obsolete and inadequate existing one and a
small sea rescue craft necessary because of the proximity to the sea.



REVISED 11/41MG                    1 USS - Le 952                                                                                                                            b.,1520-.ki
FIVE YEAR MtAINTENANCE BUDGET 1996-2000 (No allowance for Inflation)  Years 1-5 of the Ton Year Invoatment Programme 1996-2005
(Reterences *g XI. X.2 etc reotr to sections ot Annex 2, Table 2 ot the SLRA TenYeaf Investment Programme)
Funding Source: Road Fund
Item                  Unit     Base Rate           1998                     1997                      1998                      I1999                      2000
'(1995)    Quantity     Cost (Ls)    Quantity     Cost (Ls)    Ouantity     Cost (Lr)    Quantity      Cost (Lr)    Quantity     Cost (Le)
X.1 ROUTINE MAINTENANCE
Trunk Roads (OMC)
- existing                         km          140.000       720     100.800,000     2.200      308,000.000    2.600      384.000.000    3,000      420.000,000     3,400      478,000.000
- new                              km          200,000         0              0       400        80.000.000     400        80.000.000      400       80,000,000      400        80,000.000
Feeder Roads
- existing                         km          140.000     1,401     190e140.000     1,440      20 1,800.000   1.800      252.000.000    2,200      308,000,000     2,800      392,000,000
- new                              km          200,000      682      135.400,000      360        72.000.000     400        80,000,000      600       120,000,000     600       120.000.000
Trunk Urban/Rural Roads:
Light Grading                       km           178.000      500       89,000,000    1,500      267,000,000     1.500     267.000.000     2.100      373,800.000    3.000      534.000.000
-Patching                        sq m            7.275    60,000     436,500,000   120,000     873,000,000   144,000    1,047,600.000   144,000   1,047,600,000   144.000    1.047.600.000
-Concrete Works                  cu m          180,000      400       72.000,000     450        81,000.000      525       94.500.000.     600       108,000,000      675      121.500.000
Statt. Overheads, fuel tOr
Supervision and Sundries            Item                   Item        348,000.000   Item         391.300.,000   Item       455.300,000   Item        488.600.000   Item         473.300.000
Sub Total Routine Maintenance                                         1,378.840,000             2.273.900.000             2.640.400.000              2.9240000.000             3.244.400,000
X.2 PERIODIC MAINTENANCE
Heavy Grading                        km         1 .200.000     250     300,000,000      500       600.000,000     500       600,000,000      700      840.000,000     1,000    1.200.000.000
Regravelling (spot works)            km         1.000,000        0              0        20        20,000,000       40       40.000.000       60       80.000,000       80        60,000.000
Ragruoveling (full road)             km        14.580,000       48     870,880.000      100     1,456,000,000      100     1,458.000,000      80     1,160,400,000      120    1.749.600.000
Resealing                            km        16.194.000       40     647,780,000      120     1.943,250,000      120     1,943.280,000     120     1.943,280.000      120    1.943,2t0,000
Overlaying                           km       68.124.000         a     544,992.000       15     1,0218860,000      20      1,382.480,000      25     1.703,100,000      25      1,703,100,000            O
Culverts(spotworks)                  No          141.700       175      24.797,500      200        28,340,000     200        28.340,000      200       28.340,000       200       25,340,000
Road Marking                         km          199,650        64      12,777,800      200        39,930,000     200        39,930,000      280        55,902,000      280       55.902.000
Bridges & Ferries
- Concrete bridges                 No        12.000,000       10     120 ,000000       15       180.000,000       I s     180,000,o0o       20      240,000.000       20       240,000,000
- Timber bridges                   No        12,000.000        5      80,000,000        8        72,000,000       8        98,00O0,00       10       120,000,000       10      120,000,000
- Frrries                          No        12.000,000        3      38,000,000        3        36,000,000        3       36.000,000        3        3t,000,000        3       38.000.000
Staf. Overhesads. fuel for
Sup ervioan nd Sundries             Item                   tlem         1t8,300,000   Item        948t,400000    ter       1.092,300000    I(em      1,0t1,000.000   Item       1,074,300,00t
Sub Total Periodic Maintenance                                        3,235,307,100             8,347,10,000               6,678.330.000             7,274,022.000              6 210.522,000
DISTRICT COUNCIL ROADS^              km         4.400000         0              0|      500      2,200,000,0001    500    2,200.000,000      500S    2.200.000.0001     500|  2.200,000,000
TOTAL MAINTENANCE (Road Fund)                                       1 4,14.147,100              10,821,710,0001        | 11,716,730.0001          | 12,398.022,0001         | 13,854.922,000
The following Rehabilltation Works er not currently Included In the 10 yer plan as presenfd. The plan will be rwended I Include these works.
Funding Source: Donor Support
Item                  Unit     Base Raoe           1998                     1997                       1998                      1999                      2000
1(995)    Quantity     Cost (L)    Quanlity      Cost (La)    Quantit       Cost (Le)    Quantity     Cost (La)    Quantiy      Cost (La)
REHABtUTATION
Trunk Roads Small Projects
- drainage                         km        52,250.000      17.5    914,375,000       12       627.000.000       12      627,000.000       12       827,000,000       12      627,000,000
- drainage & pavement              km        72,575,000        0              0         9       653,175,000        9      553,175,000        9       653,175,000        9      553.175,000
Feedr Roads                          km            Varies      400   4,769.520,000      415    6,521,200,000       300     2.570,400,000     500     3,808,000,000        0               0
TOTAL REHABiUTATtON (Donor Sup por)                                   5.883,895,000              7,801,375,000             3,850,575,000             5,088,175.000              1,280.175,0
TOTAL MAINTENANCE & REHABIUTATiON BUDGET                             10,298,042,100             18,623,0o5,000            1S,587,305,000           I 7,486,197,000             14,935,097,000
NOTES:                                                                                                                                                                                                 00
Bas e Rate is at December 1995 for Contsact work and Force Account maIntinance operations Including equipment hire rates and contingencies  Unit 0osts are based on an average value.                   a 
'Ste  s at 1995 Base Rate and annual increaes 4d 20% tor increase In staff up to 1000 in 1998                                            Assumes 50:50 biluminous:gravel patching.                   00
OverheadsIs &a 1995 Base Rate, no Increases are appliedtor subsequant years.                                                              Tobe. undad by EU/ SASP.
Fuel & Sundries Increases in line with Sat..  To be funded Irom SO.02 increase In fuel levy.



SIERRA LEONE
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
199-1999
Ddeiled Cost Table ad Annual EaYimrted Expenditwe
IDA Ylfaned Projed
Rd No.        Projed Dlmapdm                                                        Kim                          Base cab in USS (MNwd 96)                                            Cosw Bre.d*dn
196         19f          1996         1999         Tots]     FYdp             Loal          Tam
A.            SECTORADMINIST TION                                                                    056           0.54         0.53          0.43         206           1.65          0.17         0.25
I              Technial AsicmwtoD    DOTC                                                                          0.04         0.01          0.08         0.20          0.16         0.02          0.02
2               Eq- t                                                                                              020          0.20          0.10         0.50          0.40          0.01         0.09
3              Tr_nn                                                                                               0.10         0.10          0.10         0.30          0.24          0.03         0.03
4               S5mile                                                                                             0.20         0.15          0.15          0.50         0.40          0.05         0.05
5               S_aia fore Pjed Pr1uan (PPF)                                                         0.34                                                  0.34          027           0.03         0.03
6               Techacl Amustmeiqued fec Prjet  Prcp.i  (PPF)                                        0.22                                                   022          0.13          0.02         0.02
B.            ROAD COMPONEIIT                                                                        0.63         10.71         2.69          1.39         15.S4        11.45          230          1.79
2             P.V  dSkU9ItQ,ic vR_b&                                                62               0.00          0.70         0.00          0.00          0.70         0m3           0.11         0.07
2.            1-  Pest Lko tt Om s    esqe, spt " N.)                               62                             0.70                                     0.70         0.53          0.11         0.07
3              DWudP.odeirM_ntmmeoPftdMainRo.h                                       15              0.00          1.30         0.00          0.00          1.30         1.04          0.10         0.16
3.1             TP erinPain- LiAicApt                                                15                            1.30                                     1.30         1.04          0.10         0.16
5              11ofQCavd Ma Roab                                                    380              0.00          3.10         0.65          0.00          3.75         2.31          0.56         033
5.1 to 523      1997 Plow                                                           312                            3.10                                     3.10         2.33          0.47         0.31
5.1 to 5.23     1991 Pnr,m                                                          68                                          0.65                        0.65         0.49          0.10         0.07
6              F.dw Rad                                                             SS0              0.35          0.74         0.74          0.37          2.20         1.10          0.99         0ll
6.4            Spot   r-nei   (WVst)                                                550              0.35          0.74         0.74          0.37          2.20         1.10          0.99         0.11
7             Urb_ Rood A Shm (Eiad ROW)                                            20               0.00          0.00         0.30          0.80          1.60         1.2          0.13         0.19
7.3             MajerSuebisU pc.tzyTo9i                                             20                                          0.30          0.30          1.60         12           0.13         0.19
9             Spedal Proj.   Technial AssiOst                                                        0.33          4.94         0.50          0.22          S.99         4.69          0.41         O.9
9.1 (a)         Deeopment oCaketm (Smal & Mediam)- Equment                           -                             3.40                                     3.40         2.72          0.07         0.61
9.1 (c)         W-kshp Equipmt                                                                                     0.25                                    0.25          0.20          0.01         0.05
9.2             Ezpmim dTrmnia Scbool Fcilitim                                                                     0.66                                    0.66          0.43          0.17         0.07
9.3             Tfamai P n                                                           -                             022          0.22          0.22         0.66          0.53          0.07         0.07
9.6(a)          C_m6ruiU(orFis   De.sip&Squpvioo                                     -               0.10          0.10         0.10          0.00         0.30          0.24          0.03         0.03
9.11            TAtoSLRA- hLde S&peoj'ctnmitearg  (30.m-r)                                           0.13          0.21         0.08                       0.42          0.34          0.04         0.04
9.13            Ceatmciae,m ffi MsftiS] StudiA (SLRA)                                                0.10          0.10         0.10                        0.30         0.24          0.03         0.03
ot 



RAE N.        Project Dea#don                                                        Kim                          Base comb in USS (MYAw  96)                                          Cob B ruahi.w
1996         1997          1996         1999         Totl       Fwdp            Loal         T-
C.            ROAD TRANSPORT COMPONXNT                                                                0.4S          0.9           1.10         0.50         3.00          2.36         029           036
I             T eoffic M  bm_9    a11 Wtm                                                             0.00          0.50         1.00          0.50         2.00          1.60         0.16          0.24
2              Raid wlTl_t Adwriy                                                                     0.45         0.45          0.10         0.00          1.00         0.76          0.13         0.1
2.1             Ciood'RT Ahmfiti                                                                       0.15         0.15                                    0.30          0.20         0.03         O3
2.2             Vedoma B  Eq._inzfrRTA                                                                 0.10         0.10                                    0.20          0.16         0.00          0.04
2.3             T_did Anm  to RTA                                                                     0.10          0.10                                    0.20          0.16         0.02          0.02
2.4             TrMWIu RTA                                                                            0.10          0.10          0.10                      0.30          0.24          0.03         0.03
D.            PoRT COMPONLNT                                                                          0.00          SJ6          4.0           0.00         9.94          7.95         0.81          1.1
I              RahWbtMaa-dParyitylmpaumb(Pbml1)                                                       0.00          4.08         4.06          0.00         L16           6.53         0."           0.97
1.1 (a)        Ddad  aitm.                                                                                          1.14         1.14                       228           1.82         0.11          0.27
1.1              iC                                                                                                2.00          2.00                       4.00          3.20         0.32          0.48
1.1 (c)        M         _ _-                                                                                      0.74          0.74                       1.48          1.19         0.12          0.18
1.2            Sqa.u   dDP.t Rbb. md Ddamd MmL Wade                                                                0.20          0.20                       0.40          0.32         0.04          0.04
2              (3IMIN SMqWa                                                                           0.00          1.73         0.00          0.00         1.73          1.42         0.15          0.21
2.1             Cl_tm. Spiny Rapo                                                                                   1.63                                     1.63         1.30         0.13          0.20
2.2             S96v      OfCdNI ISo  S*dAY                                                                         0.15                                    0.15          0.12         0.02          0.02
1.            COASTAL AND RIVERTRANSPORT                                                              0.30          1.80         0.00          0.00         2.10          1.41         041           0.21            O
I              Codal & bd  Rivjr T _mxt ha2dy                                                         0.30                                                  0.30          0.24         0.03          0.03            s
2               PhMI  I e  Id   h_ Vd Wl11aYS                                                                       1.S0                                     1.S0         1.17         0.45          0.13
G.            AR TRANSPORT COMPONENT                                                                  0.00          1.30         0.73          0.09         2.63          2.06         0.23          0.34
2              Acrom  ad GAimd Ai*a 0.00                                                                            1.77         0.70          0.06         2.54          1.96         0.23           .33
2.1             Amao me Clii Wuda                                                                     0.00          0.66         0.26          0.00         0.93          0.72         0.10          0.10
Iutimy iprvaimnt                                                                                 0.23          0.23                       0.46          0.37         0.04          0.06
Pehido Faiug                                                                                      0.39                                     0.40          0.30         0.06          0.04
Sww5u    of civil viad                                                                           0.04          0.03                       0.07          0.06         0.01          0.01
2.2            BiUS&                                                                                  0.00          0.07         0.06          0.06         0.19          0.12         0.05          0.02
Twin. Bumildmig    omaiamt                                                                        0.07          0.06          0.06         0.19          0.12         0.05          0.02
2.3           A me   Dlec&*   Wwt                                                                     0.00          031          0.3           0.00         0.76          0.61         0.06          0.6
AidioU  Li                                                                                        0.33          0.31                       0.76          0.61         0.06          0.09
2.4            Aaeroc    S3u ,m gEq _t                                                                0.00          0."6         0.00          0.00         0.66          0.53          0.01          .12
F,ai Teudme   d Rimaise Cui)                                                                      0.66                                     0.66          0.53         0.01          0.12
3              Ad l _dd    _d Tr_                                                                      0.00         0.03         03            0.03          0.0          0.07          0.01         0.1
Techiul  _ow%                                                                        0.00          0.03         0.03          0.03         0.09          0.07         0.01          0.01
TOTAL RASE C0lT                                                                         1.99        21.73          9.13         2.41         3527         267            4.27          4.13
TOTAL PHYSICAL CONnNGKNCQS                                                              0.20         2.17          0.91         0.24          3.53          2.69         043           0.41       1 
TOTAL PRICK CONTM GENCES                                                                0.05          1.16         0.74         0.26          2.2           1.69         0.27          0.26
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                                                      2.24        25.06         10.73          2.91        41.02         3125          497           4.1 1     Ii



REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
TRANSPORT SEC'TOR PROJECT
Implmemenadon Schedule
199%                                            1997                                            19                                                99
,~WiDam d Sup,wMAWnms                                     J F 95 A M  .1J      0 ND J FM  A M5 J . A 5 0 N D  J F 95 A 9I Ji A S0 N D  J F  5  M                                                                               J J A 5 0 N D  J F M  A M  J J A S 0 N D
BodAn-]. (a5..rgb)
Cmdx Effacdvems  (as   j9                                                                    mm
p    ininI  D-J  W   Dektk   3,
Cke,o1 Dae - Doma~ 3.uf20cD
k,pm av   d    Small  axi               ..  ....M.         .. ....     .   .. .......   ..     .     .. .. ..   .   .. ..... ....    .      .. ....     .   ..   .     .. .. ..   .    ..   .   .. .......   .   .     ..C.... ..    ....   .    .... ..      .. ..     .   .. .. ..     .   .
..  .   .   .   .   .   .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . . .   .  .   .   . . . . .  .   .  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .
Appo  C U~b A        -m  y G   u
..   .   .   .   .   .... .. .. ..     .... ....     ..   .   .   ....... . .. .   .  .. ....   ....   .   ....   .     ..   ....   .   ... .   .... ..   .   .... .. ..   .... .  .     .. .. .. ...9 .   .   .   .   .



1996 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~961999M
J   F  _I A  hi  J   J            5   0   N   D   J IF  I   A   it  J 5    A   S   O                N   D   J   F  MF   A  I     J   J   A    S   0   N   D   J  |F  | A|M  I  J        A   S   O   N   D  IJ FH   A  M   J F              A   S  0   N   D
Ralrt al Pcriivh. Ntauuc,u                                            - -  -        -  -               _ -  -  -  -  -  -   -  -  -  -                                                                           -       - -        - -  -     -- -    -  -  -    - -  -  -  --          -  -       -  -  -           .  .  .
%I.j.x San  .n tlw~Ci.Jsr  Ti-   AtnR                                        n            --                                                                                                        I 
FrSii       T5i     M            C l .r     .  .  .                                                   .  . .  . Mmn mi
h4rlar  ~~uMli.6SLRA Trainig Sht,
71.F_.D_  Cir m Il   d Funen.,.    .  .   .    ...........   .  {    .   .   .   t   A  I  I  t  3 I t I 1 I t I 3 I t 1 1 1 5 A I I f 3 1 F I 1 I .......................  .
en    anai U... F..RTA  F.i.mn                                                                                                                                                                          .       .      ..h |'  .  | ;-.tI I I I I I | | | | | | | | || |-|..|-.|-|--|-|.
.. l_ ..... y ..     . . .. .  .   .   ...   ....   .. . . . . .   ...   .     .  .   ..   ..   .   ...   ...   ..   .  ..   ...   ...   ..                                                                                                  ..     ..   ..   .   ..   ..   ...           |||111||         
c_ .   .   .   ..   ...   .. | . . . . . . .. . .   . .   .   .   ..   ..                        .   .   .   ..   ...   ...   ..   ..   ..   ...   .   .   ..   ..    ...   ..   ..   ...   ..                                              ..   ..   ..   ..   ..
FT   T          a   i                                                                                                                                                                        -  -          -  -  - .  -                         -            -  -1g1     1
Can.~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~         ~         ~        ~         ~         ~ mi                                                                                                                                       P              
Ra*dnnW U--  F-
ana   aMm  l.ponnnn
n.ul  ran. .g Lh%k,m
st".y Pq..-   -   -             ---a



REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
DETAILS OF PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMIENTS
(US$ Millio hjw-lr-)
P."  Ehat                               J F  M A M J  IJ JA SO ND1)I F IMAM IM  1J IS04N5 J  FM   oMJ  I  A S  04INID   F MANS I  J  A S  04N5D1   FMPA MI  J A S  04N5   Pn-fI Ca,Irdno./Prctd-
DOTC  rqwp-.t   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    .  .  .   .  .                                   0.59  I-IC0.9   I-ICR&2NNCR&S
DOT     LaIv    k'n4                                   .d 4        I.  .         ..     ..         ..       ..14..               ..14..          ..W      ..     .     .                                                  0.31   2-NCR
DOT  -TAP AW.p .      P- d 4qr     (PPs )  .m.  . . .                         14411444114411                                                                                                                              0.25  7-NCRL
IYUnp    RA.pJtRqrn.hOkRI&                                                                  LW 4    I    W W41  41  4141  4141                                                                                      0.77     -NICR
FndwRP."L.aS          dt(     aIs                         d       I        C  14411444114441144411444114411144111441114411                                                                                                2.97    U-NCR
CM.J.rSReehhIJ.Ca.ud(W     .(.fth.I                    d d I              C               D4W41114DD 1114441    431 .921 IICR
uqsvUu. WCSSSSAAASS4SSSSIA D D                                                                                                                                                                                           0.10    I-Ohe
dudyded101     4SsI                                                 C..ddd              ss      s          %  qs    S S S S SS%0.50   I-Other
SRA  Tr.pr.gm-SJA   b     dWI                                                                                    w                    w0.76   Other
SLRA TednIAaac                                                        T7T  TT          T TTTTTITTT T TTT TT TT TT    T....                                 .........0.49  Olher
SLRA - h St.i .                                                      C  . .*                                                                                                                                              025   Othbr
C..b.rd- .1 lrrA F.dNt6.C 141414141414141414                                                                                                                                                                 0.34   I -NCR                              LAt
. I  ' '                                      s s ~CSSA   SASNS s SS                                                                                                                                           0.32   Othe
Vddd.  A F4.*-.d                                                                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.23   LS
RIA  TMec        dAa.                                                       -------                                           --------e.                                -------0.23   Other
RTA. Tnh*-q.  ----                                                                                               ----            ----                                                                                       3....5   ...Oth.e
PO-BCm       mINAr
P.tRa.bh.SPu.0i iuqntt(PkI)                         d d    I               C 14141414414141441414lb 11414141                                                                                                              9.06  I- IcR
-P-Ad-                                ~        ~        ~~~~I  C  s   SSSS    SAS S sSSS   S s%S                                                                                                          0.47   Other
Cl.dmSl".y Rpk                                         4    I              c  441W  14441414144                                                                                                                            1.88   1-.1CR
-W-Ibd-                               ~        ~        ~~~~I C Ass S%  S sIS   S                                                                                                                         0 17  (Abet
ASEQBIrTCQWNIIN
Ak,ftRny .#tA t!*eLJOLlheW                             d44      I             1411414414114144141                                                                                                                         1.42   I -ICB
-                                                          44~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s S 4   454455545s                                                                                          0.06   Oths
Akpst P-b-4.. P-dg                                  d d I               C  141414141141414141                                                                                                                             0.45  I-NCRB
I-                                                                      444444ssS1iS             44s                                                                                                                   0.32   other
T--W-W awidws kw                                                     ~~      ~~~~~~~I 14141414141414141414                                                                                        .22   I -NCR
- bSyId/.50..M h                                     i           C . . .          dd 4                                                                                                                                    .32   Other
Ahp.t  F       -P..                                    d d I               L              3  3t 3                                                                                                                           .0  I-CR
Ahp.e  R.e  c.   IlR                                   d 4  I              C              3  3a 3                                                                                                                         60    I-ICR
SLAA  TdkcSThf-6                                                                                                .............                                                                                              .11   Other
T.I.L'                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4-822
V*   .d5-11
- Iflh  T-e6& TA55
MDA Pb.d        .a355
J.ZGIKD-D I:bhhsI I:dLatnIMiI.C                               aC: Shun  d Caa  W: Werhk h Pr._    5: W.ts Supe-ehi  D: Ddee-ydEquhp                       :dWll.  d: deil        h8     hdd -o 
NOTE: Typkd ..s ed=elm            hn . Iavh     te Ed, -d 6-d U/LO     se  pmr 2/d  Pse  A-.e



_E X   :"  ;9    ;    ;;U                             i)
2000
2001                                                             %OrO    L       
2004~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
2005                                               4, 4-~~~~~~I



67                                                     Annex 4-7
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
PROJECT SUPERVISION PLAN AND MONITORING OF PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
SUPERVISION PLAN
Approximate Date of Input                    Acivity                        Expected SdUB Requdred            Staff
(12o1year)                                                                                                   Weks
09/1996                       Supervisicn Misica                       Task Magag                               4
Transort Engneew
Inutimal Spexahist
12/1996                       Supwvisi                                 Task Managa                             12
Project Lamdi Wcklhqm                    TramTat Engineer
Daiws Caiference                         Financial Analyst
Procuranent Speiahst
Envircammial Sepoalist
04/1997                       Superviswa Missim                        Taik Manager                             4
Trmp xt Engine/Ecxn.
09/1997                       Supavimcm Miimca                         Task Manager                             6
Transport Fngnwo/Eom.
12/1997                       Supavisicm                               Task Maiager                            10
Mlismn/Annual Review                     Tramspot Engineer/Ecan.
Dacrms Caxfereace                        Finarcial Ana1ys
Sociolo8is
Enviromental SpecaElt
05/1998                       Supervimio Misskm                        Task Manger                              6
Trmaort Engiriecr/Ecoi.
Initutiticzal Specialist
11/1998                       Supvzimo Mimssi                          Task Managa7                            12
Mjid4erm Review                          Tramnp,ct EngineeafiEcc.
Donaa Ccafernoce                         Trainin8 Speaist ,
Intitutiaial peSpcia
Finandal Analyst
Envircmnaxlal Specialist
03/1999                       Supwrvisicn isicti                       Task Mmiager                             6
Truxsport EngirieEcori.
hsitkutiorial Spedalist
07/1999                       Supevisicxi Misaioa                      Task Maiaga                              4
Tracrt E gnefne/Ecim.
11/1999                       Supervisien risia                        Task Maaage                              8
Annual Review                            Trmspatrt Eagin/Ecarm.
Doncr Cmfar7nce                          Fiandcial Analyst
0512000                       Supvism   Mirism                         Task Mmagag                              6
Transpot EngireerEcom.
Finaindal An1yst
11/2000                       Suprvioin                                Task Managar                            12
Annual Review                            TraxVxt Engineer
Danas Caffrcce                           Ecm  anit
Fiaicial Analyst
Insiuticna1 Specialist
06/2001                       Suprviscio Missicia                      Task MNnagff                            12
ICR                                      Tanwspot Egine/Ecorn.
Finacisal Analyst



68                                                                    Annex 4-7
Page 2 of 2
REPUBLIC OF SEERRA LEONE
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
SUPERVISION PLAN AND MONITORING OF PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
A- DEZOFPMNY OBJEC77DS                                          KEY PERFORMANCE AND OUTCOME INDICATORS                                          PROJECT YEAR
I - Soit the Iwulemmtatton of the new
#Kftr fJ Ucv affrat dntwv                                                                                                            1996    1997    1991    1999    2000
Impnov road covfilor (1)                          a) Road Fund expenditures on muinLenamce on Naioal Rod System US$ eqiv. (1)         3.9     6.6      9.8     10.3    10.S
b) Rod Fund expenditures on local roadc (US$ eqtiv.)                               0.5      0.S      1.4     1.5      1.6
c) Road Conution for the National Road System, by road clss (2),
GOOD
FAIRL
POOR
- producedat annuau r i-w                                                                 I       1                1
Increas the use af pmte mector for maintenance   Percentage of maintenance iworks contracted out (Road Fund)
a)  routine mainterntace (%)                                                       40       75       90      95       95
b)   perodic maintance (%)                                                          0       40       70       S5      90
11- Ca  fatv bufildIg  e=and the succraful
bheam  weem of Institutlonal reform
S_ 8ghteing and improving SLRA's managemert (3)  Found to have been irnplemented at year 1996 annual review.
Fldl ommorcaisiion of SLRA plant pod              Found to hav been implemented at year 1998 anmul renewI
Reatruturing SLPA                                 Found to be implemented at amnual reviewi.                                                   I        1        1       1
Creas of RTA                                      Found to have been implemented at 1997 annual rvieve.
Pteiitioen of SLRTC                               Found to hae boon implemented at yoer 1997 annual review.                                    1
Peknsizatien of SLNSC                             Found to haw been implemented at year 1997 annual review 
Privaliraoss of SNA                               Found to have been implemented at 1997 nnuali review. 
reduce operating costa in the pott (4)
On-board       Shore
stevedoring    handling
tuik cargo (USS/ton)
containern (US. ntfl
fuel      (USS/ton)
- produced for annul review                                                       1        I        1       1        I
m  - EmuLavmt mgeeration: increase the sse
of labour intLnsve methods ti road maintenance
No of peronc employed in Program on
labour based feeder roads contacts (pereon-days).                                500,000 500,000 500,000 500,000 500,000
No. of labour bhaed conteactor qualified to
lid mo contrctb greater than USS50,000. (no.)                                       0        5       to      15       20
B- IMPLEMNTATION                                  KEY INPUT INDICATORS
Rosdcnponestofproject                            USS eqiivaolt spent during caendar yer                                             0.00     7.00    12.00   15.00   18.10
Poat C pooment of prsojct                         US$ equivilent spent dusng calendar yer                                            0.00    4.00    11.00   11.60   11.60
Coatad ssdRiverTrasnportcomponentofproject        US$ equivalentspentduringcalendaryesr                                              0.00     0.75    2.00    2.41    2.41
Aeport component ofproject                        USS equivalent spent during calendar year                                          0.00     1.00    2.00    2.50    3.05
(1) NRS - Natiosul Road System, S.232 kin (see Annex 2.1)
(2) Rad Manament lfanation Sysftem is in phce but buae yeur road condition is not avadble for most nf the network because nf secuity situttion. Road condition vl hbe
riwtmed darg 96/97 before 1997 amusial review  Percenbge in Good Fair Poor condition vilA be reported for esch clus of road and for the lotd NRS. Road
ceiAditdmferroab vAthtrafflicgreaternthan 100v.vp.dwbeimentoriedeachyear, andatleast ery twyea  for therest nfthe NRS. The index  m
be toed - a btaad indicatr. Tlmely provdion of the data vwil be the output indicator in iteslf.
(3) As per plan subatitted by SLRAin Aprfl 1996.
(4) B     . vA ber mad eavvibbe duning October 1996. Itt subnission, annually, %%di in itselfbe the outpt inricator. Indicators v   be used   trendindAcatorm
Oparag orb to indude manpovwer, rqairs. and overheads including technical asistance.



REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
SLRA - Oramuzaticnal Strudcure
| SLRA Board R
|Director General|
| euty  oireo
Dq,atlmmt   DDeqcapiintanc
-ol3cy, rH  rl:&
Fimial Aocoimt  L    Monitoring &   Mm  |a--c| cDevIero|en
Div'LU'CD   ~~Evahuatioiiviin                                                            aisa
____         ~~~~~DivisionDiiso
M  Cm9aai Ac.r~Di3dga & Ferries~me                                                                             I~er pti~
, si |M !lAQ | r                P 3                                    |Pej Ih i il| |   Di1Div
Tcdmical Suppct    _Road Produd:
Diiso               Division              X               ranan Divisici
Resacard &  l|Informationl
{ 5 3in Diiso                                             Suphesagvsin |
Divisim D
LEHI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o~



70                                   Annex 5-1
Page 2 of 2
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
SLRA - ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCrURE OF FINANCE AND ACCOUNTING DEPARTMENT
|DF ace |
Acoaxmtaii
Staff
Aocountmit
MANAGEMENT ACCO
FINANCIAL ACCOUNTS DIVISION
DIVISION
IAoooWts
Officer                    Adi
Ol                      OffiA&nXl
A~~~~~ccwmts ~~~~~~~~~~~~Accounts
As=kXl                                                Clcrks X2



71                                     Annex 5-2
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
ROAD FUND - REVENUE STRucruRi
1.    This annex sunmarizes the analysis on the revenue structure of the road fund in Sierra
Leone, which was discussed in depth by Task Force, comprising MTCE, SLRA and IDA, during
the appraisal mission. The detailed analysis is contained in the Task Force Report in the Project
Files.
2.    The Table B on page 2 of this Annex shows the new revenue structure of the Road Fund.
The Table C on page 3 of this Annex presents revenues to be generated through these user charges
with and without implernmfing new increased charges. Also, general revenue from excise on fuel
and import duty on fuel is presented.
3.    In Table C, it is projected that, without impletnenting new charges, the Road Fund will be
able to finance only 35 to 76% of the expenditures required for the planned routine and periodic
maintenance plan for the year 1996-2005. Also, it is projected that with the imnplementation of the
new user charges as described in Table B, it will not only cover adequately the maintenance plan
1996-2005 but also the operational costs of newly established RTA.
Table A. Cost Recovery Ratio With and Without New Charges Stmcture (%)
I   Year    1996 1997 1 i998Li91 200012001 20022003204 1        2DSI
|VUthoul Refrmn 76%  35%A  34%  33%A l 32% I 43% | 46%  48%  50%  53ff
V%dth Reform I   W1 92% 191% 1 8%          1 124  130%1137%1143%
4.    The proposed license fees may seem a major increase from the current level; however, it is
rather conservative by standards in similar countries, which average $75 for a car, $500 for a bus
or medium truck, and $2,500 for an articulated truck.



72                                                     Anmex 5-2
Page 2 of 3
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
RoAD FUND RiVlNUE STRucruRI
Telle B
USER CHARGES                                Carnt Fees       Prqp. Fees 10/1196     Prop. Fees    Prop. Fees 7/1/97    Prip. Fees 1/1/98
1/1/97
1. Road Mmintenance Fee (Fad 1I4")
National Roads               S 0.05/liter       S 0.07Aiter                                              S 0.08/liter
Local Roads and Seeds                           S 0.0OI/iter                                             S 0.02/iter
2. License Fees
CarsIaxsJ/Mator Cycles                          S2.1                                   $5.0            $10.0               $20.0
Utility (Light Vans)                            $4.2                                   $7.5            $15.0               S30.0
Buses - Small (Poda Poda)                      $10.5                                  S25.0            $50.0              $100.0
Buses - Large                                  $14.7                                  S37.5            $75.0              $150.0
Trucks - SmallUMedium                          $10.5                                  $62.5           $125.0              $250.0
Heavy Trucks                                   $14.7                                 $125.0           $250.0              $500.0
Alticulated Trucks                             $14.7                                 $250.0           $500.0             $1000.0
3. Reglstradon Fees
1-1500 cc                                       $2.6                                   $5.0
1501-2500 oc                                    $5.3                                  $10.0
2500cc or more                                  S7.4                                  $15.0
4. Driver's UIcense Fes                                     To be the samne level
Prdfesmoaal Drivers Licese                     $10.5
Pnvate Drivers Licmse                          S10.5
Internaticnal Drivees Licos                    $10.5
Duplicate Driver's Licmise                      $5.3
Learmer's Pamit                                 $7.9
Mdorcycle                                       $1.6
5. Veidde Examlnadon Fen                                 To beprivallyy cxducced
(a) Road Worthiness Test Per Annum
Private Cars                                    S4.2
Taxis                                          $10.5
Liht Vans                                      $21.0
Heavy Trucks                                   $42.0
Buses          < 15 seater                     S21.0
16-25 seater                   $25.2
> 25 seater                    S31.5
Motcrcycles                                     S3.2
(b) Road Accident Fees (bnVecLion Per Acddent)
Private                                         $3.2
Commercial    Lig&t Vehicles                    $5.3
Heavy Vduicles                  S7.4
6. Commerdail Authorization Few                              To be Abolished
Amnual Fee (Flat Rate)                          SI. 1
Market Entry    Taxis                          S21.0
Light VMS                      $31.5
Heavy Duty                     $52.5
Buses                          S52.5



REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
ROAD FUND REVENUE STRUCTURE
(MlUWON US S)                                                                         lalzed (I  .I->ppjactons                                                              Table C
1994     1995     1996      1997     1998      1999     2000     2001      2002     2003     2004      2005
REVENUE
I.CURRENTLY PAID TO ROAD FUND
ROAD MAINrENANCE FEE (FUEL LEVY)  a  cuMw1t                                     3.024    3.954    3.680    3.930    4.126    4.333    4.549    4.777    5.016    5.266    5.530    5.908
bl pwoposed :natitnalroads                                  3.703    5.502    6.396    6.716    7.052    7.404    7.774    8.163    8.571    9.000
b2 pmoposedl:cal  ads and sbtts                             0.529    0.786    1.444    1.516    1.592    1.672    1.755    1.843    1.935    2.032
b1+b2                                                   4.232    6.288    7.840    8.232    8.644    9.076    9.530   10.006   10.507   11.032
(bl-)           kcome to be newly g alted                         *0023    .1 57    .2270    .2383    *2502    *2627    .275s    .2697    *3041    *3 193
(bI.b2-a)          kiome to be newly genutnted                         o s552   2 3      .3 714    3 09    .4 094    *4 26     *4 514    *4 740    .4 977    .5 226
2tLEGALLY TO BE PAID TO ROAD FUND
LICENCE FEE                           a  cermnt                                 0.113    0.095    0.181    0.193    0.203    0.213    0.224    0.235    0.247    0.259    0272    0.28C
b  pnmposas                                                 0.181    1.259    3.526    3.702    3.887    4.082    4.286    4.500    4.725    4.961
(b-a)           Incommto bbe6wlygrmated                           *oooo    .10 m     3 323     3 489    *3053    .3647    .4039    .4 241    '4453    ,4.676
REGISTRATIONFEE                       a  ciamvt                                 0.042    0.025    0.009    0.012    0.010    0.010    0.011    0.011    0.012    0.012    0.013    0.014
b  pposed                                                   0.009    0.022    0.020    0.020    0.021    0.022    0.023    0.024    0.025    0.026
(b-a)           klcomo bebo nwy gmatSd                            o00ooo    0 009    o .0011    .0 09    *0010    .0010    *00l1        .    o001!  0012    .0013
3.OTHER USER CHARGES                                                             0.149    0.133    0.198    0.223    0.223    0.234    0.246    0.258    0.271    0.285    0.290    0.314
DRIVERS LICENCE FEE                    a  cgmarr                                 0149      0.093    0097      0.104    0109      0114     0120     0124      0132     0.139     0146     0153
COM. AUTHORIZ4ArON FEE                 E  curWr                                    n.a     0036     0049      0064     0056      0059     0062     0065      0.0os    0071      007o     0079
VEIl. EXoMINA TION FEE                a  curert                                    n a     0065     0052      0055     005c     0051      0064     0067      007o     0074     0075      0002
*ralbone1zation is pnposed
TOTAL REVENUE OF ROAD FUND              a  c tar                                  3.024    3.954     3.680    3.930    4.126    4.333    4.549    4.777    5.016    5.266    5.530    5.906
b  poposped                                                 4.518    7.672   11.435   12.068   12.672   13.305   13.971   14.669   15.403   18.173
(b-a)            ncoe to be newtygeu'iead                         .0539    .3743    .7.389    .7736    *5122    *s529    -a955    *9.403    .9573   *10367
EXPENDITURE
1. MAINTENANCE PLAN                                                                                  4.847   11.367   12.307   13.023   14.343   11.000   11.000   11.000   11.000   11.000
2. RTA OPERATIONAL COSTS                                                                             0.000    0.229    0.234    0.239    0.244    0.24S    0.255    0.261    0.268    0.272
TOTAL                                                                                                4.847   11.596   12.541   13.262   14.587   11.249   11.255   11.261   11.266   11.272
RF REVENUE I EXPENDITURE (%)            a   curent                                                    76%      35%      34%       33%       32%      43%      46%       48%      50%      53%
b   proposed                                                  93%      66%      92%       91%      87%      118%     124%      130%     137%     143%
mWro.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
EXCISE ON FUEL                                                                    5.587   14.112   12.047   12.867   13.510   14.185   14.895   15.633   16.421   17.242   18.105   19.010
IMPORT DUTY ON FUEL                                                               7.791    6.325      na.      n.a.      n.a.     na.       na.      n.a.      na.      na.      n.a.      n.e.
IMPORT DUTY ON VEHICLES                                                            n.a.      n.a.     n.a.     n.a.      n.a.     n.a.      n.a.     na.       na.      nm.      n.a      n.e
EsSrati for Vatilm Exan*uttn FnWL
IS 



74                                                  Annex 5-3
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
SIERRA LEONE RoADS AuTHoRrrY
Estimated Revenues and Expenditures
(MILLION US S)
1996       1997        1998        1999       2000
REVENUE
1. ROAD FUND
(1) ROAD MAINTENANCE FEE             (a) Nadonal Road/Systen             3.703      5.502       6.396       6.716      7.052
(b) Local Roads and Streets        0.529      0.786       1.444       1.516       1.592
sub-total   4.232     6.288       7.840       8.232       8.644
(2) LICENCE FEE                                                         0.181       1.259       3.526      3.702       3.887
(3) REGISTRATION FEE                                                    0.009       0.022       0.020      0.020       0.021
(4) DRIVER'S LICENCE FEE                                                0.097       0.104       0.109      0.114       0.120
TOTALREVENUE                                                            4.518       7.672      11.495     12.068      12.672
EXPENDITURE
1. RTA OPERATIONAL COSTS                                                0.000       0.229       0.234      0.239       0.244
2. ROUTINE & PERIODIC MAINTENANCE (NATIONAL)                            3.989       6.657       9.817     10.313      10.836
3. ROUTINE & PERIODIC MAINTENANCE (LOCAL)                               0.529       0.786       1.444      1.516       1.592
TOTAL EXPENDITURE                                                       4.518       7.672      11.495     12.068      12.672
REVENUE / S YEAR MAINTENANCE PLAN (%)                                    93%        66%         92%        91%         87%



REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
TRANSPORT SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
Sierra Leone Airports Authority
Organizational Chart
|  General                                         M
| Management |
____  _   ~~~Internal
Auditor
|    Operaicac    |  |    C/lans    t       1>                                                        Maintenance |



76                                     Annex 5-5
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
SIERRA LEONE AIRPORTS AuTHORIrY
Assumptions for Financial Projections
A.    Income Statement
1.    Passenger and cargo traffic growth will increase by an average of 5% in 1996 and
thereafter. The significant increase in revenues in 1995 is due to an increase in landing fees. In
1997 and 1998, Sierra Leone gains back its intemational appeal with tourists.
2.     Staff related costs will increase by 15% in 1996 and by I% thereafter. The significant
increase of staff related costs in 1996 is due to the hiring of additional staff to help management
match intemational safety and quality standards necessary to keep the airline companies flying into
the country.
3.     Stocks increase by 1.5% each year. Creditors are assuned to be equivalent to 60 days of
sales and debtors are assumed to be 90 days of sales throughout the period under consideration.
Taxation for each year has been averaged at 47% of earnings after interest payments. The
percentage is the average used in Sierra Leone for SLAA in the past and for similar entities. This
represents a net transfer of funds from the entity to the State of Sierra Leone.
B.    Balance Sheet and Funds Flow Stateents
4.     The investment program totals US $8,793,300 and will be undertaken from 1996 to 2005.
It is assumed that SLAA would finance 80% of the total yearly investment program and 100% of
the training costs for management in 1997, 1998, and 1999. Other donors will finance a varying
percentage of the program during the later years.
5.     External Loans are provided by two types of donors: IDA and other donors. The IDA
credit will be on-lent at an interest rate of 6.9% over 20 years including a 5-year grace period, with
disbursements starting in 1996 and ending in December 1999. The other donors credits will be on-
lent at an interest rate of 6.9% over 20 years including a 5-year grace period, with disbursements
starting in January 1997 and ending in 2005. During the five-year grace period of the loan,
interests payments have been capitalized.



REPUBLIJC OF SIERRA LEONE
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
SIERRA LEONE AIRPORTS AUrHORIry
INCOME STATEMENT
(US$ 00)
Acmal                              Prawoivonal                   Profiected
1991     1992    1993    1994    1995        1996      1997    199S    1999    2000        2001      2002    20003    2004    2005
R~m
Lading Cluge                             3I1      326      723     764      301        341     83       927      973    1,022     1,073     1,127    1,133    1,242    1,304
Airp-tChurges                            366      519      426     533      949        997    1,047    1,099    1,154    1,212     1,272     1,336    1,403    1,473    1,547
Fud cTlughput Fees                        5S      132       67       57      70         73       77       81       35      89         93        93      103      103      113
Ren4d hwnome                              39       22       32      39       32         37       91       95      100      105       110       116      122     123       134
HadtingConceuionFees                     153      177      116      150      166       174      133      192      201     212       222        233     245      257      270
oihl m,xoe                               105      134      241     320      220        231      243      255      263      231       295       310      325     341       359
To4d Revenues                           1,543    1,808   1,604    1,362    2,233      2,403    2,523    2,649    2,731    2,920    3,066     3,220   3,381    3,550   3,727
E_pms
Salaics and Wages                        223      294      279      2S2     301        346      356      367      378      339       401       413      426     438       451
Ope'aions                                122       97      100      104      121       127      123      129      130      132       133       134      136      137      138
Administniontim    Finncoe               199       57      270     611      667        668      674      631      6S8     695        702       709     716      723      730
Coizmrci wid PIaDing                       13      49       59       34      31         31       32       32       32       33        33        33       34       34       34
EngineringandM iMtenare                  638      501      506     719      699        699      706      713      721     723        735       742     750      757      765
Misaelbaeas Expcnzs                       -        -       -                   7         7        7        7        7        7         7         7        7        7        7
Deprociabon                               41       57       79       S0      89         75       39      238      333     376        338       200     440      476      551
Tota 1Opxaing Expous                    1,235    1,056   1,294    1,829    1,914      1,953    1,942   2,168    2,289   2,359      2,39S     2,239   2,503    2,572    2,677
Opaing Incme                            303      753      310       33     375        450      581      481      493      561      668        980     373      977    1.050
hbtacsEqxzs                              -                          -        -          -                -        -        -                   351     342      343      333
Prdax bIone                              303      753      310       33     375        450      531      431      493     561       663        629      531     634      712
TaxationforthePeriod                     143      339      136       12     219        211      273      226      231      264       314       296      250     298       335
Net Incone for the Year                  160      414      174       21      156       238      308      255      261      297       354       334      281     336       378
Net Income % Assets                   17.2%    33.4%   13.1%    1.6%    11.9%       14.8%     7.0%     4.3%    4.0%     4.1%      4.4%      4.0%     3.2%     3.7%     4.1%
o LJ



REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
SIERRA LEONE AIRPORTS AUTHORITY
BALANCE SHEET STATEMENT
(US$ '000)
Actual                           Provisional                  Projected
1991     1992    1993    1994    1995      1996      1997    1998    1999    2000    2001       2002    2003    2004        2005
Asset
Stocks                                 -        23       35       6        3         3       4        4       4        4        4         5       5        5       5
Accounts Receivable                    396     447      520     579      626       527     622      653     686      720      756       794     834      875     919
Treasury Bills                          29       14      10      -       -         -        -                                  -        -        -       -        -
CashandBank                             51      196      67     103      254        24        3     334     506      775      659       579     845      815     825
Current Assets                         475     681      631     688      673       553      628     991    1,196   1,499     1,420     1,378   1,683    1,695    1,749
Gross Fixed Assets                     505     639      836     843      915      1,421   4,185    5,590   6,360   7,183     8,287    8,998   9,378  10,163  10,945
Accunnuulated Depreciation              49       81     135     203      283       358      396     635     967    1,343     1,731     1,931   2,372   2,847   3,398
Net Fixed Assets                       456      558     701     640      632      1,063    3,789   4,955   5,392   5,840     6,556     7,066   7,006   7,315   7,547
Net Fixed Assets                       456      558     701     640      632      1,063   3,789   4,955    5,392   5,840    6,556    7,066   7,006   7,315    7,547          
Total Assets                           930    1,238   1,332    1,327   1,306      1,616   4,417   5,946   6,588   7,339      7,975     8,444   8,689   9,010   9,296
LuabiHlfes & Owners' Equity
Accounts Payable                        88      142     157     242      323       395      415     435     457      480       504      529      556     583      613
Taxes Payable                          317      493     475     447      579       367      306     352      347     315       265      283      329     280      244
ShortTern Liabilities                  598     663      762     782      986       849      780     848      864     855       829      872      945     924      916
Long Term Debt                         -        -       -        -       -          -     2,562   3,769   4,133   4,421      4,730    4,896   4,755   4,760   4,677
Total Liabilities                      598     663      762     782      986       849   3,342   4,617   4,997   5,276    5,558    5,768   5,699   5,684   5,593
Equityand Retained Earnings            332      575     569     545      319       767    1,075   1,330   1,591   2,063    2,417    2,676   2,990   3,326   3,703
Total Liabilities & Owners'Equity      930    1,238   1,332   1,327   1,306       1,616   4,417   5,946   6,588   7,339    7,975    8,444   8,689   9,010   9,296
Current Ratio                           0.8      1.0     0.8      0.9     0.7       0.7      0.8     1.2      1.4     1.8       1.7       1.6     1.8      1.8     1.9
DebttoEquityRatio                      N.A.    N.A.    N.A      N.A      NA.       N.A.    0.70    0.74    0.72    0.68        0.66     0.65    0.61     0.59     0.56
Average Collection Period (days)         94      90      118     113      100        90      90       90      90       90       90        90      90       90       90
Accounts Payable (days)                  21      29       36      47       52        60      60       60      60       60       60        60      60       60       60
o E,
wA



REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
SIERRA LEONF AIRPORTS AUTHORITY
FUNDS FLOW STATEMENT
(US$ '000)
Projected                           Toa for
1996     1997    1998    1999   1996-99    2000       2001    2002    2003    2004          2005
Sources of Funds
Net Income Before lnterest & Taxes      450      581     481      493   290b4         561     668      980      873      977     1,050
Depreciation                        75       39     238      333    645          376     388      200      440     476        551
Tax Expense                        211      273     226      231      942       264      314      296      250      298       335
InternalGenerationofFunds          314      347     493      594    1747        673      742      885    1,064    1,155     1,266
Debt Service
Interest Expense                                                   : : :..       -        -       351      342      343       338
Principal Repayment                 -       -        -       -                   -        -       132      141      151       162
.-'-...:.   .:..-..
NetlnternalCashGeneration          314      347     493      594    1,74        673      742      402      580      661       766
IDA on-Ient Credit                  -     1,671     703       94  -2,46a         -
Future on-lent Credits              -       724     258      -   .-:             -        -       298      -        157        78
TotalSourcesofFunds                314   2,741    1,454      688 :5,197|         673     742      700      580      818       845
Applications of Funds                                                  ...:.l
Aeronaut. Communicat. Equip.       306      377      -       -   :        . : : . .  .
Radio Maintenance                   -       -       250      100      35|        70 100           200      253
Aerodrome Civil Works              110      668     258      -      1:.::T.      130     200      150      -        -         -
Buildings Rehabilitation            -        60      60       60  ..    :       .. 260   380      200      -
Aerodrome Electrical Works          -       381     381       20         - :Z  20         60       80      -
Aerodrome Services & Misc.          -       942      -       -        942        -        -        70      -       750       750
Administration & Training           90      170     210      320 :    5$..    |   55       55      85       95       35        33
Total applications of Funds        506   2,598    1,159      500   4,762        535      795      785      348     785        783
Net Non-Cash Workng Capital         38      165      (36)     16 -:4            (131)     62       (5)    (33)       63       51
Change in Cash Balance                  (230)    (21)    332       172   . 252        269    (116)    (80)    265        (30)       10
Debt Service Coverage                 N.A.     N.A.    N.A.    N.A.    .           N.A.      N.A.     3.1      3.2      3.5         3.9
o U t



REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
TRANSPORT SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
Sirra I.ne Porb Authorlty
Organiational Chart
Board of Diroctors
Guenera
Manager
Harbou              emcl                tvlrn              Opertions              Feny              P*security                             Managmemat 
DepatmatDqatt           D               Depitmat             Depatment           Dq,rtment                                MngrAudit
lGeneasl ManagerI
Finances  ]                   | Meani                                Civil
l   l           | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Engineermgi  ngme.                             



81                                     Annex 5-7
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
SIERRA LEONE PORTS AUTHORITY
Assumptions for Financial Projections
A      Income Statement
1.    Port operations and cargo traffic growth will increase by an average of 5% to 6% a year
throughout the entire period under consideration, except in 1997 and 1988, when traffic increases
by 10% and 8%, respectively. Salaries and wages are assumed to increase by an average 4%
throughout the entire period under consideration. Salaries and wages are separate from
management fees, which are canceled after 1997.
2.     For analysis purposes, the value of the fixed assets of SLPA were revalued as of March
31, 1996 to be US$94,000,000. Taxation for each year is levied at 47% of earnings after interest
payments and after taking a depreciation charge based on historical valuation of assets, rather than
charging depreciation on revalued assets. The percentage is the average used in Sierra Leone for
SLPA in the past and for similar entities. This represents a net transfer of funds from the entity to
the State of Sierra Leone.
B.    Balance Sheet and Funds Flow Statements
3.    Investments are mostly financed by extemal donors. The total investment program
submitted by SLPA has been considered for the purpose of these financial projections. The
investment program, which totals US$48.7 million, lasts from 1996 to 2005, inclusive. SLPA will
finance a varying percentage of the total yearly investment program.
4.    The IDA credit of US$8,300,000 will be onlent at an interest rate of 6.9% over 20 years
including a 5-year grace period, with disbursements starting in 1997 and ending in December 1998.
The other donor credits will also be onlent at an interest rate of 6.9% over 20 years including a
five-year grace period. During the five-year grace period, interest payments have been capitalized.
5.     Stocks are assumed to be equivalent to 10% of gross sales volume throughout the entire
period under consideration. Debtors are assumed to be equivalent to 90 days of gross sales
throughout the entire period under consideration. Creditors are assumed to be equivalent to 60
days of sales throughout the period under consideration.



REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
SIERRA LEONE PORTS AUrHORITY
INCOME STATEMENT
(USS '000)
Actual                                     Projected
1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005
Revenues
Harbour Master                         4,699    3,980    3,950    3,585    3,307    3,469    3,816   4,121    4,368    4,587   4,816    5,057    5,310    5,575    5,854
Stevedoring                            3,056    2,790    2,831    2,528   2,420    2,539    2,793   3,016   3,197    3,357   3,525    3,701    3,886    4,080   4,284
Operations                             4,138    3,478    3,452    3,091    2,919   3,063    3,369   3,638   3,857    4,049    4.252   4,464    4,688    4,922    5,168
Ferry Service                           668      513      557     843    1,335    1,400    1,540   1,664    1,764    1,852    1,944   2,041    2,144    2,251    2,363
Total Operating Income                12,561   10,761   10,790   10,046   9,981   10,470   11,517   12,439   13,185   13,844   14,537   15,263   16,027   16,828   17,669
Otherincome                            2,626   2,976      957        1   1,049       70       77      83       88       93      97      102      107      113     118
Total Revenues                        15,187   13,736   11,747   10,048   11,030   10,540   11,594   12,522   13,273   13,937   14,634   15,366   16,134   16,940  17,788
Expenses
Salaries & Wages                        597      642    1,057    1,201    1,493    1,552    1,645    1,711    1,779    1,850    1,924   2,001    2,081    2,164   2,251
Operating Expenditures                 2,652    1,494    1,899    1,733    1,531    1,591    1,734   1,855    1,948    2,026    2,107    2,191    2,279    2,370    2,465        00
Total Direct Expenses                  3,249    2,136    2,957    2,935   3,024    3,142    3,379   3,566   3,727    3,876   4,031    4,192    4,360    4,535    4,716           k)
Management Fee/T.A.                    1,493    1,680    2,635    1,606   2,086    1,500    1,000    100      100               -       -        -        -
General Overhead                       3,935    3,965    4,375    4,735    5,312    5,339    5,554   5,832   6,123    6,430   6,687    6,954    7,232    7,522    7,823
Depreciation (Historical)               444      406      543      583     666      120      120     754    1,387    1,387    1,708    1,984    2,326    2,643    3,491
Depreciation (Revalued Assets)          N.A      N.A.    N.A.    N.A       N.A.  6,571    8,737   7,205    7,838    7,838    8,159   8,435    8,777    9,094   9,942
TotalExpenses(Historical)              9,120    8,188   10,510    9,857   11,089   10,102   10,053   10,251   11,338   11,693   12,426  13,131   13,919   14,700   16,030
Total Expenses (Revalued)               N.A      N.A.    N.A.    NA        N.A  16,552   18,669   16,702   17,789   18,144   18,877   19,582  20,369  21,151   22,481
Operating Incorne (Historical)         6,066    5,549    1,237     190     (59)    439    1,541    2,271    1,935    2,244    2,208    2,234    2,215    2,241    1,758
Operating Income (Revalued)             N.A.    N.A.    N.A       N.A.    N.A  (6,012)  (7,075)  (4,180)  (4,515)  (4,207)  (4,243)  (4,216)  (4,236)  (4,210)  (4,693)
InterestExpenseonlDACr.                  -       -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -        -        -       785      754      721     685
Interest Expense on Future Cr.          -        -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -        -        -       510      490     468      820
Net Income Before Taxation (Historical)   6,066    5,549    1,237  190     (59)    439    1,541   2,271    1,935    2,244    2,208      939      971    1,052     253
Net Income Before Taxation (Revalued)   N.A.    N.A.    N.A.    N.A        N.A.  (6,012)  (7,075)  (4,180)  (4,515)  (4,207)  (4,243)  (5,512)  (5,480)  (5,399)  (6,197)
Taxation forthe Period                 2,801    1,610     255       34      -       207      728    1,073     915    1,060    1,043     444      459      497     120
NetIncomefortheYear(Historical)        3,265   3,939      982      156     (59)    231       813    1,198    1,021    1,184    1,165    495      512      555     134
Net Income forthe Year (Revalued)       N.A.    N.A       N.A.    N.A.    N.A  (6,219)  (7,803)  (5,253)  (5,430)  (5,267)  (5,286)  (5,956)  (5,938)  (5,896)  (6,317)
Net Income % Revenues (Historical)     21.5%   28.7%     8.4%     1.6%   -0.5%     2.2%     7.0%    9.6%     7.7%     8.5%     8.0%    3.2%     3.2%     3.3%     0.8%    
Net Income Assets (Historical)        23.5%   32.2%     8.8%     1.7%   -0.7%     2.7%     4.7%    4.4%     3.5%     3.5%     3.0%     1.2%     1.2%    1.1%    0.3%
O JX



REPUIBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
SIERRA LEONE PORTS AUTHORITY
BAL.ANCE SHEET STATEMEN'I'
(US$ '000)
Actual                                    Prolected
1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005
Assets
Stocks                               1,688    1,559   1,422   1,654   1,325    1,054   1,159   1,252    1,327   1,394   1,463    1,537   1L613   1,694   1,779
Accounts Receivable                  5,819   4,129   3,885   2,778   4,225    2,599   2,859   3,088   3,273   3,437   3,608   3,789    3,978   4,177   4,386
Government Hard Loan                 1,439    1,380   1,204   1,159
Government Offset Account             366      337     302      282
Cash and Bank                        1,859   1,832   1,625      548     155   2.650   2,272   2,758   4,871    5,033   5,221    4,849   4,970   4,969   4,943
Current Assets                      11,171    9,236   8,438   6,421    5,704   6,303   6,290   7,098   9,472   9,864  10,292  10,174  10,561   10,840  11.108
Fixed Assets as Cost                 3,321    3,022   3,753   4,359   4,569   4,569   5,047  14,523  24,068  25,357  31,535  35,031   39,647  44,238  53,711
Accumulated Depreciation              633      703    1,096   1,610   2,166   2,286   2,406   3,160   4,547   5,934   7,643   9,627   11,953  14,596  18,088
Net Fixed Assets                     2,688   2,319   2,657   2,750   2,403    2,283   2,641   11,363   19,521   19,423  23,892  25,404  27,694  29,642  35,623
Capital Work-in-Progress                38     667      96      180     150      .     8,487   8,487      -      4,680   4,236    5,204   4,653   9,803   3,674
Investments                             10       5       4        3                                       -        -               -        -       -        -
00
Total Assets                        13,907   12,227   11,195   9,355   8,257   8,586  17,418  26,949  28,993  33,967  38,420  40,782  42,908  50,284  50,405
Liabilities & Owners' Equity
Accounts Payable                      895      642     869   1,723   1,693    1,733   1,906   2,058   2,182   2,291   2,406   2,526    2,652   2,785   2,924
Taxes Payable                        3,932   3,385   2,902      520     -        207     728   1,073      915    1,060   1,043     444      459     497      120
Total Current Liabilities            4,827   4,027   3,771   2,243    1,693    1,940   2,634   3,131    3,096   3,351   3,449   2,969   3,111    3,282   3,044
Loan Capital                            15       7       6        5       5          -       -        -            -       -       -        -       -        -
IDA Debt                               -       -        -       -       -        -     4,440   9,189   9,830   10,517  11,251   10,802   10,322   9,809   9,260
African Development Debt               -       -        -       -       -        -       -        -       -      2,403   4,384   4,690    5,017   5,367   5,200
OtherDebt                              -       -        -       -       -        -     2,885   5,971    6,388   6,834   7,311    9,803   11,428  18,241   19,184
Total Long-Term Debt                    15       7       6        5       5            7,325  15,160  16,219  19,754  22,945  25,295   26,767  33,417  33,643
Total Liabilities                    4,842   4,035   3,777   2,248    1,698    1,940   9,959   18,292  19,315  23,105  26,394  28,265  29,879  36,699  36,687
Capital Reserves                        52      24       19      18      17       17      17       17      17      17       17      17       17      17       17
Equity & Retained Earnings           9,013    8,168   7,399   7,089   6,543    6,630   7,443   8,640   9,661   10,845  12,010  12,500   13,013  13,569  13,701
Total Liabilities & Owners Equity   13,907   12,227  11,195   9,355   8,257   8,586  17,418  26,949  28,993  33,967  38,420  40,782  42,908  50,284  50,405
Current Ratio                           2.3     2.3      2.2     2.9     3.4      3.2     2.4     2.3      3.1     2.9      3.0     3.4      3.4     3.3      3.6       4 
Debt to Equity Ratio                  N.A      N.A.    N.A.    N.A.    N.A      N.A.    0.50    0.64    0.63    0.65    0.66    0.67    0.67    0.71    0.71           g 
Accounts Receivables (days)            140      110     121     101       90      90      90       90      90       90      90       90      90       90      90
Accounts Payable (days)                 22       17      27      63       60      60      60       60      60       60      60       60      60       60      60



REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
SIERRA LEONE PORTS AUTHORITY
FUNDS FLOW STATEMENT
(US$ '000)
Projected                         Total f
1996    1997    1998    1999 1996.99       2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005
Sources or Funds                                                      . .   .....
Net Income Bcfore lnterest and Taxes    439    1,541    2,271    1,935    6,1W6    2,244   2,208   2,234    2.215    2,241    1,758
Depreciation (Historical)               120      120     754    1,387   2,381    1,387   1,708    1,984    2,326    2,643    3,491
Tax Expense                             207      728    1,073     915    2,923    1,060    1,043    444      459      497      120
Intemal Generation ofFunds              352     933    1,951    2,408   5,605    2,571    2,873    3,775    4,082    4,387    5,129
Debt Service                                                               ... .
Interest Payment                   -       -        -                                         1,296    1,244    1,189    1,504
Principal Repayment                -       -        -            -            -        -       740      791     847    1,073
Net nIernal Cash Generation             352     933    1,951    2,408    S,64S    2,571   2,873    1,740   2,047    2,352   2,552
IDA On-lent Credit                      -      4,150    4,150     -      ,0         --
Future On-Lent Credit                   -      2,697    2.697     -       54    2,247    1,694   2,602    1,628    6,372      441
Total SourcesofFunds                    352    7,780    8,798   2,408   19,338    4,818   4,567   4,342    3,675    8,723   2,993                                   00
Applications of Funds
Mobilisation                                     588     588      -      1,1.17    221      221     300      300      300      300
BerthI                                  -         18       18     -         7 . ..37....
General Cargo Zone                      -      1,060    1,060     -      2,120:    963      963
ContainerTerminal                       -      2,905    2,905     -      5Sjj    1,210    1,210
Berth 6                                 -        162     162      -       325
Workashop                               -        -                         -       406      406      -       -        -        -
Westem Revetment                                  84      84      -        167      -
FerryTeminal                            -        -        -       -        -        78       78
Container Handling                      -        -        -       -               1,803    1,358
Manpower Development                    -        -        -           : .           -       -        104     104      104
Rehabilitation of Old IV Bay College    -        -        -       - c      -        -       -      1,834    1,834    1,529
Relocation of Port Clinic & Equipment   -        -        -       -       -.        -       -       697      697      685
Second Tug Boat                         -        -        -       -        - :              -        -       -
Re-Equipment of Port Security Forces             -        -       -      :          -       -        -       182      182      181
Rchabilitation of Cline Town Slipway    -       972      972      -      i,944
Improvement of Fenries                  -      2,697    2,697     -       3S4       -       -        110     -      5,503   2,006
Port of Nitti Development               -        -        -       -                 -       -       936      312      312
Total applications of Funds             -      8,487    8,487     -   A6,974    4,680    4,236   3,981    3,430    8,615    2,487
Net Non-Cash Working Capital         (2,144)   (329)   (176)    295  (2,353)    (25)    144         733      125      109      532
Change in Cash Balance                2,495    (378)    487   2,113    4,717        162     187    (372)    121        (1)    (26)                              WO
Debt Service Coverage                   N.A.    N.A.    N.A.    N. A.    N.A       N.A.    N.A.       1.9     2.0      2.2      2.0                             ,.q 



85                                    Annex 6-1
Page 1 of 8
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
1.    This annex presents economic analysis of the IDA-financed componernts of the Transport
Sector Project, consisting of five subsectors (road, road transport, port rehabilitation, water
transport, and air transport).
A.  ROAD REHABILITATION COMPONENT
2.     Two typical road sections totaling 77 km to be rehabilitated at an estimated cost of
$2 million were analyzed with the Highway Design and Maintenance Model m (HDM) to verify
analyses carried out for SLRA by various consultants. The programmed works include reshaping,
spot regravelling, and deferred maintenance. Table 1-a summarizes the road characteristics.
3.    The economic benefits are calculated by estimating savings in vehicle operating costs
(VOCs) and maintenance costs. Benefits to road users were computed on the basis of the
consumer surplus, taken as half the unit VOCs reduction times the generated traffic. The economic
indicators calculated are the net present value (NPV) and the internal rates of return (EIRR), using
economic user costs and investment costs.
4.     Altemative civil works that were evaluated ranged from minimal routine maintenance on
the existing roads to pavement rehabilitation or complete reconstruction of the road. Available
data on the existing conditions of the roads showed that most roads under consideration were in
poor or very poor condition with roughness values in excess of IRI 8.5. Hence, for these roads,
alternatives involving only resurfacing options such as resealing or thin overlays, were technically
ruled out. For unpaved roads, rehabilitation of at least portions of the roadbed prior to regravelling
is required.
5.    Costs were considered in both financial and economic terms (after adjusting for taxes and
duties). The highly deteriorated condition of many roads causes VOCs to be very high, but lacking
viable altemate routes, users cannot avoid such costs. Some reduction in trips has undoubtedly
occurred because of poor road conditions. Consequently, rehabilitation and a return to nomnal
traffic pattems after the security situation improves will lead to higher traffic. Therefore, initial
traffic increase is assumed to be as high as 30% for light vehicles. Estimated future traffic growth
in Sierra Leone ranges from 3% to 6% per annum depending on vehicle type for the first five years
of the analysis period; it drops to a steady 3% for all vehicle types thereafter.
6.     Table 1-b presents a summary of the economic analysis of the entire road investment
component of the Credit, totaling 1,027 km and $9.55 million. The weighted average of the EIRR
of the whole component yields 25%, and an NPV of $8.0 million discounted at 12%. The result of
the sensitivity analysis using a 10% cost-overrun and an implementation delay by one year is
summarized in Table 1-c, which shows that the base EIRR decreases from 25% to 22% with the
cost-overrun and to 17% with the implementation delay. The employment to be generated by this
component is estimated to be approximately 1,600 person-years for unskilled labor (para. 18).



86                                     Annex 6-1
Page 2 of 8
7.     All other non-road investment components, consisting of (1) development of small and
medium contractors, (2) expansion of training school facilities, (3) training program, (4)
consultancies for final design and supervision, (5) technical assistance to SLRA, and (6)
consultancies for institutional studies of SLRA, are expected to yield substantial economic benefits
which are difficult to quantify.
B.  ROAD TRANSPORT COMPONENT
8.     The proposed IDA-financed investments are (1) improvements in Traffic System
Management (TSM) in Freetown and (2) technical and logistical assistance to RTA. The
economic benefits of the investment component (traffic management) have been calculated. The
following investment totaling US$2.0 million has been proposed: (i) improvements of 21 major
road intersections, (ii) construction of an off-street parking lot, (iii) installation of parking
prohibition signs, (iv) provision of lay bys, (v) one-way street operations, (vi) on-street parking
pavement markings, (vii) installation of on-street parking time limit signs, and (viii) installation of
miscellaneous traffic signs.
9.     The main benefits from the above investments are improvement in traffic safety and
savings in transportation in terms of time and VOCs. While safety benefits are difficult to
quantify. The system wide vehicle-kilometers traveled (VKT), vehicle-hours traveled (VHT), and
average speeds, both with and without the TSM improvements, were calculated. Table 2-a
presents an EIRR of 25% and a NPV of $1.6 million, discounted at 12%. The result of the
sensitivity analysis with a 10% cost-overrun and an one year implementation delay shows that the
base EIRR decreases to 23% with the 10% cost-overrun and to 21% with the one-year
implementation delay.
C.  PORT REHABILITATION COMPONENT
10.   The IDA-financed rehabilitation of the Port of Freetown which includes (1) deferred
maintenance, (2) paving of the unsurfaced area of the port, with emphasis on the container
marshaling area, (3) rehabilitation of the slipway, and (4) minor improvements. A cost-benefit
analysis was conducted for all components, with the exception of the minor improvements,
including the addition of roads, electricity, lighting, communications, customs facilities and
drainage for the container terminal, plus drainage, lighting and fendering at other berths. While
these are key components of port rehabilitation, the benefits are difficult to quantify.
11.    The US$2 million deferred maintenance program will bring the existing facilities up to
standard, after years of neglected maintenance. The main benefits are avoidance of greater costs in
the future. Without remedial work to offset the current lack of maintenance, it is assumed that a
complete reconstruction would be necessary after 20 years. The approximate cost of
reconstructing the Fredown port is estimated at $ 60 million. Table 3-a presents an NPV for this
component of $1.7 million using a 12% discount rate, and an EIRR of 14%. The sensitivity
analysis of risks using a 10% cost-overrun and a one year implementation delay does not affect the
EIRR.
12.    The main economic benefits of paving the container terminal, costing US$4.3 million, are
(i) reduced damage to handling equipment, (ii) faster operations when serving the ships' cranes,
and (iii) avoidance of high maintenance and repair costs at the unpaved terminal. Item (i) was
estimated by the savings in annual maintenance costs with a paved terminal and without a paved
tenninal, and was estimated as US$10 per TEU, item (ii) was assumed to be US$10 per TEU, and
item (iii) was assumed to be US$50,000 per year. The NPV of this component is estimated at



87                                    Annex 6-1
Page 3 of 8
US$1.0 million, with 12% discount rate, and the EIRR is 16%. The sensitivity analysis using a
10% cost-overrun reduces this to 15%, and a one year implementation delay reduces this to 14%.
13.   The benefits from the US$1.6 million rehabilitation of the slipway are difficult to express
in EIRR terms, since without a slipway workshop, a ship needing repairs would have to be towed
to the dosest workshop in Abidjan or Dakar, which would be too costly. Consequendy, savings in
current marine engineering 0 & M cost were used as a proxy for economic benefits. The NPV of
this component is estimated to be US$4.4 million, using a 12% discount rate, and the EIRR is
57%. The sensitivity analysis with a 10% cost-overrun reduces this to 49%, and a one year
implementation delay reduced this to 40%.
14.   The overall EIRR using a weighted average is 24% with an NPV of US$7.1 million
discounted at 12%. The sensitivity analysis a 10% cost-overrun reduces the EIRR to 22%, and the
one year implementation delay reduces it to 20%.
D.  WATER TRANSPORT COMPONENT
16.   The economic analysis of the US$1.8 million Phase I investments was carried out.
Though the detailed scope of work is yet to be determined, the purpose of this phase is to
implement a short-tern pilot project within the capabilities of local contractors, consisting of
rehabilitation and provision of landing and storage facilities. Five typical Phase I landings being
considered were analyzed and summarized in Table 4-a. Main benefits are cost savings for vessel,
passengers, handling and spoilage. The costs of works at each landing ranges from US$0.1 to
US$0.6 million, and the EIRRs range from 16% to 97% and the NPVs range from US$0.0 to
US$1.2 million, discounted at 12%. Sensitivity analyses with a cost-overrun of 15%, a decrease in
benefits by 15%, and a combination of the two, yielded EIRRs ranging from 8% to 83%.
E.   AIR TRANSPORT COMPONENT
17.   The IDA-financed portion of the airport component, costing US$2.74 million, consists of
(1) aerodrome civil works (evaluation of runway pavement strength, runway improvement, and
perimeter fencing), (2) terminal building improvement, (3) airfield lighting, (4) aerodrome services
equipment (fire tender and rescue boat), and (5) technical training. The main benefits are enhanced
security, time savings in airport operations, and savings in maintenance, the latter being estimated
for the analysis. As summarized in Table 5-a, the NPV is estimated to be US$0.7 million,
discounted at 12%, and the ERR is estimated at 19%. The sensitivity analysis with a cost-overrun
of 10% reduces the EIRR to 17%, and a one year implementation delay reduces it to 16%.
F.  EMPLOYMENT GENERATION
18.   The employment to be generated by the project was estimated for unskilled labor in IDA-
financed civil work of the US$9.6 million road component. The baseline assumptions were:
(1) unskilled labor represented 5 % of total cost, (2) the entire work requires four years for
completion, during which temporary unskilled labor is employed for the duration of 20 days per
month and 9 months per year, and (3) average annual salary is US$150. It is estimated that 1,600
person-year of employment will be generated.



88                                                   Amex 61
Page 4 of 8
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
TABLE 1-A. ROAD LINK CHARACTERISTICS
ROAD NAME                     Link  Length Sruface  ADT  Surface Rough Rainfall Altitude  R+F    Curv.  Subgrade   SN    Gravl
ID    (km)   Type   (vhd)  Cond.   IRI  (m/mo)   (m)   (mn/km) (dg/km)            (CBR %)         (mm)
GRAVEL ROADS
1. Lungi - Port Loko         LUPL    62       GR      120    F/P      12    0.25      80       20      20        8                80
PAVED ROADS
1. Tagnn - Lungi Airport     TGLU    15       ST      800     F      4.5    0.25      10       10      10        20       2.1
GR: Gravel: ST: Surface treatment
TABLE 1-B. ANALYSES OF ROAD NVESrNTS IN THE CREDIT
DESCRIPTION                                         Ref.    Length      Cost      NPV       ERR      Report    ADT    Costkm
No.       Km      US $m    012%          %       Source     1994    000 US$
Paying of Stratedc Gravel Roads
Lungi - Port Loko (first stage: reshape, spot regrav.)    2.1  62         0.70      0.40     76     HDM m        120       11
Deferred Periodic Maint. of Main Road.
Tagrin - Lungi Airport                              3.1        15         1.30      1.90     38     HDM m        800       87
Reshapinf/ReErav. of Gravel Main Roeds
1997 Program                                     5.1 to 5.9   312         3.10      1.52     30       Louis      320       10
Berger
1998 Program                                      5.10 to     68          0.65      0.29     30       Louis      460       10
5.17                                             Berger
Feeder Roads
Spot improvements (West)                            6.1       550         2.20      1.25     15       Louis    20-60        4
Berger
Urban Roads & Strec4s (Exd. ROW)
Major Streets in Up-country Towns                   7.3        20         1.60      2.62     30       SLRA      2,000      80
TOTAL                                                       1,027         9.55      7.98     25                             9



89                                                        Annex 6-1
Page 5 of 8
TABLE 1-C. SUMMARY OF ERR'S AND SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
ROAD NAME                                            Ref. No.       ERR               SENSITIVITY I                SENSITIVITY 2
(BASE CASE)  (COST OVERRUN BY 10%)  (IMPL. DELAY BY I YR)
Lungi-PortLoko                                         2.1          31%                     26%                          23%
Tagrin -Lungi Airport                                  3.1          117%                    97%                           34%
Laia-Port Loko                                         5.1           7%                     5%                            6%
Taima-Mano                                             5.2          20%                     17%                           16%
Mano-Bajia                                             5.3          23%                     20%                           18%
Magboai-Romagbut                                       5.4          -1%                     -2%                           -1%
Kambia-Madina Jct-Kamaakwie                            5.5           11%                    9%                            9%
Kamakwie-Medina Dula                                   5.6           12%                    10%                           10%
Limbaya-Guinea Boder                                   5.7          45%                     40%                           32%
Bafodia-Mayatoto                                       5.8          -1%                     -2%                           -1%
Gbangbatoke Jct-Gbangbatoke                            5.9           9%                     7%                            8%
Kabala-Koinadugu-Bendugu                               5.10          5%                     3%                            4%
Senbuhum-Tikonko-Bo                                    5.11         36%                     31%                           26%
BambaJct-Mattru-Sumbuya                                5.12         21%                     18%                           17%
Mano-Sembuhun-Suumbuya                                 5.13         36%                     31%                           26%
Makakura-Alikalia-Kayima                               5.14          16%                    13%                           13%
Alikalia-Bumbuna                                       5.15          1%                     -1%                           1%
Worodu-Kurubonia-Bendugu                               5.16          8%                     6%                            7%
Kotolon-Sendugu                                        5.17          10%                    8%                            9%
Feeder Roads Priority Section                          6.1          23%                     19%                           17%
Major Streets in Up-Country Towns                      7.3          62%                     52%                           37%
TOTAL                                                               25%                     22%                           17%
Note: Only 68 km of roads ref. no. 5.10 to 5.17 to be financed under TSP.



90                                                  Annex 6-1
Page 6 of 8
TABLE 2-A. COST-BENEFIT OF TRAFFiC SYSTEM MANAGEMENT (TSM)
YEAR              K         O&M             B                       NET
VOC         TIME
1998    2.000                                              -2.000
1999                0.000        0.475        0.038        0.513
2000                 0.000       0.481        0.037        0.518
2001                 0.000        0.487       0.036        0.523
2002                 0.000        0.493       0.035        0.528
2003                 0.000        0.499       0.034        0.533
2004                 0.000        0.505       0.033        0.538
2005                 0.000        0.446       0.045        0.491
2006                 0.000        0.447       0.045        0.492
2007                 0.000        0.447       0.044        0.491
2008                 0.000        0.448       0.044        0.492
2009                 0.000        0.448       0.044        0.492
2010                 0.000        0.449       0.044        0.493
2011                 0.000        0.449       0.043        0.492
2012                 0.000       0.450        0.043        0.493
2013                 0.000       0.450        0.043        0.493
2014                 0.000       0.451        0.043        0.494
2015                 0.000       0.451        0.042        0.493
2016                 0.000       0.452        0.042        0.494
2017                 0.000       0.452        0.042        0.494
IRR                                                                 25%
NPV (@12%)                                                          $1.57
COST OVERRUN (10%)                                                  23%
IMPLEMENTATION DELAY (IYR)                                          21%
K: Capital cost; O&M: Operational and Maintenance costs; B: Benefits
TABLE 2-B. ASSUMPTIONS USED FOR ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
NETWORK                        MEASURE                  1995          2000         2005
W/O TSM                         VKT (km)              539,291        659,955      848,656
VHT (h)              31,756         38,230       47,904
AVE. SPEED (km/h)           16.98         17.26        17.72
W/ TSM                          VKT (km)              534,458        654,334      843,603
VHT (h)              28,118         34,013       42,785
AVE. SPEED (km/h)           19.01         19.24        19.72



91                                                          Annex 6-1
Page 7 of 8
TABLE 3-A. COST-BENEFIT OF PORT REHABILITATION
DEFFERRED MAINTENANCE                           PAVENMENT OF CONTAINER                         SLIPWAY REPAIR
TERMINAL
K         O&M             B          NET    K    O&M    B    NET    K    O&M    B    NET
1996        2130                                 -2130       3915           20        456      -3479        1613          81        600       -1094
1997                       300                     -300                     20        490        470                      81        640         559
1998                       300                     -300                    20(        516        496                      81        672         591
1999                       300                     -300                     20        542        522                      81        706         625
2000                       300                     -300                     20        568         548                     81         741        660
2001                       300                     -300                     20        594         574                     81         778        697
2002                       300                     -300                     20        622         602                     81         817        736
2003                       300                     -300                     20        648         628                     81         858        777
2004                       300                     -300                     20        672         652                     81         901        820
2005                       300                     -300                     20        700         680                     81         946        865
2006                       300                     -300                     39        726         687                     81         993        912
2007                       300                     -300                     39        752         713                     81        1043        962
2008                       300                     -300                     39        778         739                     81        1095       1014
2009                       300                     -300                     39        804         765                     81        1150       1069
2010                       300                     -300                     39        830         791                     81        1207       1126
2011                       300                     -300                     39        856         817                     81        1268       1187
2012                       300                     -300                     39        882         843                     81        1331       1250
2013                       300                     -300                     39        908         869                     81        1397       1316
2014                       300                     -30)0                    39        934         895                     81        1467       1386
2015                       300                     -300                     39        960         921                     81        1541       1460
2016                                  60000      60000                      39        990         951                     81        1618       1537
NPV                                                     1679                                          1044                                           4404
ERR                                                      14%                                           16%                                           57%
COST OVERRUN (10%)                                      14%                                            15%                                           49%
IMPLEMENTATION DELAY (IYR)                               14%                                           14%                                           40%
OVERALL ERR                                  24%
COST OVERRUN (10%)                           22%
IMPLEMENTATION DELAY                         20%
(IYR)



92                                                   Annex 6-1
Page 8 of 8
TABLE 4-A. SUMMARY OF ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF WATER TRANSPORT (PHASE I)
CANDIDATE                PROPOSED WORK              COST            ERR        NPV ($ mil)                   SENSITIVITY
PORT                                                 (S mil)        (%)          @12%         COST + 15%       BENEFITS-15%
Susan's Bay          Old Pier                             0.633        96.56          0.929            82.58                80.47
New Pier                             0.427        54.04          1.159           46.60                45.48
Port Loko            New Pier                             0.135        50.97          0.336           43.91                 42.85
Old Pier + Building*                 0.135        46.35         0.290            39.87                38.89
Yoni                 New Pier + Building*                 0.166        21.36          0.065            17.58                16.99
New Pier + Building                  0.154        23.53         0.082            19.57
Tombo                New Pier + Building                  0.154         15.63         0.005            12.22                11.68
Gbondapi             New Pier + Building                  0.123        41.67          0.223            35.76                34.86
* A-class building (other buildings are all B-class).
TABLE 5-A. COST-BENEFIT OF AIR TRANSPORT COMPONENT
YEAR              K          O&M            B           NET
1996            1.646                                  -1.646
1997                          0.001        0.325        0.323
1998                          0.001        0.325        0.323
1999                          0.001        0.325        0.323
2000                          0.001        0.325        0.323
2001                          0.001        0.325        0.323
2002                          0.001        0.325        0.323
2003                          0.001        0.325        0.323
2004                          0.001        0.325        0.323
2005                          0.001        0.325        0.323
2006                          0.001        0.325        0.323
2007                          0.001        0.325        0.323
2008                          0.001        0.325        0.323
2009                          0.001        0.325        0.323
2010                          0.001        0.325        0.323
2011                          0.001        0.325        0.323
2012                          0.001        0.325        0.323
2013                          0.001        0.325        0.323
2014                          0.001        0.325        0.323
2015                          0.001        0.325        0.323
2016                          0.001        0.325        0.323
IRR                                                         19%
NPV (012%)                                                 $0.69
COSI OVERRUN (10%)                                          17%
IMPLEMENTATION DELAY (IYR)                                  16%



93                                      Annex 6-2
Page 1 of 8
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACr ASSESSMENT AND MITIGATION PLAN
Background
1.    The proposed Transport Sector Project has been placed under environmental category B,
as consistent with the Operational Directive 4.01, Annex E: Environmental Assessment. In
accordance with the directive, an environmental assessment was carried-out for the proposed
project and in addition, a specific study on the port rehabilitation was prepared. The final report
containing an environmental analysis and a mitigation plan addressing the environmental impact of
the project was presented to IDA in June 1995 and the final draft of the Port Rehabilitation Study
was presented to IDA in January 1996 (see Project File). The main environmental impacts
incurred under the project are due to the following project components: (1) the rehabilitation and
maintenance of roads; (2) the rehabilitation of the Freetown Port; (3) the improvement of the
existing port; and (4) the improvement of landing facilities in inland and coastal waterways. The
improvement of the Freetown Airport is not expected to incur any significant environmental
impacts. The TSP will include the appointment of an environmental coordinator at the CMU from
MCTE's Environmental Department to coordinate the environmental activities in the ministry with
other institutions.
Rehabilitation and Maintenance of Roads
2.    Environmental Impact. The program for periodic and routine maintenance and
rehabilitation of the public road network will have several environmental impacts:
*     soil erosion: the planned works under this component will cause some disruption to
the vegetation cover, which will make the uppermost soil layers susceptible to
erosion during times of heavy rainfall, particularly on slopes and hilly areas;
*     potential disturbance to protected areas: some of the road sections under the TSP
interfere with protected forests;
sand resources: sand for the construction works is extracted from sandy beaches at
the peninsula. This results in coastal erosion and conflicts with tourism interests
and coastal settlements.
3.     Mitization Measures. Appropriate mitigation measures will minimize the negative impact
on the environment.
*      Soil erosion from road construction works can be reduced by several means:
land clearance during construction works can be minimized by:
minimizing the width of the working zone; utilizing the ditched-up



94                                         Annex 6-2
Page 2 of 8
material from side drains as road construction material instead of using
borrow pits (depending on the properties of the soil material); and
establishing borrow pits close to the roads to avoid the construction of
significant sections of temporary roads;
-      the roads can be designed to protect the road and surrounding areas
against erosion. Possible protection measures include: reinforcement of
cut slopes by introducing steps each of which having drain ditches,
reinforcement of filled slopes and embankments by adding excess fill and
subsequent compaction; strengthening of slope surfaces by plarnting grass;
implementation of proper road drain systems, including side drains,
culverts and possibly outlets at appropriate intervals; and preventing
drains against collapsing by strengthening the drain surface (e.g. by
planting grass and in some cases by surfacing the drains with concrete).
*      Potential disturbance to protected areas: the exact extent of interference with
protected areas has to be clarified dunng the design phase, and a specific
mitigation plan must be prepared to remediate the potential conflicts between road
works and protected nature. SLRA must inspect the road work to ensure that the
work comply with the prescribed mitigative procedures. Realignment of the road
may be considered.
v      Sand resources: the coastal erosion can be reduced by implementing coast
protection, such as groynes, at regular intervals.
4.     Iumpact on Human Safety. Labor based road work constitutes a considerable occupational
health risk due to several factors, including difficult physical working conditions, exposure to dust
and bituminous vapors, and exposure to vibrations and noise from machines. Overall, the road
improvements will introduce an increased risk of accidents due to a generally higher speed of the
motorized traffic and due to an expected increase in traffic amounts.
5.     Mitigation Measures. Measures to reduce occupational health and safety risks include
adequate training and education of personnel, use of appropriate personal protective equipment,
dust suppression during dry seasons, maintenance of facilities and equipment of designed or
regulated level of performance, and proper operational procedures and occupational health
standards. Measures to mitigate adverse effects include separation of non-motorized traffic from
the motorized by establishment of footpaths, establishment of lay-bys for buses and taxis to
prevent against traffic congestion, introduction of speed reduction measures in town and village
streets, and proper road marking. In addition surfacing of town and village roads will allow a more
uniform speed and partially prevent dust generation. Traffic safety measures should be
particularly addressed for town and village roads and heavily trafficked trunk roads.
Road Transport
6.     A Road Transport Authority (RTA) is being established under the TSP to coordinate road
transport planning and management, to undertake inspection and testing of vehicles and drivers,
and to undertake surveys and studies to plan and monitor the development within this area. This
includes designating and upgrading private workshops to vehicles examination centers that would
undertake regular vehicle standard examinations.



95                                        Annex 6-2
Page 3 of 8
7.     The key environmental issue related to the road transport is the extremely poor state of the
current Sierra Leonean vehicle fleet, which leads to extensive emissions of air pollutants. It is
recommended that an environmental unit be set-up under the RTA to meet the most urgent
demands for environmental protection capability in road transport planning and management. The
following actions are recommended:
*      appointment of an environmental specialist to address the following issues:
(1) road transport planning and management; (2) general quality standards for
imported second hand vehicles, including emission standards, (3) fuel quality
standards; (4) traffic safety measures; and (5) coordination of actions and policies
with the environmental coordinator at the CMU;
*      training of the environmental specialist to achieve adequate qualifications;
*      workshops and/or seminars for management and staff at RTA to increase
environmental awareness; and
*      technical assistance to implement and monitor the proposed actions.
8.     The tasks of the environmental unit at the RTA will include among other things:
preparation of environmental standards for vehicle emissions, fuel quality, etc. to
be approved by the Environmental Protection Secretariat (EPS);
performance of workshops, seminars and training in accordance with the proposed
institutional strengthening actions;
*      preparation of environmental terms for the proposed vehicle examination centers
and subsequent supervision and control thereof;
*      proposal of incentives to encourage vehicle operators to adopt standards; and
*      preparation of terms of reference for specific studies, including a transport
planning and management study for Freetown.
The Rehabilitation of the Freetown Port
9.     The port rehabilitation component covers the rehabilitation of port roads, storage areas,
sheds and equipment, investigation of the quay wall and coping, slipway repair and paving of the
container stacking area. A separate port rehabilitation study was executed as part of the TSP (see
Project File). The project components are not expected to have any significant impact on the
surrounding land and water. Diving inspections to examine the current conditions along the quay
have indicated that beside some floating garbage, no visible sign of pollution was observed and that
there was some marine life present in the waters.
10.    The potential sources of pollution within the port are discharges from industrial activity,
workshops and shipyards, loading and unloading of ships, dredging and dumping of material from
the port. The level of discharges caused by industrial activity, workshops and shipyards, and the
loading and unloading of ships might rise slightly due to increased activity in the port area once the



96                                        Annex 6-2
Page 4 of 8
rehabilitation is begun and the port facility is enhanced. In particular, the likelihood of an oil spill
will increase. The level of dredging is not expected to increase and the risk of hazardous
substances accumulating in the in the sediment is small.
11.    A system of procedures for collecting the sewage, solid waste, and waste oil will be put in
place according to the increase in activities in the port. The following activities will be carried out:
*      establishment of oil waste reception and treatment facilities at the port;
*      implementation of an oil spill contingency plan for Sierra Leone; the Oil Spill
Contingency Plan for Freetown and Environs was prepared in November 1994.
The plan details procedures to be followed for identification of risks and
monitoring, as well as for response strategies; however, the necessary equipment
remains to be acquired,
*      implementation of proper operational procedures, occupational health and safety
procedures and hazard management procedures, and
*      clean-up of port areas-on-shore as well as off-shore; including removal of scrap
and wrecks and clean-up of contaminated soil and sediments.
In addition, a study to examine the potential impact of port activities on spawning and fishing areas
will be undertaken.
The Coastal and River Transport Component
12.    Environmental Impact. A number of potentially severe adverse environmental impacts can
be expected from various activities under this investment package which it is essential to address:
possible deepening, widening and change of the course of a river will increase the
drainage of the catchment area, thereby changing the water-balance of the
catchment area with potentially severe permanent effects on wetland as well as
agricultural, grassland, and forest ecology. This could be the case for the Sewa
and the Moa rivers in the eastem part of Sierra Leone. The catchment area of
Moa River contains a national wild life sanctuary which could be adversely
affected by an altered water balance. The catchment area of Sewa river includes
protected forests and large areas of inland swamps, which are vulnerable to
changes in the water balance;
*      these effects are particularly significant for protected forest and other types of
protected nature areas in Sierra Leone. Rivers and estuaries to be prepared or
improved for inland navigation are not yet determined. Therefore, it is not clear
whether protected forests or other nature reserves in certain catchment areas will
be affected;
*      the change in the hydrological characteristics of rivers may also increase the risk
of river bank erosion and subsequent flooding of nearby areas;



97                                        Annex 6-2
Page 5 of 8
*      river and estuarine flora and fauna may be affected due to several factors,
including permanent changes of hydrological nature, siltation from dredging
activities, possible change in salinity of estuaries due to increased supply of fresh
water to estuaries and due to emissions of pollution, noise, and vibrations from the
mantime traffic,
*      disposal (upland disposal or off-shore dumping) of dredged sediments may cause
varying effects on ecological habitats;
*      improvement of river and coastal transport will, other things being equal, increase
the nrsk of oil spills and accidents in rivers and estuaries;
*      locally, the improvement of ports and jetties may imply adverse environmental
effects to be mitigated.
13.    Proposed Actions. Adequate reception and treatment facilities for oily waste are required
as an indispensable part of the marine infrastructure development as well as the development of a
set of emergency response actions to unintentional oil spills an accidents. Special attention should
be paid to the ecologically sensitive wetland areas, such as the extensive mangrove swamps in the
Bronte area and the swamp areas along the Sewa River. Particularly, the requirement of oily waste
reception and treatment facilities should be addressed along the potential operation and
management of hazardous goods.
14.    Stakeholder participation will be sought at every level of project implementation. SLRA
will be the agency responsible for implementing this component. It will hire local staff to conduct
the necessary studies to identify mitigation plans and will ensure that local and national
stakeholders participate in defining the terms of reference for the studies and plans. The studies for
each project subcomponent will cover the issues of environmental sustainability, cost recovery, and
organizational management. IDA will examine and approve the organization, implementation, and
environmental mitigation aspect of each sub-component prior to disbursement.
Improvement of Freetown Airport
15.    The airport component of the TSP includes runway edge light repair, runway pavement
evaluation, procurement of fire fighting and rescue equipment and perimeter fencing. No
significant environmental impacts are likely to occur in relation to the proposed activities.
Coordination of Environmental Activities
16.    All implementing agencies in the TSP, except for the SLRA, are part of the MCTE, which
will ensure that the environmental mitigation plan and other related activities will be closely
monitored and coordinated. To coordinate the environmental activities under the TSP, it is
recommended that an environmental coordinator be attached to the CMU from MCTE's
Environmental Department. The tasks of the coordinator will include among other things:
*      coordination of environmental activities under the TSP, including regular joint
meetings with the staff handling environmental issues at the implementing
agencies;



98                                       Annex 6-2
Page 6 of 8
*      coordination of activities with other authorities and institutions such as the EPS
and the Land and Water Development Department (LWDD);
*      arranging workshops and seminars for management and staff at the transport
sector authorities and institutions (SLRA, SLPA, SLAA, RTC, RTA, and MSA);,
*      preparing environmental project progress reports regularly, and
*     potentially proposing and implementing corrective measures depending on project
progress.
Mitigation Plan
17.    A draft plan to mitigate adverse effects of the TSP has been prepared and will be financed
under the project. The plan proposes legal, institutional strengthening, training, and technical
measures to be incorporated in the TSP. It has been approved by the MCTE.
18.    Legal Measures. The following legal measures are recommended:
*     preparation of environmental guidelines regarding road rehabilitation and
maintenance works;
*      preparation of proper standards for emission factors and noise from vehicles;
*      preparation of fuel quality criteria;
*      preparation of a program for vehicle emission control and fuel quality control;
*     preparation of proper operational procedures and occupational health and safety
procedures in connection with road works, vehicle examnination centers, port, and
airport operations; and
*      preparation of adequate guidelines and emergency response action plans regarding
rehabilitation of Freetown Port which is in accordance with the recommendations
made in the coastal and river transport study.
19.   Institutional strengthening measures. The following institutional strengthening measures to
be financed under the TSP are recommended as a minimum to improve upon the environmental
protection capability within the transport sector in Sierra Leone:
*      an environmental coordinator should be attached to the CMU from MCTE's
Environmental Department to coordinate environmental activities under the TSP
(draft Terms of Reference for the environmental coordinator are presented in the
Project Files); and
*     the existing environmental unit under SLRA should be strengthened through
training of staff in environmental subjects related to road planning, design, and
construction works.



99                                         Annlex 6-2
Page 7 of 8
20.    Training; Measures. The following environmental training and education measures should
be included in the TSP:
*      training of the environmental engneer at the SLRA and possibly also the
environmental coordinator at MCTE to achieve adequate qualifications,
*      workshops and seminars for management and staff at the transport sector
authonties and institutions to increase the general environmental awareness within
the transport sector in Sierra Leone,
*      training of SLRA road construction supervisors; and
*      training of management and supervisoris of private contractors to undertake road
rehabilitation and maintenance.
21.    Technical measures. Regarding the road rehabilitation and maintenance, the mitigation
measures and remedial actions discussed in Chapter 9 of the final report should be implemented in
the detalled design of the respective trunk and feeder roads in concem. The environmental engineer
at SLRA should be responsible for preparation of specific mitigation plans for each road or road
section under the TSP. The mitigation plan for a certain road or road section should be based on
field inspections and available information from the LWDD. The plan should include:
e      a short descnrption of the proposed road project;
e      identification and description of the potential environmental impacts of the
proposed project, including potential impacts on landscape, nature, flora, fauna,
protected areas and species, soil erosion potential, rivers and groundwater,
resources demand and availability, air pollution and noise, land use and socio-
economic environment, occupational health and safety, and traffic safety,
*      proposals of project modifications or changes to reduce or eliminate negative
environmental impacts, and
*      a supervision plan for the construction works, including an action plan for the
constructors in case of unforeseen impacts dunrng the construction phase
An implementation schedule for the above proposed measures appears on page 8 of this Annex.



DRAFT MITIGATION PLAN: IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Implemiientationi
Activity                                                                      Year I                               Year 2                              Year 3
Ministry of Communications, Transport, and the Environmnent
(MCTE)
Appointment of environmental coordinator at the CMU
Workshops and seminars within transport sector
Co-ordination with Environmental Protection Secretariat        - - - - - - - - - - - -                                                                     _
activities
Formulation of environmental policy for the transport sector                       _   _ _
Preparation of legal measures
Preparation of status evaluation reports                                           *****
Sierra Leone Roads Authority (SLRA)
Strengthening of the existing environmental unit                           - -  -  - - - - - -  - -  - - - - - - - - - -  - - -  - - -   - -   - -   -  - -
Training on-site of the environmental enginctr
Workshops and seminars within SLRA
Preparation of draft environmental guidelines for the road sector                 _ _ _
Training of SLRA supervisors by the environmental engineer
Preparation of mitigation plans                                                                                                          _ _ _
Supervision of construction plans                                       . .
Preparation of input to environmental status reports                               *             *                      *            *
Road Transport Authiority (RTA)
Establishment of an environmental unit                           - - _ - -. _ _         _ _ _ _ _      - -  - - - -
Eniploymnent of an enviromttneittal specialist and an emissions
control expert
Workshops and seminars within the road transport sector
Preparation of draft vehicle emission standards                             -      -   - - - - -
Preparation of fuel quality criteria
Formulation of a vehicle exanmination progratmnte (incl.                 _ _  . .                                            _ 
implementation)
Preparation of input to environmental status reports                               *             *                      *
Techntii al Assistance
EIA expert, tecihinical assistance to MCTE anid SLRA                     _                    _  _
Entission control expert, technical assistance to RTA
xC



101                                     Annex 7-1
Page I of I
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILE
1.    National Transport Sector Policy, 1995
2.    Sierra Leone Roads Authority Act, 1992
3.    Sierra Leone Airports Authority Act, 1988
4.    Sierra Leone Ports Authority Act, 1964
5.    Sierra Leone Airports Authority - Annual Reports, 1989-1994
6.    Sierra Leone Ports Authority - Annual Reports, 1988-1994
7.    Sierra Leone Ports Authority - Bi-Annual Operating Statements, 1989-1995
8.    Draft Report on the Sierra Leone Ports Authority and the Sierra Leone Airports
Authority, prepared by Christie H. Greene, Consultant, April 1996
9.    Sierra Leone Proposed Transport Rehabilitation Project Environmental Analysis and
Mitigation Plan, Final Report, prepared by COWI Consult, June 1995
10.   Master Plan Study for the Rehabilitation of Freetown Port, Final Report, prepared by
PortConsult, January 1996
11.   Transport Rehabilitation Project - Provision of Consultancy Services for the
Organisation and Management Review Study, Final Report, prepared by O'Sullivan
and Graham, September 1995
12.   SLRA's Estimated Revenues and Expenditures - Proposed Revenue Structure of Road
Fund; Task Force Report, April 1996
13.   Terms of Reference for the Coordination and Monitoring Unit
14.   Terms of Reference for the Environmental Coordinator
15.    1996/2000 Feeder Roads Rehabilitation Plan - 1996/2000 List of Roads (Periodic
Maintenance) - EU funded Trunk Road Small Projects (Drainage and Pavement
Works).






1BRD 27951
G   U   I N   E  A    2                                                 I
SIERRA LEONE
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
0 oFrl           \             9 J               <  >                                                                   NATIONAL ROAD SYSTEM
Yoh I              eysblooLQh$D9oit  D=nLer-d i                                                                          PROGRAM WORKS (1996-1999)
K Lwie 7 t_ j G U I N E A PRIMARY ROADS. PAVED
-PRIMARY ROADS. GRAVEL AND EARTH
-SECONDARY ROADS, PAVED
_____SECONDARY ROADS, GRAVEL AND EARTH
k- X                                                                     - b tFEEDER ROADS
-RECONSTRUCTION/REHABILITATION
Of PAVED ROADS
-a, S-d~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~w   6                                                                        ------ DEFERRED PERIODIC MAINTENANCE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  EPRE PROICMITEAC
M                                    ,,         aI.aa      \                **                                                   I91                                                   OP PAVED ROADS
/    d'                                                                     REHABILiTATION OF GRAVEL PRIMARY
Make / Kaum=3\k_J>gr CK=Im=r=        >    / \\   ~Nn l<>omaAND SECONDARY ROADS
5_4. WI.,j 0, Kgb.1%                                                                                                 S.-. ~~~~~~4AND SECONDARY ROADS
'WKaaa&,.    -K-         Lor                                                                                                                                                                 SPOT IMPROVEMENTS OF FEEDER ROADS
K-6.d-                                                                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(IDA TSP FINANCED ONLY)
RIVERS
0     SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
FREETOWN                                    D    u    rs                                                    DISTRICT CAPITALS
tw <=gbuNtow  k / 7 X9 Tvk6aa,bu(                 ar/              tbu                   yndul (jF N ATION AL CAPITAL
Bs .d6rd4_-' \                  Pa.ndu    CN               /      /> ;    -    g             /        ...                                                  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
.J~~~ LO,/                                            LDgBER6  .6. .                                                                                          vol  
03-50 100
7                                                                                                                IP     KILOMETERS
TI,. b-uda-., col-. -.aann n    .".,h.r/r /n.a
rh., ni/znp da na-npir, an,i/. pan o/ 7/h World Bank Grap.
an  dnra  /".IqI i.~Ni a/any leritry. a -any.r-rnar
M..d.a-  th ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VSENEGAL    10 mI ALV
-  ~~~~~~~  Bar/aunt4'  >  "       *                                                    h~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IS SAIJ   .   --.
B. on/he    Ga.-b        d    \~//~ i                                                                                   ~U
T-6.. /       Sn'/on                                                                                                                     ----------rour4G IN A 
SIERRA
Frewn   LEONE  t'            Z
LIBERIA                       I          r'    ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~LBE DVRIR
7.                                                                            SI/ala                                                                                             - ,LIBERIA is,1lo-
12        II                                                                 IV                     IV         I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UNE 199/






)RED 27952
R,   e  F   o x  e  r
BERTH  P ASE 2           REHAFILITATION BERTH 5, LENGTH-241m      GENERAL CARGO ZONE                                                                                  SIERRA    LEONE
wORA GA COPING           WORK C . FENDEr REHA,5A0 'TATI22"        WORK F I CATHODIC PROTECTION RENEWED
RECON5TRUC7TION        WORK C 3 COPING RECONSTRUCTION            11 OR. 6: FENDER Ffr-'. 'ATION                                                    T                          S                 PROJECT
wORK D-s FlLrER BEHIND   WORK C I IIILrFR 8EHIND COPING   !       WORK 6 X EPAIROF coNcRETE CoPINC
COPING                 WORKC I/D  CATHODICPROTECTION             WORKR 5CLOSINGGAPSATGABIONS/COPING                                                   SIERRA   LEONE   PORT  AUTHORITY
RENEWED                                 WORK R6 DREDGING (SY AUTHORITY)
WORK CAID3 CLOSING GAPS AT                                                                                                              PORT REHABILITATION
GARICNS / COPINGPO                                                                                                                           TR H         BL A I N
WORK C  ODREDGING (RYAUTHIORTY)   j                                                                                                               FREETOWN
SERTH 6                   BERTH S                  BERTH 4                   BERTH 3/
FILTER ALONG    I                CONTAINEo ERMAL                          i . ,,            iS
PERIJMTER                       W |  , C,2M;E' C _jDRO''.`2E AND SCo'E      -                            H  1                i
C.'TF.S       WDFC C   1!C  ,c SORE. lIc-I'- ANDL                                                       'Cr r
WORK FP2        CIRIN   AOCIIIN  A,O 
AwoRIAI P 2N] -- -W-------------OR, C r                                                                  -O-D   _  -ORA   ADS
-X =F~  C'    '"                                                                                                                                               /,faEA.E
\~ ~~E C RD            CAIE LAN  -O                                -   9/ n                       E
'vORC, Lc                                       S                                   0  Ga                                                              a;
FFN'NGNGINE E     IRS 
'OR, F        SECON
-  WORK A I
DIANA GIJ                                                                       HEET PILE REPAIR
ENDINEER
SCT ION
RECLAIMELADO
UTURE CON        ION
ITr   1R EGlUTpp                                                                                                                                                              19Vh
ODE,, P V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R,
FNIG FIRST PHASE WORKS
SECOND PHASE WORKS
aNN,Z                       B1 UILDINGS
GLI,TE0  1                                                                           -       F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ORT EXTENT BOUNDARY
P ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~* NATIONAL CAPITAL (INSET)
1RRO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  I                                                             -        ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES (INSETI
C1 T IIE                                                                                      A,**.o,.dOO.          li      N. -I, oR.-,,,,R ,.o,o
1-f0 190*









IMAGING
Report No:      15552 SL
Type: SAR



