Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
TF029160
Japanese Grant Agreement
(Port of Freetown)
(Transport Rehabilitation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of Grant Funds
provided by the
GOVERNMENT OF JAPAN
Dated January
24, 1995
JAPANESE GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 24, 1995, between the REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE 
(the Recipient) and the INTERNA-TIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (IDA) acting as 
Administra-tor (the Adminis-trator) of grant funds provided by the GOVERNMENT OF JAPAN 
(Japan).
Page  2
WHEREAS
(A) pursuant to a letter agreement dated July 30, 1990 between Japan and 
the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and the Association, 
Japan has requested the Bank and the Association, and the Bank and the Association have 
agreed, to administer grant funds to be made available by Japan for the financing of certain 
programs and projects supported by the Bank and the Association in accordance with the 
provisions of such letter agreement; and
WHEREAS
(B) Japan has agreed to make available to the Recipient a grant (the Grant) 
out of said grant funds to finance the cost of carrying out the technical assistance described in 
Schedule
2
to this Agreement (the Technical Assistance) on the terms and conditions hereinafter 
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows
:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section
1.01.
(a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to 
Development Credit Agreements of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the 
modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement: 
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (9), (12) and 13, 2.02 and 
2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Sections 4.01 and 4.05;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (g) and (h), 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01(b);
 (viii)
Sections 9.01, 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08; and
(ix)
Article X.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
the term "Association", wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Section 6.02 (e) thereof, means the International Development 
Association acting as Administrator of the Grant pursuant to the letter 
agreement between Japan and the Bank and the Association referred to 
in Section 6.02, the term "Association" shall also include the 
International Development Association acting in its own capacity;
Page  3
(ii)
the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the Recipient;
(iii)
the term "Development Credit Agreement", wherever used in the 
General Conditions, means this Agreement;
(iv)
the term "Credit", wherever used in the General Condi-tions, means the 
Grant;
(v)
the term "Credit Account", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Grant Account, an account opened by the Administrator on its 
books in the name of the Recipient to which the amount of the Grant is 
credited;
(vi)
the term "Project", wherever used in the General Conditions, means the 
technical assistance described in Schedule
2
to this Agreement; and
(vii)
Section 4.01 shall be modified to read:
"Withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be made in yen; provided, however, 
that if the expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant have been paid or 
are payable in another currency, the Administra-tor shall, at the request of the Recipient, 
purchase such currency with the proceeds of such withdrawal."
Section
1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires, 
the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this Agreement have 
the respective meanings therein set forth; and the terms "
yen
"
and
"
¥
"
mean the currency of 
Japan.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section
2.01.
The Administrator agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and 
conditions herein set forth or referred to, the Grant in an amount of seventy four million two 
hundred thousand yen
(
¥
74,200,000).
Section
2.02.
The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be 
amended from time to time by agreement between the Recipient and the Administrator, for 
expendi-tures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of carrying out the Technical Assistance and to be financed out of the Grant.
Section
2.03. The Closing Date shall be January 31, 1996 or such later date as the 
Administrator shall establish. The Adminis-trator shall promptly notify the Recipient of such 
later date.
ARTICLE III
Page  4
Execution of the Technical Assistance
Section
3.01.
(a) The Recipient shall carry out the Technical Assistance through the 
Recipient's Ports Authority with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial and engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Technical Assistance.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and, 
except as the Recipient and the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall carry out 
the Technical Assistance in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 3 
to this Agreement.
Section
3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
consultants' services required for the Technical Assistance and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule
4
to this Agreement.
Section
3.03. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, 
resources and expenditures in respect of the Technical Assistance of the depart-ments or agencies 
of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the Technical Assistance or any part thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Adminis-trator;
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator, as soon as avail-able, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Administrator shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other informa-tion concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Administrator shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the recipient shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Admin-istrator has received the 
audit for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Grant 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Administrator's representatives to examine such records; and 
ensure that such re-cords and accounts are included in the annual audit 
Page  5
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Sec-tion and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparat-ion, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Effectiveness; Termination
Section
4.01.
This Agreement shall become effective upon its execution by the parties 
hereto.
Section
4.02.
This Agreement shall continue in effect until the Grant has been fully 
disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their obligations hereunder.
ARTICLE V
Representation; Transfer of
Rights and Obligations
Section
5.01.
The Secretary of State for Finance of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section
11.03
of the General Condi-tions.
Section
5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
The Financial Secretary
The Department of Finance
Freetown
Sierra Leone
Cable address:
Telex:
MINFIN
3363
Freetown
Telefax:
225353
For the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818
H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Page  6
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA)
64145
(WUI) or
82987
(FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District 
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
By
/s/ John Karimu
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the Grant
By
/s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE
1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant, the allocation of the amount of the Grant to each Category and the percentage of 
expendi-tures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Grant Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
Yen
)
to be Financed
Consultants'
74,200,000
100%
services
Page  7
TOTAL
74,200,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph
1
above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of payments made for expendi-tures prior to the date of this Agreement or for goods not 
eligible under this Agreement, except that withdrawals may be made for such expenditures in an 
amount not exceeding $120,000 equivalent before that date but after January 1, 1995.
SCHEDULE
2
Description of Technical Assistance
The Technical Assistance is intended to assist the Recipient in the carrying out of studies 
to:
(i)
evaluate existing trade passing through the Port of Freetown, assess the 
economic prospects of Sierra Leone's in-creased participation in world 
trade and prepare detailed traffic forecasts of dry cargo through-put for 
the years
1998
and
2005;
(ii)
undertake detailed investigations and physical inspec-tions of the Port of 
Freetown's infrastructure and superstructure, report on condition of same 
and produced a phased rehabilitation plan for emergency, short and long 
term rehabilitation work for the year
1998
and
2005;
(iii)
review ferry operations, evaluate and make recommenda-tions on the 
institutional and financial steps necessary to establish the ferry services 
as an independent organization and prepare estimates of future levels of 
subsidies that the Recipient must bear and make recom-mendations on 
their disbursement to the said independent organization;
(iv)
review customs practices and procedures within the Port of Freetown, 
analyze problems and produce an action plan for implementation; and
(v)
assess the environmental impact of the activities relating to the Port of 
Freetown which will be studied and investigated under the Technical 
Assistance and propose measures to mitigate adverse environmen-tal 
effects of any such activi-ties.
SCHEDULE
3
Implementation Schedule
1.
The Recipient's Ports Authority shall be responsible for the carrying out of the Technical 
assistance in consul-tation with the Recipient's Department of Transport and Communications.
2.
Unless otherwise agreed to by the Administrator, the Ports Authority shall ensure that the 
studies are completed by January
31,
1996.
SCHEDULE
4
Page  8
Consultants' Services
Employment of Consultants
1.
In order to assist the Recipient in carrying out the Technical Assistance, the Recipient 
shall employ consultants whose qualifica-tions, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Administrator. Such consultants shall be selected in 
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Administrator on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as 
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultants Guidelines).
2.
For complex, time-based assignments, the Recipient shall employ such consultants under 
contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with 
such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Administrator. Where no relevant standard 
contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the Recipient shall use other standard forms 
agreed with the Administrator.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph
1
of this Section the provision of the 
Consultants Guidelines requiring prior review or approval by the Administrator of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall 
not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each. However, this 
exception to such prior review or approval requirements shall not apply to the terms of reference 
for such contracts nor to the employment of individuals, to single-source hiring of firms, to 
assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by the Administrator and to 
amendments of contracts raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above.
