Page  1
                                                     CONFORMED COPY
                                              CREDIT NUMBER 2895 SL
                       SLAA PROJECT AGREEMENT
                     (Transport Sector Project)
                               between
                INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                 and
                   SIERRA LEONE AIRPORTS AUTHORITY
                         Dated July 22, 1996
                       SLAA PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 22, 1996, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and the SIERRA LEONE AIRPORTS AUTHORITY
(SLAA).
      WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Republic of Sierra Leone (the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty four
million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 24,300,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agree-
ment, but only on condition that SLAA agrees to undertake such obliga-
tions toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
      (B)   by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and SLAA, a part of the proceeds of the credit provided
for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made available to
SLAA on the terms and conditions set forth in the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement; and
      WHEREAS SLAA, in consideration of the Association's entering into
the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to under-
take the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                              ARTICLE I
Page  2
                             Definitions
      Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this
Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
                             ARTICLE II
                      Execution of the Project
      Section 2.01. (a) SLAA declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out Part (C) (4) of the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, environmental and transport sector practices,
and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Association and SLAA shall otherwise
agree, SLAA shall carry out the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in the Schedule to this Agreement.
      (c)   SLAA shall open at a commercial bank, and thereafter
maintain until completion of the Project a project account for Part
(C) (4) of the Project (the SLAA Project Account) in which it shall
deposit amounts needed to finance expenditures, in addition to the
proceeds of the Credit, for Part C (4) of the Project. Payments into
and out of the SLAA Project Account shall be made exclusively for
expenditures to be made under Part C (4) of the Project.
      Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for
Part C (4) of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 5 to the
Development Credit Agreement.
      Section 2.03. SLAA shall carry out the obligations set forth in
Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Condi-
tions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and
schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) in respect of the SLAA Project Agreement and Part C (4)
of the Project.
      Section 2.04. SLAA shall duly perform all its obligations under
the SLAA Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, SLAA shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the
SLAA Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
      Section 2.05.(a) SLAA shall, at the request of the Association,
exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of the
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and
under the SLAA Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to
the purposes of the Credit.
      (b)   SLAA shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the per-
formance by SLAA of its obligations under this Agreement and under the
SLAA Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
                             ARTICLE III
                 Management and Operations of SLAA
      Section 3.01. SLAA shall carry on its operations and conduct its
affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering,
environmental and transport sector practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in
adequate numbers.
Page  3
      Section 3.02. SLAA shall at all times operate and maintain its
plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time,
promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof,
all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and public utility
practices.
      Section 3.03. SLAA shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Association for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent
with appropriate practice.
      Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the provisions of Article
IX of the General Conditions, SLAA shall: (a) prepare and furnish to
the Association no later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and
the Association, a plan, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, for the future operation of Part
C (4) of the Project; and (b) afford the Association a reasonable
opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower on said plan.
                             ARTICLE IV
                         Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a)SLAA shall maintain records and accounts adequate
to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations
and financial condition.
      (b)   SLAA shall:
            (i)   have its records and accounts referred to in paragraph
                  (a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited,
                  including those for the SLAA Project Account, in
                  accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                  consistently applied, by independent auditors
                  acceptable to the Association;
            (ii)  furnish to the Association as soon as available, but
                  in any case not later than six months after the end
                  of each such year: (A) certified copies of its
                  financial statements for such year as so audited; and
                  (B) the report of such audit by said auditors
                  (including the auditors' management letter), of such
                  scope and in such detail as the Association shall
                  have reasonably requested; and
            (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and financial
                  statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
                  Association shall from time to time reasonably
                  request.
      Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
SLAA shall produce for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year
ending on March 31, 1997 the total revenues equivalent to not less than
the sum of its (i) total operating expenses; and (ii) debt service
requirements.
      (b)   Before July 1 in each of its fiscal years, SLAA shall, on
the basis of forecasts prepared by SLAA and satisfactory to the
Association, review whether it would meet the requirements set forth
in paragraph (a) above in respect of such year and the next following
fiscal year and shall furnish to the Association the results of such
review upon its completion.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   the term "total revenues" means the sum of total
                  operating revenues and net non-operating income;
            (ii)  the term "total operating revenues" means revenues
Page  4
                  from all sources related to operations;
            (iii) the term "net non-operating income" means the dif-
                  ference between:
                  (A)   revenues from all sources other than those
                        related operations; and
                  (B)   expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu
                        of taxes, incurred in the generation of revenues
                        in (A) above;
            (iv)  the term "total operating expenses" means all expenses
                  related to operations, including administration,
                  adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu of
                  taxes, and provision for depreciation on a basis
                  acceptable to the Association, but excluding interest
                  and other charges on debt;
            (v)   the average current gross value of SLAA's fixed assets
                  in operation shall be calculated as one half of the
                  sum of the gross value of SLAA's fixed assets in
                  operation at the beginning and at the end of the
                  fiscal year, as valued from time to time in accordance
                  with sound and consistently maintained methods of
                  valuation satisfactory to the Association.
            (vi)  the term "debt service requirements" means the aggre-
                  gate amount of repayments (including sinking fund
                  payments, if any) of, and interest and other charges
                  on, debt; and
            (vii) whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be
                  necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the
                  Borrower, debt payable in another currency, such
                  valuation shall be made on the basis of the prevailing
                  lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency
                  is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the
                  purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence
                  of such rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange
                  acceptable to the Association.
      Section 4.05. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
SLAA shall not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the
revenues and expenditures of SLAA shows that the estimated net revenues
of SLAA for each fiscal year during the term of the debt to be incurred
shall be at least 1.5 times the estimated debt service requirements of
SLAA in such year on all debt of SLAA including the debt to be incurred.
      (b)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   the term "debt" means any indebtedness of SLAA
                  maturing by its terms more than one year after the
                  date on which it is originally incurred;
            (ii)  debt shall be deemed to be incurred:
                  (A)   under a loan contract or agreement or other
                        instrument providing for such debt or for the
                        modification of its terms of payment on the
                        date of such contract, agreement or instrument;
                        and
                  (B)   under a guarantee agreement, on the date the
                        agreement providing for such guarantee has been
                        entered into;
            (iii) the term "net revenues" means the difference between:
                  (A)   the sum of revenues from all sources related to
                        operations and net non-operating income; and
Page  5
                  (B)   the sum of all expenses related to operations
                        including administration, adequate maintenance,
                        taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, but exclud-
                        ing provision for depreciation, other non-cash
                        operating charges and interest and other charges
                        on debt;
            (iv)  the term "net non-operating income" means the difference
                  between:
                  (A)   revenues from all sources other than those related
                        to operations; and
                  (B)   expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of
                        taxes, incurred in the generation of revenues in
                        (A) above;
            (v)   the term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate
                  amount of repayments (including sinking fund payments,
                  if any) of, and interest and other charges on, debt; and
            (vi)  the term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared
                  by SLAA not earlier than twelve months prior to the
                  incurrence of the debt in question, which both the
                  Association and SLAA accept as reasonable and as to
                  which the Association has notified SLAA of its
                  acceptability, provided that no event has occurred
                  since such notification which has, or may reasonably
                  be expected in the future to have a material adverse
                  effect on the financial condition or future operating
                  result of SLAA; and
            (vii) whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be
                  necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the
                  Borrower, debt payable in another currency, such
                  valuation shall be made on the basis of the prevailing
                  lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency
                  is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the
                  purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of
                  such rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange accept-
                  able to the Association.
                              ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination;
                     Cancellation and Suspension
      Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on
the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
      Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Asso-
ciation and of SLAA thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the
following two dates:
            (i)   the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
                  terminate in accordance with its terms; or
            (ii)  the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
      (b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance
with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this
Section, the Association shall promptly notify SLAA of this event.
      Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue
in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension
under the General Conditions.
                             ARTICLE VI
                      Miscellaneous Provisions
      Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be
Page  6
given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties
contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or
request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall
be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to
the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at
such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as
such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, NW
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                   Telex:
                  INDEVAS                    197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA),
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                              82987 (FTCC)
      For SLAA:
            Sierra Leone Airports Authority
            P. O. Box 927
            Freetown,
            Sierra Leone
                                             Telex:
                                             3691 SAA-SL
      Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and
any document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement
on behalf of SLAA or by SLAA on behalf of the Borrower under the
Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or executed by the General
Manager or such other person or persons as SLAA shall designate in
writing, and SLAA shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such
person.
      Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counter-
parts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one
instrument.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Callisto Madavo
                                            Regional Vice President
                                                             Africa
                  SIERRA LEONE AIRPORTS AUTHORITY
                  By /s/ Thomas K. Kargbo
                                          Authorized Representative
Page  7
                              SCHEDULE
                       Implementation Program
1.    (a)   SLAA shall carry out Part C (4) of the Project in accordance
with the guidelines and procedures set out in the Project Implementation
Manual.
      (b)    SLAA shall not amend, abrogate or waive any provision of
the Project Implementation Manual if such amendment, abrogation or
waiver may materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the
Project; and  SLAA shall afford the Association a reasonable opportunity
to comment on a proposed amendment, abrogation or waiver to the Project
Implementation Manual before it is made.
2.    SLAA shall not, without the prior approval of the Association,
carry out any project, works or other investment not included in the
Project, being a project, works or investment estimated to cost an
amount of more than $1 million equivalent.
3.    SLAA shall participate, and join with the Borrower, SLRA and SLPA,
in the carrying out of the annual meetings, and the holding of the mid-
term review, specified in paragraph 6 of Schedule 4 to the Development
Credit Agreement.
