Report No. PID8292
Project Name                     Cambodia-Biodiversity and (*)
Protected Areas
Region                           East Asia and Pacific Region
Sector                           Environment Adjustment
Project ID                       KHPE65798
Borrower(s)                      Kingdom Of Cambodia
Implementing Agency              Ministry Of Environment
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                October 22, 1999
Projected Appraisal Date         October 22, 1999
Projected Board Date             December 31, 1999
1. Country and Sector Background
At present, the protected areas of Cambodia are not being effectively
managed. This situation results from weak institutional capacity of the MoE
to plan and carry out protected areas programs, lack of sustained financial
resources, outdated information base, security concerns, overlaps with forest
sector issues (especially illegal logging), large scale land allocations for
commercial agriculture, and uncontrolled wildlife trade.     The Government's
strategy to improve biodiversity conservation in Virachey and other protected
areas is described in the NEAP. The strategy focuses on the following four
key areas: (a) implementation of effective organizational and management
system for protected areas; (b) development of operational guidelines for
management planning and implementation; (c) human resources development, with
primary focus on training for conservation planners, administrators, rangers,
field staff and local communities; and (d) preparation and implementation of
management plans for seven priority protected areas and three proposed RAMSAR
sites.
(a) Weak Institutional Capacity. The MoE lacks the capacity to effectively
manage the protected areas because very few of its staff have training or
experience in protected areas management. Even by Cambodian standards, the
MOE is a weak agency with a very extensive mandate. As a result, in situ
conservation of biodiversity has been neglected and Cambodia still lacks a
well articulated long-term vision for its protected areas system. The
declared protected areas system is very ambitious and may be unrealistic
given the human and financial constraints Cambodia faces. In addition, there
is much work required to clarify the operating rules and regulations of the
national protected areas system. The ability to manage the technical and
administrative aspects of conservation initiatives at the provincial level is
likewise constrained by poorly trained staff and lack of budgetary resources.
(b) Lack of Sustained Financing. To date Cambodia has been unable to
provide adequate financial resources to manage its national protected areas
system. The country's continued economic difficulties have had adverse
impacts on conservation budgets. The budgetary allocation for the MoE, about
US $450,000 per annum, mostly covers staff salaries, leaving very little for



needed equipment and day-to-day operating expenses. Some financial support
has been provided to the MOE by international donors but most of these
programs have recently ended. At present there is little donor support for
protected areas management. In addition, there are no reliable estimates of
funding levels required to finance the national protected area system on a
sustainable level.
(c) Outdated Information on Biodiversity. Cambodia lacks up-to-date
information on the status of its biological heritage. Civil strife and
political instability have disrupted resource assessments and monitoring
activities that were on-going during the 1960s. Thus, most of the
information on biodiversity dates back to the 1960s. With assistance from
international organizations such as the International Union for the
Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources (IUCN), International Crane
Foundation (ICF), Wetlands International (WI), and the World Wildlife Fund
(WWF), the MoE has undertaken some limited and preliminary habitat surveys in
the Virachey National Park and some of the other protected areas. However,
more systematic data collection is needed to guide the management of the
protected areas.
(d)  Security Issues.   Security problems arising from the civil war and the
continued insurgency of the Khmer Rouge have had a dual impact on Cambodia's
biodiversity. On one hand, they have helped to keep most of the country's
biodiversity relatively intact because the fighting and planting of 6-9
million land-mines throughout the country precluded large-scale habitat
conversion for industrial or agricultural development. On the other hand,
these security problems limit access for persons involved in conservation to
prevent illegal logging and wildlife hunting or other destructive
exploitation of biodiversity. The security situation in most of the
protected areas has significantly improved following the end of the civil war
and recent major defection of Khmer Rouge guerrillas.
(e) Forest Sector Issues. The sustainable use of forest resources plays
an important role in Cambodia's overall economic development prospects and
Government forest policy has important implications for biodiversity
conservation. Development of the forest sector affects bio-diversity through
the pace and scale of logging (legal and illegal) and through the allocation
and management of forest concessions. At present, Government has allocated
more than 6 million ha of forest land to 20 international logging firms with
very little environmental safeguards or an assessment of whether the areas
were habitats for biodiversity of global or national significance. The World
Bank, United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), and the United
Nations Development Program (UNDP) have jointly been providing technical
assistance to the Government to: (i) develop regulatory reforms to ensure
sustainable yields; (ii) establish a framework to allocate land for specific
uses that ensures environmental protection and minimizes illegal rent seeking
opportunities; (iii) ensure budget support for forest management that
reflects the potential economic returns of concessions; (iv) develop
guidelines and procedures for sustained forest management; (v) promote
effective community involvement in forestry; and (vi) promote a log market to
supply efficient domestic processors and export market.
(f) Large scale land concessions. There is growing interest by foreign
investors to develop commercial crop plantations in Cambodia, particularly in
the northeast because of its fertile soils and low population densities. A
- 2-



number of permits have already been granted for the development of rubber
plantations. The extent of actual areas proposed for future plantation
development has not been clearly established. While none of the current
concessions are expected to be within the boundaries of the Virachey National
Park it is reported that one or more concessions cover the lands in the
proximity of the National Park. It is important that areas outside the
boundaries of the park are also managed sustainably, and not converted to
plantations, because they serve as a buffer to protect biodiversity within
the park.
(g) Illegal Wildlife Trade. Illegal wildlife trade is already a direct
threat to biodiversity in Cambodia, particularly to some species of global
conservation significance that attract high prices in the illegal trade in
wildlife.   Despite a government ban on illegal trade in wildlife, poaching
of globally endangered species such as black bear, elephant, leopard, and
tiger, appears to continue un-abated.    A live tiger, for example, could be
sold for US$500 - $2,500 which is more than a year's income for the average
person. Much of the illegal wildlife is reportedly exported to China and
Thailand where they are used for food preparation and traditional medicines.
The extent to which the Virachey National Park is affected by poaching is
unknown but is thought to be growing rapidly. Despite a government ban on
hunting of wildlife for commercial purposes, it has not been able to enforce
this ban because of the weak institutional capacity of the MoE and other
government agencies involved in wildlife protection and in the control of
illegal trade.
2. Objectives
The overall development objective of this project is to improve the capacity
of the Ministry of Environment to plan, implement and monitor an effective
system of National Protected Areas. Toward that end, this project has two
related immediate objectives. First, to develop and test proactive measures
to minimize un-sustainable exploitation and degradation of the bio-diversity
of national and global significance in the Virachey National Park (VNP).
Second, to use the experiences gained from VNP to formulate institutional
models for the development of the National Protected Areas system of
Cambodia.  The project has three closely integrated components: a National
Policy and Capacity Development Component; a Park Protection and Management
Component; and a Community Development Component. The project also includes
overall project management activities including annual budgeting, financial
management, work program planning, performance monitoring, and procurement.
At the present time, the Ministry of Environment has little experience with
establishment and management of protected areas on the ground. The
experiences gained from this project would help the government to formulate a
long term strategic vision for the national protected areas system and would
help determine which approaches are most effective under the field conditions
in Cambodia. The project will be implemented over a four year period by the
Ministry of Environment (MOE) in collaboration with the provincial
governments of Stung Treng and Ratanakiri Provinces. The project will be
financed by a GEF Grant (U.S. $2.75 million); an IDA Learning and Innovation
Loan (U.S. $ 1.93 million); and GOC counterpart financing of (U.S. $.25
million).
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
-3-



GEF and IDA support for the project would enable Cambodia to begin to
effectively reduce the degradation of the relatively intact biodiversity of
national and global importance in the Virachey National Park. GEF/IDA
support would enable the MoE to mobilize international expertise and
experience to develop a strong organizational system and human resource
capacity, thereby building a firm foundation for long-term efforts to
conserve biodiversity. It would also allow the MoE to benefit from
experience the Bank has gained in protected areas management, particularly in
East Asia and to use the Bank's links with Laos and Vietnam to facilitate the
future formation of a trans-boundary park with the adjoining Doug Amphan
National Biodiversity Conservation Area in Laos and Chu Mom Ray National Park
in Vietnam. Such a park could cover over half a million hectares of some of
the most important montane, sub-montane, and lowland forests remaining in
continental southeast Asia. Active discussions among the three countries are
already underway under the auspices of a UNDP regional project.
4. Description
The project comprises four inter-related components: National Policy and
Capacity Building; Park Protection and Management; Community Development; and
Project Management. Each component is described briefly below.
I. National Policy and Capacity Building Component
This component will help the Ministry of Environment to develop the key
elements of a long-term strategy for the National Protected Areas system of
Cambodia. This component would finance: (a) a comprehensive review of the
existing organizational and management systems currently in place within MOE;
(b) development and implementation of national leadership and ranger training
programs; (c) the formulation of a sustainable financing strategy for the
entire protected areas system; (d) development of proto-type information
systems to support protected areas management; (e) the development of
national protected areas management planning guidelines; (f) a review of
legal and regulatory constraints facing the establishment and management of
prote and standards; and (g) public awareness and education programs related
to proected areas management. Specifically, the project would finance the
small scale upgrading of physical facilities in the MOE; procurement of
vehicles and other goods (computers, furniture) for the day to day operations
of the project office; hiring of project technical assistance and short-term
consultants; domestic and overseas training programs; and national workshops
associated with various sub-activity.
Key outcomes of this component would be: (1) a stronger consensus among MOE,
related government agencies (MOEF, MAFF), NGOs and other stakeholders
involved in protected areas management on the long-term vision for Cambodia's
protected areas; (2) a clear action program for the priority national
initiatives; (3) strengthened MOE professional capacity both in terms of
overall protected area leadership within the Ministry as well field and
operational staff; and (4) stronger voice for MOE in key national policy
issues which affect protected areas.
II. Park Protection and Management Component
This component will develop and test pilot activities that support the basic
management needs of the Virachey National Park in order to build the
foundation for a long-term program for biodiversity conservation in
Ratanakiri and Stueng Treng Provinces. The project would finance park
infrastructure, park management planning, staff development programs,
community education and outreach, and park protection initiatives at Virachey
- 4 -



National Park.
Specifically, this component would finance the construction of a park
headquarters building at Voen Sai District; two field operational bases at Ta
Veng (Ratanakiri Province) and Siem Pang (Stung Treng Province); small field
outposts within the park; and reliable and adequate communications systems to
support day-to-day management activities at the Park. Vehicles, boats,
motorcycles and other essential field equipment would be financed to ensure
that park staff can establish a strong field presence and operate effectively
and safely. The project would also finance development and maintainance of
safe and manageable trails system for general access to selected sites within
Virachey National Park; systematic public conservation awareness and
educational programs; a patrolling program that would include the development
of a cooperative arrangement between local groups and park staff for
surveillance and enforcement; and field based ranger training programs. To
support park planning, the project will finance acquisition of biophysical
and socioeconomic data through new field surveys; stakeholder
consultations/workshops; park zoning; map production; boundary demarcation;
long-term technical assistance and short-term subject matter specialiasts as
needed.
Key outcomes of this component will be: (1) the formulation of a five-year
management plan for Virachey National Park addressing both the biological and
the human dimensions of conservation including the definition and partial
demarcation of the park boundaries; (2) strengthened capacity to manage the
field operations at Virachey national park through professional development
and ranger training; (3) increased awareness among communities and other land
stakeholders in importance of conservation and the biological values of VNP;
(4) reduction in unsustainable and illegal exploitation of VNP biological
resources; and (5) creation of stronger voice for provincial level
environmental and protected areas stakeholders in major land use issues
affecting VNP.
III. Community Development Component
This component will develop and test approaches for involving communities
within and adjacent to VNP more directly in park management. At present,
many communities rely on the resources of the Park for daily subsistence
needs and in times of emergencies such a crop failures. Traditional coping
strategies during periods of crop or livestock failures can lead to increased
reliance on the non-timber products of the Park leading to further erosion of
the Park's biological value. At the same time expansion of agricultural land
within the park can lead to habitat loss and increases access to park's core
biological resources. The biological values of VNP will be in jeopardy if
the long-term economic needs of communities within and around the park are
not addressed as an integral part of conservation initiatives.
Toward this end the project would: (1) conduct natural resource and social
assessments to better understand the livelihood practices, natural resource
use patterns, cultural values, and other socioeconomic conditions in and
around the park; (2) assist communities in pilot areas to formulate proposals
for village and commune development which are consistent with park management
goals and which address priority community needs; and (3) provide financial
resources to implement community based natural resource management plans,
small-scale alternative livelihood initiatives, or small-scale infrastructure
- 5 -



identified as priority issues identified through the community planning
process. Specifically, the project will finance: training in PRA and
community interaction techniques for staff in provincial line agencies;
community outreach and education programs; natural resource assessments; in-
depth community appraisals; and community development initiatives. The
project would provide vehicles, office equipment, technical assistance, and
field allowances for staff involved in participatory rural appraisals, census
taking and other surveys.
To finance community development initiatives, the project will provide
financial contributions on a grant basis directly to Ratanakiri and Stung
Treng Provinces up to a total of $100,000 paid in tranches of $20,000 to an
account specifically targeted for the project's pilot communities. Under the
GOC's SEILA program, Ratanakiri province (with support from the UNDP/CARRERE
program) has established a Provincial Local Development Fund (PLDF)
administered by a Provincial Rural Development Committee (PRDC) chaired by
the Governor. Under the existing mechanism, individual community projects
are identified through a comprehensive community planning process. Following
PRDC approval, individual projects are executed through contracts between the
PRDC and executing bodies such as government line agencies, private
contractors or commune and village committees. The SEILA program has
developed a detailed financial manual which guides the disbursement and
accounting of funds for community initiatives. The procedures described in
the SEILA manual will be followed under this project. Under this project,
individual community initiatives are expected to be small and are not likely
to exceed $2,500. Participating communes and beneficiaries will expected to
contribute about 10t of the total financial support for individual
initiatives in cash or kind.
At the moment, there is no equivalent financial mechanism operating in Stung
Treng province. Therefore, no grants will be made to Stung Treng province
until a provincial level financial mechanism acceptable to the IDA is in
place.    It is expected that this mechanism will be developed during the
first two years of project implementation.    Under this component, a minimum
of $20,000 will be allocated specifically for Stung Treng.
Initial pilot communities have been identified during project preparation in
both provinces but could be modified once implementation activities are
underway. Criteria for selecting pilot communes and villages included: (a)
demonstrated community interest in and willingness to participate in pilot
level sustainable natural resource management initiatives; (b) community
proximity to park; (c) identified use or potential use by residents of the
park's natural resources.
Key outcomes of this component will be: (1) strengthened capacity of MOE and
provincial government staff to facilitate community development initiatives;
(2) evaluation of methodologies for involving communities in park protection
and management; (3) increased community willingness to participate in
initiatives which further park management objectives; (4) establishment of a
zoning system in pilot areas which guides land use within and adjacent to the
park; (5) evaluation of incentive systems and livelihood alternatives which
complement park protection and management initiatives.
IV. Project Management
-6-



The project will support project management activities through a project
management office in Ban Lung and a project liason office in Phnom Penh. The
PMO will be reponsibile for overall annual work program planning, financial
management, monitoring, auditing, performance evaluation, and procurement.
The project will finance the upgrading of basic office facilities at MOE
headquarters, construction of a small office facility in Ban Lung, computers,
office equipment and furniture, vehicles, necessary communications equipment,
operating costs and filed allowances for travelling staff. Consulting
services would also be provided for essential management activities such as
performance monitoring, accounting and procurement.
National Policy and Capacity Building
Park Management and Protection
Community Development
Project Management
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Government                       0
IBRD
IDA                              1.91
Total Project Cost               1.91
6. Implementation
Project Organization
The day to day responsibility for managing the project would be given to a
Project Director heading a Project Management Office (PMO). The Project
Director would have overall responsibility for ensuring that the expected
project results are achieved and would be accountable to the Minister of
Environment through a Project Coordinator (Secretary of State). The PMO
would also be recieve guidance from an Inter-Ministerial steering committee
chaired by the Minister of Environment (see below).
The Project Director would be responsible for: (a) monitoring and supervising
overall implementation progress; (b) financial administration; (c)
procurement of goods and services; and (d) preparing annual work plans and
progress reports; (e) preparation of annual implementation performance
reports; (f) supervision of project staff and international consultants; (g)
regular interactions with intended beneficiaries, stakeholders, media and
NGOs. At the field level, the Project Director would be assisted by well-
qualified technical team leaders responsible for day-to-day operations. It
is expected that the Project Director would divide his/her time
proportionally between Ban Lung and Phnom Penh. The PMO, with assistance
from a team of international project management and protected areas
management consultants, would establish a project monitoring and evaluation
system based on the key performance indicators outlined in Annex 2 within
four months of project effectiveness. The system would include protocols for
data collection, analysis, reporting, and dissemination.
Because of the absence of banking services in the provinces, project finances
would be managed by the Project Management Office in Phnom Penh. A local
finance specialist would be hired to assist MoE staff to implement financial
control systems, prepare financial plans, and financial reporting procedures
- 7-



based on a financial management system acceptable to the Bank. This office
would also be specifically responsible for the preparation of annual
procurement plans, with assistance from a short-term procurement specialist.
Technical Teams
The Project Director would establish three closely linked technical teams to
lead the implementation of specific project components. The technical teams
would be supported by short-term local and international technical assistance
on an as needed basis.
(a) Regulatory and Policy Team would be headed by a Technical Team Leader
for capacity building. The team would be based in Phnom Penh but would work
closely with the two other technical teams involved with field implementation
of the project. This technical team would be relatively small and would rely
on carefully selected and targeted consultant inputs to draft policy note,
training modules position papers etc.
(b) Park Management and Protection Team would be headed by the Director of
the Virachey National Park. The team leader would have responsibility for
the implementation of all aspects of the park management component including
the infrastructure, management planning and protection aspects of the
component. The team leader would be resident in Virachey and would be
assisted by a international Protected Areas advisor.
(c) Community Development Team would reside in Banlung and would be
responsible for oversight of the three sub-components of the sustainable land
management component. The Team Leader would coordinate all inputs to this
component including possible NGO involvement and contributions from other
government departments.
Inter-Ministerial Steering Committee. Oversight of the project would be
provided by an Inter-Ministerial Steering Committee made up of
representatives of key Government Ministries with strong interests in the
management of the National Protected Areas Systems. The Steering Committee
would comprise the following:
a       Minister of Environment, Chairman
a       Representative of His Majesty King Norodom Sihanouk
a       Governor, Ratanakiri Province
a       Governor, Steung Treng Province
a       Director-General, Ministry of Environment
a       Representative of the Ministry of Economy and Finance
a       Representative of the Department of Forestry and Wildlife, Ministry of
Agriculture, Forest and Fisheries
a       Representative of the Inter-ministerial Committee on Highland Peoples
Development, Ministry of Rural Development
a       Representative of the Ministry of Tourism.
The functions of the Inter-Minsterial Committe would be: (a) to advise on the
strategic goals of protected areas management project and review annual
progress; (b) to review the recommendations contained within various strategy
papers to be developed under the project; (c) to provide a mechanism for
addressing major land and social issues which may affect the viability of
VNP; (d)
-8-



7. Sustainability
The sustainability of the project will largely depend on stakeholder support
for the long-term management plan for the Virachey National Park and the
availability of long-term financing mechanisms for recurrent costs and
conservation activities. The preparation of the management plan would
actively involve local communities and other key stakeholders. In addition,
technical assistance would be provided under the project to develop a model
institutional framework for future establishment of a long-term funding
mechanism.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The Bank and other donors have yet to support major long term investments in
protected areas management or biodiversity conservation in Cambodia. The
projects that have been implemented by the MoE, including those listed above,
focused largely on providing technical assistance for training in
environmental management in general and for the formulation of strategies for
natural resources management. The Bank and GEF have considerable experience
in protected areas management initiatives in other parts of South East Asia
including the neighboring countries of Laos and Vietnam. Bank/GE experience
in China and Philippines is also helpful in the Cambodia context.
The key lessons from these projects that are relevant to the proposed project
include: (a) earlier initiatives have helped to improve basic and general
knowledge of the staff of the MoE on environmental management and that future
initiatives should build on this by supporting capacity building in
specialized aspects of natural resources management; (b) greater attention
should be paid to the selection of training participants to ensure that staff
with strong commitment and the potential for further growth in their skills
are chosen; (c) there should be greater emphasis on field implementation to
provide practical opportunities for trainees and to demonstrate impacts on
the ground; and (d) financial mechanisms should be developed to sustain
project results since it would be unrealistic to expect adequate budget
support for environmental activities because of the country's economic
crisis.
These lessons have been incorporated into the design of specific project
activities. For example, capacity building activities would focus
strategically on protected areas management, including providing experience
in field implementation. Training participants would be carefully selected so
that committed staff are trained. For example, participants for the
leadership development course would be selected from trainees from an earlier
generic course who demonstrate the potential to provide committed leadership.
On financial sustainability, the project would support the exploration of
options and the development of a model institutional framework for the most
appropriate long-term financing mechanism for protected areas in Cambodia.
Other lessons from Bank and non-Bank biodiversity conservation projects
elsewhere suggest that the following factors are critical for project
success: (a) project should be consistent with national strategies for
biodiversity conservation to facilitate political commitment and support; (b)
project size should be tailored to the institutional capacity of the
executing agency; (c) there should be effective involvement of local people
and other stakeholders in project design and implementation; and (d)
-9-



conservation efforts should be combined with activities to address the
immediate socioeconomic needs of the local people.
These lessons have been incorporated into the design of the project in the
following ways: (a) proposed key project activities were among
recommendations in Cambodia's NEAP; (b) because of MoE's limited
institutional capacity and experience in biodiversity conservation, the
project is designed as a pilot to provide capacity building opportunities
and to develop model approaches for biodiversity and protected areas
management; (c) local stakeholders, including ethnic minorities in the
project area, were consulted on issues related to protected area management
and land use and how they can be resolved. These stakeholders would also play
a key role in preparing a long-term management plan for the Virachey National
Park which would be undertaken during project implementation; (d) project
would support community-based pilot activities aimed at providing
environmentally and economically sustainable livelihood alternatives to land
and other resource use practices that can adversely impact a protected area;
and (e) project would provide support for the MoE to develop a model
institutional framework for a future financial mechanism for biodiversity
conservation.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     No
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  The project's objectives are to achieve sustainable
management of the Virachey National Park. Field activities are small scale
involving the construction of small park headquarters buildings and field
posts. There are no significant direct environmental effects of any project
component thus there is no separate Environmental Assessment prepared for the
project. The project's field operations are being implemented in an area
known to be subjected to illegal logging, hunting, and wildlife trade. If
successful, the project will help to reduce and control such practices. The
project will support the formulation of a medium term park management plan
for Virachey National Park. Part of the plan will involve definition of land
and resources use zones within the park and will define specific measures to
be undertaken. To better understand the environmental dimensions of park
management the management plan formulation process will involve principles of
environmental planning. To ensure the long range sustainability of the plan,
an environmental assessment will be carried out on the plan itself.
11. Contact Point:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Task Manager
Glenn S. Morgan
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
- 10 -



Telephone: (202) 458-1909
Fax:        (202) 522-1666
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending October 29, 1999.
- 11 -



