Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20040 KN
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LEARNING AND INNOVATION CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 1.4 MILLION (US$ 1.91 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
AND A GRANT FROM THE GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 2.0 MILLION (US$ 2.75 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
FORA
BIODIVERSITY AND PROTECTED AREAS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
January 10, 2000
Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit (EASRD)
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective October 28, 1999)
Currency Unit = Riel
Riel= US$ 1
US$ 1 = Riel
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB           Asian Development Bank
CDC           Commune Development Committee
CARERE        Community Area Rehabilitation and Regeneration Programme (UNDP)
IAPSO         Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office
IMSC          Inter-Ministerial Steering Committee
MAFF          Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries
MEF           Ministry of Economy and Finance
MOE           Ministry of Environment
MRD           Ministry of Rural Development
NGO           Non-Governmental Organization
PHRD          Policy and Human Resource Development Fund (Japan)
PLDF          Provincial Local Development Fund
PMO           Project Management Office
PRDC          Provincial Rural Development Committee
UNDP          United Nationa Development Fund
VDC           Village Development Committee
WFP           World Food Programme
WWF           World Wildlife Fund
Vice President:   Jean-Michel Severino
Country Manager/Director:    Ngozi N. Okonjo-Iweala
Sector Manager/Director:    Geoffrey B. Fox
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Glenn S. Morgan



Kingdom of Cambodia
Biodiversity and Protected Areas Management Project
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                   Page
1. Project development objective                                                     2
2. Global objective                                                                  2
3. Key performance indicators                                                        2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project    3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                        4
3. Learning and development issues to be addressed by the project                    6
4. Learning and innovation expectations                                              6
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                7
2. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                    10
3. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements                                           12
D. Project Rationale
(This section is not to be completed in a LIL PAD)
E. Summary Project Analyses
1. Economic                                                                         13
2. Financial                                                                        13
3. Technical                                                                        14
4. Institutional                                                                    14
5. Social                                                                           14
6. Environmental assessment                                                         15
7. Participatory approach                                                           15
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                   16
2. Critical risks                                                                   16
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                   17
G. Main Loan conditions



1. Effectiveness conditions                                                            17
2. Other                                                                               17
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                           18
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                          18
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                           19
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                     23
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                          30
Annex 4: GEF Incremental Cost Analysis                                                    31
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Eaming Project Entities, or Financial Summary      34
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                        35
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                      44
Annex 8: Documents in Project File                                                        45
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                   46
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                             48
MAP(S)
IBRD 30506



CAMBODIA
Biodiversity and Protected Areas Management Project
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Region
EASES
Date: January 10, 2000                            Team Leader: Glenn S. Morgan
Country Manager/Director: Ngozi N. Okonjo-Iweala    Sector Manager/Director: Geoffrey B. Fox
Project ID: P065798                               Sector(s): VM - Natural Resources Management
Lending Instrument: Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Global Supplemental ID: P052006                   Team Leader: Glenn S. Morgan
Sector Manager/Director:
Supplement Fully Blended? No                      Sector(s): VM - Natural Resources Management
Project Financing Data
I Loani         Z Credit        Z Grant         C Guarantee    E] Other (Specify)
Global Environment Facility Grant $2.75 million
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): IDA Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) $ 1.91 million
Proposed Terms: Currency Pool Loan (CPL)
Grace period (years): 10                               Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.5                                    Service charge: 0.75%
C,X.,.,., S4r                ~ ~                         L~ . ______
GovenuMent                                                      0.25           0.00           0.25
IBRD
IDA                                                             0.56           1.35           1.91
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY                                     0.35           2.40           2.75
Total:                                                          1.16           3.75           4.91
Borrower/Recipient: KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF ENVIRONMENT
Ministry of Environment
Address: No. 48 Phreah Sihanouk, Tonle Bassac, Chamkarmon, Phnom Penh
Contact Person: Dr. Mok Mareth
Tel: 855 2342 7844                Fax: 855 2342 7844                Email: phil@forum.org.kh
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$M):
Annual     0.4           0.5          0.6         0.4
Cumulative     0.4           0.9         1.5         1.9
Project implementation period: 4 years
Expected effectiveness date: 03/01/2000  Expected closing date:  02/28/2004
OCS FM) F-r IOctober G. 100



A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The development objective of this project is to improve the capacity of the Ministry of Environment to plan,
implement and monitor an effective system of National Protected Areas. Toward that end, this project has
two related immediate objectives. First, to develop and test proactive measures to minimize un-sustainable
exploitation and degradation of the biodiversity of national and global significance in the Virachey National
Park (VNP). Second, to use the experiences gained from VNP to fornulate institutional models for the
development of the National Protected Areas system of Cambodia. The project has four closely integrated
components: a National Policy and Capacity Development Component; a Park Protection and Management
Component; a Conmnunity Development Component; and a project management component. The project
also includes overall project management activities including annual budgeting, financial management,
work program planning, performance monitoring, and procurement.
At the present time, the Ministry of Environment (MOE) has little experience with establishment and
management of protected areas on the ground. The experiences gained from this project would help the
govemnment to formulate a long term strategic vision for the national protected areas system and would help
determine which approaches are most effective under the field conditions in Cambodia. The project will be
implemented over a four year period by the Ministry of Environment in collaboration with the provincial
governments of Stung Treng and Ratanakiri Provinces. The project will be financed by a GEF Grant (US$
2.75 million); an IDA Learning and Innovation Loan (US$ 1.91 million); and GOC counterpart financing
of (US$ 0.25 million).
2. Global objective: (see Annex 1)
The global objective of the project is to assist the Government of Cambodia to achieve sustainable
long-term utilization of its natural resources, especially its mountain forest ecosystems of regional and
global significance. In particular, the project aims at developing an effective national protected areas
system that is based on a consistent and well articulated set of management, financial, and institutional
procedures within a well functioning legal and regulatory framework. The project will contribute to global
environmental goals of biodiversity protection in one of the most important remaining forest areas of
South-East Asia that is widely recognized for its conservation importance.
3. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Relevant methodologies and approaches developed at VNP are widely shared with the managers of other
national parks in Cambodia;
* MOE implements key recommendations from organizational reviews, sustainable fnance, legal and
regulatory studies;
Staff trained as part of leadership and ranger training are able to use skills in day-to-day work;
MOE initiates and maintains effective partnerships with other GOC ministries, international donors, and
civil society in the protection of national parks;
Protection and management operations adopted at VNP lead to increased understanding among all
stakeholders of the importance of reducing unsustainable and illegal exploitation of the natural resources
of VNP;
The knowledge base describing the ecological and ethnographic dimensions of VNP is significantly
increased and disseminated widely;
Methodologies for involving communities in participatory park management planning and protection are
-2 -



fully developed, tested and evaluated for all pilot villages;
* Community awareness of the importance of VNP and willingness to participate in initiatives which
further park management objectives is increased in all pilot communities;
Community resource management plans are formulated for all pilot villages and implementation has
begun in 90 percent of pilot villages.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: IDA/R97-8                       Date of latest CAS discussion: 02/20/97
Sustainable use and management of natural resources and implementation of the country's National
Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) are two key objectives of the 1997 CAS.   The CAS focuses
specifically on the need for follow up actions on two initiatives -- the National Environmental Action Plan
(NEAP) and the World Bank Group, FAO and UNDP assistance to the Government on forest policy
reforms.   The NEAP (1997) provides a detailed strategic framework to guide the integration of
environmental concerns into national and local development policies, economic decision-making, and
investment planning. The establishment of an effective Protected Areas Management System was identified
as a critical element of the country's environmental strategy.
The project would support these CAS objectives through promotion of sustainable management and further
development of Cambodia's protected areas system. The proposed project will develop and test the
following management activities needed for all key protected area sites: (a) training for MOE staff and
local communities in the conservation of biodiversity; (b) development of a participatory management
planning and implementation process; (c) execution of ecological and socioeconomic surveys to provide
information for management planning; (d) development of appropriate national policy and institutional
infrastructure; and (e) implementation of pilot livelihood programs for local communities as a way to
reduce harvesting pressure on biodiversity.  The proposed project directly supports these priorities
activities at the national level as well as at Virachey National Park (VNP) which is among seven priority
protected areas and three proposed RAMSAR sites (i.e., wetlands of international importance) identified in
the NEAP.
Regarding forest policy reforms, the collaborative assistance to the Government from the World Bank
Group, FAO, and UNDP is aimed at assisting the Government to undertake forest policy reforms that
would help to ensure environmental sustainability, optimum economic benefits, and improved governance
of the forest sector. This project will enhance the policy enviromnent for the conservation of biodiversity of
national and global significance in the forest zone of Cambodia.  The proposed project will be
complementary to the planned IDA support to the forest sector and will be consistent with the objectives of
IDA support rural development initiatives in northeast Cambodia.
Other donor support
Donor support for Cambodia's national environmental program and the protected areas system has been
mixed. Since 1995, the MOE has undertaken efforts to improve human resource capacity, with assistance
from UNDP, the United States Agency for International Development (USAID), European Union (EU),
United Nations Education Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), Asian Development Bank
(ADB), Danish International Development Agency (DANIDA), International Development Research
Council (IDRC), and the WWF.
Donor assistance has covered a broad agenda including environmental planning and management,
-3 -



environmental impact assessment, and coastal zone management.  To date the largest donor funded
programs have been the ETAP/UNDP Program, the SPEC/EU program, the CEMP/USAID programs.
These programs were short term in nature and have now been completed. Only the WWF has been actively
involved in the management of protected areas in northeast Cambodia and currently has a field based
program at Virachey National Park. Proposed future activity includes possible projects for Tonle Sap (EU
and UNESCO), capacity building for Ream National park (UNDP), management of Kirirom
(WWF/USAID), Kulen (GTZ), and DANIDA support for a national wetlands inventory. Because these
efforts have been fragmented, a more systematic and comprehensive approach is necessary to build
capacity for the conservation of natural resources.
la. Global Operational strategy/Program objective addressed by the project:
Cambodia has been a signatory of the Convention on Biological Diversity since February 2, 1995, and is
eligible for GEF financing. The project's overall objective supports the GEFs Operational Strategy and
Operational Program for forest ecosystems. Project activities are expected to improve in situ conservation
and sustainable use of biodiversity of global importance in and around Virachey National Park. These
goals are central to GEFs Operational Strategy and Operational Program for forest ecosystem.
The proposed project activities also respond to guidance from the Conference of Parties (COP) of the
Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) which includes the need to promote the conservation and
sustainable use of biodiversity by supporting capacity building initiatives and providing alternative
livelihood opportunities for local communities. The project specifically responds to program priorities
identified by the first and second COP which include the promotion of conservation and sustainable use of
biological diversity in environmentally vulnerable areas.  The importance of in-situ conservation of
biological diversity proposed under the project is underscored by the request of the third COP to the GEF
to provide financial resources to developing country parties for urgent implementation of in-situ
conservation initiatives. The proposed project also responds to the program of work for forest biological
diversity approved by the fourth COP which, among other things, emphasizes the need to facilitate the
financing of activities for conservation that incorporates traditional knowledge and sustainable use of forest
biological diversity.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy,
At present, the protected areas of Cambodia are not being effectively managed. This situation results from
weak institutional capacity of the MOE to plan and carry out protected areas programs, lack of sustained
financial resources, outdated information base, security concerns, overlaps with forest sector issues
(especially illegal logging), large scale land allocations for commercial agriculture, and uncontrolled
wildlife trade.  The Government's strategy to improve biodiversity conservation in Virachey and other
protected areas is described in the NEAP. The strategy focuses on the following four key areas: (a)
implementation of effective organizational and management system for protected areas; (b) development of
operational guidelines for management planning and implementation; (c) human resources development,
with primary focus on training for conservation planners, administrators, rangers, field staff and local
communities; and (d) preparation and implementation of management plans for seven priority protected
areas and three proposed RAMSAR sites.
(a) Weak Institutional Capacity. The MOE lacks the capacity to effectively manage the protected areas
because very few of its staff have training or experience in protected areas management. Even by
Cambodian standards, the MOE is a weak agency with a very extensive mandate. As a result, in situ
conservation of biodiversity has been neglected and Cambodia still lacks a well articulated long-term vision
for its protected areas system. The declared protected areas system is very ambitious and may be
- 4 -



unrealistic given the human and financial constraints Cambodia faces. In addition, there is much work
required to clarify the operating rules and regulations of the national protected areas system. The ability to
manage the technical and administrative aspects of conservation initiatives at the provincial level is likewise
constrained by poorly trained staff and lack of budgetary resources.
(b) Lack of Sustained Financing. To date Cambodia has been unable to provide adequate financial
resources to manage its national protected areas system. The country's continued economic difficulties
have had adverse impacts on conservation budgets. The budgetary allocation for the MOE, about US$
450,000 per annum, mostly covers staff salaries, leaving very little for needed equipment and day-to-day
operating expenses. Some financial support has been provided to the MOE by international donors but
most of these programs have recently ended. At present there is little donor support for protected areas
management. In addition, there are no reliable estimates of funding levels required to finance the national
protected area system on a sustainable level.
(c) Outdated Information on Biodiversity. Cambodia lacks up-to-date information on the status of its
biological heritage. Civil strife and political instability have disrupted resource assessments and monitoring
activities that were on-going during the 1960s. Thus, most of the information on biodiversity dates back to
the 1960s. With assistance from international organizations such as the Intermational Union for the
Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources (IUCN), International Crane Foundation (ICF), Wetlands
International (WI), and the World Wildlife Fund (WWF), the MOE has undertaken some limited and
preliminary habitat surveys in the Virachey National Park and some of the other protected areas. However,
more systematic data collection is needed to guide the management of the protected areas.
(d) Security Issues. Security problems arising from the civil war and the continued insurgency of the
Khmer Rouge have had a dual impact on Cambodia's biodiversity. On one hand, they have helped to keep
most of the country's biodiversity relatively intact because the fighting and planting of 6-9 million
land-mines throughout the country precluded large-scale habitat conversion for industrial or agricultural
development. On the other hand, these security problems limit access for persons involved in conservation
to prevent illegal logging and wildlife hunting or other destructive exploitation of biodiversity. The security
situation in most of the protected areas has significantly improved following the end of the civil war and
recent major defection of Khmer Rouge guerrillas.
(e) Forest Sector Issues. The sustainable use of forest resources plays an important role in Cambodia's
overall economic development prospects and Govemnment forest policy has important implications for
biodiversity conservation. Development of the forest sector affects biodiversity through the pace and scale
of logging (legal and illegal) and through the allocation and management of forest concessions. At present,
Government has allocated more than 6 million ha of forest land to 20 international logging firms with very
little enviromnental safeguards or an assessment of whether the areas were habitats for biodiversity of
global or national significance. The World Bank, United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization
(FAO), and the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) have jointly been providing technical
assistance to the Government to: (i) develop regulatory reforms to ensure sustainable yields; (ii) establish a
framework to allocate land for specific uses that ensures environmental protection and minimizes illegal
rent seeking opportunities; (iii) ensure budget support for forest management that reflects the potential
economic returns of concessions; (iv) develop guidelines and procedures for'sustained forest management;
(v) promote effective community involvement in forestry; and (vi) promote a log market to supply efficient
domestic processors and export market.
(f)  Large-Scale Land Concessions. There is growing interest by foreign investors to develop
conmmercial crop plantations in Cambodia, particularly in the northeast because of its fertile soils and low
- 5 -



population densities. A number of permits have already been granted for the development of rubber
plantations. The extent of actual areas proposed for future plantation development has not been clearly
established. While none of the current concessions are expected to be within the boundaries of the
Virachey National Park it is reported that one or more concessions cover the lands in the proximity of the
National Park. It is irnportant that areas outside the boundaries of the park are also managed sustainably,
and not converted to plantations, because they serve as a buffer to protect biodiversity within the park.
(g) Illegal Wildlife Trade. Illegal wildlife trade is already a direct threat to biodiversity in Cambodia,
particularly to some species of global conservation significance that attract high prices in the illegal trade in
wildlife. Despite a government ban on illegal trade in wildlife, poaching of globally endangered species
such as black bear, elephant, leopard, and tiger, appears to continue un-abated. A live tiger, for example,
could be sold for US$ 500 - US$ 2,500 which is more than a years income for the average person. Much
of the illegal wildlife is reportedly exported to China and Thailand where they are used for food preparation
and traditional medicines. The extent to which the Virachey National Park is affected by poaching is
unknown but is thought to be growing rapidly. Despite a government ban on hunting of wildlife for
commercial purposes, it has not been able to enforce this ban because of the weak institutional capacity of
the MOE and other government agencies involved in wildlife protection and in the control of illegal trade.
3. Learning and Development issues to be addressed by the project:
The project will test a number of hypotheses which will guide future evolution and development of the
national protected areas system. Specifically the project will test whether: (a) increased participation by
MOE in national and provincial land and natural resource use decision processes can reduce the pressure of
illegal logging and other major land allocation decisions affecting national parks; (b) a sustainable
financing system for protected areas is realistic and achievable; (c) community participation in protected
areas management provides sufficient incentive to reduce the current pressure agricultural practices and
illegal hunting; and (d) a decentralized approach to protected areas and conservation management programs
is replicable in other parts of Cambodia.
4. Learning and innovation expectations:
nl Economic    El Technical    Zl Social        EZ Participation
ZX Financial    Zl Institutional  El Environmental E Other
(a) Technical. The project will assist in the professional development of key staff at the national and local
levels. The development of leadership skills among MOE staff will be an essential pre-requisite for the
Ministry to formulate a long term training program for protected areas management staff. Based on the
experience at VNP, the project will formulate clear operational guidelines for management planning and
plan implementation for all national parks. Based on lessons learned through field experience at Virachey,
the project will identify priorities and formulate strategies for improving the knowledge base on the status
and trends of biodiversity and on socioeconomic status of the local people.
(b) Institutional. The project would test and evaluate options for the decentralization of protected areas
management to the provincial level thus will rely on local capacity at the provincial levels to achieve the
project's field based objectives. Based on the field experience the project would develop strategies for
decentralization of park management responsibilities.  The project will also undertake a national
organizational review and make recommendations for restructuring the country's protected areas
management system. The project would promote closer working relationship across Ministries to address
cross-cutting environmental objectives.
-6 -



(c) Social/Participation. The project will directly test and evaluate the effectiveness of approaches for
involving local indigenous communities in the management of national protected areas. The project will
test how to best integrate local concerns into protected areas planning and management and will help to
determine whether community development incentives provided under the project are sufficient to generate
long term local support for biodiversity conservation. It will test whether existing Provincial rural
development planning procedures already in place in Ratanakiri Province are sufficient for protected area
planning purposes. The project will build on the good efforts of the Provincial Rural Development
structure and will work closely with CARRERE to insure consistency with ongoing initiatives. NGOs will
play an active role in the project implementation and evaluation.
(d) Financial. The project will evaluate options for sustainable financing of Cambodia's protected areas
system. The project would study options including the potential for establishing a conservation trust fund;
user charges; potential eco-tourism revenues; and international donor support. This work will result in an
action plan for the establishment of sustainable financing for the national PA system.
(e) Environmental. The overall objectives of the project relate to environmental conservation and
protection. The project would test new approaches to management of the nation's protected areas system.
As a result of the project the MOE would have stronger leadership and management skills enabling it to
better identify, implement, and manage its PA system. The creation of the VNP would establish a major
ground presence in the Park area thus increasing overall awareness of environmental and conservation
issues as well as creating capacity to identify and respond to activities which undermine environmental
objectives in the park area.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Amnex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project comprises four inter-related components: National Policy and Capacity Building; Park
Protection and Management; Community Development; and Project Management. Each component is
described briefly below.
1. National Policy and Capacity Building Component
This component will help the Ministry of Environment to develop the key elements of a long-term strategy
for the National Protected Areas system of Cambodia. This component would finance: (a) a comprehensive
review of the existing organizational and management systems currently in place within MOE; (b)
development and implementation of national leadership and ranger training programs; (c) the formulation
of a sustainable financing strategy for the entire protected areas system; (d) development of proto-type
information systems to support protected areas management; (e) the development of national protected
areas management planning guidelines; (f) a review of legal and regulatory constraints facing the
establishment and management of protected areas; and (g) public awareness and education programs
related to protected areas management. Specifically, the project would fnance the small scale upgrading of
physical facilities in the MOE; procurement of vehicles and other goods (computers, furniture) for the day
to day operations of the project office; hiring of project technical assistance and short-term consultants;
domestic and overseas training programs; and national workshops associated with various sub-activity.
Key outcomes of this component would be: (1) a stronger consensus among MOE, related government
agencies (i.e., MOEF, MAFF), NGOs and other stakeholders involved in protected areas management on
- 7 -



the long-term vision for Cambodia's protected areas; (2) a clear action program for the priority national
initiatives; (3) strengthened MOE professional capacity both in terns of overall protected area leadership
within the Ministry as well field and operational staff; and (4) stronger voice for MOE in key national
policy issues which affect protected areas.
II. Park Protection and Management Component
This component will develop and test pilot activities that support the basic management needs of the
Virachey National Park in order to build the foundation for a long-term program for biodiversity
conservation in Ratanakiri and Stueng Treng Provinces. The project would finance park infrastructure,
park management planning, staff development programs, community education and outreach, and park
protection initiatives at Virachey National Park.
Specifically, this component would finance the construction of a park headquarters building at Voen Sai
District; two field operational bases at Ta Veng (Ratanakiri Province) and Siem Pang (Stung Treng
Province); small field outposts within the park; and reliable and adequate communications systems to
support day-to-day management activities at the Park. Vehicles, boats, motorcycles and other essential
field equipment would be financed to ensure that park staff can establish a strong field presence and
operate effectively and safely. The project would also finance development and maintenance of safe and
manageable trails system for general access to selected sites within Virachey National Park; systematic
public conservation awareness and educational programs; a patrolling program that would include the
development of a cooperative arrangement between local groups and park staff for surveillance and
enforcement; and field based ranger training programs. To support park planning, the project will finance
acquisition of biophysical and socioeconomic data through new field surveys; stakeholder
consultations/workshops; park zoning; map production; boundary demarcation; long-term technical
assistance and short-term subject matter specialists as needed.
Key outcomes of this component will be: (1) the formulation of a five-year management plan for Virachey
National Park addressing both the-biological and the human dimensions of conservation including the
definition and partial demarcation of the park boundaries; (2) strengthened capacity to manage the field
operations at Virachey national park through professional development and ranger training; (3) increased
awareness among conmmunities and other land stakeholders in importance of conservation and the biological
values of VNP; (4) reduction in unsustainable and illegal exploitation of VNP biological resources; and (5)
creation of stronger voice for provincial level environmental and protected areas stakeholders in major land
use issues affecting VNP.
III. Community Development Component
This component will develop and test approaches for involving communities within and adjacent to VNP
more directly in park management. At present, many communities rely on the resources of the Park for
daily subsistence needs and in times of emergencies such a crop failures. Traditional coping strategies
during periods of crop or livestock failures can lead to increased reliance on the non-timber products of the
Park leading to further erosion of the Park's biological value. At the same time expansion of agricultural
land within the park can lead to habitat loss and increases access to park's core biological resources. The
biological values of VNP will be in jeopardy if the long-term economic needs of communities within and
around the park are not addressed as an integral part of conservation initiatives.
Toward this end the project would: (1) conduct natural resource and social assessments to better
understand the livelihood practices, natural resource use patterns, cultural values, and other socioeconomic
conditions in and around the park; (2) assist communities in pilot areas to formulate proposals for village
-8 -



and commune development which are consistent with park management goals and which address priority
community needs; and (3) provide financial resources to implement community based natural resource
management plans, small-scale alternative livelihood initiatives, or small-scale infrastructure identified as
priority issues identified through the community planning process. Specifically, the project will finance:
training in PRA and community interaction techniques for staff in provincial line agencies; community
outreach and education programs; natural resource assessments; in-depth community appraisals; and
community development initiatives. The project would provide vehicles, office equipment, technical
assistance, and field allowances for staff involved in participatory rural appraisals, census taking and other
surveys.
To finance community development initiatives, the project will provide financial contributions on a grant
basis directly to Ratanakiri and Stung Treng Provinces up to a total of US$ 100,000 paid in tranches of
US$ 20,000 to an account specifically targeted for the project's pilot communities. Under the GOC's
SEILA program, Ratanakiri province (with support from the UNDP/CARRERE program) has established
a Provincial Local Development Fund (PLDF) administered by a Provincial Rural Development Committee
(PRDC) chaired by the Govemor. Under the existing mechanism, individual community projects are
identified through a comprehensive community planring process. Following PRDC approval, individual
projects are executed through contracts between the PRDC and executing bodies such as government line
agencies, private contractors or commune and village committees. The SEILA program has developed a
detailed financial manual which guides the disbursement and accounting of funds for community initiatives.
The procedures described in the SEILA manual will be followed under this project. Under this project,
individual community initiatives are expected to be small and are not likely to exceed US$ 2,500.
Participating communes and beneficiaries will expected to contribute about 10% of the total financial
support for individual initiatives in cash or kind.
Currently there is no equivalent financial mechanism operating in Stung Treng province, so no grants will
be made to Stung Treng until a provincial level financial mechanism acceptable to the IDA is in place. It is
expected that this mechanism will be developed during the first two years of project implementation. Under
this component, a minimum of US$ 20,000 will be allocated specifically for Stung Treng.
Initial pilot communities have been identified during project preparation in both provinces but could be
modified once implementation activities are underway. Criteria for selecting pilot communes and villages
'included: (a) demonstrated community interest in and willingness to participate in pilot level sustainable
natural resource management initiatives; (b) community proximity to park; (c) identified use or potential
use by residents of the park's natural resources.
Key outcomes of this component will be: (1) strengthened capacity of MOE and provincial government
staff to facilitate community development initiatives; (2) evaluation of methodologies for involving
communities in park protection and management; (3) increased community willingness to participate in
initiatives which further park management objectives; (4) establishment of a zoning system in pilot areas
which guides land use within and adjacent to the park; (5) evaluation of incentive systems and livelihood
alternatives which complement park protection and management initiatives.
IV.    Project Management
The project will support project management activities through a project management office in Ban Lung
and a project liaison office in Phnom Penh. The PMO will be responsible for overall annual work program
planning, financial management, monitoring, auditing, performance evaluation, and procurement. The
project will finance upgrading of basic office facilities at MOE headquarters, construction of a small office
-9-



facility in Ban Lung, computers, office equipment and furniture, vehicles, necessary communications
equipment, operating costs and field allowances for traveling staff. Consulting services will also be
provided for essential management activities such as performance monitoring,   accounting and
procurement.
R1~~~~#  .  Sector      Costs~~~~~~~.. ..... .   of~1 ftaneing:fna~n  ak
National Policy and Capacity   Environmental        1.41       28.7      0.59       0.76      39.8
Building                       Institutions
Park Management and Protection   Natural            1.92      39.1       1.27      0.56       29.3
Resources
Management
Community Development          Other                1.08      22.0       0.67      0.36       18.8
Environment
Project Management             Institutional        0.50       10.2      0.22      0.23       12.0
Development
Global Components
0.00       0.0      0.00        0.0        0.0
Total Project Costs                     4.91     100.0       2.75       1.91     100.0
Total Financing Required                     4.91      100.0      2.75       1.91      100.0
2. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Overall Project Management
The Project will be implemarted over a four year period by the Ministry of Environment (MOE), which has
the responsibility for developing and implementing a national system of protected areas. The project will
establish a small project administrative unit in Phnom Penh as well as an overall project management office
in Ban Lung, Ratanakiri. Financial management, procurement and overall project management will be
provided by a Project Director heading the Project Management Office (PMO). With the exception of the
Project management component, each component of the project will be headed by a Technical Team
Leader. Ministerial oversight of the project will be provided by a Project Coordinator at the Secretary of
State level reporting directly to the Minister of Environment.
The existing staff of the MOE at the Virachey National Park (VNP) and the MOE staff in Phnom Penh will
be responsible for executing most of the work under the Project. Project staff will be supplemented as
needed from staff of cooperating ministries in the VNP area. Specifically, the Forestry and Wildlife
Protection Offices at MAFF and community development staff from the Provincial Departments of Rural
Development have indicated their willingness to collaborate on implementation of this project. To the
extent feasible, inputs from NGOs active in Stung Treng and Ratanakiri Provinces will also be utilized.
MOE will draw extensively and build upon lessons learned from previous and ongoing projects carried out
by the MOE, other Ministries, and NGOs in the project area. Examples of such interventions are previous
work done by the MRD, the MAFF and others on establishing formats and frameworks for the PRA
exercise, innovations tried in the various other protected areas in Cambodia with assistance from the
UNDP, WWF, UNESCO, NGO and Government interventions with etlmic minorities in Stung Treng,
- 10-



Ratanakiri and elsewhere and training initiatives undertaken by the MOE and others.
The project staff of MOE will be supported by a technical assistance team of national and international
consultants. The technical assistance team will comprise three senior advisors and a complimentary team
of about five additional short-term subject matter specialists. The senior advisors will include a Senior
Project Advisor and a Senior Protected Areas Advisor. Subject matter specialists will likely include
Terrestrial and Aquatic Ecologists; Environmental Law Specialist; a Sustainable Finance Specialist and a
GIS / Remote Sensing Specialist. Budgetary resources will be provided for other short-term subject matter
specialists on an as-needed basis. Flexibility in the final use of short-term technical assistance is expected.
An Inter-Ministerial Steering Committee will provide advice for the overall implementation of the project
and will provide a mechanism for assisting in the resolution of park management problems which go
beyond the capacity of the MOE to solve. The Inter-Ministerial Steering Committee will include
representatives drawn from MOE management, other concerned Ministries and the Governors of Stung
Treng and Ratanakiri Provinces. The Steering Committee will meet at least semi-annually to review and
approve project progress and to discuss important management problems on site.
For technical matters at the field level, the Project Director will also be guided by the advice of a Technical
Committee comprising key provincial staff from the provincial departments of Agriculture, Forestry and
Fisheries, Rural Development, Culture and Tourism as well as senior management staff from related
projects, protected areas and, possibly NGOs involved in protected areas management issues. The
Technical Conunittee will meet more regularly on a monthly basis to review ongoing project management,
staffing and other issues.
The Community Development Component will be implemented in a collaborative manner between the
Provincial Rural Development Committee (PRDC) of Ratanakiri and the PMO field staff. The PRDC will
administer the Provincial Local Development Fund (PLDF) and the PMO will organize field survey and
PRA teams comprising staff of appropriate provincial departments.
Donor Coordination
The project would develop mechanisms to ensure the coordination and collaboration among present and
proposed future donor activities relating to protected areas management. The project will be pro-active in
its efforts to disseminate information with other donors, arranging of study tours to sites supported by other
donors, joint workshops for government staff and local community groups. The project would actively
seek donor collaboration to assist with implementing field activities in areas where this project is not active.
The project will hold regular briefings with other donors and will ensure that new projects undertaken by
the Ministry are consistent with the objectives of this LIL. Where feasible the project would explore joint
supervision missions involving other donor and would strive for staff exchanges across other Ministries.
Financial Management
The Bank has supported installation of a uniform project accounting system in Cambodia for all Bank
supported projects. The PMO has engaged the services of PriceWaterhouseCoopers, an internationally
recognized accounting firm based in Phnom Penh to install this accounting system and provide staff
training. IDA has reviewed and is satisfied that the accounting system contains the following features: (a)
application of consistent principles of accounting for documenting, recording, and reporting its financial
transactions; (b) use of the accrual method of accounting; (c) a double entry accounting system; (d) a chart
of accounts and a coding system that allows meaningful reporting to IDA and the government; and (e) the
production of quarterly financial statements acceptable to IDA. Establishment of an adequate financial
- 11 -



management and accounting system will be a condition of effectiveness. IDA will continuously review the
operations of the new accounting system.
The financial management function will be headed by a Project Accountant and will be supported by
adequate accounting staff. The appointment of a Project Accountant acceptable to IDA will be a condition
of effectiveness. The PMO shall maintain project accounts identifying separately the expenditures funded
by IDA, GEF and the Government funds. A Project Financial Management Manual, prepared by PWC
and reviewed and cleared by IDA, describes in detail accounting procedures and responsibilities. A
detailed description of the financial management arrangements is given in Annex 6.
The PMO has agreed to prepare simplified Project Management Reports which will include, at a minimum,
the following documents: (a) a summary of Source and Users of Funds; (b) Uses of Funds by Project
Activity: and (C) Contract Expenditure Report on Consultants. The PMRs will be produced commencing
second quarter of year 2000 and will be submitted to IDA within 45 days of end of each quarter. The
project is expected to be able to produce full PMRs by March 31, 2001.
As a new accounting system is to be installed and staff trained in financial management, the project is not
considered eligible for PMR based disbursement. IDA disbursement will be based on Withdrawal
Applications supported by full documentation or Statement of Expenditures. Two Special Accounts (for
IDA and GEF) will be established under the project at the National Bank of Cambodia (NBC) and
managed by the PMO. Project funds will be disbursed through this account under the supervision of the
Ministry of Economy and Finance.
The Borrower shall appoint an independent auditor acceptable to IDA. The auditor shall be responsible for
the annual audit of the financial statements, and provide an opinion on the eligibility of the expenses on the
basis of SOEs and transactions for the Special Accounts. The audited financial statements, together with
audit reports and SOEs and the Special Accounts, shall be submitted to IDA within six months of the end
of the Project's fiscal year. The audit shall be conducted in accordance with auditing standards acceptable
to IDA and under terms of reference acceptable to IDA. Appointment of an auditor will be a condition of
effectiveness.
3. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements:
Project monitoring and evaluation will be carried out at different levels. At the national level, the project
will establish an Inter-Ministerial Steering committee which will provide technical guidance to the project.
The steering committee would also be responsible for evaluating overall project implementation through
periodic quarterly reviews. The Inter-Ministerial Committee would provide a mechanism for raising
important issues such as forest concession management, land allocation decisions, and enforcement of
regulations on illegal resource exploitation which are outside of the jurisdiction of the MOE.
The Project Management Office will establish a monitoring system to routinely track and report on project
performance through quarterly and annual reports. Annual work plans will be formulated each year with
specific milestones and deliverables.  At the local level the project will establish a local park advisory
council to assist in the formulation of annual work plans and to provide feedback on the overall activities of
the park management. The monitoring and evaluation system will include a set of indicators derived from
the "Guidelines for Monitoring and Evaluation for Biodiversity Projects" published by the GEF in June
1998. To better understand the learning and innovation aspects of this initiative, the project would test a
structured process documentation approach to monitoring which would take into account lessons learned as
the project is implemented.
-12-



Because of its learning objectives, the project would invest in an independent evaluation of project
perfonnance during implementation. An overall performance evaluation task would be contracted to an
organization familiar with protected areas management and could include NGOs actively working in the
project area.
D: Project Rationale
[This section is not to be completed in a LIL PAD. Rationale should be implicit in paragraph B: 3.]
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
[For LIL, to the extent applicable]
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = %
O Cost effectiveness
O Incremental Cost
* Other (specify)
Economic analysis of the project has not been undertaken because this is largely a capacity building project
whose benefits are difficult to measure in monetary terms. However, it is expected that econoinic analysis
would be undertaken on the pilot livelihood activities for local communities.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):    NPV-US$ million; FRR= %
[For LIL, to the extent applicable]
The Bank has supported installation of a uniform project accounting system in Cambodia for all Bank
supported projects. The PMO has engaged the services of PriceWaterhouseCoopers, an internationally
recognized accounting firm based in Phnom Penh to install this accounting system and provide staff
training. IDA has reviewed and is satisfied that the accounting system contains the following features: (a)
application of consistent principles of accounting for documenting, recording, and reporting its financial
transactions; (b) use of the accrual method of accounting; (c) a double entry accounting system; (d) a chart
of accounts and a coding system that allows meaningful reporting to IDA and the government; and (e) the
production of quarterly financial statements acceptable to IDA. Establishment of an adequate financial
management and accounting system will be a condition of effectiveness. IDA will continuously review the
operations of the new accounting system.
As a new accounting system is to be installed and staff trained in financial management, the project is not
considered eligible for PMR based disbursement. IDA disbursement will be based on Withdrawal
Applications supported by full documentation or Statement of Expenditures. Two Special Accounts (for
IDA and GEF) will be established under the project at the National Bank of Cambodia (NBC) and
managed by the PMO. Project funds will be disbursed through this account under the supervision of the
Ministry of Economy and Finance.
The Borrower shall appoint an independent auditor acceptable to IDA. The auditor shall be responsible for
the annual audit of the financial statements, and provide an opinion on the eligibility of the expenses on the
basis of SOEs and transactions for the Special Accounts. The audited financial statements, together with
audit reports and SOEs and the Special Accounts, shall be submitted to IDA within six months of the end
of the Project's fiscal year. The audit shall be conducted in accordance with auditing standards acceptable
to IDA and under terms of reference acceptable to IDA. Appointment of an auditor will be a condition of
- 13-



effectiveness.
3. Technical:
[For LIL, enter data if applicable or 'Not Applicable']
Not applicable.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies:
It is widely recognized that GOC capacity to implement projects is weak. The project will address
institutional strengthening at all levels of government by directing significant resources to training and
technical assistance at the field level as well as at the national level. The project will also assist the
Ministry of Environment in the preparation of long term organization strategies, professional development
and leadership initiatives, legal and regulatory frameworks development, and establishment of effective
information systems which will make a significant contribution to the management capacity of the Ministry.
b. Project management:
The project will establish a Project Management Office which will be function through a small project
administrative unit in Phnom Penh as well as an overall project management office in Ban Lung,
Ratanakiri. Oversight of financial management, procurement and overall project management will be
provided by a Project Director heading the Project Management Office (PMO). The PMO management
structure will include the Project Director, Technical Team Leaders for each component, Project
Accountant(s) and a Procurement Advisor. The PMO will be assisted by technical assistance team
comprising a Senior Project Management Advisor, a Protected Areas Advisor and a Community
Development Advisor. Other short-term technical services will be provided on an as-needed basis.
5. Social:
There will be no resettlement undertaken in this project so no RAP is required. The project's field activities
are, however, being implemented in an area occupied by a diverse range of social groups including people
indigenous to the area. In accordance with OD 4.20 an analysis of indigenous people's issues was carried
out by a qualified consultant. The findings of the consultants analysis are provided in the PIP and have
been incorporated in the overall project design. No separate IPDP has been produced for the project as the
definition of provisions for indigenous people will be an integral part of both the Park Management and the
Community Development components. The project itself is designed as a process framework for including
the needs and aspirations of indigenous communities into overall park and buffer zone planning.
During implementation, the final Virachey National Park management plan may require modifications to,
or place limitations on, the access of local communities to resources within the park boundaries. To
address this potential concern, the management planning process will be fully participatory relying on
significant input of local knowledge. The project will finance participatory rural appraisals as part of the
management planning process to ensure local concerns are addressed. The management plan will be
endorsed by all affected communities. In addition the project will finance alternative livelihoods that are
consistent with management objectives of VNP.
In addition, the project will finance field studies on traditional land tenure issues. Such studies will feed
into the discussions of park boundaries, park zoning and land and natural resource use patterns both within
and outside of the park. They will also offer a documentary base to explore the available avenues for the
legal formalization of traditional patterns of land tenure in park area. The Government of Cambodia is
revising a national land law which may have serious implications for customary tenure and ultimately for
- 14 -



the success of national protected areas. To the extent possible the project will work closely to ensure that
protected areas interests are taken into account during the revision of the national land law.
6. Environmental assessment:              Environment Category: B
The project's objectives are to achieve sustainable management of the Virachey National Park. Field
activities are small scale involving the construction of small park headquarters buildings and field posts.
There are no significant direct environmental effects of any project component thus there is no separate
Environmental Assessment prepared for the project. The project's field operations are being implemented
in an area known to be subjected to illegal logging, hunting, and wildlife trade. If successful, the project
will help to reduce and control such practices. The project will support the formulation of a mediun term
park management plan for Virachey National Park. Part of the plan will involve definition of land and
resources use zones within the park and will define specific measures to be undertaken. To better
understand the environmnental dimensions of park management the management plan fonnulation process
will involve principles of environmental planning. To ensure the long range sustainability of the plan, an
environmental assessment will be carried out on the plan itself.
7. Participatory Approach (key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced or may
influence; if participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable):
[For LIL, to the extent applicablel
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
The main project beneficiaries would be the people of Cambodia who would derive the long term benefits
of a well functioning protected areas system. The project is expected to strengthen the capacity of the
MOE, particularly at the provincial level, and local communities to minimize the degradation of
biodiversity of national and global significance in the Virachey National Park. The project would also
benefit local conmmunities by creating awareness of conservation issues and creating the enabling
environment for more sustainable management of the natural resources of the Park. The international
community would also benefit through the protection and preservation of biological resources of global
significance.
b. Other key stakeholders:
Other stakeholders include the international donor community with interests in supporting protected areas
management in Cambodia as well as local and international NGOs with an active interest in the sustainable
development of Cambodia's natural resource base.
- 15-



F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
This section is not to be completed in LIL PAD.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
From Outputs to Objective
Government actions outside MOE do         S         Recent policy statements indicate
not support commitment to ensuring                  increased understanding of forest sector
implementation of management plan for               issues. GOC is committed to forest
VNP                                                 sector reform through forest concession
management project; Inter-ministerial
committee to meet on regular basis;
Procedures / approaches developed at      M         Close interaction between all project
Virachey National Park are not suitable             staff at national and provincial levels;
for other protected areas and national              project will support regular study tours
models are unable to be developed                   and national level workshops for VNP
staff
MOE unwilling or unable to implement      S         Project will support numerous national
key recommendations from legal,                     workshops to ensure broad based
organizational and sustainable finance              consensus on issues; Inter-Ministerial
studies                                             committee will be consulted on all
proposed strategic or policy reforms
From Components to Outputs
Technical assistance team is not          M         Project will recruit procurment and
mobilized in sufficient time to make                other technical assistance and
meaningful contribution early on in                 consulting services;
project
Procedures for sub-project development    M         Preparation of PRA guidelines and PRA
are too cumbersome delaying start of               training is planned for field teams in
comnunity development initiatives                   Ratanakiri;
Participatory planning methods and        M         Project will develop clear and regular
resulting community development                     public awareness campaigns and will
projects do not provide sufficient                  work with existing village development
incentive to divert pressure from                   organizations to formulate initiatives
resource use in VNP                                 clearly linked to conservation
objectives;
Appropriate local counterparts are not    S         Project will provide opportnities for
available to work on project                        training, appropriate equipment, field
housing and allowances
- 16-



Overall Risk Rating                       S         Proactive program of public
information campaigns and public
participation in the design of
management plans. Regular briefings
with NGOs and other stakeholders
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The project could pose some reputational risk for the Bank. First, the project is proposed in an area where
both domestic and international illegal logging is known to occur. It is also being implemented in area
where potentially controversial, large scale agri-business and forest concessions have been awarded. If the
project does not lead to visible reductions or changes in the nature of illegal activities the IDA may be
subject to criticisms of aiding and abetting illegal logging and simply contributing to un-sustainable land
use practices.
Second, the VNP management plan may modify or pose restrictions on current resource use practices
through park zoning. Decisions to realign the park boundaries and the land use controls implied by a
management plan could reduce the local commitment to the plan if the determination of the new boundaries
is not done in a broadly consultative manner. To facilitate consultation and collaboration, a participatory
approach would be used to ensure that decisions on the park boundaries and access to the parks'natural
and cultural resources by local residents are taken with key local stakeholders Input and support.
Third, the long-term goal of the project implies a gradual shift in the nature of land use in the buffer zone
areas. If this is not done in a carefully planned and phased manner, ethnic minorities may find themselves
being compelled to adopt changes that undermine their traditional strategies for coping with and food and
social security thus undermining support for the VNP.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
* The borrower has established an adequate financial management and accounting system, acceptable to
the Association, and selected independent auditors to audit the records and accounts of the project;
*   The borrower has established a project liason office in its Ministry of Environment in Phnom Penh;
*   The borrower has employed a Project Director, three Technical Team Leaders, a Project Accountant,
and Procurement Specialist with terms of reference acceptable to the Association;
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
*   MOE will establish, not later than June 30, 2000, a Project Management Office (PMO) in Ban Lung,
in the Province of Ratanakiri;
* For the duration of the project, the Government of Cambodia and the Provincial Governments of
Ratanakiri and Stung Treng will furnish informnation to IDA on the status of all existing or planned
land allocations and pending land transactions including, but not limited to, forest concessions,
agri-business concessions, road and other infrastructure development, and refagee resettlement sites,
which effect the integrity or management objectives of the Virachey National Park,
-17 -



* MOE will submit a draft management plan for Virachey National Park for IDA on or before April 1,
2003. A final management plan will be completed on or before July 31, 2003;
*   MOE will formally gazette the boundaries of Virachey National Park on or before June 30, 2003.
H. Readiness for Implementation
O 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
0 1. b) Not applicable.
O 2. The procurement documents for the firstsix months' activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation; and a framework has been established for agreement on standard bidding
documents that will be used for ongoing procurement throughout the life of LIL
1 3. The LIL's Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
0 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
E 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
El 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are reconmmended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Tealti Leader                     Sector Man  er/Director               ntry Manager/Director
-18 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
CAMBODIA: Biodiversity and Protected Areas Management Project
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Achieve sustainable utilization An effective National                           Continued political support at
of Cambodia's natural     Protected Areas System is                            all levels for sustainable forest
resources                 established                                           management and biodiversity
conservation
Follow-on Development
Objective
The Protected Areas system of Wide scale adoption of  Project progres reporting;  Government willingess to
Cambodia follows a consistent procedures and approaches to  stakeholder interviews  implement long range
and well articulated set of    protected areas management                       organizational and
management, institutional,   developed in the LIL                              institutional strategies
organizational, financial
procedures, regulations and
management approaches
GEF Operational Program
See Project Development   As per project development   As per project development   As per project development
Objectives below          objectives below           objectives below           objectives below
Project Development       Outcome I Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
Develop and test models for   Results of organizational,    Progress reports   International donors are
protected areas management  finance, and management                             willing to participate in
studies are adopted and                              long-range financing
promoted widely within MOE                           arrangements for protected
Areas system;
Minimize illegal exploitation  Management plan for VNP    Virachey National Park  Participatory procedures allow
of Virachey National Park    based on community and  Management Plan;           stakeholders and Ministry to
stakeholder participation is                        reach agreement on long
produced and accepted;    Field surveys by Park staff;   range management objectives
community interviews      and strategies
Incidence of unplanned    Reported sitings;Field surveys, External pressures on the
agricultural expansion,wildlife informant interviews  resources of the Park do not
poaching, and illegal logging                        increase; Patrolling and public
is reduced in VNP                                    awareness programs are
effective;,
-19 -



Global Objective
See sector related CAS goals  As per CAS above         As per CAS above            As per CAS above
and follow-on development
objectives above
- 20-



Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
National Capacity Bldg    National leadership and    Training manuals. Progress   Appropriate counterpart staff
National organizational,  ranger training programs are  reports                 area available to work on kev
financial, regulatory and park developed, tested and                            aspects of project
management models are     implemented
developed and in place
All national organizational,   Organizational review  Government is willing to
sustainable finance, EDSS,   documents. Progress reports  implement recommendations
legal and regulatory reviews                         and findings
are completed and major
recommendations accepted by
MOE
PA management planning    Progress reports.
models are evaluated and
adopted as national standards
Park Management:
A four year pilot program of  Patrolling systems in place    Progress reports;  Equipment and facilities
protected areas management is and operational;       Patrolling reports;        completed in a timely manner
developed and implemented at                         Training modules and      to allow the execution of
Virachey National Park    Organizational and         curriculum documents;      project work
management framework      Training evaluation reports;
developed and implemented   Management Plan documents; Counterpart staff available to
for VNP;                  Field verification of boundary man patrol teams and
marks; Brochures and      sufficient incentives provided
Number of ranger training    educational materials  to encornage long term
programs implemented;     produced                   participation in program;
Boundary demarcation in key                          Counterpart staff given ample
areas completed                                      opportunity to use and master
new skills
Number and quality of
awareness programs                                   Sufficient budget resources for
plan implementation are
allocated
Communnity Development
Resource and social       Resource and social surveys   Beneficiary surveys.    Resources are provided in a
assessments are carried out to are completed and feed into   Progress reports  timely manner
better understand the patterns park and commurnity planning
of resource utilization by local process
communmties
Training is effective and
Alternative community     PRA Procedures are tested and                         process is seen as relevant
livelihood programs are   understood by practitioners
developed in order to divert  and conimunities
pressure form park area                                                         Village committees capable of
implementing sub-projects;
Number and quality of                                Funds flow is timely and not
livelihood programs adopted                         impeded
- 21 -



Project management:
Establish effective systems of Monitoring and evaluation    Progress reports    Counterpart staff are available
overall project management,  systems developed, in place,                      to work in PMO
quality control and       and operational;
performance evaluation
Extent to which project
activities are delayed due to
funds release or availability of
resources
Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:         (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                            Outputs)
National Capacity Building   1.41 million            Progress report for each   Availability of counterpart
project component         funds and staff
Park Management           1.92 million                                          Timely procurement of goods
and services
Community Development    1.08 million                                           Political support at all levels
of goverrunent
Project Management,       .50 million                                           Willingness of stakeholders to
Monitoring and Evaluation                                                       participate in implementation
of field based activities
-22 -



Annex 2: Project Description
CAMBODIA: Biodiversity and Protected Areas Management Project
Project Development Objective
The overall development objective of thisLearning and Innovation Loan (LIL) is to help the Government of
Cambodia achieve sustainable management of it's system of national protected areas. At the present time
the Ministry of Environment has little experience with establishment and management of protected areas on
the ground. The experiences gained from this project would help the government to formulate a long term
strategic vision for the national protected areas system and would help determine which approaches are
most feasible and effective under the field conditions in Cambodia.
The immediate objectives of the project are twofold: (1) to develop and test proactive measures to minimize
unsustainable exploitation and degradation of the biodiversity of national and global significance in the
Virachey National Park; and (2) to use the experiences gained from Virachey to help formulate institutional
models for the development of the National Protected Areas system of Cambodia. The project has four
closely integrated components: a National Policy and Capacity Development Component; a Park Protection
and Management Component; and a Community Development Component; and Project Management.
Overview of Biodiversity and Protected Areas in Cambodia
Cambodia exhibits the typically rich tropical biodiversity of the South-East Asia region. Compared to its
neighbors, Cambodia still contains areas of relatively intact habitats and populations of species of national
and global conservation significance. About 62% of the country's land area is covered by forests and
another 30% of the land area comprises wetlands which occur mostly within the plains and valleys of the
Mekong river. Cambodia's forest and wetland habitats support a wide diversity of flora and fauna.
According to MacKinTon (1997), Cambodia harbors about 123 mammal species, 545 bird species, 88
reptile species and more than 2,300 species of vascular plants. Other estimates suggest that Cambodia may
be one of the world's richest countries in terms of diversity of plant families, harboring about 54% of all
families of seed plants (Ministry of Enviromnent 1994. Cambodia: First State of the Environment Report.)
Cambodia's biodiversity is directly threatened by poorly planned and illegal logging, indiscriminate land
clearing for agricultural and infrastructure development, and illegal wildlife poaching. Exact estimates of
the level or pace of biodiversity loss are not available for Cambodia. Recent field surveys have not been
carried out due to decades of civil war and political instability in remote rural areas. Since the early 1990s,
harvesting pressure on forest and wetlands have increased rapidly because of growing domestic forest
harvesting, foreign investment and a rapidly growing population estimated at 2.6-3.0% per annum.
In November 1993, Cambodia declared a revised -- and ambitious -- national protected areas system. A
Royal Decree issued by His Majesty King Norodom Sihanouk designated 23 national protected areas. The
declared protected areas system now covers a total of 3.3 million ha. covering about 18% of the country's
total land area. At present there are seven declared national parks, ten wildlife sanctuaries, three protected
landscapes, and three multiple-use areas. The Ministry of Environment is responsible for the management
of these protected areas but these parks remain largely "paper parks". The lack of field accomplishments
results from many factors: the limited institutional capacity of the MoE (including staff and financial
resources), lack of up-to-date information on biodiversity, security concerns, unsustainable and/or illegal
logging in the case of some forest areas, conflicting land development nearby protected areas, and illegal
wildlife trade.
- 23 -



The Virachey National Park
Virachey National Park is located in northeastern Cambodia and covers an area of 322,500 hectares (See
map). This national park straddles the administrative boundaries of two Provinces: Ratanakiri and Stung
Treng. Virachey National Park was selected as the pilot site for the proposed Biodiversity and Protected
Area Management Pilot Project for several reasons:
(a) Diverse habitat types and biological communities of international importance. The biological
diversity of Virachey comprises a wide representation of Cambodia's terrestrial biodiversity including
evergreen, semni-evergreen and deciduous forest types, grassland and shrublands, and riparian wetlands.
These different habitats support a wide range of flora and fauna, including about 43 species of mammals
and 100 bird species of global conservation significance. The park area may also support populations of
four recently discovered mammals in Laos and Vietnam - Vu Quang ox (Pseudoryx nghethnihensis),
Khting vohr (Pseudonovibos spiralis), giant muntjak (Megamuntiacus vuquangensis) and Mekong pig (
Sus bucculentus) - because their habitats are similar to those at Virachey. Available information suggests
that the biodiversity in the park is relatively intact and that the area is among the last few refuges of wildlife
in Southeast Asia.
(b) Increasing threats to biodiversity. Due to its remote and rugged terrain, Virachey National Park
remains one of the least disturbed forest landscapes in Southeast Asia. Nevertheless, the Park faces
numerous direct threats which, if left unchecked, will undermine its viability as a conservation area of
regional and global significance. Several major direct and indirect trends threaten Virachey including:
illegal domestic and intemational logging; wildlife trade; agricultural land use by buffer zone communities;
large scale agri-business concessions in the vicinity of the park; and potential infrastructure development.
The situation in Virachey provides a very good opportunity to test approaches to prevent the further
degradation of biodiversity from direct and indirect threats which are steadily expanding in Ratanakiri and
Stung Treng Provinces.
(c) Human Dimensions. In addition to its biodiversity value, Virachey National Park supports the
subsistence needs of numerous communities living near the boundary of the Park. The communities
adjacent to the park are ethnically diverse and include: Kreung, Kavet, Brou, and Lao people. While there
are no formally registered villages within the Virachey National Park itself, nearby communities utilize
portions of the Park on a year-round basis for hunting and gathering activities, and slash and burn
cultivation. Virachey provides an opportunity to fully develop and test approaches to deal with the human
dimension of protected areas management. This includes the difficult problems of addressing ways to
effectively involve local communities in planning and implementation; resolving concerns over ensuring
traditional use rights to the resources of the Park; and enhancement of the economic status of the people.
(d) Government Priority. Virachey National Park, Preah Sihanouk National Park, Bokor National Park,
Kirirom National Park, Lomphat Wildlife Sanctuary, Angkor Protected Landscapes, Tonle Sap
Multiple-Use Area, and the three proposed RAMSAR sites -- Mekong Leour, Boeung Chhma, and Koah
Kapi have been identified as high priority for conservation in Cambodias National Environmental Action
Plan (NEAP). The NEAP has been endorsed at the highest level of government including King Norodom
Sihanouk, the Council of Ministers, and the National Assembly. To date, the preparation of the project has
received high-level support, including from the Minister of Environment and the Provincial Governors of
Ratanakiri and Stung Treng. In addition, both Provincial Governments have demonstrated, through
on-going donor/NGO projects, their commitment to promote environmental management and
community-based development;
- 24 -



(e) Transboundary Potential. The Virachey National Park is contiguous with the Chu Mon Ray National
Park in Vietnam and the Dong Amphan National Biodiversity Conservation Area in Laos. Thus it provides
a unique opportunity to develop a long range trans-boundary protected areas system. Improving park
management at Virachey would help develop the potential for establishing a transboundary park that would
conserve more than half a million hectares of some of the most important montane, sub-montane, and
lowland forests remaining in continental southeast Asia.
(f) Fewer Security Problems. The Virachey National Park area has been relatively free of security
problems that have plagued some of the other protected areas. The area is reportedly free from the
operations of the Khmer Rouge and should provide a secure environment in which to carry out the pilot
activities of this project.
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$1.41 million
1. National Policy and Capacity Building Component
Objective: To help the Ministry of Environment develop the key elements of a long-term strategy to
improve the development and management of the National Protected Areas System of Cambodia.
Activities: This component would support: (a) a comprehensive review of the existing organizational and
management systems currently in place within MOE; (b) the development of national curriculum and
implementation of pilot professional development, leadership and ranger training programs; (c) the
formulation of a sustainable financing strategy for the entire protected areas system; (d) development of
proto-type information systems to support protected areas management; (e) the development of national
protected areas management planning guidelines; (f) a review of legal and regulatory constraints facing the
establishment and management of protected and standards; and (g) public awareness and education
programs related to protected areas management.
Items to be financed under this component include:
Goods -- vehicles, motor bikes, computers, furniture, office equipment, GIS hardware and software, data
acquisition such as maps, satellite images;
Consultant services -- local and foreign technical assistance for project management, organizational
review, legal studies, sustainable finance, GIS, park management planning, regulatory framework
development, curriculum development;
Training -- national workshops, domestic and overseas training;
Salaries and allowances -- for contractual, temporary staff, and traveling MOE staff;
Incremental operating costs -- for operations of vehicles, office consumable, publications, expendable
materials, equipment and facilities maintenance and operations, domestic air fare and other travel expenses.
Key Outcomes. This component would result in: (1) the formulation of key elements of a long-term,
sustainable vision for Cambodia's national protected area system endorsed by MOE, related government
agencies (MOEF, MAFF), NGOs and other protected areas stakeholders; (2) a clear action program for
implementing priority national initiatives following completion of the project; (3) strengthened MOE
professional capacity in protected area leadership within the MOE as well as field and operational staff:
and (4) stronger voice for MOE in key national policy issues which affect protected areas.
- 25-



Project Component 2 - US$1.92 million
II. Park Protection and Management Component
Objective: To develop and test pilot initiatives supporting the basic management needs of Virachey
National Park. The lessons derived from these initiatives will contribute to the formulation of national
models for protected area management and will build a solid foundation for the implementation of a
long-term program for biodiversity consenration in northeast Cambodia.
Activities:  The component will support the provision of basic park infrastructure such as park
headquarters, operational field bases, field outposts, trail systems, supplies and equipment for staff. It will
also support the establishment of park protection initiatives including ranger training, regular systems of
patrolling and monitoring, community outreach, education and awareness raising. This component would
also support the formulation of a model five-year management plan for Virachey National Park. The
proposed management planning process would address both the human and biological dimensions of
conservation and would be based on comprehensive stakeholder participation. The project would support
basic biological and socio-economic surveys and other primary data acquisition, map production,
stakeholder participation, workshops, boundary demarcation in selected areas.
Items to be financed under this component include:
Civil works -- park headquarters at Voen Sai, administrative office facilities at Ta Vang and Siem Pang,
ranger field shelters within the park, trail construction, and park boundary demarcation;
Goods -- field equipment for patrol teams (i.e., tents, clothing, binoculars, cameras, navigational aids, other
tools etc.), office furniture, communications equipment, vehicles, boats, motor cycles, bicycles;
Consultant services -- domestic and international consultants in the fields of project management,
protected areas management, aquatic and terrestrial ecology, biological and social surveys, remote sensing,
community education and awareness, training, boundary survey;
Training -- development and implementation of on-site ranger training programs, professional development
for park management staff, community awareness initiatives;
Salaries and allowances -- for contract staff, temporary employees, and traveling MOE and provincial
government staff,
Incremental operating costs -- for operations of vehicles, office consumable, publications, expendable
materials, field equipment and facilities maintenance and operations, medical treatment and medicines for
traveling staff, domestic air fare and other travel expenses.
Key Outcomes. This component would result in: (1) the formulation of a five-year management plan for
Virachey National Park addressing both the biological and the human dimensions of conservation including
the definition and partial demarcation of the park boundaries; (2) strengthened capacity to manage the field
operations at Virachey national park through professional development and ranger training; (3) increased
awareness among communities and other land stakeholders in importance of conservation and the biological
values of VNP; (4) reduction in unsustainable and illegal exploitation of VNP biological resources; and (5)
creation of stronger voice for provincial level environmental and protected areas stakeholders in major land
use issues affecting VNP.
- 26 -



Project Component 3 - USS 1.08 million
III. Community Development Component
Objective: To develop, test and replicate proactive measures which involve local communities more
directly in the planning and management of Virachey National Park. This component would address the
development of community based initiatives directed at reducing pressure on the biological resources of
VNP.
Activities: Communities adjacent to the Virachey National Park currently rely on the resources of the
Virachey National Park for daily subsistence needs. Experience from around the world indicates that
conservation activities could be jeopardized in the long term as population increases if the economic needs
of adjacent communities are not addressed as an integral part of conservation activities. This component is
included as a proactive measure to test ways to address community livelihood problems before they become
an impediment to the conservation of biodiversity. The component would address the development and
replication of community-initiated activities aimed at assisting people living adjacent to the Virachey
National Park to modify unsustainable practices that could, in the long run, have adverse impacts on
biodiversity.
This component would support in-depth natural resource and socio-economic assessments of communities
living in and around the Park aimed at providing information on current livelihood practices, resource use
patterns, cultural values, and other socio-economic conditions in selected communities. The component
would also assist communities within and around Virachey to develop village and commune development
plans to be submitted to the PRDC for funding. The component would make financial contributions to
Ratanakiri and Stung Treng Provinces in order to fund community initiatives which are both consistent
with overall park management objectives and which are viewed as priority community needs.
To finance community development initiatives, the project will provide financial contributions on a grant
basis directly to Ratanakiri and Stung Treng Provinces up to a total of US$ 100,000 paid in tranches of
US$ 20,000 to an account specifically targeted for the projects pilot conununities. Under the GOC's
SEILLA program, Ratanakiri province (with support from the UNDP/CARRERE program) has established
a Provincial Local Development Fund (PLDF) administered by a Provincial Rural Development Committee
(PRDC) chaired by the Govemor. Under the existing mechanism, individual community projects are
identified through a comprehensive community planning process. Following PRDC approval, individual
projects are executed through contracts between the PRDC and executing bodies such as government line
agencies, private contractors or commune and village committees.
The SEILA program has developed a detailed financial manual which guides the disbursement and
accounting of funds for conmmunity initiatives. The procedures described in the SEILA manual will be
followed under this project. Under this project, individual community initiatives are expected to be small
and are not likely to exceed US$ 2,500. Participating communes and beneficiaries will expected to
contribute about 10% of the total financial support for individual initiatives in cash or kind.
At the moment, there is no equivalent financial mechanism operating in Stung Treng province. Therefore,
no grants will be made to Stung Treng province until a provincial level financial mechanism acceptable to
the Bank is in place.  It is expected that this mechanism be developed during the first two years of project
implementation. Under this component, a minimum of US$ 20,000 will be allocated specifically for Stung
Treng.
Items to be financed under this component include:
- 27 -



Civil works -- project office facilities in Ban Lung, small community infrastructure identified during
community planning process;
Goods -- vehicles, motor cycles bicycles, office furniture, equipment, computers;
Consultant services -- domestic and international consultants in project management, protected area
management, PRA Techniques, anthropological surveys, resource assessments, community resource
management, rural development;
Training -- on-site staff training for MOE and provincial government staff, participation in national and
international workshops;
Community Development Projects -- For initiatives such as small scale community infrastructure,
alternative livelihood proposals, community resource management plans, identified during the village and
commune development planning process,
Salaries and allowances -- for contract and temporary staff such as census takers, and traveling MOE and
provincial government staff,
Incremental operating costs -- for operations of vehicles, office consumables, publications, expendable
materials, equipment and facilities maintenance and operations, medical services and medicine for field
staff in Virachey, domestic airfares and other travel expenses, short-term vehicle / driver rentals.
Key Outcomes: This component would result in: (1) strengthened capacity of MOE and provincial
government staff to facilitate community development initiatives; (2) evaluation of methodologies for
involving communities in park protection and management; (3) increased community willingness to
participate in initiatives which further park management objectives; (4) establishment of a zoning system in
pilot areas which guides land use within and adjacent to the park; (5) evaluation of incentive systems and
livelihood alternatives which complement park protection and management initiatives.
Project Component 4 - US$0.50 million
IV. Project Management
Objective: To establish a competent project management and administrative unit to support all aspects of
project planning and implementation
Activities: The project would support the establishment of a project management office in Ban Lung and
the establishment of a project liaison office in Phnom Penh. The project would provide necessary office,
facilities, equipment, fumiture, and transportation to facilitate smooth operations of the PMO. The PMO
will be responsible for day to day management and oversight of the project and will carry out essential
functions such as work program planning, routine monitoring, progress reporting, accounting and auditing.
Items to be financed under the project include:
Civil works -- upgrade office facilities in Phnom Penh;
Consultant services -- for domestic and intemational consultants in the filed of project management,
accounting, procurement, auditing, performance monitoring and evaluation;
- 28 -



Goods -- vehicles, office equipment, computers, communications equipment;
Incremental operating costs -- for operations of vehicles, office consumables, publications, expendable
materials, equipment and facilities maintenance and operations, medical services and medicine for field
staff in Ban Lung and Virachey, domestic airfares and other travel expenses, short-term vehicle / driver
rental;
Salaries and allowances -- for contract and temporary staff, traveling MOE and provincial government
staff.
Key Outcomes: This component would result in: (1) capacity of PMO to prepare annual work plans which
are clear, realistic and monitorable is improved; (2) flows of financial resources to support all project
activities is timely and adequate; (3) capacity of MOE to manage programs of international donors
independently is improved. (4) ability to monitor project performance is steadily improved.
- 29 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
CAMBODIA: Biodiversity and Protected Areas Management Project
National Capacity Building                                0.42         0.99         1.41
Park Management and Protection                            0.34         1.58         1.92
Community Developnment                                    0.25         0.83         1.08
Project Management                                        0.15         0.35         0.50
Total Baseline Cost                                       1.16         3.75         4.91
Physical Contingencies                                   0.00         0.00         0.00
Price Contingencies                                      0.00         0.00         0.00
Total Project Costs              1.16         3.75         4.91
Total Financing Required              1.16         3.75          4.91
Goods (equipment and vehicles)                             0.11          0.55          0.66
Civil Works                                                0.13          0.19          0.32
Services/Technical Assistance                              0.00          2.78          2.78
Training                                                   0.32          0.20          0.52
Survey and Boundary Demarcation                            0.04          0.01          0.05
Community Development Projects                             0.08          0.02          0.10
Operating Expenses and Alowances                           0.48          0.00          0.48
Total Project Costs     1.16          3.75         4.91
Total Financing Required      1.16         3.75          4.91
- 30 -



Annex 4
CAMBODIA: Biodiversity and Protected Areas Management Project
GEF Incremental Cost Analysis
Project Development/Global Objective
The overall development and global objective of the proposed four-year pilot project is to support proactive
measures, to minimize illegal exploitation or degradation of the relatively intact biodiversity of national and
global significance in Virachey National Park (see Annex 5 for an overview of important biodiversity in the
Virachey National Park). The project would help to develop and demonstrate a model approach to
protected areas management appropriate for Cambodia.
Baseline Scenario and GEF Alternative
Baseline Scenario
During the last five years, the MOE has focused on very modest capacity building efforts to improve
environmental management in Cambodia. However, the effectiveness many of these efforts on conservation
has been limited because of a fragmented approach to human resource development and because of a
limited number of trained skilled personnel, limited infonnation on the status of biodiversity in protected
areas, and lack of operational guidelines for management planning and implementation. In addition, the
budgetary allocation to the MOE is inadequate, therefore, very limited funds are available to procure
needed equipment and to cover operating expenses associated with the conservation of biodiversity.
Within the context of the proposed Biodiversity and Protected Area Management Pilot Project, the baseline
actions would support capacity building in a more focused and systematic way for the MOE, specifically at
the Department of Nature Conservation and Protection and the Provincial Departments of Environment in
Ratanakiri and Stung Treng. These baseline actions/sub-components are summarized below:
(a) Organization and Management sub-component would involve organizational review of existing
capacity within the MOE, specifically the Department of Nature Conservation and Protection and the
Provincial Environment Departments in Ratanakiri and Stung Treng, to better define the roles and
responsibilities of work units and staff positions related to biodiversity conservation. It is expected that this
activity would result in more clearly defined roles and responsibilities needed to promote a consistent
approach to resource policy, resource assessment and planning, communications and public education,
standard setting, and training.
(b) Professional Development and In-Service Ranger Training sub-component would focus on
protected areas management training and staff development. It would comprise of two major elements.
The first would be a leadership development program that would provide training for supervisory staff of
the Department of Nature Conservation and Protection, the Virachey National Park, and provincial
agencies involved in natural resource planning and management such as the Departments of Planning,
Agriculture, Rural Development, and Tourism. The second element would be a ranger training program
which would provide a practical program of education and skill development for rangers and para-rangers
in the Virachey National Park and ranger trainers from other protected areas.
(c) Operational Framework sub-component involve the development of operational guidelines for
planning and managing the Virachey National Park to ensure a systematic approach to management
practices.
- 31 -



GEF Alternative
The above baseline actions/sub-components would provide an organizational foundation for the Virachey
National Park, but it would not be enough to lay a strong foundation to proactively minimize the
degradation of the park's unique biodiversity of global significance from potential threats such as logging,
agricultural plantation development, and wildlife poaching because of limited available information on key
flora and fauna, no recent tested models or approaches for conservation in the country, and lack of core
management infrastructure. Therefore, a GEF alternative has been developed to achieve this objective.
This alternative comprises of the above baseline actions and the following incremental actions or
sub-components that focus on: (a) development of basic park infrastructure; (b) collection of baseline
biophysical and socioeconomic information necessary for park management planning and the establishment
of an information management system to support conservation activities; (c) promotion of conservation
awareness; (d) implementation of park protection systems; (d) development of pilot livelihood activities for
selected local communities adjacent to the park; and (e) development of a model institutional framework for
a long-term financial mechanism for biodiversity conservation.
(a) Park Infrastructure sub-component would include development of a park headquarters, two
operational bases, and reliable and adequate communications systems to support day-to-day management
activities at the Virachey National Park. Equipment would also be provided to ensure that park staff can
operate effectively and safely
(b) Park Protection sub-component would provide basic protection against habitat encroachment and
illegal harvesting of natural resources by strengthening the patrolling capacity of park staff and support for
conservation activities by local communities and other stakeholders;
(c) Participatory Management Planning sub-component would support the preparation of a five-year
management plan for the Virachey National Park that would address both the biodiversity and human
dimensions of conservation;
(d) Community Development sub-component would support community-initiated activities aimed at
assisting people living adjacent to the Virachey National Park to modify unsustainable practices that could
have adverse impacts on biodiversity;
(e) Environmental Decision Support sub-component would involve the development of an information
management system that would provide a single point of reference for information required for the
management of Virachey and other protected areas by policy makers, park managers, international
researchers, local and International conservation groups, etc.
(f) Long-term Financial Mechanism for Biodiversity Conservation (implemented as part of the
operational framework sub-component) is aimed at providing technical assistance to the MOE to develop a
model institutional framework, through a stakeholder consultative process, for future establishment of a
long-term financial mechanism. Although some donors have expressed interest in capitalizing an
environmental fund, there is consensus in the development community in Cambodia that such a fund should
be capitalized when political stability and governance in the country improves.
Financing of GEF Alternative
The estimated total cost for the GEF alternative is US$ 4.9 million, out of which the incremental cost is
US$ 3.6 million. The GEF is requested to finance US$ 2.75 million and the rest would be financed with
an IDA loan of US$ 1.9 million and US$ 0.25 million from the Royal Government of Cambodia.
- 32 -



Incremental Cost Matrix
(a) Organization and       Baseline        0.20    Establishment of a strong   N/A
management                 Actions                 institutional foundation
for effective protected area
(b) In-service training                    0.70    management at national
and field levels by
(c) Operational framework                  0.20    improving organizational
(guidelines for protected areas                    arrangements and roles,
management)                                        operational approaches,
and skills of staff and local
(d) Project management                     0.20    communities
Total Baseline Cost                        1.30
(a) Organization and       GEF             0.20    Establishment of a strong  Improved protection of bio-
management                 Alternative              institutional foundation  diversity of national and global
Actions                 for effective protected area  significance in VNP through a
(b) In-service training                    0.70    management               collaborative effort of the MOE,
local communities and other
(c) Operational framework                  0.30                             government and non-
(guidelines for protected areas                                             governmental stakeholders
management and development
of model institutional                                                      Availability of baseline
framework for financing                                                     information on status and trends
biodiversity conservation)                                                  of biodiversity of global and
national significance and other
(d) Park infrastructure                    0.70                             biophysical and socio-economic
information on VNP necessary
(e) Park protection                        0.70                            for management
(f) Participatory management               0.50                             Preparation of a long-term plan
planning                                                                    for management of VNP that
takes into account lessons from
(g) Community development                  1.08                             pilot activities under the project.
(h) Environmental decision                 0.25                             Establishment of the EDSS to
support system (EDSS)                                                       provide a single point of
reference for PA information
(i) Project management                     0.50
Total Cost for GEF
Alternative                                 4.9
Incremental Cost                           3.60
Financing of GEF
Alternative
GEF                                        2.75
IDA                                        1.90
Government                                 0.25
- 33 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
CAMBODIA: Biodiversity and Protected Areas Management Project
I Year I  I Year 2  I Year 3  1 Year 4
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           1.16       1.25        1.24      0.78
Recurrent Costs             0.12       0.12       0.12       0.12
Total Project Costs          1.28       1.37        1.36       0.90
Total Financing              1.28       1.37        1.36      0.90
Financing
IBRDIIDA                   0.40       0.51       0.60       0.40
Government                 0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
Central                0.08       0.06       0.06       0.05
Provincial             0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
Co-financiers              0.80       0.80       0.70       0.45
User Fees/Beneficiaries    0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
Others                     0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
Total Project Financing     1.28        1.37       1.36       0.90
- 34 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
CAMBODIA: Biodiversity and Protected Areas Management Project
Procurement
Procurement capacity assessment
The capacity assessment for procurement management was carried out during project pre-appraisal in May
1999. The Ministry of Environment (MOE), the implementing agency has little experience in implementing
projects financed with foreign assistance. This will be the first Bank financed project it will implement.
Therefore, to ensure that project procurement is carried out on schedule and to build MOE capacity, it was
recommended and MOE agreed as a condition of effectiveness to hire a procurement consultant during the
first year when most of the procurement is expected to be completed, with extension of services on needs
basis for the remaining period.  The MOE procurement staff will work closely with the procurement
consultant, receive on-the-job training, and will also participate in Bank-sponsored in-country training.
Thus, MOE staff will gain knowledge and capacity to handle procurement, and the risk to irnplement
project procurement would be within an acceptable level. Given the assessment rating of the procurement
risk, the prior review thresholds have been set on the lower side.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Procurement of goods and works under the project will follow the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits", published in January 1995, and revised in January 1996, August 1996,
September 1997, and January 1999 (the Guidelines). Contracts for consulting services would be procured
in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers", published January 1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999 (the
Consultant Guidelines).
Civil Works. (US$ 0.32 million) comprise park headquarters, office facility upgrading, and patrol
outposts.  The works would mostly consist of small contracts for buildings at different locations,
rehabilitation and renovation of existing buildings, guard outposts and trails, and would not therefore be
suitable for procurement through large scale competitive bidding procedures.  None of these works are
expected to cost more than US$ 60,000 equivalent per contract; the one for the park headquarters building
at Voen Sai estimated at US$ 60,000, being the largest. These would therefore be procured through
simplified procedures on the basis of obtaining quotations from at least three contractors in response to a
written invitation. The invitation would include a detailed description of the works including basic
specifications, the required completion date, a form of agreement acceptable to the Association and relevant
drawings, where applicable. The award would be made to the contractor offering the lowest price
quotation for the work and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfally.
Goods. (US$ 0.66 million) required for the project would comprise equipment consisting of computers,
office equipment, communication equipment, camping and field research equipment, and vehicles. The
goods and equipment (US$ 0.38 million) needed for the different components over a period of four years
are inappropriate for packaging; these are readily available through competitive suppliers in Cambodia.
Therefore, packages for goods estimated to cost less than US$ 50,000 will be procured under contracts
awarded through National Shopping procedures, based on comparison of price quotations from at least
three supplier in response to a written invitation specifying the quantity and a detailed description of goods.
For reasons of economy and efficiency, vehicles including motor bikes (US$ 0.27 million) would be
-35-



procured at standard advertised prices through the UN's Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office
(IAPSO) as the quantities involved would not justify ICB procurement.
Services. (US$ 3.3 million) comprise technical assistance, workshops and training courses. Consulting
firms (US$ 2.3 million) will be hired using the quality-based selection procedures, following the Bank's
Standard Request for Proposal dated July 1997, revised April 1998 and July 1999. Conitracts for
individual consultant's services including short-term consultants (US$ 1.0 million), would be procured in
accordance with Section V of the Consultant's Guidelines.
Other Activities to be financed include Community Investment Projects (US$ 0.10 million) and Incremental
Operating Costs and Allowances (US$ 0.48 million).  Investment subprojects, expected to cost less than
US$ 2,500 equivalent each, would be procured through shopping procedures, based on the solicitation of
three price quotations from  qualified contractors.  In order to permit beneficiaries to make their
contribution to the costs of subproject construction in the form of labor or materials, these procedures
could be adapted to allow for community participation in the case of subprojects expected to cost less than
US$ 2,500 each. The payment of incremental operating expenditures and allowances (US$ 0.48 million)
would follow Government procedures acceptable to IDA.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                            0.00          0.00           0.32           0.00          0.32
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.03)        (0.00)         (0.03)
2. Goods                            0.00          0.00           0.66           0.00          0.66
(0.00)        (0.00)         (0.15)        (0.00)         (0.15)
3. Services                         0.00          0.00           3.30           0.00          3.30
Consultants and Training           (0.00)         (0.00)        (1.45)         (0.00)        (1.45)
4. Community Development            0.00          0.00           0.10           0.00          0.10
Projects
(0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)
5. Incremental operating costs      0.00     F    0.00           0.48           0.00          0.48
(0.00)        (0.00)         (0.28)         (0.00)        (0.28)
6. Survey and Boundary              0.00          0.00           0.05           0.00          0.05
demarcation                        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                            0.00           0.00          4.91           0.00          4.91
(0.00)         (0.00)        (1.91)         (0.00)        (1.91)
'' Figures in paren thesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan All costs include contingencies
2' Incluldes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project ftuds to local government
units.
- 36 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
A. Firms            0.00      2.30      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      2.30
(0.00)    (1.10)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (1.10)
B. Individuals      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      1.00       0.00      1.00
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.35)    (0.00)    (0.35)
Total   0.00      2.30      0.00      0.00       0.00      1.00       0.00      3.30
(0.00)    (1.10)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.35)    (0.00)    (1.45)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB  Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
- 37 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Prior review would be required for (a) all works contracts; (b) all contracts for vehicles and the first four
contracts for goods regardless of value; and (c) all contracts for consultancy services. These arrangements
would ensure prior review by IDA of contracts worth an estimated US$ 4.09 million or about 85% of the
value of all goods, works and services, to be procured under the project. Ex-post review would be carried
out on a sample basis of one out of two contracts for those not subject to prior review.
Financial Management and Disbursements
In Cambodia, there is no formal accounting system at theministerial level as all accounting is centralized in
the Treasury. The Financial Management functionis concerned with processing requests for authorization
of payments by the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) and ensuring that expenditure does not
exceed budget allocations. The Bank in consultation with the MEF and the implementing agencies has
supported installation of a Project Accounting system, for accounting and financial reporting of Bank
funded projects. The PMO has engaged the services of PriceWaterhouseCoopers (PWC), an internationally
recognized accounting firm with an office in Phnom Penh to install this accounting system and provide staff
training. IDA will continuously review the operations of the new accounting system.
This accounting system contains the following features:  (a) application of consistent principles of
accounting for documenting, recording, and reporting its financial transactions, (b) use of the accrual
method of accounting; (c) a double-entry accounting system, (d) a chart of accounts and a coding system
that allows meaningful reporting to IDA and the government; and (e) the production of quarterly financial
statements acceptable to IDA. IDA has reviewed this system, including the procedures manual designed by
PWC, participated in a training session conducted by PWC for project accounting staff and is satisfied on
the suitability and adequacy of this financial accounting system and the accounting procedures, and also on
the quality of training provided to project staff for the purpose of project financial management activities.
The FM Function. The Project Financial Management Function will include a Project Accountant who will
head the function and will be based in Ban Lung, Ratanakiri, an assistant accountant for the liaison office
in Phonm Penh and one supporting staff at each of the offices to assist in the accounting function. The
Project Accountant will travel between the two locations approximately every two weeks.
The overall responsibility for the FM function will be with the Project Accountant who will report to the
Project Director. He/she will be responsible for preparation of the annual budget, monthly and quarterly
financial reports, annual consolidated financial statements and supervising the assistant accountant and the
two accounting assistants at the two offices. The appointment of the Project Accountant shall be a
condition of effectiveness. The main office in Ban Lung will also handle expenditures for the Park
Management and the Community Development Components
The assistant accountant in charge of the liaison office in Pholun Penh will be responsible for expenditure
control of the Policy and Capacity Building component, coordination on expenditure approval and
withdrawal application activities with the MEF, and special account related Banking activities in Phonm
Penh under the direct supervision of the Project Accountant.
The computerized accounting system will be installed andwill be in operation at both locations. Transfer of
data to replicate the databases at each location will be conducted every two weeks by physical transfer of
data through diskettes. It will be the responsibility of the Project Accountant to ensure that the data is
properly replicated.
- 38 -



Authorization of Expenditure . The accounting manual prepared by PWC describes in detail the procedures
for approval of project related expenditures. In summary, expenditures will be approved by the Project
Accountant and the Project Director before any payments are made. The assistant accountant/accounts
assistants will first prepare the payment vouchers with all supporting documents and forward them to
Project Accountant for review and first level approval. Project Accountant after satisfying that all
documents are in order will approve and forward to the Project Director for final approval. The expenditure
above an agreed limit will also require MEF approval. This will be a subject of a Memorandum of
Understanding (MOU) to be signed by the PMO and MEF. The expenditures above the threshold will be
approved by the MEF in addition to being approved by the Project Accountant and the Project Director.
Bank Accounts.  IDA disbursement will be based on Withdrawal Applications supported by full
documentation or Statement of Expenditures. Two Special Accounts (for IDA and GEF) will be
established under the project at the National Bank of Cambodia (NBC) and managed by the PMO. The
Project Accountant will be responsible for disbursements through this account under expenditure approval
procedure mentioned in the para above and as stated in the accounting manual. Funds flow arrangements
for village level grants will be based on a contract agreement between the main office in Ban Lung and the
Provincial Rural Development Committee(PRDC). PMO will develop procedures for maintaining
accounting records by the PRDCs to account for funds disbursed. Review and approval of the procedures
by IDA will be a condition of disbursement of the village level grants.
The liaison office in Phonm Penh will maintain a petty cash fund for minor expenses such as city transport,
stationery and emergency payments, while the main office in Ban Lung will maintain a cash balance of less
than US$ 1,000 adequately safeguarded in a vault box under the custody of the Project Accountant for the
purposes of allowances and operating costs. This cash float will be reimbursed from the Bank accounts
held in Phonm Penh as needed since there are no banking facilities in Ban Lung. The cash float will be
advanced initially from counterpart funds and then when that is spent reimbursed from the SA.
Accounting and Financial Reporting. Project accounts will separately identify expenditures by each
source of funds, IDA, GEF, and the Government, through source of funds code integrated in the chart of
accounts. PWC has designed various forms--purchase orders, disbursement vouchers, petty cash and
journal vouchers, etc,--to supplement the procedures and has provided the PMO with draft copies of the
procedures manual and forms for review and comment.  These procedures were also reviewed and
approved by the Bank's FM staff The month end closings, preparation of Bank reconciliation and the
preparation of PMR reports and submission of these reports to IDA will be the responsibility of the Project
Accountant. Further details on daily accounting and month end closing procedures are described in the
accounting manual.
The annual financial statements submitted to IDA will include, at a minimum, the following documents: (a)
a summary of Source and Users of Funds; (b) Uses of Funds by Project Activity; (c) Contract Expenditure
Report on Consultants; (d) a project consolidated balance sheet; (e) comparative figures from previous
years; and (f) notes to the financial statements. PMO shall prepare quarterly Project Management Reports
showing budget, actual and variance for Reports (a) and (b) above and contract information in Report (c)
above commencing second quarter of year 2000 and submit to IDA within 45 days of the end of each
quarter.
Audit. The Borrower shall appoint an independent auditor acceptable to IDA. The auditor shall be
responsible for the annual audit of the financial statements, and provide an opinion on the eligibility of the
expenses on the basis of SOEs and transactions for the Special Account. The audited financial statements,
- 39 -



together with audit reports and SOEs and the Special Account, shall be submitted to IDA within six months
of the end of the Projects fiscal year. The audit shall be conducted in accordance with auditing standards
acceptable to IDA and under IDA terms of reference. Appointment of an auditor will be a condition of
effectiveness.
Statement of Expenditures.    Disbursements would be made against Statements of Expenditures (SOEs)
for project incremental operating costs, training and for expenditures under contracts for goods (except
vehicles). Documentation for expenditures would be retained by the PMO and made available to the Bank
on request. All other disbursement from the Credit would be supported by full documentation and
contracts.
Special Accounts.    To facilitate the IDA credit and GEF Grant disbursement the Ministry of
Environrnent Project Management Office will open two separate Special Accounts, to be maintained in US
Dollars at the National Bank of Cambodia (NBC) on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. The IDA
Special Account, which would cover IDA's share of eligible expenditures in all disbursement categories,
would have an authorized allocation amounting to US$ 150,000, equivalent to about 4 months average
disbursement. The GEF Special Account, which would cover GEF's share of eligible expenditures in all
disbursement categories, would have an authorized allocation amounting to US$ 250,000, equivalent to
about 4 months average disbursement.  Applications to replenish the SA, supported by appropriate
documentation, would be submitted regularly (not less than quarterly) or when the amounts withdrawn
equal 50% of the initial deposit. The SA shall be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to
the IDA.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
1. Works                        < 100                  Shopping            All contracts / 0.32
2. Goods
- Goods                         < 50                  Shopping          First four contracts / 0.20
- Vehicles                regardless of value            UN                All contracts / 0.27
3. Services
- Firms                      Only contract               QBS               Only contract / 2.30
- Individuals             Regardless of value            CQ                All contracts / 1.00
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:   US$ 4.09 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
- 40 -



Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 41 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Table Cl: Allocation of IDA Credit Proceeds
Arnount of the
Credit Allocated       % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                       SDR Equivalent)        to be Financed
(1)   Civil works                              25,000           10%
(2)   Goods                                    125,000          25% of foreign
expenditures
50% of local ex-
penditures (ex-
factory cost) and
35% of local
expenditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
(3)   Training                                 250,000          65%
(4)  Incremental operating costs               130,000          60%
(5)   Consultants' services                    700,000          40%
(6)   Unallocated                               170,000
TOTAL                            1,400,000
- 42-



Table C2: Allocation of GEF Grant Proceeds
Amount of the GEF Trust
Fund Grant Allocated   % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                         SDR Equivalent)        to be Financed
(1)   Civil works                           130,000         60%
(2)   Goods                                 330,000         75% of foreign
expenditures and
50% of local expenditures
(3)   Training                              75,000          20%
(4)   Survey and boundary                   30,000          90%
demarcation
(5)   Grants for community                                  100% of Grant
activities under Part C.3                             amount
of the project in:
(a) Ratanakiri Province               45,000
(b) Stung Treng Province              25,000
(6)  Incremental operating costs            80,000          30%
(7)   Consultants' services                 1,100,000       60%
(8)   Unallocated                           185000
TOTAL                          2,000,000
- 43 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
CAMBODIA: Biodiversity and Protected Areas Management Project
Project Sehedu     ,                     j         PlanneM           I'M
Time taken to prepare the project (months)  6                         7
First Bank mission (identification)       12/01/97                    12/01/97
Appraisal mission departure               10/15/99                    10/15/99
Negotiations                              11/01/99                    11/03/99
Planned Date of Effectiveness             01/01/2000
Prepared by:
Glenn Morgan, Team Leader
Preparation assistance:
Japanese PHRD Trust Funds
Consultants included David Ashwell (Biodiversity), Ian Garven, Jon Wormersley (Protected Areas
Management), Chris Naab (Project management), Kara Page (Indigenous People). Dr. Kuswata
Kartawinata (CIFOR, External Peer Reviewer)
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Herbert Acquay                     Natural Resource Management
Lanfranco Blanchetti-Revelli      Indigenous People / Community Development
Manju Sharma                       Procurement Specialist
Christopher Redfem                 Economist
David Sislen                       Cost Analysis / Project Management
Wij aya Wickrema                   Financial Management
Renganaden Soopramanien            Legal
Minhnguyet Le Khorarri             Task Assistant
Kaye Henry                         Task Assistant
Ethel Sennhauser                   Peer Reviewer
Anthony Whitten                    Peer Reviewer
Omowunmi Ladipo                    Financial Management and Disbursements
Preethi Wijeratne                  Financial Management
- 44 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
CAMBODIA: Biodiversity and Protected Areas Management Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Draft PIP, December 1998
Final PIP, December 1999
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Back to Office Reports and Aides Memoire
A Vision for Forestry Sector Development: A Background Note, February 1999
Cambodia Forest Policy Assessment, August 1996
C. Other
Cambodia: National Environmental Action Plan 1998-2002, January 1998
Biodiversity and Protected Areas Management Project: A Project Proposal Prepared for the World Bank,
July 1998
Proceedings of the Workshop on Particpatory Management of Virachey National Park, November 1998
Provincial Development Plan for Ratanakiri Province 1999-2000
1998 Activity Review 1999 Work Plan for CARERE Ratanakiri Province
Biological Diversity of Virachey National Park and Far North eastern Cambodia. Interim Report on
Biological Values, Conservation Issues and Information Requirements, David Ashwell, 1998
*Including electronic files
- 45 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
CAMBODIA: Biodiversity and Protected Areas Management Project
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions        disbursements
Project ID    FY   Borrower                    Purpose                              IBRD         IDA     Cancel.   Undisb.      Orig  Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 2
KH-PE-4030     1999 GOVT OF CAMBODIA           KH-RD REHABIT.                         0.00      45.31       0.00      43.22      0.00      0.00
KH-PE-50601    1999 CAMBODIA                   KH-SOCIAL FUND II                      0.00      25.00       0.00      23.95      1.00      0.00
KH-PE-58841    1999 CAMBODIA                   KH-NORTHEAST \ILLAGE                   0.00       5.00       0.00       4.82      0.50      0.00
KH-PE-45329    1998 GOVTOFCAMBODIA             URBANWATERSUPPLY                       000       30.96       0.00      27.05      8.62      0.00
KH-PE-4033     1997 KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA        AGRI.PRODUCT IMP.                      0.00      27.00       0.00      24.17     13.80      0.98
KH-PE-4034     1997 KINGDOMOFCAMBODIA          DISEASECONTROL&HEAL                    000       30.40       0.00       21.82    10.72      0.00
KH-PE-4032     1998 GOVT. OF CAMBODIA          PHNOM PENH POWER REH                   000       40.00       0.00       4.25      9.17      0.00
KH-PE-34755    1995                            TECHNICALASSSTANCE                     0.00      17.00       0.00       3.02      3.56      0.00
Total:      0.00     220.67       0.00      152.30    45.37      0.98
Active        Closed
Projects      Projects         Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):        72.65         101.77        174.42
of which has been repaid:        0.00           0.00           0.00
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:      240.67          102.70        343.37
Amount sold:         0.00           0.00           0.00
of which repaid:       0.00           0.00           0.00
Total Undisbursed:      152.30           0.00         152.30
Actual disbursements to date minus intended disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
- 46 -



CAMBODIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                       Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
Total Portfolio:
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                        Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
Total Pending Commitment:       0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
- 47 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
CAMBODIA: Biodiversity and Protected Areas Management Project
East                                                    9/8/99
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                Asia &      Low.
Cambodla    Pacific   income         Development diamond'
1998
Ponijatinn mid-vear (millions)                            107       1 A17     3 i1fi                  Life expectancy
GNP aer canita (Atlas method. USSI                        280        990        520
GNP (Atlas method USS billions)                            3 n      1 90     1 844
Averaae annual arowth. 1992-98
Ponviiatinn f/l                                           9 f        1        1 7
Laborforce                                                 2 28       16        1 9      GNP               I                Gross
per          \         /          primary
Most recent estimate (latest vear available. 1992-981                                    capita                            p  -rimArnt
Povrtv Mf/" of ooDulation below national oovertv line)    36
Urban Dooulation f% of total oDOulationl                   22         35         31
I ifs  aynr.tancv at hirth (vears)                         54         69         R3
Infant mortalitv (oer 1.000 live births)                  103         37         69
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                 38         20                           Access to safe water
Ancces tn safta watr (% of DoDulation)                     13         77         74
Illiteracv (% of DoDulation aoe 15+)                                  15         32
Gross orinmarv enrollment (% ofschool-aoeDoDulation)      110        117        108                   Cambodia
Male                                                    119        119        113             -Low-income group
Female                                                  100        118       103
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     198T       1997       1981
Economic ratios'
GOP fUSS billions)                                                    3 2       30
Grnss dormstin investmPntlGflP                                       191 n     150                       Trade
EsDorts of coods and serviceslGDP                                   32 5       34 8
Gross dompstic savinoslGnP                                            q ?1      4 5
Gross national savinoslGDP                                           11 1       59
Current account balance/GDP                                          -5.9 g     7 4
Interest oavmentslGDP                                                 01        02       Domestic                      Investment
Total debt/GDP                                                       68 9      74 2      Savings
Total debt servicelexoorts                                            1 0        13
Present valIue nf dehtlGrP                                          59 4
Present value of debtlexoorts                                       175 8
Indebtedness
1977.87  1988-98      1997       1998   1999-03
(averaee annual arowthi
GnP                                           - 49         1          1n                               Cambodia
GNP oar caDita                                                                                         Low-income arouo
Pynnrts of nonds and servinps
STRUCTURE ofthe ECONOMY
1977     1987       1997       1998      Growth ratee of output and Investment (%)
(% of GDPI                                                                               a
Aonrinltura                                                          fin7 n7            e
Industrv                                                             148       148
Maniufar.t,rinn                                                     fi A       89       _      _         _     _       _
Services                                                            34 5       34 6      2
Private consumotion                                                  817       866              93   94    5    955    97   98
General oovernment consumotion                                        90         G9                                     GOP
lmoorts of aoods and services                                       422        452
1977-87  1988-98       1997       1998
(averaoe annual orowth )
Aoriculture                                                24         1 3       04
Indcustrv                                                  9 f5     -O F        11
Manufacturina                                            71         7 6        64
Services                                                   6 5        28        16
Private nnnsutmntion                                       4 3        9 n       71
General oovernment consumotion
Gross domestic investment
Imnnrts of nnnds anrl sPrvices
Gross national oroduct
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) comoared with its income-arouD averaae If data are missina the diamond will
hP incnmolete
- 48 -



MAP SECTION






no 10fO    * X  S 15   . CHINA  00  This sop wsos p-odocd by                                                      107,                                                  '
, Mop Design Undi of Th.                                      (fA AB(DL4 
2   X    8 VIETNAM                 Th,
-ny otber isfon-stion s4w ltfI/DZT                                        R T C E
LAO '  '   w  ansonnsoponoins p-   BIODIVERSITY AND PROTECTED AREAS
/  the p-t of Th. World B.ok
(  I PDR  IsS;  [/ /    IGnOUPPOnAO-wwth?                           MANAGEMENT  PROJECT \*,\                                                              ' o  nToDaNaeg
ioAlkspo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
THA ilN        \                 o-nfi | acepssssn* of zsoh   *                                                 r><iAio   <Xw\;0  
-X< ? - \I r/                                                                       A.',0 j }fk,,
', LAQ    E1 A -P1' 
>1*  ~ ~         ~           ~           ~          ~           DEM ~~~~DEDdATC REPUBLIC
fif 1 106'\' t , / .. , 'Sm                       )    i        .                                                                                                       To Kon Torn Dm
ToPcsx6  %
0~~~~ ~Stem
O-                     Pang, ,                                                                                        (I z   \  ,!VETNAM
*                        I                                     -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f~~~Ta
14 ~~~~~~~~~~KI                 \LO ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,n ~~~~~~Virachey                                                                                      14ng0-
14                                                                                                   i Vo-  .       . ,' i' '      }fen  * 5:--v-                    \ ; 
TRENG    '05;                        VoeSUNG) RATANAK1RI                                                               14
'4;-' PROJCT                        f   STUNG                              gPhumi Kalai Thumum
PROA /J                                                                                                                                                Phum
PARK HEADQUARTERS   (                                                                                                 Ban                       BaKham       J                 To Play Ku
PROJECT MANAGEMEN t,                          )                                  r-.Q
OFFICE           'IN~/Lof
.- PARKOFFICES                             /                                        ,
O  SELECTED TOWNS                                                        a I' )  *,-
o   PROVINCE CAPITALS     9Qu't .h                                                     -'
SECONDARY ROADS                                                                                                                                                                    T O' \-sa-h/hm\i
MAIN  ROAD                     -   _     .H
-   I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LI
-, - INTERNATIONAL /5 STUNG TRENG             PhuOMHT                                                                                                  g    hn
.  BOUNDARIES    l                       Sra TaNG   C Phum6n r  ; 0    N                   ph                                                           i 0   5   10  15  20Kilomoters
INTERNATI NAL ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~ ~                                                                         I      I              I      I
>                      In TosKrabe,                                              . '                                                                     '  0      5      10      15     20 Mifes O
PhnomPenh                                         '                                     n01, 15                                                         0
106,                                                                             107'                    N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  . To Chbar



