Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF023524 KH 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement 
related to Credit Number 3320 KH
Global Environment Facility Trust Fund Grant Agreement
(Biodiversity and Protected Areas Project)
between
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility
Dated March 7, 2000
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF023524 KH
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 7, 2000, between KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA (the Recipient) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as an 
implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) in respect of grant funds 
provided to the GEF Trust Fund by certain members of the Bank as participants of the 
GEF. 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991 of the 
Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the protection of 
the global environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable 
economic development; 
(B)
following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements continued in 
place on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 of May 24, 1994, of the Executive 
Directors of the Bank which, inter alia, established the GEF Trust Fund and appointed 
the Bank as trustee of the GEF Trust Fund (Resolution No. 94-2); 
(C)
the second replenishment of the GEF Trust Fund was approved on the basis 
set forth in Resolution No. 98-2 of July 14, 1998, of the Executive Directors of the 
Bank (Resolution No. 98-2);
(D)
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
assistance from the resources of the GEF Trust Fund for funding the Project, and said 
request having been approved in accordance with the provisions of the Instrument for 
the Establishment of the Restructured Global Environment Facility approved under 
Resolution 94-2, and to be funded from contributions to the GEF Trust Fund under 
Resolution No. 98-2, which may include funds carried over from the first replenishment 
of the GEF Trust Fund under Resolution No. 94-2; and 
(E)
the Recipient has also requested the International Development 
Page  2
Association (the Association) to provide additional financing towards the financing of 
the Project by an agreement of even date herewith between the Recipient and the 
Association, the Association is agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate 
principal amount equivalent to one million four hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 1,400,000) (the Credit); and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the GEF Trust Fund Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01 (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the 
modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (15), 
(18) and (20), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (c), (e), (f), (i) and (k), 6.03, 6.04 and 
6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 
9.09;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04; 
(x)
Article XI; and
(xi)
Sections 12.01 (c), 12.03 and 12.04.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
a new paragraph shall be added to the end of Section 2.01 to read 
as follows: "the term "Special Drawing Rights" and the symbol 
"SDR" mean special drawing rights as valued by the International 
Monetary Fund in accordance with its Articles of Agreement";
(ii)
the term "Bank", wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of 
such term in Section 5.01 thereof, means the Bank acting as an 
implementing agency of the GEF, except that in Section 6.02, the 
term "Bank" shall also include the Bank acting in its own 
capacity;
(iii)
the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient;
(iv)
the term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(v)
the term "Loan" and "loan", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant;
(vi)
the term "Loan Account", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account;
Page  3
(vii)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read: "Except 
as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods 
produced in, or services supplied from, such territories; or 
(b) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for 
any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge 
of the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations."; 
(viii)a new subparagraph is added after subparagraph (j) in Section 6.02 
of the General Conditions, as follows: "an extraordinary situation 
shall have arisen in which any further disbursement under the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant would exceed the resources available for 
disbursement from the GEF."; and
(ix)
paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions is 
modified to read as follows: 
"(c)
Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and 
the Bank, the Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, 
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, 
on the execution of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and 
to be derived from it, the performance by the Recipient and the Bank of 
their respective obligations under the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement 
and the accomplishment of the purposes of the GEF Trust Fund Grant."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set and the following additional 
terms have the following meanings: 
(a)
"Beneficiary" means a community or community group eligible for a Grant 
in accordance with the eligibility criteria specified in the Grant Guidelines, and for 
whose benefit a Grant is provided or is proposed to be provided; 
(b)
"Development Credit Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith 
between the Recipient and the Association for the Project, as such agreement may be 
amended from time to time; and such term includes the "General Conditions Applicable 
to Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as 
amended through December 2, 1997), as applied to such agreement, and all schedules and 
agreements supplemental to the Development Credit Agreement;  
(c)
"Grant" means a grant made or proposed to be made by the Recipient out of 
the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant to a Beneficiary for the financing of one or 
more Sub-projects as set out in the Grant Guidelines;
(d)
"Grant Guidelines" means the guidelines referred to in paragraph 7 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as such Grant Guidelines may be amended from time to 
time with the agreement of the Bank; 
(e)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(f)
"Sub-project" means an activity referred to under Part C.3 of the 
Project, and in respect of which a Grant is provided, or proposed to be provided, for 
the benefit of  a Beneficiary; and 
(g)
"Sub-project Agreement" means an agreement between the Borrower and a 
Beneficiary, and referred to in paragraph 8 (g) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The GEF Trust Fund Grant
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GEF Trust Fund Grant in 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to two million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
2,000,000).
Page  4
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be withdrawn from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for: (i) expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) 
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for carrying out the 
Project (other than Part C.3 of the Project) and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant; and (ii) amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be 
paid) by the Recipient on account of Grants made under Part C.3 of the Project and in 
respect of which the withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund account is requested. 
(b)
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure 
and attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later 
date. 
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project through its Ministry of Environment and shall carry out Part C.3 of the 
Project through the provincial governments of the Provinces of Ratanakiri and Stung 
Treng, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, engineering, and financial practices, and with due regard to 
ecological and environmental factors, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. For the purposes of Part C.3 of the Project, the Recipient shall 
allocate an amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant not exceeding such amount as may be 
allocated from time to time to Category (5) of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement, to provide Grants to finance Sub-projects, on the terms and 
conditions specified in paragraph 8 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and on such other 
terms and conditions as shall be acceptable to the Bank. 
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Bank, a plan to ensure 
the continued achievement of the objectives of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Recipient on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV
Financial Conditions
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the Project or any part 
thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall: 
Page  5
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient 
shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting 
such expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Recipient shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Bank for the strengthening of its financial management system for the Project in order 
to enable the Recipient, not later than  March 31, 2001, or such later date as the 
Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project management reports, acceptable to the 
Bank, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report, and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the Trust Fund Grant during the period covered by 
said report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Trust Fund Grant during the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii) sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Trust Fund Grant, as at the end of the period covered by said 
report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Recipient shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Page  6
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is  specified:
(a)
Subject to paragraph (b) of this paragraph: 
(i)
the right of the Recipient to withdraw the proceeds of any Credit 
made to the Recipient for the financing of the Project shall have 
been suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in part, 
pursuant to the terms of the Development Credit Agreement, or 
(ii)
any such Credit shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity thereof.
(b)
Paragraph (a) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Recipient 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that:
(i)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not 
caused by the failure of the Recipient to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement; and 
(ii)
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Recipient from 
other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as conditions to the 
effectiveness of the GEF Trust Fund Grant within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of 
the General Conditions: 
(a)
the Recipient has established an adequate financial management and 
accounting system, acceptable to the Bank, and selected independent auditors, in 
accordance with Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, to audit the records and 
accounts of the Project pursuant to Section 4.01 of this Agreement;  
(b)
the Recipient has established a Project liaison office in its Ministry of 
Environment in Phnom Penh; and 
(c)
the Recipient has employed a Project Director, three Technical Team 
Leaders, a Project Accountant and a Procurement Specialist with terms of reference 
acceptable to the Bank and in accordance with Section II of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Section 6.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their 
obligations hereunder.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister in charge of Finance of the Recipient is designated 
as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02 The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Ministry of Economy and Finance
92nd Street
Phnom Penh
Kingdom of Cambodia
Page  7
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) 
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI) 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
By /s/ Roland Eng
Authorized Representative 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
as an implementing agency of the 
   Global Environment Facility
By /s/ Julian Schweitzer 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category:
Amount of the GEF Trust
 Fund Grant Allocated
   % of
    (Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
    SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
130,000
60% 
(2)
Goods
330,000
75% of foreign
expenditures 
50% of local 
expenditures
(3)
Training
 75,000
20%
(4)
Survey and boundary
 30,000
90%
demarcation
(5)
Grants for community
100% of Grant 
activities under Part C.3 
amount
of the Project in:
(a) Ratanakiri Province
 45,000
(b) Stung Treng Province
 25,000
Page  8
(6)
Incremental operating costs
 80,000
30%
(7)
Consultants’ services
    1,100,000
60%
(8)
Unallocated
185,000
TOTAL
    2,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Recipient;  
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient; and
(c)
the term "incremental operating costs" means expenditures incurred by the 
Ministry of Environment under the Project on account of: operation and maintenance of 
a vehicle, equipment and facilities; office consumables and materials; banking fees; 
travel expenditures for staff travelling to Ratanakiri and Stung Treng Provinces, 
including field allowances, and medicines or medical treatment as required; and wages 
of drivers and contract staff.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made: 
(a)
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and  
(b)
in respect of payments under Category (5) of the table in paragraph 1 of 
this Schedule, unless the Grant Guidelines have been duly approved by the Bank and 
adopted by the Recipient.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account to be 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods (except 
vehicles), (b) training; (c) surveys and boundary demarcation; (d) grants; and (e) 
incremental operating costs; all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Recipient.
5.
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the 
provisions of this Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund to the Bank for deposit into the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, an amount equal 
to the amount so used or the portion thereof as specified by the Bank.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient in (i) developing and 
testing proactive measures to minimize unsustainable exploitation and degradation of 
the bio-diversity of national and global significance in the Virachey National Park, 
and (ii) using the experiences gained from the activities in the Virachey National 
Park, to formulate institutional models for the development of the national protected 
areas system of Cambodia.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Recipient and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
National Policy and Capacity Building
Development of the key elements of the Recipient’s long-term strategy for the 
strengthening of the development and management of its national protected areas 
system, through:  
1.
The carrying out of a review of the organizational and management system of the 
Recipient’s Ministry of Environment.  
2.
The development of a national curriculum for, and the implementation of, pilot 
professional development, leadership and ranger training programs. 
Page  9
3.
The formulation of a sustainable financing strategy for the national protected 
areas system. 
4.
 The development of prototype information systems to support the management of 
protected areas. 
5.
The development of management planning guidelines for national protected areas. 
6.
The carrying out of legal and regulatory studies relating to the establishment 
and management of protected areas. 
7.
The carrying out of public awareness and education programs related to protected 
areas management. 
8.
The upgrading of office facilities for the liaison office in the Ministry of 
Environment in Phnom Penh.
9.
The provision of related technical assistance, and provision of vehicles, office 
equipment and furniture, and geographical information system (GIS) hardware and 
software.
Part B:
Park Protection and Management
Development and testing of pilot initiatives to support the management needs of 
the Virachey National Park, through: 
1.
The construction of park headquarters, operational field bases, field outposts, 
trail systems and provision of equipment and supplies. 
2.
The establishment of park protection initiatives including ranger training, 
patrolling and monitoring, community outreach activities, and education and awareness 
raising. 
3.
The formulation of a model management plan for the Virachey National Park. 
4.
The carrying out of basic biological and socioeconomic surveys and related 
primary data acquisition, the production of maps, the carrying out of workshops, and 
boundary demarcation in selected areas of the park. 
5.
The provision of related technical assistance, and the provision of vehicles, 
office furniture, communication equipment and field equipment for park staff.
Part C:
Community Development
Development and replication of community-based initiatives aimed at reducing 
pressure on the biological resources of the Virachey National Park, through: 
1.
The carrying out of in-depth natural resource and socioeconomic assessments of 
communities in and around the park. 
2.
The development, by communities within and around the park, of village and 
commune development plans. 
3.
The provision of Grants to Beneficiaries for the carrying out of investment 
activities and technical assistance, including implementation of community-based 
resource management plans, small-scale community infrastructure, and small-scale 
alternative livelihood schemes in communities within and around to Virachey National 
Park in the provinces of Ratanakiri and Stung Treng. 
4.
The construction of Project office facilities in Ban Lung in the province of 
Ratanakiri. 
5.
The carrying out of training in community based planning techniques, 
participatory rural appraisal, social assessment, and community natural resource 
assessments for staff of the Ministry of Environment and of the provincial departments 
of Environment, rural Development, Forestry and Tourism of the provinces of Ratanakiri 
and Stung Treng.
6.
The provision of related technical assistance, and the provision of vehicles, 
office furniture and equipment. The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 
2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Page  10
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in 
paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the following 
Parts of this Section I.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures  
1.
National Shopping 
Goods (except vehicles) shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 
and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
2.
Procurement from UN Agencies 
Vehicles shall be procured from the United Nation’s Inter-Agency Procurement 
Services Office in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines. 
3.
Procurement of Small Works 
Works shall be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the 
basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response 
to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the 
works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award 
shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required 
work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for vehicles the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for civil works and the first four 
contracts for goods (other than vehicles) the following procedures shall apply: 
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier and execution of any 
contract under shopping procedures, the Recipient shall provide to 
the Bank a report on the comparison and evaluation of quotations 
received; 
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the Recipient shall provide to the Bank a copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract; and 
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Page  11
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Recipients" published by the Bank in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set 
forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
Part B:
Procedures for the Selection of Consultants  
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services for technical assistance under the Project (including a senior project 
advisor, a senior protected areas advisor, and a senior community development advisor) 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for technical assistance under the Project (including a project 
director, three technical team leaders, a project accountant, an auditor, an 
environmental and a domestic legal specialist, a senior ecologist, a sustainable 
financial specialist, a procurement specialist, biologists and social scientists) that 
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines, shall 
be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of 
paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment 
of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  
The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Recipient shall establish and, thereafter, maintain until completion of the 
Project, a Project liaison office in its Ministry of Environment in Phnom Penh, with 
qualified staff in adequate numbers. 
2.
The Recipient shall establish, not later than June 30, 2000, and, thereafter 
maintain until completion of the Project, a Project Management Office in Ban Lung, in 
the province of Ratanakiri, with competent staff  in adequate numbers. 
3.
The Recipient shall, until completion of the Project, furnish to the Bank 
information relating to land allocations and land transactions which may affect the 
integrity and the management objectives of Virachey National Park.
4.
In carrying out Part B of the Project, the Recipient shall: 
(a)
not later than April 1, 2003, prepare in accordance with guidelines 
Page  12
agreed with the Bank, and furnish to the Bank for comments a draft management plan for 
Virachey National Park; and 
(b)
not later than July 31, 2003, issue the management plan taking into 
account the comments of the Bank on the draft. 
5.
In carrying out Part B of the Project, the Recipient shall, not later than June 
30, 2003, complete the gazettement of the boundaries of the Virachey National Park.
6.
The Recipient shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators agreed between the 
Recipient and the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about March 1, 2002, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) of this 
paragraph, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c)
review with the Bank, by April 1, 2002, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
7.
In carrying out Part C.3 of the Project, the Recipient shall prepare and 
transmit to the Bank for comments, and thereafter adopt in form and substance 
acceptable to the Bank, Grant Guidelines, giving details of all procedural 
arrangements for the review, appraisal, supervision, and monitoring and evaluation, of 
Sub-projects, including procedures for submission and review of requests for 
financing, criteria for the review and approval of Sub-projects, and approval of 
Grants, applicable procurement, disbursement and other implementation guidelines, 
participatory rural appraisal implementation guide, and model forms of Sub-project 
Agreements and works contracts with local contractors.
8.
Further to Section 3.02 of this Agreement, the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant allocated to Category (5) of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement shall be subject to the following additional terms and conditions: 
(a)
the amount so allocated shall be used exclusively to provide Grants to 
finance Sub-projects, in accordance with criteria, and terms and conditions, set forth 
in the Grant Guidelines; 
(b)
no Grant shall be granted except to finance a Sub-project which (i) is 
technically sound and feasible, and financially viable, and (ii) contributes to the 
living standards and well-being of the community or community group concerned;
(c)
no Sub-project shall be considered for approval unless:  
(i) 
the Beneficiary has provided a plan for the maintenance of any 
productive assets resulting from the Sub-project, upon its 
completion, and for the payment of recurrent expenditures required 
thereunder;  
(ii) 
in the case of a Sub-project involving the involuntary 
resettlement of persons, a policy framework, acceptable to the 
Bank, for the proper compensation, rehabilitation and resettlement 
of such affected persons has been developed, and reflected in the 
Grant Guidelines, and a resettlement action plan, acceptable to 
the Bank and consistent with such policy framework, has been 
established and agreed upon with such affected persons;
(d)
every Sub-project proposal shall be classified according to environmental 
impact category, and subjected as necessary to environmental impact analysis, to 
ensure that: 
(i)
it is fully consistent with environmental appraisal criteria set 
Page  13
out in the Grant Guidelines, and 
(ii)
where appropriate, mitigation measures designed to minimize 
adverse effects of the proposed Sub-project are identified and 
incorporated in the Sub-project design;
(e)
Grants shall be provided for the benefit of eligible Beneficiaries, and 
according to a cost-sharing formula, which shall be acceptable to the Bank and 
specified in the Grant Guidelines; provided, however, that: 
(i)
the proceeds of a Grant shall not be used to finance taxes or 
duties levied on or in respect of eligible expenditures relating 
to a Sub-project, or any part thereof; and
(ii)
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the amount of each Grant 
shall not exceed $2,500 equivalent, or 90 percent of the total 
cost of the Sub-project, whichever is less;
(f)
goods, services and works required for the purposes of financing 
Sub-projects shall be procured in accordance with procedures referred to in Schedule 3 
to this Agreement, and set forth in the Grant Guidelines; and
(g)
for purposes of each Grant, the Recipient shall conclude an agreement 
with the Beneficiary in the form of the model provided in the Grant Guidelines, 
setting forth the respective obligations of the parties thereunder, including details 
of disbursement schedules and procurement procedures, the amount of the Beneficiary’s 
contribution to the cost of the Sub-project, and the right of the Recipient to:
(i)
require the Beneficiary (A) to carry out the Sub-project with due 
diligence and efficiency, in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering and technical practices, 
and with due regard to ecological and environmental factors, and 
to maintain adequate records, (B) to take out and maintain with 
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the 
Recipient and the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice, (C) 
where applicable, to carry out the resettlement action plan or 
environmental mitigation measures agreed upon for purposes of the 
Sub-project, and referred to in sub-paragraph (c)(ii) and (d) 
(ii), respectively, of this paragraph, and (D) upon completion of 
the 
Sub-project, to make provision for the maintenance of any 
productive assets resulting therefrom, and for the payment of 
recurrent expenditures generated thereunder;
(ii)
obtain all such information as the Bank or the Recipient shall 
reasonably request relating to the implementation of the 
Sub-project and the performance of the Beneficiary thereunder; and 
(iii)
suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to the use of 
the proceeds of a Grant upon failure by such Beneficiary to 
perform its obligations under such agreement.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (7) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project, and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $250,000 
to be withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposited into the Special 
Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
Page  14
amount equivalent to $150,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of  SDR1,000,000.  2.
Payments out of the 
Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with 
the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient 
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Bank from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents 
and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated 
to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount 
of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated to 
the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for eligible expenditures.
Page  15
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be GEF Trust Fund Granted to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions 
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
