Page  1
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
March 7, 2000
International Development Association 
International Bank for 
   Reconstruction and Development, 
acting as Implementing Agency
  of Global Environment Facility 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America
Re:
Credit No. 3320 KH & GEF Trust Fund Grant No.23524 KH 
(Biodiversity and Protected Areas Project) Performance Indicators
Dear Sirs:
We are pleased to refer to the Development Credit Agreement of even date 
herewith between Kingdom of Cambodia and International Development Association (the 
Association), and the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement of even date herewith between 
Kingdom of Cambodia and International Bank for Reconstruction and Development acting 
as Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility (the Bank) for the 
above-mentioned Project, and to confirm that Kingdom of Cambodia shall implement the 
Project in accordance with the Project Implementation Plan dated December 1999 (the 
"PIP"), as the PIP may be modified from time to time in agreement with the Association 
and the Bank.
For purposes of paragraph 6 of Schedule 4 to the Development Credit and GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Agreements, Kingdom of Cambodia undertakes to monitor and evaluate on 
an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators agreed upon among Kingdom of 
Cambodia, the Association and the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the Project’s objectives, all in accordance with the indicators set 
forth in the PIP.
It is our understanding that, in making the Credit and the Grant to Kingdom of 
Cambodia, and entering into the Development Credit and GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Agreements, the Association and the Bank may rely on the representations contained 
herein.
Very truly yours,
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
By /s/ Roland Eng
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 5 
Project Performance Indicators
1.
Methodologies and approaches tested at Virachey National Park are used as models 
for other national parks; 
2.
Ministry Of Environment adopts key recommendations from organizational reviews, 
sustainable finance study and regulatory studies; 
3.
The extent to which staff trained as part of leadership and ranger training are 
able to use skills in day to day work;  
4.
The extent to which Ministry Of Environment has developed initiatives for 
effective partnerships with other  ministries of the Borrower, international donors 
and civil society in the protection of national parks;    
5.
Protection and management operations adopted at Virachey National Park are 
successful in reducing unsustainable and illegal exploitation of natural resources; 
Page  2
6.
The knowledge base describing the ecological and ethnographic dimensions of 
Virachey National Park is significantly increased and disseminated widely; 
7.
Staff of Virachey National Park are capable of working independently in the 
overall management of the park; 
8.
Methodologies for involving communities in participatory park management 
planning and protection are fully developed and evaluated;
9.
Increased community willingness to participate in initiatives which further park 
management objectives;
