Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3320 KH
Development Credit Agreement
(Biodiversity and Protected Areas Project)
between
KINGDOM OF  CAMBODIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated March 7, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3320 KH 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated March 7, 2000, between KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;  
(B)
the Borrower has requested assistance from the resources of the Global 
Environment Facility (GEF) Trust Fund in the financing of the Project, the Bank has 
determined that such assistance would be in accordance with the provisions of 
Resolution No. 94-2 of the Executive Directors of the Bank, dated May 24, 1994, 
establishing the GEF Trust Fund, and, by an agreement of even date herewith between 
the Borrower and the Bank, acting as an Implementing Agency of the GEF (the GEF Grant 
Agreement), GEF is agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal 
amount equivalent to two million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 2,000,000) (the GEF 
Grant); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Page  2
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997), with the following modification (the General Conditions) constitute an integral 
part of this Agreement: namely, that paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions is modified to read as follows: 
"(c) 
Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a 
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request, on the execution of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived 
and to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the Association 
of 
their respective obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Development Credit."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms, wherever used in this Agreement, have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
 "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to one million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
1,400,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.  
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semi-annually on March 1 and  September 1 in each year. Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to 
Page  3
paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of 
the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each March 1 and September 1, 
commencing March 1, 2010 and ending September 1, 2039. Each installment to and 
including the installment payable on September 1, 2019 shall be one percent (1%) of 
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of 
such principal amount. 
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project through its Ministry of Environment and shall carry out Part C.3 of the 
Project through the provincial governments of the Provinces of Ratanakiri and Stung 
Treng, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, engineering, and financial practices, and with due regard to 
ecological and environmental factors, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s 
objectives; and
Page  4
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, including those for the Special Account, for each fiscal 
year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of its financial management system for the Project 
in order to enable the Borrower, not later than March 31, 2001, or such later date as 
the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project management reports, 
acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report, and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) 
Page  5
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii) sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V  
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
Subject to paragraph (b) of this paragraph, the right of the Borrower to 
withdraw the proceeds of the GEF Grant shall have been suspended, canceled or 
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the GEF Grant Agreement.
(b)
Paragraph (a) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: (i) such suspension, 
cancellation, or termination is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform 
any of its obligations under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the Project 
are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent 
with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
(a)
the Borrower has established an adequate financial management and 
accounting system, acceptable to the Association, and selected independent auditors, 
in accordance with Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, to audit the records 
and accounts of the Project pursuant to Section 4.01 of this Agreement;  
(b)
the Borrower has established a Project liaison office in its Ministry of 
Environment in Phnom Penh; and 
(c)
the Borrower has employed a Project Director, three Technical Team 
Leaders, a Project Accountant and a Procurement Specialist with terms of reference 
acceptable to the Association and in accordance with Section II of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister in charge of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy and Finance
92, Boulevard Christopher Howes
Daun Penh District Phnom Penh
Kingdom of Cambodia
Page  6
Facsimile: 
855 23 725341
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
By /s/ Roland Eng 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 By /s/ Julian Schweitzer 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
   25,000
10% 
(2)
Goods
  125,000
25% of foreign
expenditures 
50% of local ex-
penditures (ex-
factory cost) and
35% of local
expenditures for
other items pro-
cured locally 
(3)
Training
 250,000
65%
(4)
Incremental operating 
 130,000
60%
costs
(5)
Consultants’ services
 700,000
40%
Page  7
(6)
Unallocated
 170,000
TOTAL
     1,400,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "incremental operating costs" means expenditures incurred by the 
Ministry of Environment under the Project on account of: operation and maintenance of 
a vehicle, equipment and facilities; office consumables and materials; banking fees; 
travel expenditures for staff traveling to Ratanakiri and Stung Treng Provinces, 
including field allowances, and medicines or medical treatment as required; and wages 
of drivers and contract staff. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods (except 
vehicles), (b) training; and (c) incremental operating costs; all under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in (i) developing and 
testing proactive measures to minimize unsustainable exploitation and degradation of 
the bio-diversity of national and global significance in the Virachey National Park, 
and (ii) using the experiences gained from the activities in the Virachey National 
Park, to formulate institutional models for the development of the national protected 
areas system of Cambodia.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
National Policy and Capacity Building
Development of the key elements of the Borrower’s long-term strategy for the 
strengthening of the development and management of its national protected areas 
system, through:  
1.
The carrying out of a review of the organizational and management system of the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Environment.  
2.
The development of a national curriculum for, and the implementation of, pilot 
professional development, leadership and ranger training programs. 
3.
The formulation of a sustainable financing strategy for the national protected 
areas system. 
4.
 The development of prototype information systems to support the management of 
protected areas. 
5.
The development of management planning guidelines for national protected areas. 
6.
The carrying out of legal and regulatory studies relating to the establishment 
and management of protected areas. 
7.
The carrying out of public awareness and education programs related to protected 
areas management. 
8.
The upgrading of office facilities for the liaison office in the Ministry of 
Environment in Phnom Penh.
9.
The provision of related technical assistance, and provision of vehicles, office 
Page  8
equipment and furniture, and geographical information system (GIS) hardware and 
software.
Part B:
Park Protection and Management
Development and testing of pilot initiatives to support the management needs of 
the Virachey National Park, through: 
1.
The construction of park headquarters, operational field bases, field outposts, 
trail systems and provision of equipment and supplies. 
2.
The establishment of park protection initiatives including ranger training, 
patrolling and monitoring, community outreach activities, and education and awareness 
raising. 
3.
The formulation of a model management plan for the Virachey National Park. 
4.
The carrying out of basic biological and socioeconomic surveys and related 
primary data acquisition, the production of maps, the carrying out of workshops, and 
boundary demarcation in selected areas of the park. 
5.
The provision of related technical assistance, and the provision of vehicles, 
office furniture, communication equipment and field equipment for park staff.
Part C:
Community Development
Development and replication of community-based initiatives aimed at reducing 
pressure on the biological resources of the Virachey National Park, through: 
1.
The carrying out of in-depth natural resource and socioeconomic assessments of 
communities in and around the park. 
2.
The development, by communities within and around the park, of village and 
commune development plans. 
3.
The provision of Grants to Beneficiaries for the carrying out of investment 
activities and technical assistance, including implementation of community-based 
resource management plans, small-scale community infrastructure, and small-scale 
alternative livelihood schemes in communities within and around to Virachey National 
Park in the provinces of Ratanakiri and Stung Treng. 
4.
The construction of Project office facilities in Ban Lung in the province of 
Ratanakiri. 
5.
The carrying out of training in community based planning techniques, 
participatory rural appraisal, social assessment, and community natural resource 
assessments for staff of the Ministry of Environment and of the provincial departments 
of Environment, rural Development, Forestry and Tourism of the provinces of Ratanakiri 
and Stung Treng.
6.
The provision of related technical assistance, and the provision of vehicles, 
office furniture and equipment. The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 
2003.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement  
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in 
paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the following 
Parts of this Section I.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures  
1.
National Shopping 
Page  9
Goods (except vehicles) shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 
and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
2.
Procurement from UN Agencies 
Vehicles shall be procured from the United Nation’s Inter-Agency Procurement 
Services Office in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines. 
3.
Procurement of Small Works 
Works shall be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the 
basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response 
to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the 
works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The 
award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the 
required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract 
successfully.
Part C:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for vehicles the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for civil works and the first four 
contracts for goods (other than vehicles), the following procedures shall apply: 
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier and execution of any 
contract under shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to 
the Association a report on the comparison and evaluation of 
quotations received; 
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Association a copy 
of the specifications and the draft contract; and 
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Association in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set 
forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
Part B:
Procedures for the Selection of Consultants  
1.
Quality-based Selection
Page  10
Services for technical assistance under the Project (including a senior project 
advisor, a senior protected areas advisor, and a senior community development advisor) 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for technical assistance under the Project (including a project 
director, three technical team leaders, a project accountant, an auditor, an 
environmental and a domestic legal specialist, a senior ecologist, a sustainable 
financial specialist, a procurement specialist, biologists and social scientists) that 
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines, shall 
be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of 
paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment 
of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and 
approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given.
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
1.
The Borrower shall establish and, thereafter, maintain until completion of the 
Project, a Project liaison office in its Ministry of Environment in Phnom Penh, with 
qualified staff in adequate numbers. 
2.
The Borrower shall establish, not later than June 30, 2000, and, thereafter 
maintain until completion of the Project, a Project Management Office in Ban Lung, in 
the province of Ratanakiri, with competent staff  in adequate numbers. 
3.
The Borrower shall, until completion of the Project, furnish to the Association 
information relating to land allocations and land transactions which may affect the 
integrity and the management objectives of Virachey National Park.
4.
In carrying out Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall (a)
not later 
than April 1, 2003, prepare in accordance with guidelines agreed with the Association, 
and furnish to the Association for comments, a draft management plan for Virachey 
National Park; and (b)
not later than July 31, 2003, issue the management plan 
taking into account the comments of the Association on the draft. 
5.
In carrying out Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall, not later than June 
30, 2003, complete the gazettement of the boundaries of the Virachey National Park.
6.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators agreed upon between 
the Association and the Borrower, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about March 1, 2002, a report integrating the 
Page  11
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of 
the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c)
review with the Association, by April 1, 2002, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in sub-paragraph (b) of this 
paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project, and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $150,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account  
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $100,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR500,000. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
Page  12
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
