FILE COPY
RESTRICTED
Report No. TO-599a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF A HIGHWAY PROJECT
MA LA WI
January 12, 1968
Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
MEP 1                  =    20 M Shillings
ME 1                          1 Sterling b
M1; 1                  =    US$2. 40*
1 M Shilling           =    US¢12*
FISCAL YEAR
January 1              -    December 31
UNITS OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: BRITISH
METRIC:  BRITISH/US EQUIVALENTS
1 kilometer (km)            0. 62 mile (mi)
1 meter (m)                  3. 28 feet (ft)
1 hectare (ha)         =    2. 47 acres
1 liter (1)            =    0. 27 US gallon (gal)
=     )0. 22 imperial gallon
(IG)
1 metric ton (m t)     =    1. 10 US short tons
(sh tn)
:    )0. 984 ton (tn)
*The ME was devaluated by 14. 3 percent on
November 20, 1967, or from MEA 1 = US$2. 80
to ME 1 = US$2. 40. In this report, the data
pertaining to the period prior to November 20,
1967 (such as 1966 GNP and highway expenditures)
have been maintained at pre-devaluation rates.



MALAWI
APPRAISAL OF A HIGHWAY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS                    Page
SMMARY                                                           i
1.  INTRODUCTION                                                     1
2.  BACKGROUND                                                       2
A.  General                                                      2
B.  Transport in Malawi                                         3
C.  The Highway System                                          9
3.  PROJECT                                                         13
A.  Description                                                 13
B.  Design Standards                                           14
C.  Cost Estimates                                             14
D.  Execution                                                  15
E.  Financing and Disbursement                                  16
4. ECONaMIC JUSTIFICATION                                           17
A.  Introduction                                                17
B.  Traffic Trends                                             17
C.  Economic Benefits                                          19
W.  CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS                                 21
TABLES
1. Highway Expenditures
2. Design Standards
3. Cost Estimates
4. Estimated Average Daily Traffic on Project Road Sections
5.  Estimated Vehicle Operating Costs in Malawi
6. Estimated Vehicle Operating Costs on Project Road Sections
CHART: t4alawi: Organization of the Roads Department - IBRD-3403
NAP:    Malawi Highway System - IBRD 2092R
This report is based on the findings of a mission to Malawi consisting of
Messrs. Jaycox, Siret, and Soges of the Bank.



MALAWI
APPRAISAL OF A HIGHiAY PROJECT
SUDMnARY
i.        The Government of Malawi has asked the Association to help fi-
nance the reconstruction and bituminous paving of the principal north-
south road of the country linking Zomba, the capital, with Lilongwe, the
major urban center in the Central Region.
ii.       The project proposed for Association financing consists of:
1. The reconstruction and bituminous paving of the
Zomba-Lilongwe road (180 miles), and the super-
vision of its construction by consultants;
2. Consulting services for a study of road transport
licensing regulations and road-rail coordination; and
3. The refunding of the Highway Engineering Project under
Credit S2-MAI.
iii.      The cost of the project is estimated at US$13.7 million equiva-
lent including contingencies. The construction cost estimate is based on
bid prices which have been received for all the works. The foreign ex-
change component of construction is estimated at about 73%. However, on
general economic grounds, the Association is recommending a credit of
US$115. million equivalent which would cover about 84% of the total pro-
ject cost.
iv.       Execution of the project Twill be the responsibility of the Min-
istry of IWorks and Supplies. The detailed engineering was carried out by
consultants with the financial assistance of IDA under Credit S2-MAI.
All construction will be carried out by contracts awarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding. Supervision of construction and the
study of road transport licensing regulations will be carried out by con-
sultants. The project is estimated to be completed by the end of 1970.
v.        A 1964 transport survey financed by USAID indicated that the
project has high priority. The IDA mission corroborated the survey's
findings. Reconstruction of the road will reduce transport costs substan-
tially and prevent a rapid rise in transport and road maintenance costs in
the near future. The estimated rate of economic return on the investment
arising from savings in transport and road maintenance costs is about 12%,
which is satisfactory. The study of road transport licensing regulations
will provide Malawi with a sound basis for coordinating land transport
operations.
vi.       The project, including the refunding of Credit S2-MAI, consti-
tutes a suitable basis for an IDA credit in the amount of US$115. million
equivalent.



MA|AUIr;
APPRAISAL OF A HIGHIWAY PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1       The Government of Malawi applied for an IDA credit in February
1965 to help finance the reconstruction and bituminous paving of the prin-
cipal north-south road of the country linking Zomba, the national capital
in the Southern Region, with Lilongwe, the major urban center of the Cen-
tral Region. The application also requested assistance for financing the
reconstruction of the primary road west from Lilongwe to the border with
Zambia. The application covered a total of 258 miles of roads, and was
based on a 1964 transport survey financed by USAID and on feasibility
studies carried out by the Ministry of Wlorks and Supplies.
1.2       In response to this application, IDA extended, in September 1966,
a US$490,000 equivalent credit (S2-MAI) to help finance the detailed engi-
neering by consultants of the Zomba-Lilongwe road (180 miles) and a review
by the consultants of the design of the Lilongwe-Zambia border road (78
miles) which is being carried out by the Malawi Roads Department.  The
credit also covered expenditures in respect of engineering and economic
studies by the same consultants on route selection for the Zomba-Lilongwe
road which had been carried out previously at the request of IDA. (See
Report TO-53a dated September 6, 1966.)
1.3       The detailed engineering of the Zomba-Lilongwe road was prepared
by Brian Colquhoun and Partners (UK consultants), and was completed in
July 1967. The project considered in this appraisal report includes only
the Zomba-Lilongwe road.
1.4       The detailed engineering of the Lilongwe-Zambia border road by
the Roads Department is not complete, and its partial review by the con-
sultants has brought to light inadequacies in design and soil investiga-
tion which would require further engineering work prior to construction.
Furthermore, the revised preliminary cost estimates for reconstructing
the Lilongwe-Zambia border road have confirmed the Association's doubts
as to the economic justification of improving this road at this time.
It is therefore not included in this project.
1.5       This appraisal report is based on the Government's application
and feasibility report, the route selection studies and detailed engineer-
ing carried out by consultants, and the findings of an appraisal mission
to Malawi in April 1967 consisting of Messrs. Jaycox, Siret, and Soges.
1.6       This would be the second lending operation by the Bank or IDA
concerning transportation in Malawi, the first being Credit S2-MAI, de-
scribed above.  Malawi, formerly Nyasaland and a territory of the Feder-
ation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland (1953-1963), was not a beneficiary of any
of the Bank loans to the Federation or its public entities.



- 2 -
2.  BACKGROUND
A. General
2.1       Malawi is a long, narrow, landlocked country in southeastern
Africa, situated in the Great African Rift Valley (see Map).  It has an
area of about 45,700 square miles, of which 20% consists of lakes. The
land area is about the size of Portugal. Altitudes range from about
200 feet above sea level in the marshes of the south to over 8,000 feet
in the northern plateau, producing a wide range of climatic conditions,
generally of a tropical nature. A major Rift Valley escarpment runs
the length of the country separating the Lake Nalawi plain (average al-
titude 1,500 feet) from the plateau to the west (average altitude t,500
feet). Most of the mlain rivers flow from west to northeast across the
transport axis of the country into Lake Malawi. These geographical fea-
tures present difficult problems for transportation.
2.2       Malawi's population is estimated at approximately h million;
it is growing at an estimated rate of 3.3,' per annum, and Malawi is one
of the most densely populated areas in Africa. Over half the population
is concentrated in the highland areas of the Southern Region, with about
36% in the Central Region and only about 12% in the Northern Region. An
increasing proportion of the country's population is expected to live in
the Southern Region and the southern part of the Central Region (Lilongwe
District) in the service area of the project road. The population is
predominantly rural. Blantyre-Limbe, the commercial center of the country
in the Southern Region, has a population of 110,000.  Zomba, the capital,
and Lilongwe are next in size, with about 20,000 inhabitants each.
2.3       Gross Domestic Product (GDP) was estimated irn 1966 at E74.7
million (US$209 million).  Per capita income is low at about US$55 equi-
valent. About 38% of GDP is attributed to subsistence activities, which
represent the output of over 90% of the population. About 25% of the
market economy derives from agriculture.  The main crops are tea, tobacco,
groundnuts and cotton for export, and maize, the staple diet of the popu-
lation. During the 1953-63 period of the country's membership in the
Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland, the output of its economy grew at an
estimated rate of 3.5% per annum.  Per capita income did not increase per-
ceptibly. From 1961 through 19614, the economy virtually stagnated due to
the political uncertainties associated with the dissolution of the Federa-
tion and the achievement of national independence (July 6, 1964). Over
the period 1964-66 however, total marketed output, as measured by monetary
sector GDP, is estimated to have risen dramatically by about 40` in real
terms. A further real increase of 10% is expected in 1967. This is due
partly to very good weather conditions in 1965-66, but also reflects a
rapid shift to cash cultivation in a period of relative political stabil-
ity and renewed emphasis on development.



- 3-
B. Transport in Malawi
General
2.4       Malawi's internal transport system consists of about 6,200 miles
of public roads, 290 miles of rail line, water transport on Lake Malawi,
and a network of light aircraft services.  The country's sole practical
outlet to the sea is by rail south to Beira (Mozambique) on the Indian
Ocean, 355 miles from Blantyre-Limbe. In general, the transport system is
in poor condition with notable missing links and inadequate sections.
2,5       A significant recent development has been the introduction into
parts of the Malawi system of extraordinary Zambian transit traffic, pri-
marily copper and oil products, diverted from Rhodesian routes which were
Zambia's traditional access to the sea. This traffic is being carried by
railway between Beira and Salima, and by road between Salima and Zambia,
via Lilongwe. At present, the volume of this traffic in both directions
amounts to about 6,000 tons per month, and may rise to as much as 20,000
tons per month in the foreseeable future. However, the future volume and
duration of this traffic are very uncertain.
Railway
2.6       The Government recently acquired the outstanding equity shares
of the formerly private Malawi Railways. The railway is poorly aligned;
its permanent way has deteriorated, and equipment and rolling stock are
largely over-age. A dieselization program is underway and is scheduled
to be completed by the end of 1968. Traffic volumes are very low at
about 600,000 tons per annum (1966). The railway operates at very high
average costs--about 4.2 US cents equivalent per ton mile on the main
line and over 5.5 US cents per ton mile on the northern extension from
Balaka to Salima. These costs compare to the about 2.6 US cents per ton
mile for the East African Railway system.
2.7       Present railway investment plans consist of the construction
of a new 110 mile link from the main line eastward through Liwonde to
the Mozambique system at Nzova Freixo, thus linking Malawi and the new
large port of Nacala. The estimated cost of the 73 mile section internal
to Nialawi is US$14 million equivalent including rolling stock. Negotia-
tions are presently underway with the Japanese Government for financing
the construction of the link with a view to its being in operation at the
end of 1969.
Lake Transport
2.8       Lake Malawi, stretching roughly 350 miles along the axis of the
country, is a natural waterway for communication between north and south.
Lake transport is nevertheless very undeveloped. Freight and passenger
service on the lake are operated by the railway at a substantial deficit.
Operating revenues cover less than half of operating expenses.



- 4 -
2.9       Lake transport is a logical and potentially economic form of
transport and should be developed in conjunction with plans for develop-
ing the northern parts of the country. A comprehensive study of lake
transport, port locations and fleet operations is presently being con-
ducted by Danish consultants.  The consultants are also loeking into the
feasibility of dredging the Shire River from lake Malawi to Liwonde and
of developing Liwonde into a major inland port in relation with the pro-
posed rail link to Nova Freixo. Liwonde would then become a hub for
trans-shipment between road, water carriers and rail.
Highway Traffic and Vehicle Fleet
2.10      Total motor vehicle population is estimated at 19,000 or about
one vehicle per every 210 inhabitants, which is average for tropical
Africa. Of this total, about 55% are private and government passenger
cars, 40;% are trucks and buses of all types and 5% are tractor-trailers.
Vehicle fleet, fuel consumption, and traffic statistics are fragmentary
and make it difficult to derive estimates of past traffic trends. Indi-
cations are that the vehicle fleet has been growing at about 7% per year
over the 1961-66 period, made up by a yearly 8% growth for automobiles
and 6% for trucks, buses, and tractor-trailers. Gasoline consumption
stagnated in the 1960-63 period reflecting the stagnation of the economy
and a general shift to diesel fuels. Since 196b, gasoline consumption
has increased by 6% per annum with the rise in economic activity. Diesel
consumption for road transport is estimated to have increased at the rate
of 6% since 1961, jumping to nearly 9% since 196h.  Traffic on the road
system is estimated to be growing currently at a rate of 7-8% per annum.
Highway Transport Industry
2.11      The highway transport industry is made up of two broad groups.
One consists of a small number of firms with relatively large fleets that
specialize in trunk-haul freight and passenger operations. The two major
firms in this group are the United Transport (Malawi) Ltd., which is a
subsidiary of the United Transport Group in the U. K., and Road Motor
Services, an agency of the Malawi Railways. The other group is made up
of numerous owner-operators, of whom the majority are organized into the
Malawi African Road Transport Association (HARTA). For the most part, this
latter group is engaged in feeder service operations. IMARTA has an agree-
ment with the Farmers' IMarketing Board by which it handles about 60% of
the farm-to-market traffic originating from the Board's activities.
2.12      The operation of vehicles for public hire is regulated through a
system of area and specific route licensing which was designed to limit
competition among truck operators generally and to safeguard the finances
of the railway. (Road-Rail competition is discussed below; see paragraphs
2.17-2.21). In 1966, only 620 trucks and tractor-trailors, with a total
carrying capacity of b,100 tons, were liscenased to operate for public hire.
These vehicles represented only about 15% of the total trucking capacity
in Malawi, the remainder being utilized for own or private account trucking.



- 5 -
The radius of operation for most licensed public carriers is restricted
to the region or district in which they are licensed. Truck services
and "all road" licenses have for the most part been restricted to the
two major trucking organizations.
2.13      There have been some unfavorable economic consequences from the
licensing regulations. General restrictions on the operations of for-hire
trucking have meant that most road haulage in the country is conducted by
private account trucking at higher cost as compared with commsercial truck-
ing due to lower load factors and lower vehicle utilization. The limita-
tion of trucking capacity to particular areas has lessened competition and
led to over-capacity by hindering the movement of temporary surplus capa-
city in one area to seek employment elsewhere. Accordingly, the licensing
system has been a contributory factor in the prevailing high level of road
freight rates which average 11 US cents per ton mile for trunk hauls, and
for local hauls 9 US cents ton mile. Traffic growth has been inhibited on
those roads subject to specific route licensing restrictions, and the re-
strictions are inconsistent with plans for improving the roads.
2.14      In January 1966, as a condition of the Association's lending
under Credit S2-MIAI, the project road was removed from the restrictive
route licensing schedule, which had limited the total for-hire truck capa-
city over its full length to only 40 tons (eight 5-ton trucks, of which
six belonged to the railway). As a result, the number of for-hire vehicles
which could legally traverse the full length of the road was considerably
increased by including all vehicles which have licenses permitting "all
road" operation, at present about 70 vehicles. There is no arbitrary limit
to the number of such "all road" licenses. Their issue is subject to ad-
ministrative policies and judgments as to the appropriate capacity require-
ments and level of competition within the road transport industry.
2.15      WThile the removal of specific route licensing restrictions from
the project road has meant a significant relaxation of the licensing sys-
tem, and has had a favorable effect on the economic justification of the
project road, the system as a whole remains generally restrictive and
most of the unfavorable economic consequences have not been eliminated.
2.16      Subsequent to the removal of the specific liecnsing system per-
taining to the project road in 1966, the Government imposed gross weight
restrictions on the section between Ncheu and Dedza. These limit the gross
weight of vehicles to 13 tons during the dry season and 8 tons during the
wet. No trailers are permitted. The technical justification for these re-
strictions is not obvious. Their main purpose appears to be to ensure that
as far as possible Zambian oil and copper transit traffic is carried by the
railway. In the absence of appropriate alternative methods of charging
Zambian transit traffic, this provides the maximum public revenue for
Malawi from this source. During negotiations the Government gave assurance
that no weight restrictions will be imposed on the project road, other than
the maximum permissible weights in the country's laws governing road traffic.



- 6-
Road-Rail Competition
2.17      Because of the relatively long average haul to and from the
Indian Ocean, and the lack of good road connections through Mozambique
to Beira, competition between road and rail south of Blantyre is effec-
tively ruled out. However, most import/export commodities and a signi-
ficant part of the internally transported goods are concentrated at Blan-
tyre prior to external shipment or internal distribution. For many of the
railway's relatively short haul movements north of Blantyre, the high cost
of its operations (see paragraph 2.6) renders it vulnerable to road compe-
tition. The railway's rate structure aggravates this situation since it
does not reflect costs of operations, but is based roughly on the values of
the goods carried. The rate structure is designed to cover costs in total;
particular export commodities are subsidized, but the subsidies are covered
by surcharges on high value manufactured goods. In a free trucking situa-
tion, the level of costs for short haul rail traffic and this type of tariff
structure would invite competition from the trucking industry, particularly
for high rated goods. This would leave the railway with only the traffic it
carries at or below cost. The present system of road licensing is designed
to avoid this situation. The removal of the specific licensing restrictions
that were in operation on the project road before 1966 has already forced
the railway to narrow the differential in its rates north of Balaka (with
certain major exceptions for exported agricultural commodities). The sec-
tion of railway line between Balaka and Salima, however, has operated in the
past at a large loss despite protection. It is likely to continue to do so,
especially since plans are well advanced to construct a high standard gravel
road parallel to it from Balaka to Salima. This road project is now in the
detailed design stage with the financial assistance of USAID.
2.18      The extraordinary Zambian traffic which now uses the Balaka-Salima
section of the railway also affects the future outlook for this line. At
present the permanent way is laid with light rail which restricts the load
factors or sizes of railway wagons. Wagons light-loaded for transit over
the Balaka-Salima section proceed to or from Beira with these low load fac-
tors or require trans-shipment at Blantyre. The added cost of these opera-
tions could be avoided by road haulage to and from the railhead at Balaka
rather than Salima. The combined road and rail distance between Lilongwe
and Balaka via Salima is also 32 miles or 25% longer than via the direct
road route. The current weight restrictions on the Ncheu-Dedza section of
the road however, preclude its use by Zambian transit traffic. once the
project road is reconstructed and the weight restriction lifted, any Zam-
bian transit traffic that may move at that time would probably divert to
the road, unless the rail line were substantially improved in the meantime
or arbitrary measures were taken to direct this traffic via Salima.
2.19      The diversion of normal railway traffic or of Zambian transit
traffic from the railway to the project road is not necessary for the
economic justification of the project road (see paragraphs 4.7 and 4.8)



nor are the desirable design standards of the road affected by the possi-
bility of such a diversion. From an overall economic viewpoint, however,
the justification for arbitrarily directing Zambian traffic to the rail
line or for investing substantial amounts in the line specifically to
handle this traffic, which is of uncertain volume and duration, is doubt-
ful. From the point of view of public revenues, these could be raised
equally well through appropriate road user charges or other tax measures
on Zambian traffic using N4alawits roads. The feasibility of maintaining
rail services on an economic basis north of Balaka in a competitive en-
vironment needs thorough investigation.
2.20      The question of road-rail competition generally in M1alawi is
affected by the current level of road user charges. Total revenues from
the ownership and use of road vehicles have risen over the past four years
from about US$1.8 million equivalent in 1961 to an estimated US$3.1 million
for 1967. The information necessary to determine what proportion of these
receipts could be considered as road user charges to meet the costs of road
construction, maintenance and administration is not available. Nor are ade-
Quate figures available to determine actual road costs, but average annual
expenditures have been about us$5.0 million over the above period.
2.21      The economic justification of the project road (see Chapter 4)
does not hinge on solutions to the above-mentioned problems and issues of
truck licensing, road-rail competition and road user charges. However,
in the interest of promoting economic use of the entire transport system,
the project provides for the carrying out of a thorough study into (a) the
present licensing arrangements and administration and the making of recom-
mendations as to their relaxation or abandonment so as to provide a more
competitive environment within the trucking industry; (b) the problems of
competition and coordination between road and rail transport, taking into
account the future of the Balaka-Salima railway section and the railways'
pricing policy; and (c) the relationship of road user charges and costs~
This study, which would be carried out by consultants, under terms of ref-
erence satisfactory to the Association, would be completed in a relatively
short time with its recommendations available for consideration and imple-
mentation well before the completion of the construction part of the pro-
ject. The Government has agreed that it will discuss the outcome of the
study with the Association and will subsequently take such steps as may be
agreed between the Government and the Association to be necessary for the
promotion of more effective competition within the trucking industry and
for the proper coordination of road-rail competition.
Development Plans
2.22      The investment plan prepared for the period 1965-69 consisted
of a list of projects which the Government desired to carry out.



- 8 -
Neither projects nor expenditures were phased for particular years, nor
were the projects studied in depth for their feasibility. For practical
purposes, this plan is being discontinued at the end of 1967, and the
Government is currently planning for the interim period 1968-70. Total
public investment during the interim period is targeted at roughly
US$ 106 million equivalent, or at the rate of about US$ 35 million equiv-
alent per annum. This financial target is dependent upon securing ex-
ternal finance to the extent of about US$ 28 million equivalent per annum.
2.23      Expenditure in the transport sector is currently planned at
roughly US$ 40 million equivalent over the 4-year period through 1970
including nearly US$ 25 million equivalent for roads, US$ 14 million
equivalent for the railway line to liacala and completion of dieseliza-
tion, and a small amount for airport improvement and studies of lake
stranport. The planned investment in roads is limited to projects now
underway or in advanced stages of preparation. The bulk consists of the
proposed IDA project and the proposed gravel road from Balaka to Salima
with a link to Monkey Bay on Lake iMalawi, the preparation of which is
being assisted by USAID. About US$ 1 million equivalent is planned for
agricultural feeder roads and for the construction and improvement of
district roads.
2.24      The plans for investment in the transport sector account for
a very high proportion of total planned public investment. This appears
to be due to the coincidence in time of major projects in this sector,
most of which have been delayed by problems of project preparation. In
view of the very limited capacity of the Roads Department (see paragraph
2.29), the Government agreed during negotiations to discuss with the
Association and to reach agreement on a suitable program for road devel-
opment. The Government also gave assurances that if it were to consider
undertaking, during the construction period of the project, additional
major road construction works not included in the program, it would con-
sult with the Association concerning the impact thereof on the Govern-
ment's financial and administrative capacity to carry out the project.
2.25      During negotiations for the engineering Credit the Government
agreed to undertake the planning of a feeder road program in areas of
high agricultural potential in the service area of the project road.
A project for agricultural development in the Lilonwe area, including
crop extraction roads, has been appraised by IDA and is being considered
for financing (see paragraph 4.2). In other areas served by the project
road, an agricultural economist and road engineer financed by USAID and
to be supplemented by a team financed by the U.K. are engaged in prepar-
ing a general feeder road program. This study is scheduled so that
construction could begin during the period of execution of the project
proposed in this report.



9-
C. The Highway System
Network
2.26      The road system consists of 1,760 miles of primary, 1,300 miles
of secondary and 3,100 miles of tertiary or district roads (see Nap).
Less than 300 miles are bituminous paved, most of them only to single-
lane, and some 400 miles are gravel surfaced. The rest of the network
consists of earth roads and tracks.
2.27      Past development of Malawits road system principally followed
the requirement of connecting population and production centers by a
network of low-cost primary roads. Only a few roads have properly
designed alignments and pavement. The system is unbalanced in favor of
primary trunk roads as compared with lower class rural roads.  Improve-
ment of the primary road system is required, and in some specific cases,
such as sections of the project road, is overdue. Lower class roads of
minimum standards are also required throughout the established agricul-
tural areas of the country, now served only by a limited mileage of tracks.
The inadequacy and the poor condition of the road system have hampered
economic progress; in particular the insufficiency of tertiary roads has
inhibited agricultural expansion.
Administration
2.28      The responsibility for the general administration of the road
system is vested in the Roads Department (RD) under the IMinistry of
Works and Supplies (IMS) (see Chart). The Department is directly res-
ponsible for the primary and secondary road system and for some 400
miles of tertiary roads considered of major importance; the District
Councils are responsible for all other roads. The Ministry of Natural
Resources is also engaged in road construction in conjunction with par-
ticular development schemes; these roads are then turned over to the
RD for maintenance. The evaluation and coordination of road development
programs on a national level devolves on the Ministry of Development and
Planning.
2.29      The headquarters of the RD in Zomba has branches for planning,
design, construction and maintenance, and has regional divisions through-
out the country. This functional organization appears sound. However,
the operations of the Department are seriously restric-ted because of
shortage of competent staff. The Department is able only to meet duties
of day-to-day road administration and maintenance.
2.30      The RD establishment is 23 engineers, but only 13 engineering
positions are presently filled. There are also significant shortages
at the level of sub-professional technicians. Recruitment efforts to
fill vacancies are not vigorous enough to maintain the establishment.



-10-
If the envisaged road development programs including the project are to
be carried out and the road system properly maintained, the RD will have
to be strengthened substantially.
2.31      The District Councils have no proper organization for the main-
tenance and development of the tertiary road system, and have to rely-
extensively on financial and technical assistance from the Government,
which is insufficient. The provision of serviceable rural roads will
require a substantial strengthening of the administrative and technical
organization responsible for them, on both Government and District Coun-
cil levels.
2.32      In the absence of qualified nationals, all professional posts
and most of the middle and lower level technical positions in the RD are
held by expatriate civil servants, the majority being provided under a
program of the British Ministry for Overseas Development. Africanization
of the civil service is an established policy, but the number of nationals
who could qualify for professional posts in the RD is very low. A sys-
tematic program for education and training of nationals, to fill staff
requirements, has not been initiated on a scale which would provide a
sufficient supply in a foreseeable future. Therefore, the Roads Depart-
ment will still have to rely on foreign expertise for a long period.
During negotiations, the Government gave assurance that the program for
the education and training of Malawi nationals for professional positions
of all-levels within the road administration will be reviewed and ex-
panded, and implemented as agreed between the Government and the Associa-
tion. The Government also confirmed that it is preparing a plan for the
reorganization of the MWS, with a view to strengthening the road orga-
nization at central, regional and district levels, and agreed to inform
the Association on the plan and the proposed implementation thereof.
2.33      Administrative procedures for tendering and procurement are
generally consistent with the requirements of the Association. Road use
is regulated by law which covers such matters as road traffic, vehicle and
driving licenses, and inspection of vehicles. Vehicle dimension and
weight regulations are generally adequate, but the maximum permissible
axle load of 7 long tons is low and unduly restricts the development of
road traffic. During negotiations, the Government agreed to
review, in cons4ltation with the Association, the aialawi laws governing
road traffic, and to take necessary steps to raise the madmum admis-
sible axle load of vehicles to levels consistent with sound economic,
administrative and engineering practices (8 to 10 tons would be satis-
factory).
Maintenance
2.34      The maintenance of the RD-roads is the responsibility of the
Construction and Maintenance Branch, which has separate divisions for.
the Southern, Central and Northern Regions. All major maintenance opera-



- 11 -
tions by the De,)artment are mechanized.  While the condition of the
roads maintained by the Department is still satisfactory, the condition
of the roads maintained by the District Councils is poor.
2.35      Road construction and maintenance equipment are under the
iMechanical Engineering Branch of the 1HMS, which is in charge of all
Government plant and vehicles. The Ivechanical Branch has well installed
shops and service facilities for the repair and the maintenance of plant,
and covers its expenditures from allocations in the national budget.
Equipment for road construction and maintenance is made available by the
Branch to the RD at no charge. The Government plans to establish a hire
system for equipment, and to develop the lichanical Branch into a finan-
cially autonomous agency capable of covering its expenditures from hire
charges on equipment.
Construction
2.36      The RD operates a mechanized construction force capable of
executing works on lower class roads valued at about US$ 1 million equiv-
alent per year. W4ork in excess of this canacity is contracted, and there
is no intention of building up departmental forces beyond the present
level. Only a few road construction firms are established in the country;
they are locally based subsidiaries of international contractors, with a
limited construction capacity. Procedures for contracting road construc-
tion works are suitable to attract additional international contractors
for the execution of major projects.
Design Standards
2.37      In the past, most of the roads were built without proper engi-
neering or prescribed standards. For new construction, the RD has re-
cently introduced uniform standards in which six road classes are dis-
tinguished, including twJo classes for minor rural roads.  These standards
are still tentative and the Roads Department plans to review them in the
light of experience. The aim is to establish the best standards for
local conditions and for stage construction methods.
Highway Planning and Expenditures
2.38      Road expenditures in the past have been made without systematic
evaluation of investment and maintenance needs or economic appraisal of
individual-projects. The collection and processing of statistical data
on traffic, road inventory and costs, on which a rational assessment of
investment and maintenance requirements could be based, is inadequate.
The Department has no accounting system whereby costs can be identified
and properly related to wvork items. The need for better planning, based
on improved data collection and cost accounting methods, is generally
recognized by the Government. During negotiations, the Government agreed
that it will introduce an appropriate cost accounting system, and continue



- 12 -
its efforts to expand and refine the collection of road statistics.
2.39      Highway expenditures are covered from budgetary allocations.
Central Government expenditures on roads fell from a level of about US$h.5
million equivalent prior to 1962 to about US$2.5 million equivalent in
1963 at the time of the country's transition to independence. Since 196h,
they have been increasing and are planned to reach US$6.7 million equiva-
lent in 1967 (see Table 1). The upward trend is primarily due to increases
in capital expenditures. Past expenditures were low in relation to the
extent and use of the road system. Expenditures are expected to continue
increasing with the development projects now under consideration and the
growing maintenance requirements.
2.ho      Maintenance expenditures on the roads maintained by the RD aver-
aged an estimated US$1.6 million equivalent per year in the 1962-1966 pe-
riod. They have been slowly increasing since 1964 and are planned to reach
US$1.8 million equivalent in 1967, or an average of US$520 equivalent per
mile. The specific amounts spent for the maintenance of roads of various
types or sections cannot be readily determined as no records to this end
are kept. Judged on the average, the maintenance expenditures by the RD
appear low but within acceptable limits in relation to the country's trans-
port development. The amounts spent by the District Councils on road
maintenance are not available, but indications are that they are very low,
in some cases as little as US$30 per mile per year. The poor condition of
the district roads clearly indicates that n-,aintenance by the Councils is
insufficient. During negotiations, the Government agreed that the evalua-
tion of maintenance requirements and the planning of related expenditures
will be improved, that the country's primary and secondary road network
and the tertiary roads in the project road area will be adequately main-
tained, and the necessary funds therefore made available.



- 13 -
3. PROJECT
A. Description
3.1       The project proposed for Association financing consists of (see Map):
1.   The reconstruction and bituminous paving of the
Zomba-Lilongwe road (180 miles), and the supervision
of its construction by consultants;
2.   Consulting services for a study of road transport
licensing regulations and road-rail coordination; and
3.   The refunding of the Highway Engineering Project under
Credit S24AI.
(i)  Reconstruction of the Zomba-Lilongwe Road and Supervision of
Construction
3.2       The Zomba-Lilongwe road, 180 miles long, is part of the principal
north-south primary road M-1 linking Blantyre-Limbe, the commerciol center in
the Southern Region, with Zomba, the capital, and Lilongwe in the Central
Region via the District centers of Ncheu and Dedza along the Mozambique
border. The M-1 south of Zomba to Blantyre-Limbe is already being improved
and the pavement widened from a single-lane to two lanes. From Zomba to
Liwonde (31 miles) the existing road is single-lane bituminous paved; vertical
and horizontal alignment is generally poor. From Liwonde to Lilongwe (1h9
miles) the road has a poor gravel or earth surface; through the rugged
escarpement section between Ncheu and Dedza it is winding, badly aligned,
and difficult to maintain. Under the proposed project, the Zomba-Lilongwe road
will be reconstructed to improved standards including two-lane bituminous
paving. A weigh bridge will be installed near Balaka.
3.3       Engineering consultants, Brian Colquhoun and Partners (UK) who
prepared the detailed engineering, are employed under terms satisfactory to
the Association to supervise the construction. The use of this firm, or
another   firm, satisfactory to the Association,was confirmed during nego-
tiations.
(ii) Consulting Services for Transport Study
3.4       Due to the shortage of qualified personnel within the administration,
the studies included in the project on road transport licensing regulations
and road-rail coordination (see paragraph 2.21) cannot be properly under-
taken by the Government with its own forces. Therefore, the project provides
for consultants' services to carry out these studies.
(iii) Refunding of the Highway Engineering Project (Credit S2-MAI)
3.5       This engineering project included the detailed engineering of the
Zomba-Lilongwe Road section, and a review of the detailed engineering of the
Lilongwe-Zambia border road section. The first part has been completed, and has



- 14 -
provided the designs and cost estimates on which the construction project
is based. In accordance with the Association's operational policies re-
garding the financing of detailed engineering, it is proposed to refund
Credit S2-MAI under the present project.
B. Design Standards
3.6       The design standards are based on a comprehensive evaluation by
the consultants of standards in Malawi and neighboring countries and are
considered appropriate for the forecast traffic demand. Design speeds
range from 60 mph in level to 40 mph in mountainous terrain.  Thle maximum
grade is 8 percent. The pavement structure will be composed of stabilized
subbase and base courses with a two-lane bituminous paving. The pavement
is suitable for strenghthening by overlays in stages as and when required
by the growth of traffic. The road will have adequate capacity to accom-
modate forecast traffic volumes during the 20 years of its service life.
The detailed design standards are shown in Table 2.
C. Cost Estimates
3.7       A summary of the cost estimate of the project (see Table 3),
and the estimated foreign exchange component thereof, is as follows:
US$1,000         Foreign Exchange Component
Equivalent       %  US$1,OCO Equivalent
A.  Construction                  10,596         73          7,735
B. Supervision of Construction       528         85            449
C.  Studies                           96         85             82
D. Contingencies
(a) for quantity variations
10% of Item A              1,060         73            774
(b) for price variations,
7.5% on all costs
except Item E                922         73            673
Subtotal   13,202                     9,713
E.  Refunding of Credit S2-MAI       490                       490
Total      13,692                    10, 203
3.8       The estimate for construction costs is based on bid prices re-
ceived for all the works which have already been put out to tender; for
supervision of construction on the consultant's proposal; and for the
transport regulation and coordination study on a 30 man-month requirement.
An amount of 10 percent on construction costs has been allowed for work
quantity variations, which is considered sufficient. A further amount



- 15 -
of 7.5 percent on all costs (except the refunding of Credit S2-MAI) has
been included to cover possible price increases. In recent years, road
construction was at a low ebb in Malawi and no reliable records on price
trends are available, but experience in neighboring countries indicates
a general upward movement of construction prices. The proposed project,
with other planned investments, will increase construction activity
which, combined with the devaluation of the pound, will probably lead
to faster increases in local costs than the regional upward movement of
construction prices. The allowance for price increases is considered
adequate to meet this contingency over the construction period of three
years.
3.9       The foreign exchange component in the construction part of the
project is estimated at about 73%, or US$9.1 million equivalent. It in-
cludes depreciation of equipment, imported materials, fuels and spare
parts, the foreign cost of expatriate personnel, foreign overhead, and
profits.  The local component includes mainly labor, accommodations, and
about 5 to 10% of the total cost for taxes, and import duties on fuel,
equipment and materials. The foreign exchange component for supervision
of construction and consulting services is estimated at about 85%. Diffi-
cult terrain, efficient construction schedules and the standards of design
necessary for the forecast traffic will require equipment-intensive con-
struction methods for all heavy work items.
D. Execution
3.10      The execution of the project is the responsibility of the MWS
with the RD in charge of its administration, assisted by engineering con-
sultants for the supervision of construction. The Chief Project Engineer
of the RD, secured presently under USAID auspicies, has as his primary duty
the management of the project. During negotiations, assurance was obtained
from the Government that this arrangement, or other suitable arrangements
for the assignment of a senior engineer to the management of the project,
will be maintained throughout the project period.
3.11      Construction will be by contractors under unit price contracts.
The road has been divided into four sections for the purpose of bidding,
and bids were invited on an international competitive basis for two
road sections at a time. Bids could be submitted for one or two sections,
so that contractors based in the region could compete with larger interna-
tional firms. Bids for the first two sections were received on July 14,
1967, and the lowest evaluated bid, submitted by General Construction Ltd.
(a local firm associated with Ermoque /Aortugal7  and Ste Francaise d'Entre-
prises de Dragages et de Travaux Publics /France7)was accepted. Bids for
the remaining two sections were received on October 20, 1967, and award is
expected to be made shortly to the lowest evaluated bidder. It is expected
-.hat all construction will be completed by the end of 1970.



- 16 -
E. Financing and Disbursement
3.12      The amount of the proposed credit is US$11.5 million equivalent
of which US$0.49 million equivalent would be used to refund in full Credit
S2-MAI.  The balance would cover about 84 percent of the presently estim-
ated total costs of construction, and 85 percent of that of supervision
of construction and studies. IDA's financing of some local currency in
addition to the foreign exchange cost is recommended on economic grounds,
in accordance with the Economic Policy Memorandum on M4alawi, reference
EC/0/67-143. The Government would cover the remaining costs from local
resources.
3.13      The Association would disburse the actual foreign exchange pay-
ments made to consultants in respect of the supervision of construction
and the Transport Study. In respect of construction costs the Association
would reimburse 84 percent of payments made to contractors, after certifi-
cation by the supervisory consultants. Any surplus funds remaining in the
credit account should be cancelled.
3.14      It is estimated that disbursements from the proposed credit would
be as follows:
Calendar Year      1968       1969     1970      Total
Disbursement        5.0        4.5       2.0      11.5
This assumes that the full US$0.49 million refunding of Credit S2-MAI will
be made immediately the proposed credit is made effective.



- 17 -
It. ECONOI4IC JUSTIFICATION
A. Introduction
)4.1      The Zomba-Lilongwe road forms the major part of the arterial road
that links the commercial and administrative centers of the Southern Region
with the rapidly growing agricultural areas of the Central Region around
Lilongwe. Because of its inter-regional character, its zone of influence
extends to all parts of the country. The more iimmediate area of influence
includes the plateau area as far as Mzimba, 150 miles north of Lilongwe,
and extends westward into Zambian territory. The road passes through the
administrative headquarters of four of the more densely populated districts
of the country and forms the backbone of the existing or potential second-
ary road systems serving these districts. Balaka and Liwonde, through
which it passes, are important junctions with other primary roads and are
existing or potential transfer points between transport modes. The town of
Lilongwe is expanding rapidly as an administrative and commercial center;
the long-range plans of the Government propose Lilongwe as the future capi-
tal of the country to replace Zomba, the present capital.
4.2       The Lilongwe district of the Central Region is one of the most
rapidly developing agricultural areas in the country. African farmers in
this Region produce 90% of the tobacco, 80% of the groundnuts and 605 of
the maize commercially offered in Malawi. Together, these three crops
account for nearly 65%, by value, of total marketed agricultural output of
the country.  The growth of production in the area, despite a period of
political uncertainty, has been remarkable. Future production estimates
in the area are based on specific development schemes as well as the con-
tinuation of past trends in places outside these specific schemes. In the
view of the appraisal mission and the Bank's recent economic mission, the
estimated future growth of physical output in the areas directly served by
the road would be at least 8-9% p.a. The most important scheme planned in
the Lilongwe area is a 500,000 acre regional development project which is
now in an advanced stage of consideration for assistance by the Association.
In addition to specifically agricultural aspects the scheme includes satis-
factory arrangements for extension staff services, marketing and feeder
roads.
B. Traffic Trends
4.3       Traffic using the project road will consist of normal growth
traffic, traffic generated by the fall in transport costs due to its im-
provement, and a minor amount of traffic diverted to it from the Lilongwe-
Salima-Balaka road-rail route. Each of those three types of traffic is dis-
cussed separately below.
4.4      qNormal Traffic.  Recent traffic counts conducted by the Govern-
ment and its consultants indicate that average daily traffic volumes range
from about 180 to about 240 vehicles per day on the various sections with
volumes rising to nearly 600 vehicles per day on the outskirts of Lilongwe



- 18 -
and Zomba (see Table b). About a third of the traffic on all sections con-
sists of trucks and buses. Trucks range in size from 5 - 12 tons capacity,
with the average being about 7 tons.
4.5       The available data indicate  that, despite the previously exist-
ing restrictions on trucking over the project road, traffic growth during
the last five years has averaged about 6% - 7% per year. It is expected
that in the future there will be a higher annual rate of increase in phys-
ical output in the service area of the road and that a freer use of the
road by trucks wrill result from the 1966 relaxation of the specific route
licensing restrictions and the future abandonment of unneeded weight re-
strictions. Nevertheless, it has been conservatively projected that truck
traffic will continue to grow at annual rate of the recent past (6-7%) over
the 20-year estimated economic life of the project road. The proposed
study of vehicle licensing regulations could also lead to a substantially
greater growth rate of traffic in the early years of the improved road's
economic life than that used for the purpose of calculating economic bene-
fits. According to general experience in developing areas, automobile
traffic may be expected to increase at a somewhat faster rate than truck
traffic, but the composition of traffic is not likely to change substan-
tially.
4.6       Generated Traffic.  The improvements to the project road will
reduce transport costs and thereby stimulate development in its service
area and generate additional traffic. This generated traffic is likely to
consist mainly of agricultural and timber traffic from the areas around and
south of Dedza, but there should also be a general increase in public and
private goods traffic and passenger movements throughout the area of influ-
ence of the road. It is estimated that the generated traffic on all sec-
tions of the project road (particularly because of the improvements to the
Ncheu-Dedza escarpment section, the condition of which has been a limiting
factor to past growith) would increase the total traffic using the road by
about 30% during the first four years after its opening, after which it
would grow at an average rate of 6-7% p.a. The Association's experience
with similar improvements to primary routes elsewhere in Africa indicates
that this is a reasonable assumption.
4.7       Diverted Traffic.  The improvement of the project road together
with the recent relaxation of licensing restrictions would make
economical the diversion of certain types of traffic from the railway to
the road, e.g. gasoline and fuel oil from the storage depots at Blantyre
destined for the Central Region. For the purpose of economic calculation,
the diversion to the project road of only that traffic which is not subsi-
dized by the railway rate structure, and which could be carried by road at
lower cost, has been assumed. This diversion would amount to the equivalent
of only 8-10 trucks per day.
4.8       However, if the railway section north of Balaka to Salima were to
be abandoned, almost all the internal traff&c that moves over it (equiva-
lent at present to about 25 trucks per day) would divert to the project road



- 19 -
and could be expected to increase over time. Abandonment of this section
would also result in the diversion to the project road of any Zambian
transit traffic that may be moving through Ealawi at the time.  At present
such traffic is equivalent to about 50 heavy vehicles per day. In fore-
casting future traffic over the project road the abandonment of the rail
section and the diversion of all internal and transit traffic has not been
assumed. Therefore in this report the estimated economic return is likely
to be understated.
C. Economic Benefits
4.9       The directly quantifiable benefits from the improvement of the
project road would be the reduced costs of vehicle operation and, on a
smaller scale, savings in road maintenance costs. Detailed studies of
vehicle operating costs in Central Africa have been conducted by the U.K.
Road Research Laboratory; the results of its studies have been adjusted
taking into consideration Bank studies and information received from major
transporters in Central Africa. Table 5 sets out estimated vehicle oper-
ating costs in flat to rolling terrain over (1) a typical bitumen surfaced
road; (2) a good gravel road, and (3) a lower class gravel or earth road.
4.10      Sections of the existing road differ considerably with respect
to design standards, present conditions and the terrain they traverse)
therefore, they have been treated separately for the purposes of the
benefit analysis. Costs of vehicle operation on the various sections have
been adjusted in relation to those of Table 5 in order to take into ac-
count the differences among the various sections. Table 6 sets out the
average operating costs for various types of vehicles, estimated for each
of the sections as they are at present and as they would be after comple-
tion of the road project.
4.11      The estimate of the net economic benefits (i.e. value added)
from generated traffic, has been derived from the estimated fall in ve-
hicle operating costs and the assumed volume of generated traffic. These
benefits account for about 15 percent of total estimated benefits. In
calculating the savings to the 8-10 trucks per day of traffic diverted
from the Lilongwe-Salima-Balaka road-rail route to the project road, ac-
count has been taken of differences in estimated ton-mile operating costs
and in distance. Excluding trans-shipments costs at Salima these amount
to about US$1.50 equivalent per ton of traffic carried between Lilongwe
and Blantyre. Total savings, however., are not very large due to the small
tonnages involved.
4.12      In addition to savings from reduced vehicle operating costs,
there will be savings in road maintenance costs. These represent only
about 12 percent of the total quantifiable benefits. It has been estimated
that the costs of maintaining the road if the improvement were not made
would rise in a linear fashion with traffic growth to the point where vir-
tually continuous maintenance would be required. With further traffic growth



- 20 -
beyond that point, vehicle operating costs would begin to rise due to the
inability of a reasonable maintenance effort to keep the road in a con-
stant condition. This point is estimated at traffic levels around 300
vehicles per day where heavy truck traffic comprises about a third of to-
tal traffic.  Many sections of the road are approaching this level of
traffic at present.
h.13      Comparing the streams of total benefits and costs over the es-
timated twenty-year economic life of the project, the road improvement
results in an annual economic rate of return on the investment of about
12%. Rates of return were calculated for the various road sections; they
range from 11% on the Zomba-Liwonde section to 13%o on the Ncheu-Dedza es-
carprment section. These rates of return are judged satisfactory, especial-
ly since there would be other benefits which cannot be readily expressed in
monetary terms, such as time savings and greater transport reliability for
both passengers and freight.



- 21 -
5. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMNENDATIONS
5.1       The project will improve the conditions of road transport on the
most important trunk road in Malawi. It is well planned, technically feas-
ible and will yield a satisfactory economic return. The Roads Department
of the Ministry of Works and Supplies is capable of administering the proj-
ect with the assistance of consultants; construction will be executed by
contractors and supervised by consultants employed under terms satisfactory
to the Association.
5.2       The foreign exchange component of construction is estimated at
about 73 percent. The Association is proposing to finance 84 percent of
the cost of construction and the foreign currency component (85 percent)
of payments for consultants' services. The Government would cover the
remaining costs from local resources.
5.3       During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following
principal points:
(i) the removal of vehicle weight restrictions on the project
road and a general review of vehicle weight regulations
(see paragraphs 2.16 and 2.33);
(ii)  the promotion of more effective competition within the
trucking industry, and proper overall transport coordina-
tion (see paragraph 2.21);
(iii)  the expansion of the education of nationals for Roads
Department positions, the strengthening of the road orga-
nization and the improvement of its operations (see para-
graphs 2.32, 2.38 and 2.40).
5.4       The project provides a suitable basis for an IDA Credit of
US$11.5 million equivalent to the Malawi Government.
January 12, 1968



TABLE 1
M A L A W I
HIGHWAY PROJECT
HIGHWAY EXPENDITURES
(Ml 1,000)
US$ lillion
Year    Administration*    Construction   Maintenance    Total    Equivalent
1962          275                745            548        1,568        4.4
1963          258                218            413          889        2.5
1964          265                368            357          990        2.8
1965          288                969            490        1,697        4.7
1966          344              1,334            503        2,181        6.1
1967          343              1,513*           526*       2,382*       6.7
* Estimated
Source: Roads Depaitment



TABLE 2
M A L A W I
HIGHITAY PROJECT
DESIGN STANDARDS
--- Terrain ----------
Flat         Rolling   Mountain
Width of right of way (feet)                       200             200       200
Design speed (mph)                                  60             50         40
Stopping sight distance (feet)                    475             350        275
Hinimum radius, horizontal, (feet)              1,150             800        500
Maximum grades (percent)                            5                6         8
Bituminous surfaced width (feet)                   22              22         22
Roadway width, general (feet)                      32              32         32
Roadw,ay width on embanlments
higher than 5 feet (feet)                        36              36         36
Pavement type                                    Stabiliz.ed sub-base and base with
double bituTinous surface
treatment or bituminous
concrete
Pavement design wheel load                         9,000 lbs  equivalent
Structures: WVidth, carriageway (feet)
Span less than 30 feet             Equal to roadway width
Span more than 30 feet             24              24         24
Width, footpath (feet)               2 x 2
Loading                              AASHO         H20-S16



TABLE 3
M A L A W I
HIGHWAY PROJECT
COST ESTTIhTES
IG 1 7000    US$1,000 Equivalent
A. Construction
1. Construction contracts
Zomba-Liwonde                            728
Liwonde-Ncheu and Ncheu-Dedza          2,331
Dedza-Lilongtwe                        1,356
Subtotal, construction contracts    h,1l5             10,596
2. Allowiance for quantity variations,
about 10 percent of item A.1.            4h2            _1,o61
Total                                4,857            11,657
B. Supervision of construction
Consultants remuneration                   220               528
C.  Consulting services
Studies of road transport
licensing regulations and
rail-road coordination                    4o                 96
D. Price contingencies
7.5 percent on items A, B & C              38h               922
Subtotal items A, B, C & D               5,501            13,202
E.  Refunding of Credit S2-MAI                 20h                490
TOTAL                                5,705            13,692



TABLE 4
ML A L A W I
HIGIThAY PROJECT
ESTITfATED AVERAGE DAILY TXAFFIC ON PROJECT ROAD SECTIONS
1966/67
Heavy Vehicles Light Vehicles Total
ZOYiBA-LIWONDE (31 miles)
Zomba approach. + 6 miles                  152              370         522
Zomba outskirts + 20 miles                  75              165         240
Liwonde - 5 miles section                   60              120         180
LDhONDE-NCHEU (47 miles)
Balaka approaches (5 miles)                 72              242          314
Other sections (42 miles)                   60              120         180
NCHEU-DEDZA (47 miles)
Dedza appraoches (5 miles)                  62              198          260
Other sections (42 miles)                   60              120         180
DEDZA-LILONGWE (55 miles)
Lilongwe appraoch (10 miles)               173              415          588
Dedza-Lilongwe - 10 (45 miles)              63              122         185
Source: RD. and Brian Colquhoun and Partners



MALAWI
HIGHfLAY PROJECT
1/
ESTIMATED VEHICLE OPERATING COSTS IN MALAWI-
On - (I) Bitumen (II) Good Gravel (III) Mediocre Gravel and Earth
(Pence per Vehicle Mile)
12-ton cap. Freight                                                                 Passenger           Typical
vehicle drawing 10-   12-ton capacity       7-ton capacity     5-ton capacity           Bus            Passenger
ton capacity trailer  freight vehicle    freight vehicle   freight vehicle          53 Seats              Car
Diesel                Diesel             Diesel              Petrol             Diesel             Petrol
I      ITII   III      I    II   II       I    II    III      I    II   III      I    II   III      I    II   III
Fuel           5.2     6.6     8.1    3.9   4.8  6.1    2.0   2.5   3.1    2.5   2.9   3.5    2.0   2.5   3.1   1.9   2.1   2.8
Lubricants      .9     1.1     1.1    .5   .6   .7    .2   .3   .5    .2   .3   .4    .2   .3   .5   .2   .2   .La
Maintenance    7.0     9.7    18.7    4.8   8.4  13.2    2.1   3.2   4.9    1.5   2.5   3.3    2.2   3.3   5.0   1.0   1.4   2.4
Tires/Tubes   3.3      4.9    6.4    2.4   3.3  14.2   1.0   1.3   1.7    .7   .8   1.0    1.0   1.3   1.8   .7    .8   1.3
Crew Wages    4.2      5.0     7.2    2.9   3.5   4.2    4.1   5.1   6.2    3.1   4.1   5.2    4.3   5.3   6.4    -        -     -
Insurance       .8     1.0     1.2    .4    .5   .6    .4   .5   .6    .3   .14   .5    .7   .8   .9   .4   .5   .6
Depreciation   6.1     7.3     8.7    4.2   4.9   6.0    2.2   2.8   3.4    1.9   2.5   3.1    2.3   2.9   3.5   2.9   3.5   4.6
Total      27.5   35.6    51.4   19.1  26.0  35.0  12.0  15.7  20.4  10.2  13.5  17.0  12.7  16.4  21.2   7.1   8.5  12.1
1/  At traffic volume levels of 75-100 vehicles per day. Costs are presented net of taxes, duties, license fees, etc. and
therefore represent economic costs of operation. Costs do not include waybills, handling costs, depot operating costs,
administration, etc. which are not affected appreciably by road improvement. Therefore the per cent decrease in opera-
tion costs is overstated so far as the operator is concerned, though the absolute amount of reduction due to improvement
is deemed realistic.
Source: U.K. Road Research Laboratory (Lab. Note No. LN/761/RSPB.NFS unpublished).
NEDECO - Survey of Transportation in Zambia.
Interviews with Central African Road Services Ltd, Zambia, Smith and Youngson Ltd., Zambia, United Transport Malawi



TAB iE 6
M AL AWI
HIGHEiAY PROJ3CT
Estimated Vehicle Operating Costs on Project Road Sections
(Pence per Vehicle Mile)
12 ton Truck &   12 ton   7 ton   5 ton   Passenger   Passenger
10 ton Trailer    Truck   Truck   Truck          car         car
Zomba-Liwonde         35.6          26.0    15.7    13.5        16.4          8.5
Liwonde-Nceu          43.5          30.4    18.1    15.3        18.8         10.3
Ncheu-Dedza           52.4          36.0    22.4    19.0         23.2        12.1
Dedza-Lilongwe        43.5          30.4    18.1    15.3         18.8        10.3
In each case it is assumed that operating costs would be reduced to:
27.5         19.1    12.0    10.2         12.7          7.1
except Ncheu-Dedza, where because of steep climbs, the operating costs would
not likely fall below:
30.0         21.0    13.0    11.0         13.5          8.0
1/r Costs comlparable to totals set out in Table 5.
Source: I4ission estimate on basis of interviewis with transporters.



MALAWI: ORGANIZATION OF THE ROADS DEPARTMENT
MINISTRY OF WORKS AND SUPPLIES
COMMISSIONER FOR WORKS AND SUPPLIES
ROADS DEPARTMENT                                OTHER DEPARTMENTS
DIRECTOR OF ROADS
ENGINEERING             TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
CONSULTANTS                    PROGRAMS
| PLANNING BRANCH    ll               DESIGN BRANCH      |C|MANSTRUCTINC  BANCHD
MAINTENANCE BRANCH
| MATERIALS  |   |   DESIGN    |         |  SOUTHERN            CENTRAL   |        NORTHERN
| LABORATORY |   |   OFFICE    l         l   REGION               REGION         [   REGION
May, 1967                                                                                                                       IBRD-3403



MALAWI
HIGHWAY SYSTEM
To Mzimba
i   _)  ~~~~~ .              _0 ~~~ oto Koto
Kasun~_       5-    ,            I ,' /
t   ~~Pimr   bituminized  roads                  ---l                                                        cc) 
6'v egOX,-  O -/   1\|  <  0  20       40        60
, _   e l                                   ,                             " ,'
----r\----AFRICA  *TROPVColompti                                 Manwer
A;GUST  1967                                                             1 BRD-20Rasinje  on
Primary bituminized roads                                                  pSab>            '    ' 
Other primary roads)    - o
Secondary roads |ce|°  S}--A 
-- -- -- - --  Other roads\'   *t+  
,         ~~~Project road                           0                                      
*M,ajor airports r41  s7  _-L/e- 
|iid*|4 Railways                                                                                     C/WQ<vCh/w  
+++++++ --  Proposed railway                                 ,X       jNKlg9     
=--- Marshes                                  3 S           wnat               ioe   
E-t   scarpment                                   y                                   hri
L Xng<7ny/in     ~Doir es Socum             /   }olo -                                           ln be
t  _   t     ~T A N Z A N I A         g\ w                        C i
tLf9,\ X4; ,n  'X'L.'X,0                                                                              |~~~~~~~~~~~~uc O
Z   /  ~~~ _ 0,> BlontKl [  \  v           <                           x>~hiwowo
_g   /   Sa  l a s b u r ye q Yt, {<. t~~~~~~~~~~~~ho
< ,,M ash, Sso
X  ;,  Bulowayo r o a 0 a . + ... e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6
/ SOUTH  X        X                                                      '    8 %L    W
AUUS   196                                                                                 iromo292



