RESTRICTED
FILE      COPY                    Report No. P-58
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRES IDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
FOR A
HIGHWAY PROJECT
January 22, 1968



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF MALAWTI
FOR A HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
highway credit in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US $11.5
million to the Republic of Malawi.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        In February 1965, the Government applied for an IDA Credit to
help finance the improvement of the country's principal north-south road
between Lilongwe, a major agricultural center in the Central Region of
Malawi, and Zomba, the national capital in the Southern Region. Assist-
ance was requested also for the reconstruction of the primary road west
from Lilongwe to the Zambian border.  The application was based on a 1964
transport survey financed by USAID and on the feasibility studies carried
out by the Ministry of Works and Supplies.
3.        In response to this application, IDA extended, in October 1966,
a US $490,000 equivalent highway engineering Credit (S2-MAI; Report
TO-533a dated September 6, 1966) to help finance the detailed engineering
by consultants of the Zomba-Lilongwe road (180 miles) and the review by
the consultants of the design of the Lilongwe-Zambia border road (78 miles)
which is being carried out by the Malawi Roads Department.
4.        An MA project appraisal mission visited Malawi in April 1967,
when detailed engineering of the Zomba-Lilongwe road by the consultants
had been virtually completed. The proposed project which resulted there-
from covers the Zomba-Lilongwe road only. The Lilongwe-Zambian border
road has not been included at this stage, since detailed engineering is
not complete and the preliminary cost estimates by the consultants con-
firmed the Association's initial doubts as to the economic justification
of improving this road at this time.
5.        Formal negotiations took place in Washington in October 1967.
The borrower was represented by The Honorable John Tembo, Minister of
Finance, Mr. K. J. Barnes, Secretary to the Treasury, Mr. G. Richards,
Commissioner of Works, and other representatives from the Treasury and
the Ministry of Development and Planning.
6.        Previous IDA lending in Malawi consisted of (i) the US $490,000
equivalent highway engineering credit (S2-MAI) mentioned above, of which
$169,000 was undisbursed as of December 31, 1967; unpaid expenditures
under the engineering credit will be disbursed against the proposed high-
way credit; and (ii) a US $6.3 million equivalent credit for an education



project (102-H'AI signed May 4, 1967) which is in the design stage and
for which disbursements are not scheduled until later this year.
7.       I am submitting simultaneously separate proposals for a
US $6 million equivalent credit to help finance the Lilongwe Agricultural
Development Project, and a US $3.7 million equivalent credit for the
Shire Valley Agricultural Development Project. No further credit
proposals are expected to be submitted to the Executive Directors in
the near future; a power project might be next in line, possibly in the
second half of 1968.
8.       There have been no IFC investments in Malawi.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED CREDIT
9.       Borrower:                The Republic of Malawi
Purpose:                 To help finance (a) the reconstruction
and bituminous paving of the 180 miles
Zomba-Lilongwe highway; (b) the engin-
eering supervision thereof; (c) a study
of Malawi's road transport regulations
and road-rail coordination; and (d) the
refunding of'the highway engineering
credit (S2-MAI) of October 4, 1966.
Amount:                  Various currencies equivalent to
US $11.5 million (including $490,000
for the refunding of Credit S2-MAI).
Amortization:            50 years, including a 10-year period
of grace, in semi-annual installments,
beginning on April 1, 1978 and ending
on October 1, 2017.
Service Charge:          3/4 of 1% per annum.
PART III - THE PROJECT
10.      A report on the proposed project,entitled   "Appraisal of a
Highway Project - Malawi" (TO-599a of January 12, 1968), is attached.
11.      Malawi's internal transport system consists of about 6,200
miles of roads, 290 miles of rail, water transport on Lake Malawi, and
a network of light aircraft services. Malawi's sole practicable outlet
to the sea is by rail south to Beira (Mozambique) on the Indian Ocean



- 3 -
355 miles from Blantyre-Limbe. Less than 300 miles of roads are paved,
most of them only to single lane, and some 400 miles are gravel surfaced.
The rest of the network consists of earth roads and tracks. Past deve-
lopment of Malawi's road system principally followed the requirement
of connecting population and production centers by a network of low-
standard, low-cost primary roads. Only a few roads have properly designed
alignments and pavement. The system is unbalanced in favor of primary
trunk roads as compared with lower-class rural roads. Improvement of
the primary road system is required and is overdue in some specific cases,
such as sections of the proposed project road. Lower-class roads of
minimum standard are also required throughout the established agricultural
areas of the country, now served only by a limited mileage of tracks.
12.        The main item in the project is the reconstruction and bitumi-
nous paving of Malawi's most important road, between Zomba and Lilongwe.
Except for a small section near Zomba which has a single lane of bitumi-
nous paving, the road is either gravel surfaced or earth road. Under
the proposed project, it will be reconstructed to higher standards, in-
cluding two-lane bituminous paving. In view of the heavy traffic demand,
the proposed improvement of the road is of high priority. Construction
will be by contract awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding. Supervision of construction will be performed by consultants.
13.        Consulting services for a study of road licensing regulations
have been included in the proposed project to promote better competit-
ion, and thereby decrease road transport costs. To a certain extent,
road carrier licensing is, at present, assisting to protect the high-
cost operations of certain sections of the state-owned Malawi Railways
system. The consultants study will, therefore, also consider economic
coordination between road and rail transport.
14.        The refunding of the US $490,000 equivalent engineering credit
S2-MAI is proposed in accordance with the Association's policies for the
financing of detailed engineering. Credit S2-MAI has provided the
detailed designs and cost estimates on which the present construction
project is based.
15.        The cost of the project is estimated at about US $13.7 million
equivalent, including the refunding of Credit S2-MAI. The estimate in-
cludes an additional contingency provision which allows for cost variations
as a possible result of the recent devaluation of the I4alawi pound. The
foreign exchange component of construction is estimated at $9.1 million
or 73 percent. The proposed credit of US $11.5 million equivalent would
cover 84 percent of the currently estimated total construction cost and the
foreign exchange component of the consultants' services (excluding the
refunding). In view of Malawi's extreme poverty, its exceptionally heavy
dependence upon external resources to finance development, the generally
satisfactory efforts the Government is making in managing its resources,
I believe that IDA would be justified in financing the proposed proportion
of total cost.
16.        Completion of the proposed project is expected by the end of
1970. Bids received for two road sections have led to the award by the



- 4 -
Government, on November 30, 1967, of a contract to a joint venture of a
local and foreign firm. To postpone the award,which has been made on
the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with the
Association's procurement requirements, would have resulted in a delay
of project implementation by one year because of climatic conditions.
Therefore, provision has been made in the Draft Credit Agreement to
reimburse Government for project expenditures after December 1, 1967.
Bids for the remaining two road sections have also been received and
awards are likely to be made soon.
17.     The directly quantifiable benefits from the improvement of the
Zomba-Lilongwe road would be the reduced cost of vehicle operation and,
on a smaller scale, savings in road maintenance costs. Based on projec-
tions for normal traffic, that is, making no allowance for an increase
in traffic due to extraordinary transit shipments from Zambia, these
benefits would yield an annual economic rate of return of about 12% on
the investment. This is judged satisfactory, and there would be other
benefits which cannot be readily expressed in monetary terms, such as
time savings and greater transport reliability for both passengers and
freight.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
18.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Association
and the Republic of Malawi and the Report of the Committee, provided for
in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement, are being dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors separately.
19.     A provision is made in the draft Development Credit Agreement
regarding the refunding of the Highway Engineering Credit (Section 2.03(a)).
Apart from the refunding provision, the draft Development Credit Agreement
follows the general pattern of other agreements used for highway projects.
PART V - THE ECONOMY
20.     A report entitled, "Current Economic Position and Prospects of
Malawi" (No. AF-68a), was distributed to the Executive Directors on
November 22, 1967. Since its Independence in 1964, Malawi's performance
in expanding output and investment has been impressive. After a stagnant
period in the early 1960's, there has been a very substantial increase in
production over the past three years, and fixed investment reached a peak
of 17 % of GDP in 1966 as compared with 10% in 1964. However, despite
the recent growth in per capita income, the level still remains among the
lowest in the world at around $55 per head in 1967.
21.     Moreover, public savings are still negative, and overall savings
quite low. Prior to Independence, the Government's deficit on current
account was met by the former Central African Federation, and, since
then, by the United Kingdom.   Malawi has made substantial progress
in reducing this deficit, largely through increasing revenues. The



- 5 -
Government has been able to mobilize a modest amount of local resources for
development purposes from the surplus of enterprises and local borrowings.
However, over the past two years, there has been a substantial use of
foreign assets. In 1966, this was principally due to extensive borrowings
from the banking system for development purposes, while in 1967, the main
problem was losses incurred by the Farmers M4arketing Board, as the result
of unexpected price declines and weaknesses in quality control. As a
result of their experience in 1966-67, the Malawi authorities have now
taken acticn to contain local borrowings, and to improve their marketing
arrangements. Moreover, the decision to devalue the Malawi pound in
November 1967, which was taken primarily in order to maintain the level of
British financial aid in Malawi currency, will also substantially improve
the savings position of the Marketing Board. As a result of these actions,
Malawi's performance in public finance should show a substantial improve-
ment in 1968.
22.       Malawi's main potential for growth lies in agriculture,where the
volume of commercial output has grown by about 6 percent annually over the
past decade, with a marked acceleration in recent years. There are also
reasonable prospects for development of manufacturing and transit trade.
The public sector development program for 1968-70 places heavy emphasis on
increasing agricultural production and improving communications. While
actual expenditures are not likely to reach the ambitious targets set in
the Government's tentative plans, a substantial increase does seem likely
over past levels, with a probable average of around £11 million for the
1968-70 period, as compared with one of £7 million in recent years.  Under-
lying the Government's ability to execute a program of this magnitude are
its determination to retain experienced expatriates and its strengthening
of the administrative structures concerned with development, and particu-
larly with the agricultural program. Over the 1968-70 period, it seems
likely that the Government will be able to secure some £8 million annually
on concessionary terms from external sources. However, if foreign
exchange reserves are not to be drawn down to a dangerously low level,
about £3.0 million annually from local resources appears to be the most
that can be provided for development. Moreover, roughly half of this
amount will probably be needed to meet the cost of projects which will not
be eligible for foreign financing, leaving Malawi no more than fl.5 mil-
lion as local counterpart for projects likely to be considered for
external aid. This local contribution would represent approximately 15
percent of the total cost of these projects, so that external financing
of roughly 85 percent of project costs would be required if a total pro-
gram of as much as £11 million annually is to be achieved during 1968-70,
as would appear to be desirable.
23.       Existing external debt service mainly from pre-independence
commitments is already fairly high for a country of Malawi's income level,
accounting in 1967 for 16 percent of current Government revenues and 10
percent of exports of goods and services. Even with prudent financial
policies and concessionary terms for its development finance, Malawi's
current budget and balance of payments position is likely to depend on
continued grant budget support for much of the next decade. The service
burden arising from any large amounts of conventional borrowing could



- 6 -
extend that period even further.  Given MIala'ii's great poverty and
satisfactory record of economic performance, I therefore believe that
IDA financing is fully justified.
PLAT VI - CCMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
24.       I am satisfied that the proposed development credit would com-
ply with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VII - RECCMMENDATION
25.       I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
Resoluticn:
Resolution No, IDA
Approval of a Development Credit to the Republic of Malawi
in an amount equivalent to US $11,500,000.
RESOLVED:
THAT the Association shall grant a development credit to
the Republic of Malawi in an amount in various currencies
equivalent to eleven million five hundred thousand United
States dollars (US $11,500,000) to mature on and prior to
October 1, 2017, to bear a service charge at the rate of
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum, and to be
upon such other terms and conditions as shall be substantial-
ly in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in
the form of the Development Credit Agreernent (Highway Project)
between the Republic of Malawi and the Association, which has
been presented to this meeting.
George D. Woods
President
Attachment
Washingtoni D.C.
January 22, 1968



