Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19801-MAG
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OFSDR 29 MILLION
(US$40.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FORA
SECOND HEALTH SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
November 4, 1999
Human Development IV
Country Department 8
Africa Region



(Exchang(e Rate Effective)
Currency Unit =FMG
1 FMG' US$ 0.000176
US$ 1 = 5687 FMG
FISCAL YEAR
January l - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB    African Development Bank                       MOH/MINSAN Ministry of Health/Ministere de la santd
AIDS    Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome            MIS/SIG        Management Infornation Systeme/Systeme
d'Inforrnation pour la Gestion
APL      Adjustable Programn Lending                   MMR            Maternal MortaIity Rate
ARI      Acute Respiratory Irnfections                 MOH            Ministry of Health
BHA      Better Health in Africa                       MSF            M6decins sans fronti6res
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy                   NCB           National Competitive Bidding
CDC      Centers for Disease Prevention and Control    NGO           Non-Governmental Organizatior
CRESAN Health Sector Improvement Project (Credit Sant6)   PAIGEP      Public Management Capacity Btilkling Project
PA            Project Account
CRESE,D Education Sector Reinforcement Project (Credit  PAM           Programme Alimentaire Mondia.
Education)
CRS      Catholic Relief Services                      PCU           Project Coordination Unit
CSBI   Health center category I (Centre de sante de base 1)  PER      Public Expenditures Review
PIM            Project Implementation Manual
CSB2    Health center category 2 (Centre de sante de base 2)  PPF     Project Preparatiion Facility
DALY   Disability Adjusted Life Year                   PNLS           Programxne National de Lutte contre le
SIDA/MST/VIH
DHS      Demographic and Health Survey                 PTA            Plan de Travail Annuel
DIRDS   Directions Inter-Regionales de Developpement   RH             Regional Hospital
Sanitaires
EPI      Extended Program olF Imnunizations            Salama         Centrale d'Achal; de Medicamene; Essentiels
EU       European Union                                SECALINE       Food Security and Nutrition ProJ -cl:
FAO      Food and Agriculture Organization             SEECALINE   Community Nutrition II Project
FID      Regional Development Fund (Fonds dintervention   SBD         Standard Bidding Documents
pour le developpement)
FP       Family Planning                               SIL            Structural Investment Loan
GAIN    Groupe d'Action Intersectorielle de Nutrition  SMP            Severely Malnourished Children Program
GDP      Gross Dornestic Product                       SOE            Staternent of Expenditures
GTZ      Germnan Agency for Technical Cooperation      STD            Sexually Transmiitted Diseases
HIV      Human Immuno-deficiency Virus                 TB             Tuberculoses
HSDP   Health Sector Development Plan (Plan Directeur)    UNDP        United Nations Development Program
IAPSO   United Nations Inter-Agency Procurement Services  tJNFPA      United Nations Fund for Population Activities
IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction and      UNICEF         United Nations Children's Fund
Development                                   UNIPAC         United Nations Plrocurement & Assembly Cen:.r
ICB      International Competitive Bidding             USAID          United States Agency for Interna ional DevelopirLent
ICR      Implementation Completion Report              UNV            United Nations Volunteer
IDA      International Development Agency              WDR            World development Report
IEC      Information, Education and Communication      WFP            World Food Program
IMCI    Integrated Management of Childhood Illness     WHO            World Health Organization
IMR      Infant Mortality Rate
Vice President:    Callisto Madavo
Country Director:    Michael N. Sarris
Sector Manager:    Arvil Van Adams
Task Team Leader:   loan S. Luculescu



MADAGASCAR
SECOND HEALTH SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                 Page
1. Project development objective                                                  3
2. Key performance indicators                                                     3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project  3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                     4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices            11
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                            15
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                 15
3. Benefits and target population                                                16
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                 17
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                     18
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies    22
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                      24
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                              25
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                   25
E. Summary Project Analyses
1. Economic                                                                      26
2. Financial                                                                     26
3. Technical                                                                     28
4. Institutional                                                                 28
5. Social                                                                        29
6. Environmental assessment                                                      29
7. Participatory approach                                                        30
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                31
2. Critical risks                                                                31
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                33



G. MainLoanconditions
1. Effectiveness conditions                                                        33
2. Other                                                                           33
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                       34
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                      35
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                       36
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                 43
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                      51
Annex 4: Economic Analysis                                                            52
Annex, 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary  69
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                    70
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                  78
Annex 8: Documents in Project File                                                    79
Annex. 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                              80
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                         82
Annex 11:
Annex 12:
Annex I - Attachment 1: Letter of Sector Policy - Annex 6 - Attachment 1: Procurement Capacity
Assessment
MAP(S)



MADAGASCAR
Second Health Sector Support Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
Africa Region, Human Development 4
Date: November 4, 1999                          Team Leader: loan S. Luculescu
Country Manager/Director Michael N. Sarris      Sector Manager/Director Arvil Van Adams
ProjectLM  P051741                              Sector(s): HT - Targeted Health
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)   Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention N
Project Financing Data
O Loan         N Credit        O Grant        El Guarantee    O Other (Specify)
For Loans/CreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m)US$40.0 million
Proposed Terms: O To be defined  1S Multicurrency O Single currency
1 Standard Variablet] Fixed        E LIBOR-based
Grace period (years):           10
Years to maturity:              40
Commitment fee                  0
Service charge                  0.75%
Government                                                   4.38           0.00         4.38
IBRD
IDA                                                         13.81          26.19        40.00
Total:                                                      18.19          26.19        44.38
Borrower: GOVERNMENT 
Guarantor: NA
Responsible agency
MOH
Other Agency(ies):
Ministry of Health
Address: UGP Projet CRESAN, Ex-Ecole de Medicine, Befelataninana, Antananarivo, Madagascar
Contact Person: Dr. Paur-Richard Ralainirina, Coordinateur du projet CRESAN & Dr. Dieudonne Robert Rabeson,
Directeur des Etudes et de la Planification, Ministere de la sante, Antananarivo, Madagascar
Tel: 261-20-22-32-544/261-222-32-524            Fax: 261-20-22-32-524/261-20-22-32-524
Email: ugpcresan@simicro.mg
Estimated disbursements( Bank FYIUS$M):
Annual¶    0.8          7.2         8.0        8.0         8.0         4.0        4.0
Cumulative    0.8          8.0        16.0        24.0       32.0        36.0       40.0
Project implementation period 6 years
Expected effectiveness date 06/01/2000 Expected closing date 12/31/2006
CS PAD) Fo.m: Odchr , 1N6G






A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project's overall development objective is to contribute to the improvement of the health status of the
population through more accessible and better quality health services. Specific development objectives are
to:
(i) improve quality of, and access to primary health care services with a focus on rural areas;
(ii) support priority health programs with emphasis on endemic infectious diseases, reproductive health
(including family planning, sexually transmitted diseases and HlIV/AIDS) and nutrition; and
(iii) strengthen sector management and administrative capacity within the Ministry of Health, and at
provincial and district levels, to enable successful decentralization and sector reform.
While the project's main focus is on primary health services and malaria reduction (which will benefit of
about 65% of the proceeds of the credit), the project will also contribute to reproductive health and
nutrition activities, and to the strengthening of health sector capacity. By supporting the implementation of
the health sector's Policy and Development Plan (i.e., "Plan directeur"') the project will also contribute to
the ongoing health sector reform process.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex I)
(1) Increased accessibility to health facilities (primary health care facility within a 5 Km radius) from 65%
to 85% by 2006.
(2) Increased outpatient health facility utilization rates from 0.2 contacts per year to 0.6 contacts per year
by 2006.
(3) Increased district hospital utilization rates from 50% to 80% by 2006.
(4) Increased contraceptive prevalence rates from 9.7% to 17% by 2006.
(5) Increased child immunization rates from 40% to 75% by 2006.
(6) Reduced hospital fatality rate in malnourished children hospitalized for nutrition rehabilitation from
20% to 10% by 2006.
(7) Maintain the lIV prevalence rate in pregnant women below 0.25 per 100.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 16249-MAG                             Date of latest CAS discussion: 02/18/97
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 16249-MAG         Date of latest CAS Board discussion: February 18, 1997
Poverty reduction is at the center of the Bank's CAS. The key challenge in this regard is to ensure that the
9.5 million poor of the country (i.e., 70% of the total population, with over 85% of the poor living in rural
areas) will be better off with their living conditions improved. The project will support this overarching
goal by focusing on improving access to better quality primary health services for the entire population and
especially the rural poor. Three key CAS objectives are particularly relevant for this project: (i)
development of human capital through primary education, basic health care and rural infrastructure; (ii)
strengthening of the public sector to improve its ability to deliver quality services; and (iii) creation of a
favorable economic environment to allow full development of public and private sectors. The CAS
specifies indicators and monitorable actions as follows: improved quality of health services in 111 health
- 3 -



districts; finalized and implement health policy and master plan; reduced morbidity and mortality rates due
to malaria and tuberculosis; improved drug availability and affordability (in at least 85% of facilities);
introduced cost-recovery for drugs in 75% of communities; and avoid an increase of the HIV/AIDS
epideemic.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
A) Public health issues.
2.1 Low access to health services and poor quaiity of care.
The puablic health delivery system of Madagascar is relatively well developed: the country has about 2100
basic hiealth facilities (of which 200 are private facilities), 86 first referral hospitals (of which 12 are
private hospitals) and, at tertiary level, 4 regional and 2 university hospitals (totaling over 4,150 secondary
and tertiary care beds). In spite of this situation, only about 65% of the population has access to a health
center located at less than 5 kilometers from where they live. Moreover, quality of care is precarious:
drugs are rarely available, laboratories and clinical facilities are inadequately equipped, buildings are old
and lack maintenance. More importantly, the situation of the health personnel compares poorly witlh the
situation in countries at similar income levels (table 1) and (table 2) it is compounded by geographical
distribution problems (concerning doctors but, especially, mid-wifes and nurses). Health providers are not
properly trained and supervised, nor are there incentives to reward good performance.
Tabtle 1. Human resources in Madagascar, in Sub-Saharan African countries and in developing
countries.
Madagascar    Sub-Saharan    All developing countries (in 1992)
(in 1996)    Africa (mi 1992)
Population per doctor   12,000         10,800                    1,400
Population per nurse    4,000          2,100                    1,700
Nurses per doctor       3.0            5.0                      1.2
Table 2. Health personnel in public health centers in 9 communes of Madagascar.
Source: Enquete sur I 'evaluation de l'enseignementprimaire et de la sante de base, Madagascar 1998.
Communes                 Population per doctor       Population per nurse
ANTSIRABE I                       9,697                      9,697
AMBOSITRA                         5,357                      3,061
FENERVICE EST                      13,569                     2,714
RAMENA                           966                        483
BRICKAVILLE                       4,092                       8,183
AMPARAFARAVOLA                       15,109                      7,555
ST AUGUSTIN                       6,101                      6,101
VOHPENO                          3,592                      3,592
ANTSLAFABOSITRA                        -                        1,729
-4-



As a consequence, quality of care in the public sector is poor and health facility utilization rates are low: in
outpatient services there are not more that 0.2 contacts/inhabitant/year, while in inpatient services 50% of
beds are, on an average, empty. The immunization cold chain is operating in only about 50% of facilities,
immunization rates are low, while maternal mortality, infant mortality and under five mortality rates are
particularly high (488/1000,000, 96/1000 and 159/1000 live births respectively) and comparable with
Sub-Saharan Africa (table 3).
Table 3. Health status indicators in Madagascar and in some Sub-Saharan African (SSA) countries
in 1990-1996.
Madagascar data are for the latest available year (1996). Other countries' and the SSA's data are 1990-1996
averages.
Country      Life    Infant mortality  Under-five   Maternal    Total   Vaccination    Child
expectancy  (per 1000 live    mortality    mortality   fertility  rates (% of Malnutrition
at birth     births)     (per 1000      (per        rate       DPT
(years)                  live births)  100,000 live         immunized)
births)
Madagascar     58            96           162         600         6.0        40           50
Guinea       46           122           210         880         5.7        73          24
Mauritania     53           94            155         800        5.1         50          48
Mali        50           120           220         580         6.7        46          31
SSA         52           91            147         NA          5.6        55          NA
2.2 Low demand for and utilization of reproductive health and STD/H1V/AIDS services.
The population of Madagascar is growing at 2,8% per year (data extrapolated from the 1993 Census). At
this rate of growth, the population will double in less than 25 years. The Malagasy population is also very
young, with 44% under age 15. Although the country is vast and the population density is still low at 24
persons per square kilometer (26 for total sub-Saharan Africa), the very fast rate of population growth
makes it very difficult for the Government to provide essential social services. The Government, aware of
this issue and also concerned with the problem of high maternal mortality (488 maternal deaths per
100,000 live births according to the 1997 Demographic and Health Survey), has adopted, in 1990, a
National Population Policy. The rapid rate of growth has been caused by a decline in mortality, especially
in infant and childhood mortality, whereas fertility has remained at very high levels. The total fertility rate
is 6.0 children per woman (1997 DHS) and has remained constant in the 1990s. The Malagasy women
marry at an early age, want large families, and have their children at even younger ages than before.
However, during the last years the demand for birth spacing and birth limiting services has been increasing,
mostly in the urban areas. This has increased the use of modern contraception (in 1997, the contraceptive
prevalence rate among married women was 9.7%). Nevertheless, such levels of contraceptive use as yet
had no significant impact on the total fertility rate. The main challenge, therefore, remains to expand the
provision of good quality reproductive health services, especially in the under-served areas. Recently, the
Government has stepped up its efforts in the provision of reproductive health services, including access to
modern contraceptives. However, the progress (shown in the results of the 1997 DHS) has been most
noticeable in the province (faritany) of Antananarivo, which has benefited from considerable assistance
from USAID, and in the provinces of Antsiranana and Toamasina. The progress in three larger provinces
(having about half of the total population of the country, i.e., Fianarantsoa, Mahajanga -in spite of GTZ
- 5 -



assistance- and Toliary) has been much less rapid. In addition to problems with accessibility, the quality of
reproductive health services also needs to be considerably improved.
The prevalence of the human immuno-deficiency virus (HIV) is still very low in Madagascar. Sentinel data
and figures from epidemiological surveys (conducted in 1995 and 1996 in the country's six major cities)
suggest that 5,000 people were IRV-infected at that time. Currently, about 10,000 people across the
country are estimated to be IRV-infected. This represents a HlV/AIDS prevalence rate of 0.13% among the
adult population (above age 15). These figures compare very favorably with prevalence rates in Southern
and Eastern parts of continental Africa. However, several factors could trigger an explosion of the
HIV/Al[DS epidemic in the very near future. Among these are: very high prevalence rates of STD (16% of
pregnant urban women had active syphilis in 1995-96); behavior and mores which encourage multiple sex
partners;wide spread prostitution in cities (and its strong link to poverty); and, last but not least, high
geographical mobility. In addition, HIV infection being asymptomatic during early stages increases the
transmission (as infected people ignore their situation and continue to spread the virus).
The Government is concerned about the challenges posed by the HIV/AIDS infections and the severcl
socio-economic consequences of an AIDS, full-blown, epidemic, and it is committed to contain its
expansion. To that effect, several steps have already been taken. First, a National AIDS control propram
was launched in 1988, three years before the first case of AIDS was reported. Second, the country has
already a sero-suveillance system (data are collected from 15 "sentinel" centers) which is operational but
needs to be strengthened. Third, high-level advocacy activities as well as a public IEC (information,
education and communication) campaigns have raised the level of awareness among decision-makers and in
the general public about the HIV/AIDS infection (as documented in the 1997 DHS). Fourth, a study was
completed in 1997 to establish protocols for a syndromic algorithm to assist the treatment of STD (still to
be implemented throughout the country and requiring for a successful application the training of medical
personnel as well as an effective provision of drugs). Last, the social marketing of condoms started in 1996
in major, cities and it is expanding. Notwithstanding these initial and useful steps, much more needs to be
done in order to strengthen IRV and STD preventive interventions country-wide, as well as to integrate
them into the provision of reproductive health services. In addition, under a strengthened leadership of the
National program on STD/HIV/AIDS, strategies ought to be better defined and expanded to include 11l
societal sectors.
2.3 Public health problems dominated by "avoidable" causes of morbidity and mortality
Madagascar's population is burdened by many comnmunicable diseases, including malaria, tuberculosis,
plague, schistosomiasis, and very recently cholera. These diseases continue to affect the productivity and
well-being of people in spite of the fact that cost effective interventions are available world-wide.
Malaria: While in recent years, in the highlands of the country the Malaria epidemic has significantly been
reduced through indoor insecticide spraying and the establishment of an epidemic alert system, in the
coastal regions, the disease is endemic and continues to be a major determinant of morbidity and mortility.
To maintain the results achieved in the highlands, the national malaria program is now planning targel ecl
spraying of highland/lowland border areas, the extension of the epidemic alert system to the entire higllaEnd
zone and early measures to control outbreaks (indoor spraying and treatment of cases). For the rest of7 the
island, early household treatment with chloroquine made available at the community level, and increased
promotion and use of impregnated bed-nets will replace the heretofore limited efforts made, in a few
districts, by Government and local NGOs. Overall, prevention of malaria in pregnant women is poor (it
encompasses not more than 15% of pregnant women) and efforts to increase coverage and compliance with
a simpler and more efficient scheme will be pursued.



Tuberculosis: This disease continues to be a public health threat. The National tuberculosis program is
effective countrywide and has succeeded in increasing steadily the number of new cases detected and,
subsequently, treated. Recently, fnancial resource constrains have hindered the program's ability to timely
purchase sufficient stocks of TB drugs, precluding the systematic delivery of the modem short treatment
recommended by CDC-Atlanta and WHO (hence forcing the program to reverse to the old long scheme
which increases the risk of poor compliance and incomplete treatment).
Plague: The disease is still endemic in the rural areas and there have been periodic outbreaks in
Antananarivo and Majunga. The program relies on epidemiological surveillance combined with operational
research to detect the emergence of bacteria resistant to antibiotics and fleas resistant to insecticide.
Treatment of cases still relies on streptomycin injections, even though a more effective and easier to apply
oral alternative is available. The control of plague epidemic seems hindered by poverty and lack of
sanitation, the fact that agricultural produce started to be stored in houses (traditionally this was done in
special storage shelters outside the house) with the consequence of attracting the rats indoors, by the high
reproduction rates of the rat population and the difficulty of killing simultaneously the rat and its flees (so
that the flees do not migrate to humans). As mentioned, there are problems with cost, resistance and
toxicity of ratticides, antibiotics and insecticides, and this constitutes a solid rationale for continuing
operational research in this area.
Schistosomiasis (urinary and intestinal): This infectious disease is on the raise and has become widely
endemic throughout the island. The national program has just started to implement mass treatments with
praziquantel in hyperendemic villages. Due to the existence of cost effective interventions and to the heavy
impact on the well-being of the population of the affected areas, activities to curb schistosomiasis epidemic
are a public health priority.
Emerzing diseases such as AIDS, or relatively well known diseases for which there is growing awareness
(like rabies, hepatitis B and cysticercosis) have recently been included (generally when mass prevention or
cure became available and affordable) among the priority health problems in many countries. In
Madagascar, the number of cases of rabies has recently increased. Regarding hepatitis B, a few studies
have shown that: (i) overall, hepatitis B is highly prevalent in Madagascar (20.5% of the population has the
HBsAg); (ii) compared to urban areas, rural areas have a rate which is approximately 5 time higher; and
(iii) infection takes place predominantly in early infancy. In both cases, means to control the epidemic have
become available providing the rationale for their inclusion among the health problems of the country.
2.4 High malnutrition rates and weak institutional capacity.
Madagascar has one of the highest rates of chronic and severe malnutrition in Africa. According to a
recent DHS (1997) and to a 1998 nationwide anthropometry survey, acute malnutrition (wasting) affects
7% of children (this is more than three times the reference level for low-income countries), and 40% of
children under 3 years are underweight for their age. Moreover, 48% of the 0-3 age group are stunted (low
hight for age). In some regions and age groups these figures are substantially higher, reaching 12% for
wasting and nearly 65% for stunting. Since 1992, nationally these rates have not been improving and
probably have worsened. Micronutrient deficiency prevalence is common, particularly iron, vitamin A. In
addition, the public health sector has not been able to effectively lead and direct nutrition policy
development or satisfactorily performn its functions because of limited institutional capacity to plan, design,
and supervise nutrition activities which are in the purview of the Ministry of Health (which in Madagascar
is the lead ministry for nutrition as identified in the 1997 approved National Action Plan for Nutrition).
- 7 -



There is an aggressive and substantial program to improve nutritional status in the most disadvantaged
areas through preventive programs and responses to moderate malnutrition at community level under the
$42.0 rnillion SEECALINE Project, financed by IDA and WFP, and supported by UNICEF. Other.,
bilateral and non-goverm-nental community based programs also contribute to improved nutritional status.
However, there has only been extremely limited effort to address the severely malnourished child, which is
seen as the responsibility of the Ministry of Health. A comprehensive effort to better deal with severely
malnourished children, referred by community programs for nutrition rehabilitation to health facilities, is
needed.
B) Manafement and financial issues.
2.5 Insuifficient financial resources for the health sector.
During the last years (1996 to 1998), the health secltor budget accounted for only US$ 3.7 per capita
(which represented almost 10% of the total public budget and 1.3 percent of the GDP). This very lowv level
of funding (table 4) was compounded by: (a) poor budget execution [in 1996-1998 the budget execution
was 78%, 67% and 69% respectively, and, it should be noted that these figures reflect the situation o f the
funds ccommitted by the MOH ("credits mandates") and not actual expenditures paid by the treasury I, (b)
centralized spending (in 1998 as much as about 50% of the budget was allocated to the central
administration, although part of the money spent centrally was for the direct benefit of the districts) and (c)
allocation problems. Inadequate management at all levels also generate waste of scarce financial resources.
Studies show (table 5) that the population is not fully using public facilities and that spending for health is
distributed among: (i) services delivered by the private sector; (ii) services and drugs delivered by the
public sector (cost-recovery); (iii) traditional health providers; and (v) self-medication. Nonetheless, total
health expenditures are still smaller than the reference level for low-income African countries of US$9-13
("annual, per capita, indicative cost for a district-based health care system") mentioned in the "Better
Health in Africa" report (amount which does not include the cost of health care and of health care
administration beyond the district level).
Table 4. Health sector budget allocations and budget execution in Madagascar.
(1996: IUS$ = 4,061 FMG; 1997: 1US$ =5,091 FMG; 1998: 1US$  5,533 FMG)
1996              1997             `1998
GDP (millions FMG)                                     16,852,400        19,122,600        20,007,736
Population (millions)                                        13.5              13.9              14.3
Total Government Budget (millions FMG)                  2,079,618         2,756,805         3,257,553
Health Budget Allocation (millions FMG)                   225,006           251,321          261,515
Health Budget Execution (millions FMG)                    174,685           168,962           180,445
Execution/Allocation (%)                                     78%               67%               69°,1,
Public Health Budget per capita (US$)                        4.11              3.56              3.31
Public Health Expenditure per capita (USS)                   3.19              2.39        __2.2'.
2.6 Poor institutional capacity and overcentralization.
Until 1995, Madagascar had neither sector strategies, nor a health policy framework and tended to dilu 'e its
effort and scarce resources across all levels of the health system. In addition, resources were not being
used efficiently because of weak institutional capacity, combined with an overcentralized decision making
- 8 -



process and pattern of resource allocation. Although, the MOH has taken major steps to elaborate a sound
policy framework, decentralize the decision making, and deconcentrate health service delivery, much
remains to be done to: (a) adjust the institutional and legal framework to the new roles and responsibilities
of the different administrative levels (central, provincial, district and municipal), (b) further decentralize
decision making and (c) strengthen the capabilities of the 6 DIRDSs (Directions Inter-Regionales de
Developpement Sanitaires) and the newly established 111 health districts (Services de sante de district or
Districts sanitaires) to properly manage human, financial and other categories of resources.
Table 5. The choice of the health care provider.
Source. "Enqu6te sur lNivaluation de l'enseignementprimaire et de la sante de base" Madagascar, 1998.
Hospital or a better    Traditional   Self medication Area  Private
Communes      equipped health       healer           %        health     facility %   Others %
center %       "gu6risseur" %                center %
Antsirabe I          14.5              3.8            21.5         56.5       12.4        2.2
Ambositra            1.2               2.4            11.9        45.2        28.6        10.7
Fen6rive Est          1.8               3.6           16.1         76.8        0.0         1.8
Ramena              0.0               3.6            13.0        66.7        0.0         14.8
Brickaville           1.5              1.5            16.4        43.3        34.3        3.0
Ampara-farav.          0.0               2.0            9.3         73.6        11.3        3.8
Saint Augustin         3.5               1.8            7.0         87.7        0.0         0.0
Vohipeno             6.7              2.0             9.1         37.8       44.4         0.0
Antsiafabositra         1.7              10.0           35.0        53.3        0.0         0.0
Total              5.4               3.3            14.1        58.8        14.5        3.9
Government strategy.
The Government has made considerable progress over the last four years in addressing key sector
issues. First, following a two-year participatory process involving all stakeholders, a comprehensive health
policy framework and plan have been defined. The National Health Policy, and the Health Development
Plan:
(1) put the decentralization of sector management and the development of the private sector at the
center of sector strategies,
(2) base the improvement in service delivery on the: i) upgrading of prirnary care and the delivery of an
essential package of services, and ii) development of norms and standards, and
(3) considerably strengthen donor coordination.
Second, key reforms have been initiated with support from donors:
(a) Institutional capacity has been strengthened in areas such as health management and planning,
information system and personnel management. A national information, education and communication
(IEC) program was launched along with similar programs to deal with all priority health problems;
these various priority programs, to guide the sector activities, have developed national strategies in
-9-



their respective problem areas (malaria, nutrition, AIDS, reproductive health, etc.).
(b) Decentralization became effective with the creation, in 1995, of 111 health districts (health districts
have been gradually strengthened and are receiving increased direct budgetary allocations from the
MOH);
(c) Capacity building activities have been implemented to help district health teams to assess health
needs and elaborate district development plans;
(d) Cost-sharing arrangements and community involvement in the management of district health
services have been introduced, and, in January 1998, cost-recovery was generalized to primary liealth
care services nationwide;
(e) Management autonomy and cost recovery have been introduced in three of the six regional
hospitals;
(f) In January 1997, a private, non-profit, drug procurement unit (Salama) was created to supply
essential drugs at low cost to public and non-profit private health providers.
The Government is now in the process of defining other key sector reforms with regards to: (Ii)
pharmaceuticals (registration, quality control, pricing policy); (ii) in-service training; (iii) redeployment of
health personnel; (iv) restructuring of the MOH following an audit carried out in the context of civil service
reform; (v) health infrastrucure development; (vi) private sector (with emphases on contracting services
with confessional NGOs); etc..
With respect to population and reproductive health issues, the Government adopted in 1990 a
National Population Policy which calls for the exten,sion of reproductive health services (although it is less
specific on fertility reduction). More recently, the Ministry of Health has defined its reproductive health
strategy, in the form of a Declaration de Politique nationale en Sante de la Reproduction formally
adopted in 1999. This document offers a reproductive health policy as well as the normis and standards
needed for its implementation. Its five key principles are: decentralization of services; integration of
reproductive health services within the minimum package of activities at the district level; enhancement of
the quality of services; involvement of communities; and strengthening of national and international
partnerships. The main implementation strategies are: advocacy on reproductive health; mobilization and
empowerment of communities; promotion of behavior conducive to the use of reproductive health services;
equitable access to health services; training of health workers and strengthening of health centers; and
strengthening of data collection and research activities.
Regarding the STD/HIV/AIDS nascent epidemnic, several major steps have already been taketi to
prevent the spread of the infection. These included the creation, in 1988, of PNLS (National AIDS coat-ol
program or Programme National de Lutte contre les SIDA/MST/VIH), the establishment of a national
sero-sunreillance system, the launching of an IEC campaign on HiV/AIDS, as well as, in the major ci ies,
the start of social marketing activities for condoms. In addition, the Ministry of Health adopted in 1997
protocols (based on a syndromic algorithm) for the treatment of most common STD. However, more work
is still needed to strengthen the leadership of the PNLS and to sharpen strategies to contain the epidenr ic
through the adoption of multi-sectoral interventions. In this respect, the Government is currently
implementing the analytical framework proposed by ULJNAIDS, i.e., analysis of the situation, analysis of the
response, strategic planning effort and mobilization of resources. The Government will also update it;
national strategy on STDAHIV/AIDS for the years 1996-2000 as well as its 1996 Politique nationale de
lutte contre les maladies sexuellement transmissibles.
In 1997 a National Action Plan for Nutrition was elaborated by a multisectoral group made ul) of
representatives from the Prime Minister's Office (Priinature) and several line ministries, including hea Lth,
with support from international agencies (UNICEF, WHO, FAO, USAID) and local and international
- 10 -



NGOs. The plan reconunended a multisectoral approach to address the many determinants of malnutrition.
Also in 1997, a National Food Security Strategy, which has the objective of improving food consumption,
was also elaborated by Government. In the context of this multipronged strategy, the health sector's main
responsibility is to provide technical oversight, monitor the nutrition status and provide nutrition
rehabilitation services to severely malnourished children, while most prevention and nutrition education
activities will be delivered at community level.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project is designed to support, in close collaboration with other donors, the implementation of the
Govermnent's Health Policy and National Health Development plan. Potential areas for project support
have been identified within this overall sector policy framework taking into account that IDA should remain
a last resort financier whose funding should be complementary to other donor assistance. The project will
address the following sector issues and will be based on the following specific strategic choices:
3.1 Access to and gualitv of primarv health care services.
The project will continue to support, along with other donors, especially the European Union, the upgrading
and extension of district health services, consisting of: (a) health centers (Centres de sante de base I staffed
with paramedical personnel and Centres de sante de base II staffed with a doctor and paramedical
personnel), which are the first point of contact of the patient with the public health service, and (b) district
hospitals which are the first referral health facilities (Centres Hospitaliers de District I and II, the latter
category having also a Plateau technique. surgical theater, laboratory, X-ray.). The project will
complement funding from Government, donors and communities, and will contribute to the financing of
primary health facilities and first referral hospitals, to expand their coverage, raise the quality of services
and to provide a cost-effective package of essential care. The project will also continue to support of cost
recovery at district health facilities.
Several strategic choices have been made. Firstly, the decision to focus on district health services as
opposed to secondary and tertiary services is based on: (i) cost-effectiveness, since the package of essential
health services delivered at the district level could address an important proportion of the country's burden
of disease, in a cost effective manner and at the lowest cost, and (ii) equity, since these services are mostly
used by the poor. Secondly, the choice to focus on public sector delivery, as opposed to private delivery,
was made because: (i) public primary care services are predominant in rural areas and account for around
80% of total health care delivery; they also discharge an appropriate mix of preventive and curative basic
health services, while (ii) at least at present, private services are mostly curative (do not tackle preventive
or public health services) and their prices are prohibitive for the poor. Nonetheless, contracting of and
support to private services will be made possible and it is specifically mentioned in the sector's policy.
Contracting will include: (a) clinical services (as are for instance the Government's intention to offer
incentives to unemployed doctors to practice in remote geographical areas and the use of NGOs to deliver
specialized services such as eye surgery), (b) public health services (Salama, for drug procurement, but
also religious NGOs to manage district drug storage facilities) and (c) technical services (such as
maintenance of vehicles, buildings and equipments).
3.2 Access to, and quality of reproductive health and STD/HIV/AIDS services.
The project will: (i) help improve the access to reproductive health services with a focus on the three
underserved provinces of Fianarantsoa, Mahajanga, and Toliary (representing about half of the total
Malagasy population); (ii) set up higher quality standards for the provision of reproductive health and safe
motherhood services (including screening of pregnancies at risk and targeting of risk groups) throughout
- 1 1 -



the country; (iii) fnance the purchase of contraceptives (starting in 2002, when it is expected that the
demand in contraception will exceed Government's and donors' funding capacity; and (iv) promote child
survival as an incentive to birth spacing. The strategic choices made were to: (a) complement current
efforts in the area of reproductive health in the three other provinces in order to offer reproductive health
services on a truly nationwide basis as opposed to en intervention limited geographically; (b) integrate
reproductive health services with other health interventions, especially child survival and safe motherhood
vs. act vertically; and (c) help implement higher quality standards in training and in the provision of
reproductive health services as opposed to preferentially improve service coverage. These strategic choices
are in line with the recent reproductive health policy and norms prepared by the Ministry of Health ( ,ee
Government strategy above). The classic approach based on vertical programs for reproductive hea:th was
deemed neither sustainable nor cost-effective in the case of Madagascar. Furthermore, only the integration
of reproductive health (including interventions against STD/HIV/AlDS) within the general health services
will ensure synergy between reproductive health, child mortality reduction, and safe motherhood (materniti
sans risques). The implementation strategies will focus on: (i) meeting and raising (through IEC and eiforts
at the outreach) the emerging demand for reproductive health services as illustrated in the 1997 DHS
survey; and (ii) highlighting the other health benefits and outcomes linked to the use of such services,
especially for, but not limited to, mortality child reduction and safe motherhood.
The program against the emerging HIV/AIDS epidemic will stress: (a) safe blood transfusions and
sero-surveillance; (b) STD/H:[IV screening; (c) capacity building (laboratories and national AIDS control
program); (d) reduction of STD through training in STD syndromic algorithm management; (e) raising
STD patients' demand for services; (f) prevention campaigns, and other specific activities among
prostitutes, and other groups at risk (including IEC activities). These activities will be coordinated under
the reinforced "Programme lVational de Lutte contre le SIDAI/MST/VIJ' (PNLS). These activities will
help: strengthen the current Government's strategy to address the STD/HIV/AIDS epidemic nationwide
while the- epidemic is still nascent; and to control one of the key co-factors of the epidemic, namely the very
high prevalence of STD, through the implementation of the syndromic algorithm approach.
3.3 Addressing health sector resonsibilities in dealing with malnutrition.
The objective of this sub-component is to support the Government's multisectoral long-term effort to
significantly reduce nutrition-related infant morbidity and mortality. The Government recognizes thaI
nutrition plays an important role in over half of infant deaths, and that it has substantial impact on thi,:
well-being of infants, their educability and future productivity. While agriculture, education, water,
sanitation, and transportation are key factors affecting nutrition outcomes (and community and school
nutrition programs will significantly reduce malnutrition through nutrition education, supplemental fei d;ng,
provision of micronutrients and antihelminths) the Ministry of Health, as the lead Goveniment agency, has
also a crucial role to play in an effective nationwide effort. Two aspects, in particular, are weak and
require strengthening, namely effective clinical care of severely malnourished children, and the institucio nal
capacity to provide policy leadership, coordination, and quality assurance. In March 1999, the
Government approved the "Protocole sur la Prise en Charge des Enfants Severement Malnutris". T'iliis
protocol is based on the work of a Technical Committee (which includes WHO, UNICEF, WFP, the 1ked
Cross and SEECALINE) and it will serve as the basic reference for this project's suppolt to the Severlly
Malnourished Children Program (SMP) of the Minisiry of health. The Technical Committee will contirinue
to provide technical advice and support in carrying oult the SMP. The Government's capacity to deal i,th
the severely malnourished children referred to its nationwide health facilities will be developed througih the
strengthening of the referral system's capacity to provide nutrition rehabilitation with properly equipped
and trained staff at referral centers provisioned with the necessary specialized food rations. The SIP will
look principally to SEECALINE and other non-gouvernmental programs to provide for the transporta tion
- 12 -



and feeding of mothers attending to the malnourished children. MOH capacity to supervise and monitor the
treatment of severely malnourished children will also be strengthened. The project will also address policy
development, planning, monitoring and evaluation capacity of the Ministry through support for nutrition
planning, training, improved information and coordination among the many partners in Madagascar. With
respect to the latter, the Groupe d'Action Intersectorielle de Nutrition (GAIN) has proven to be an
effective tool in information and program coordination between the major partners and NGOs. Initiated by
USAID, one of GAIN's strengths has been that it is an <informal body )), not imposing decisions on
participants but serving as a forum for consensus and networking for joint financing/iimplementation of new
worthwhile activities. The Ministry co-chairs this informal group, and should actively engage in select
collaborative efforts identified by its members, thereby demnonstrating both leadership and recognition that
solving Madagascar's nutrition problems will require cooperation by many partners in many different ways.
3.4 Appropriate control of communicable diseases.
The project will continue to support, in coordination with other donors, the reduction of major
communicable disease epidemics in Madagascar because of: (i) the high burden these diseases pose on the
population's health and well being; (ii) the availability of cost-effective interventions; and (iii) the strong
justification for the public financing of specific control interventions with large externalities.
Regarding the most important single epidemic of the country, i.e., malaria, the project will financially
support expenditures related to: a) the development of policy guidelines and case management protocols, b)
training, and c) the development and implementation of prevention and vector control strategies (central
laboratory facilities, surveillance, research, monitoring and evaluation). In the highlands, the project will
continue to support the current malaria vector control measures consisting of indoor spraying with
environmentally safe insecticides, surveillance and outbreak control activities. This will be carried out
along the highlands/lowlands borders and in areas where outbreaks have been identified by the alert system.
In the lowlands, the project will finance malaria prevention activities targeting pregnant women, including
the development and the application of a simpler and more efficient strategy. The project will also support
the provision of chloroquine, or other affordable first line anti-malaria drugs, to communities in
malaria-endemic geographical areas, for the treatment of uncomplicated cases of fever, as this measure
cost-effectively reduces malaria mortality. Promotion of insecticide impregnated bed-nets will also be
fmanced; at the same time, the project will carefully examine cost-sharing mechanisms for selling bed-nets
and for their re-impregnation to ensure long term sustainability.
The tuberculosis strategy will continue to emphasize improved case detection and compliance to treatment.
While the Government is committed to subsidizing the purchase of TB drugs, breaks in public funding may
occur. In such cases, the project will allocate additional funds to ensure an uninterrupted supply of TB
drugs.
The project will continue to fund plague epidemiological surveillance and operational studies; in
particularly antibiotic resistance of the plague bacteria and resistance of rat fleas to current insecticides.
The project will also support a study on the plague epidemic's dynamic in urban settings with emphasis on
early alert indicators. In addition, the project will support a clinical study to test, in the Malagasy context,
the feasibility of oral doxicycline treatmnent and, if successful, will promote its widespread availability in
the affected areas. The project will support a study to review the entire plague strategy by combining, in a
coherent way, several components such as: (i) the control of the rat population and their fleas, (ii) behavior
changes, through IEC, to reduce the contacts between humans and rats, (iii) development and availability of
a specific diagnostic test easy to use in field conditions, (iv) development of a simple and effective
treatment scheme for suspected or confirmed cases of plague, and (v) the identification of urban areas in
- 13 -



which sanitation interventions are most urgent.
The project will support the schistosomiasis program to identify and treat, in hyperendemic geographical
zones, heavily infected population groups (school-age children or villages, for instance). In areas in which
the epidemic is less severe, treatment will be administered to symptomatic patients who either have a
microscopic confirmation of the diagnosis or present enough specific symptoms to meet the requirements of
a clinical algorithm.
Regarding emerging disease (other than HIV/AIDS), while the project will support from the beginning the
provision of vaccines for rabies, at its mid-term review a decision will be taken on the question of wliether
or not the project should also support hepatitis B control interventions. In the case of such a decisioi., the
project will also support an epidemiological study to determine the epidemiological profile of the country
and develop an appropriate control strategy.
3.5 Institutional strengthening
While the frst IDA financed project focused essentiially on the development of technical and administrative
capabilities at central level and often contracted specific activities to executing agencies, the second project
will continue to support the ]Ministry of health (to the extent to which this support is still necessary, ;ince
many donors are joining forces in this regard) but will emphasize administrative capacity building at
provincial and district levels, and the integration of program delivery into existing public services.
These strategic choices resulted from the determination that: (i) the top down approach to health services
administration must be complemented by a bottom-up approach allowing districts to evolve according to
their potential; and (ii) the development of program delivery capabilities has progressed sufficiently to
allow for the transfer of responsibilities from the relevant central service to the periphery. Specifically
planning and management skills required for a successful decentralization will continue to be strengthened
to ensure that district development plans are elaborated based on adequate needs assessment and thalt they
are effectively implemented. An emphasis on a bottom-up approach has been preferred, allowing the
assessment of needs and planning by the district teams; (i) partnerships will be developed with the newly
elected bodies at the communal level, which will approve district development plans before they are
submitted at the national level and oversee their implementation; and (ii) communities will be further
empowered with the management of the funds generated through cost recovery and will participate ir th e
elaboration and implementation of district development plans (through their local health committees).
Additionally, MOWs capacity, at the central and regional levels, will be reinforced to assume new ro.ls and
responsibilities within a decentralized system for: (i) policy and regulation; (ii) health personnel planiiitg
and development; (iii) planninig and financing; (iv) quality assurance; (v) epidemiological surveillance and
health management and information systems; and (vi) research development.
Finally, from a presentational view point, the "Institttional strengthening component" of the project vo ill
contain specifically activities concerning the management and administrative capacity of the Ministry of
health, while other important capacity building activiaties will be supported under all other component; and,
in particular, under the component on "District health services" (decentralization of decision making to
districts, community involvement in health facility management). For instance, the "Infectious Diseases'
component will support the strengthening of the central program on communicable diseases control
including operational research to improve the perforrnance in plague, malaria and tuberculoses contrci
activities, and the "Family Planning and Reproductive Health" and "Nutrition" components will, by me-ans
of training, operational research and technical assistance, contribute to the strengthening of the planniiig,
implementation, supervision, and monitoring capacity in these program areas.
-14-



C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
1) District health services                             17.78       40.0      16.10       40.2
2) Infectious diseases                                  15.86       35.7      14.80       37.0
3) Family planning and reproductive                      6.42        14.5      5.70       14.3
health (including STD/HIV/AIDS)
4) Nutrition rehabilitation and                          1.50        3.4       1.10        2.8
knowledge management
5) Institutional strengthening                           2.84        6.4       2.30        5.7
Total Project Costs                     44.40      100.0     40.00      100.0
Total Financing Required                     44.40       100.0     40.00      100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The health policy reform is presented in two main documents: the Politique nationale de la sante, adopted
by Government in 1996, and the National Plan for Health Development (Plan directeur 1997-2000). The
main thrusts of the sector policy are: (i) development of health services able to deliver to the entire
population, and especially to the poor, an essential package of affordable good quality services; (ii)
improvement of sector financing and of sector efficiency; and (iii) reduction of major public health
problems by applying cost effective interventions. The policy, perceived by Government as one of the main
contributors to poverty alleviation, emphases eight strategic priorities:
1) institutional and legal changes to enable sector reform;
2) development of district health services;
3) strengthening of first referral hospitals;
4) human resources development;
5) health financing improvement including community participation;
6) supply of essential drugs;
7) infectious disease control; and
8) family well-being (family planning, mother and child care, reproductive health, nutrition).
With the opportunity of two health sector round table meetings with donors, NGOs, professional
associations, and training and research cadres, held in May and October 1998, further discussions took
place to: (a) ascertain that the sector policy is understood, (b) build consensus for its implementation and
(c) identify the contribution to the achievement of the Plan directeur by Government and external partners.
Based on cost estimates (Cadrage macroeconomique et budgetaire du Plan directeur), public budget
projections and donor pledges, these two meetings also helped identify the source of fnancing for each
specific activity e.g., from the public budget, by individual donors, etc.. Also with the opportunity of these
meetings, activities for which funding was still to be found were listed. This provided an estimate of the
financial gap (i.e., the deficit between the cost of the Plan directeur and projected financial resources for
health for a period of three years) and a preliminary identification of activities to be financed by last resort
- 15-



lenders such as IDA and AfDB.
The project will support the policy reform proposecd by Government, for a period of five years, by
providing financing to practically all policy priority objectives listed above. As mentioned above, IDA will
be a financier of last resort for some of the activities for which, in October 1998, funding could not be
identified (AfDB is financing the remaining part). In this way the project will complement the efforts made
by Government and donors to implement the health sector reform policy.
3. Benefits and target popilation:
Econoinic benefits:
Better health services will increase the utilization of public health infrastructure and contribute throu#h cost
recovery to financial sustainability. A health delivery system operating fully at the primary health care level
will efficiently provide greater health returns and will generate savings by a more rational use of secondary
and tertiary facilities. These will result in both consumer and provider satisfaction.
Efficiency gains (to which the decentralization of decision making to regions and districts, institutional
strengthening activities, the choice of cost effective interventions and an enlarged role for the private :,ector
will be the main contributors) will help improve the utilization of scarce resources and will make possible
higher economic returns of public health expenditures. A convincing sector performance might also
motivate donor community to invest more in the sector.
Good health, reduced population growth and a better nutrition status will have a direct positive impact on
productivity of adults and on the children's learning and cognitive skills. Reduced fertility will stimulate
economic growth through lovwer dependency rates, higher saving rates and increased participation of
women in income generating activities.
The reduction of the burden of infectious diseases such as malaria, tuberculosis, plague, schistosomiasis,
and the prevention of a STD/HIV/AIDS epidemic will enable industrial and agriculture development, and
will increase -inter alia- revenues generated from tourism.
Social benefits:
As the sector policy seeks the provision of affordable services with emphasis on remote geographical o:ones,
the project will make a substantial contribution to equity and poverty alleviation, and it will enhance tlte
potential for economic and social development in underserved urban and rural areas.
The reduction of major public health problems, such as malaria, tuberculosis, STDHIIV/AIDS,
schistosomiasis and plague which affect in a disproportionate manner the poor population from rural reas
and urban slums, will contribute to equity and poverty alleviation.
Lower fertility rates will reduce the dependency rates, therefore, stimulating economic growth and will
increase the role of women in economic development and in society.
Better nutrition will enhance family well-being, improve productivity and children's performance in scl: ools.
Another inportant factor is the involvement of communities and of local administrations in health facil ty
management. This will: a) help increase the responsiveness of the sector to needs of the population, b)
contribute to the project's social sustainability and c) strengthen the democratization process.
- 1B -



Target population:
The health sector policy encompasses the entire population. Nonetheless its thrusts as well as the areas
selected for IDA financial support (emphasizing primary health care services, prevention, reproductive
health, nutrition and reduction of major epidemic diseases) discriminate in the favor of the poor, the rural
population, women and children. Since, those groups will benefit most, the project is expected to make a
substantial contribution to poverty alleviation and to the strengthening of the position of women in society.
Specific interventions, such as those addressing SDT/HIV/AIDS but also family planning, nutrition
rehabilitation, infectious disease control, will target well identified groups at risk (e.g., sex workers, school
girls and young couples, inhabitants of areas affected by water-borne diseases and their transmission
vectors, etc.).
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period: 6 years, covering a part of the Ministry of Health's National Health Development
Plan.
Executing agencies: The Ministry of Health, through its relevant directorates and services. Similar to the
implementation arrangements used for the current health project, selective activities of a specialized nature
will be implemented by specialized UN agencies (such as UNICEF, WHO, UNFPA). Local NGOs (such
as the Pasteur Institute) and community groups will be encouraged and utilized whenever possible to assist
in project activities provided they have expertise and a good track record.
Project coordination: A Project Coordination Unit (PCU), based on the staff of the project unit of the
current IDA financed health project (UGP: Unite de gestion du projet CRESAN -Cr. 225 1-MAG), will
coordinate project activities. This latter unit has performed its duties satisfactorily and acquired experience
in managing IDA funded activities, coordinating donors, NGOs, various MOH services and district health
authorities. As other donors have expressed interest in using this project implementation unit for the
execution of their activities (e.g., AfDB), the project coordination unit will be staffed accordingly. At
Appraisal, this unit's status, reporting, and working arrangements with other MOH directorates and
services were discussed with the view to ensure enough capacity and, also, to decide on a sustainable
solution.
Given the project's wide array of activities in different sectors, the Project Coordination Unit will
collaborate with the following MOH Directorates: (a) Health District Development (Direction de
developpement des districts sanitaires); (b) Infectious diseases directorate (Direction de la lutte contre les
maladies transmissibles); (c) Preventive medicine (which includes Nutrition and Family planning services);
(d) Planning and research, (e) Health care establishments (Direction des etablissements de soins), and (f)
Pharmacy and laboratory for the project component on institutional strengthening.
The Second Health Sector Support Project's national coordinator will report to the Secretary General and
the Minister of health, and will participate in the MOH management team together with the other central
directors, and the cadres of DIRDS and Health districts. The project staff will include an internal
controller, to oversee all administrative and financial transactions, a highly qualified accountant with at
least one assistant, a procurement specialist, an architect/engineer, in charge of the civil works, and at least
one assistant and a procurement assistant. Implementation of project activities will be the responsibility of
the above listed MOH Directorates who will collaborate closely with the decentralized health districts. As
mentioned above, some project activities will be executed by UN technical agencies (such as WHO,
UNICEF, UNFPA) and NGOs. The project implementation manual further defines the roles and
responsibilities of all concerned partners.
- 17 -



Project oversight: Ministry of Health. MOH currently makes decisions with the assistance of a
management team comprised of all division chiefs and representatives from health districts. This team will
be responsible for closely monitoring project activities (including the follow-up of performance indicators,
sector issues and health status/epidernic trends), donor coordination, and for making concrete
recomniendations of ways to improve overall project implementation.
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements: Project accounting, financial reporting and
auditing arrangements have been satisfactory under the ongoing project and the same arrangements will
continue under the proposed project. The current National Health Sector Project has a computerized
accounting/financial management system, which will be enhanced and utilized for the rnew project, sice
staff are now trained and the system operates satisfactory. However, based on the fmnancial managerment
assessment carried out by Bank's staff, the PCU structure will be strengthened with the addition of an
internal auditor, who will assist the coordinator to oversee all administrative and financial transactions. The
assessment also required that the existing accounting software be enhanced by additional modules to enable
the monitoring and managemient of the budget, contracts and assets. The PCU will continue be staffed with
a competent and experienced accountant assisted by the required staff, who will be in charge of the
project's accounting, financia[l reporting and auditing arrangements (which are clearly defmed in the
project's implementation manual, agreed upon during negotiations). The Accountant's responsibility will be
to oversee the accounting and financial management system, and staff as well, and transfer funds, after
control by the PCU internal auditor, to suppliers ancl MOH Directorates responsible for implementing the
various project components, Ibased on activity level and actual expenditures. Given the project will be using
SOE procedure, special attention will be paid by the Financial Management Specialist in the resident
mission in verifying SOE reliability; the internal procedures and controls involved in SOE preparation. The
PCU, in collaboration with the staff of the resident mission, will prepare an Activity plan describing the
measures which will be taken to strenghten financial management and enable the use of LACI procedures.
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements: The project will be monitored, on an annual basis, against
specific indicators for each component and development objective (see Annex 1). Demographic and health
surveys and Beneficiary Assessments will be used to determine base-line outcome indicators and to
evaluate the project's final impact. IDA supervision rnissions will be synchronized with the annual
discussions on the health sector Annual Work Plans (Plan de Travail Annuel) and with the Roundtab Ie
discussions on the sector's National Plan for Health Development which will take place twice a year vi ith
donors and NGOs. These will offer opportunities to adjust project activities to changes in the sector ancVor
to variations in the pace of implementation, and to coordinate with the Government and other donors'
funded programs. A mid-term review will take place during the third year of project implementation.
Beneficiary assessments will be carried out during the first and the last year of the project implemental ion;
because of the public health importance of malaria epidemic, these assessments will include a module on
malaria. Furthemore, since the 1997 Demographic and Health Survey provided base-line outcome data, 1ihe
next DHS data will be used to evaluate project's outcome and impact.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Lending instrument.
Although project preparation followed, to a certain extent, the approach of a Sector Investment Prograin
(SIP), it was decided to choose a targeted, more traditional, sector investment operation. This decisior 'was
taken reccignizing that while the project meets two key requirements of a SIP (i.e., it is based on a coherent
sector strategy within a viable macro-economic framework, and it has been designed and implemented with
- 181-



full participation of all donors), other conditions of a SIP, however, would not have been met: (i) MOH's
implementation capacity, although considerable improved over the recent years, remains too weak to ensure
that such a complex process could be successfully coordinated and implemented by Government without
making use of a dedicated project coordination unit; (ii) common implementation arrangements will not be
used by donors; (iii) IDA will not be a financier of last resort of annual sector plans as the areas to be
fmancially supported by IDA have been pre-identified for the entire duration of the project at the
preparation stage (yearly discussions on annual operational plans will, however, be used to fine tune the
project to changes in the sector); and (iv) technical assistance is likely to continue to play an important role
in the sector. The option of an APL was also carefully considered. Such an option was not chosen since,
at this stage, the sector policy is relatively new; it covers in a more precise/quantified manner only a
relative short period of time (up to 2001), and indicators to monitor such a policy are not fully developed as
yet. Nonetheless, the proposed project's contribution to decentralization and institutional strengthening is
expected to be substantive, thus preparing the sector for a more adaptable future operation (which could be
a SIP or an APL).
Primarv health care.
The alternative of limiting project support to specific district health services (for example to hospitals or
health centers, or to maternal and child care, or to preventive services only) was rejected because of the
comparatively lower impact these strategies would have individually than integrated. To maximize health
outcomes, the project will support the provision of an essential package of services in an integrated way for
the first two tiers of the system, with an appropriate referral system between health centers and district
hospitals.
Access and utilization of reproductive health (RH) services.
Four major alternatives were considered but rejected for RH and STD/H1V/AIDS service delivery, namely:
(a) specialized, or "vertical", delivery of RH services (vs. an integrated approach which was chosen); (b)
community-based distribution and outreach mechanism for delivery of RH services (vs. consolidating the
current network of service delivery at CSB1 and CSB2 level to be completed with social marketing of
condoms; (c) a more general, non-targeted, provision of RH and STD/HIV/AlDS services (vs. an approach
aiming at the groups at risk); and (d) given the present low levels of the epidemic a less-early,
less-aggressive, provision of preventive services for STD/HIV/AIDS (vs. an early and very aggressive
approach). The reasoning was as follows: First, the RH services need to be integrated with child mortality
reduction and safe motherhood interventions in order to create synergy between these three types of
interventions and also need to be strengthened at the first reference level as the RH program is still in its
initial stages. Second, STD/H[V/AIDS services need to be targeted to groups at risk as well as to the
groups spreading the epidemic most, the rationale here being both efficiency and cost-effectiveness. Finally,
only early interventions against STD/HIV/AIDS might enable to delay the onset of the epidemic, as,
typically, the STD/HIV/AIDS become much more difficult and expensive to control when they reach the
status of a full-blown epidemic.
In addition, the alternative of leaving exclusively the RH and STD/HI V/AIDS component to the other
donors active in this area in Madagascar (namely USAID, UNFPA, GTZ, and to a lesser extent WHO)
was rejected because of the need to rapidly and more aggressively enhance the provisions of RH services in
the three underserved provinces of Fianarantsoa, Mahajanga, and Toliary. In any case, other donor
resources will not be sufficient to meet this pressing need at the first reference level, especially as
contraceptive prevalence rises. Furthermore, the Bank's intervention will also facilitate Government's
efforts to promote the delivery of RH and STD/HIIV/AIDS services nationwide.
Communicable disease control programs.
The first alternative, the strengthening of vertical programs as they are currently organized, was rejected
- 19 -



because of the need to: (i) integrate activities at the district level, whenever possible, for sustainability and
efficierncy reasons and (ii) develop better coordination and collaboration between programs, especially in
training and supervision but also in service delivery. The second alternative, to radically decentralize all
program activities to the primary care level, was also rejected because: (i) these programs require
capacities at a national level to coordinate control strategies and (ii) the 111 health districts do not have yet
the capacity to implement various program activities independently.
Specific alternatives were considered for each diseatse control program:
* For malaria, the first alternative consisted in retaining the current program. It was rejected because it
would lead to an ineffective and unsustainable program (since systematic indoor residual sprayings ini ithe
highlands is an undesirable alternative because of the declining effectiveness of insecticides, the limilecl
sustainability of such an approach, poor beneficiary compliance with indoor residual spraying, increasing
vector resistance to DDT, and detrimental consequences to the environment). The second alternative,
stopping indoor residual spraying altogether, was rejected because it is essential to consolidate the results
of previous campaigns and to maintain the highlands free of malaria. Therefore, the third strategy, i.e., to
control the epidemic through appropriate epidemiological surveillance and targeted indoor residual spraying
of the margins, was chosen.
* For the fairly successful tuberculosis control program, the alternative of maintaining the program as it is
now was rejected in favor of: (i) extending the coverage of the program to all districts; and (ii) increasing
efforts to reduce the fairly high number of drop-outs (20% of patients).
* For the plague control program, a first alternative, reducing the rat population, was rejected because of
its high cost, and low feasibility and sustainability. Such a strategy would require intersectoral action, as
well as substantial investments in sanitary waste disposal and environmental hygiene, areas in which the
Ministr of Health does not have comparative advantage over the other sectors. Interventions to promote
better sanitation through IEC, however, have been retained in the project. A second alternative,
intensification of vector cont-ol activities, was rejected due to its low cost-effectiveness, especially in rural
areas, the high cost of insecticides and ratticides, their toxicity for the environment and the increased
resistance of fleas and rats (to insecticides and ratticides). This strategy might be implemented with
caution, however, in urban areas through the provision of Karthiman boxes (which requires far less
insecticide and ratticide and which does not allow their contact with the environment). Large sanitation
activities will be, nonetheless, pursued by the Govenmment with IDA and other donor assistance by mians
of projects in other sectors.
* For schistosomiasis, several alternatives have been tested by Government with technical assistance 7rom
the Pasteur Institute of Madagascar and with financial support from the first IDA funded project. Ba!;ed on
results of these studies, this first project has also started to support the implementation of the most cost
effective strategies. The new project will continue to fund these strategies (as described in the Annex Z
paragraph 2.4), as well as their evaluation and related operations studies.
* For STD, the alternative of setting up specific STD clinics for at-risk groups, backed by the existing 15
STD laboratories, was rejected because STD, especially syphilis, are a major problem affecting the ertire
adult population. Moreover, with the syndromic approach promoted by WHO, there is no longer the nr[ed
to confirn each case at a STD laboratory. A few laboratories will, however, still have to be operational for
epidemiological surveillance of STD.
* For STD/HIV/AIDS, the alternative considered was either to maintain the current level of low financing
for the national program, or to enhance the program by mobilizing efforts to prevent a rapid increase cf
STD/HIV/AIDS. The risk factors suggest, however, that sooner or later the country will have to inves;t
heavily in STD/HIV/AIDS. The alternative considered was therefore either to invest immediately while
risks are low, or to invest later given the fact that the sector has to cope with other many important
priorities and has limited resources. The latter alternative was rejected because of the high positive ini,act
immediate investments in prevention would have. Indeed, vigorous control of STD at the very early stage of
- 20 -



the epidemic has proven in other countries to be the most cost-effective intervention. In addition, the
epidemiological projections of a Bank-financed AIDS impact assessment suggest that an early effective
intervention could limit AIDS deaths to a few hundred of thousands over the next fifteen years, rather than
the over a million deaths projected to occur in the absence of prevention. The project will, therefore,
support a significant investment in HIV/AIDS prevention through a flexible and many-faceted approach, by
supporting interventions on a multi-sectoral and inter-ministerial basis including the participation of NGOs
and the civil society.
For Nutrition it was considered a more comprehensive program, which would have included health sector
administered community-based and school interventions on a nationwide basis, as well as programs focused
on micronutrient delivery, and maternal nutrition. These are part of the Government's Plan Directeur and
were carefully considered. Given the extensive SEECALINE programs in community and school-based
nutrition, and the activities financed by other donors in supporting micronutrient and maternal nutrition
programs, these components were not included at this time.
-21 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Implementaton   Development
Bank-financed                                                 Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Communicable diseases; drug      Health Sector Improvement        S            S
procurement and distribution;    Project (Cr.2251-MAG, US$31
strengthening of district health services; million,) signed in 1991,
cost sharing mechanisms and      restructured in 1995 (approval
community management; and        in June 1996), expected closing
institutional capacity           date June 30, 1999.
S            S
Reduciing food insecurity and    Food Security and Nutrition
malnutrition based on            (Cr. 2474-MAG, US$21.3
commtnity-based interventions. Covers million, signed in 1993, closed
the two most food insecure provinces of in December 1998.
the couintry.
Food security and reduction of   Community Nutrition II, (Cr.     S            S
malnutrition in children, and in  3066-MAG) US$27.6 million
pregnant and lactating women based on signed in 1998, effective in
a community nutrition program and a  November 1999, expected
school nutrition program. Expands    closing date 2004.
coverage nationwide.
Poverty alleviation and community    Second Sccial Fund (FID II)  S            S
development: Social Fund to finance   (Cr. 14489-MAG) US$ 40
rehabilitation of basic infrastructure   million, signed in 1995,
and income generating activities;  expected closing date 2000.
private sector support.
Other development agencies
USAID/Basics/Madagascar          Health/Population/Nutrition
Family planning, STDsIHiIV/AIDS
Child survival, including nutrition, in
two regions.
-22 -



FRANCE
Communicable diseases; drug       Health
procurement and distribution, quality
control and registration of drugs;
management autonomy and cost
recovery at regional hospitals; and
institutional capacity including financial
management
GTZ                               Health
Strengthening of district health services;
cost-sharing mechanisms and
community management; family
planning; and STD/HIV/AIDS control
SWITZERLAND                       Health
Cost-sharing mechanism for drugs and
community management; and drug
procurement
WHO/UNICEF                        Health/Nutrition
Communicable diseases; primary health
care; cost-sharing mechanisms and
community management; children
infectious diseases; malnutrition;
hygiene and sanitation; and in-service
training.
EUROPEAN UNION                    Health/Nutrition/Population
Drug procurement and distribution; and
financing of MOH non-salary
expenditures. Strengthening of district
health services; private sector
development; and institutional capacity
WFP                               Nutrition/Food security
School feeding program.
Food Security and Nutrition
NGOs and especially
CRS, MSF, Red Cross,
Early child development/Growth    Health/Nutrition
monitoring/ Food supplimentation/IEC/
Community based activities.
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
-23 -



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Important lessons were learned while implementing the ongoing Health Sector Improvement Project
(CRESIAN), as well as the Food Security and Nutrition Project (SECALINE), both rated successful.
Initiall,y, from 1992 until 1994, the National Health Sector Project (CRESAN) was a poor performer, and
was rated a problem projecl in 1994. Policy dialogue between the Government,and the Bank at that point
proved successful, resulting in the implementation, in 1995, of an action plan with far reaching resuts: (i)
the MOH initiated key sector reforms with regard to decentralization and drug procurement; (ii) donor
coordination and project management were considerably strengthened; and (iii) the project was restrlctured
to help the MOH implement its new strategies. Since then, the project has been successful in suppotilig
the MOH in implementing: 6i) the decentralization of the health system by strengthening the newly
established health districts; i(ii) communicable disealse control programs, which have registered signii cant
results over the last ten years; (iii) the creation of a private non-profit drug procurement unit; and (i,v)
institutional strengthening through personnel management and in-service training, and the establishn ent of
a health information and management system.
The SECALINE project successfully implemented four strategies to contribute to reducing malnutril ion
and poverty: (1) the creation of a social fund (this component was so successful that it was replicated in a
new operation (Social Fund II Project) approved in September 1995 and a follow-up project in 1999; (2)
targeted interventions on iodized salt production in Madagascar, which succeeded in ensuring that salt is
properly iodized, and successful IEC campaigns encouraged the population to demand iodized salt; (3)
food-for-work programs (targeted mainly at women-headed households in Antananarivo's poorest areas)
were also implemented; and (4) community nutrition interventions, which succeeded in reducing
malnutrition in two out of the six provinces, through strong involvement from communities and local
NGOs. The lessons learned through the successful implementation of these two projects in Madagascax
were also used in the preparation of the SECALINE, project (Food Security and Nutrition Project) w iich
became effective in 1999. They are as follows:
Lesson 1: The Government should, at an early stage, develop a comprehensive policy framework thi t
forms the basis for the intervention of all donors in the sector. Taking into account this lesson, the project
will be based on the Governrent's Health Policy and National Health Development Plan, National P lan of
Action for Food Security and Nutrition, and complement - not duplicate - community and school ba& ed
nutrition prevention programs.
Lesson 2: Implementing key changes in the health administration and the health delivery system requ ires
strong capacity building efforts and design of proper incentives. Based on this lesson, the project wil
support the decentralization of the health system by developing planning and management capacities at
regional, district and communal levels. In supporting a bottom-up approach, incentives will be designied to
award the best performers in terms of implementation.
Lesson 3: To guide implementation and maintain momentum, reasonably detailed work programs and
implementation arrangements should be designed and agreed on, annually, based on the project's strulthre
and development objectives but also constantly adapting the project to changes in the sector. Supervision
missions will be synchronized with the preparation of the annual working plans or Roundtable discussions
with donors and NGOs. This lesson was already applied during the mid-term review and the
reprogramming of the ongoing health project, and also during subsequent supervision missions result:rig; in
achievements in terms of development objectives and implementation performance. An implementatic n
manual, a detailed annual project work program, ancl procurement and disbursement plans will be prepared
before project effectiveness.
- 24 -



Lesson 4: Beneficiaries should participate at all stages of the project cycle. Taking into account this lesson,
two beneficiaries assessments will be conducted. Communities will also give their opinion on the
interventions planned under the proposed project. A specific module on malaria, the most important single
cause of mortality, will be included in the two beneficiary assessments. Furthermore, the project will be
designed to promote community participation in health through the establishment of local health
committees.
Lesson 5: Donors and NGOs should be continuously infonned about progress in project implementation
and, to the extent possible, should cooperate in project execution (as it has been the case of GTZ, WHO,
UNICEF, Italian and French Cooperation under the first health project, and under the first community
nutrition project with UNICEF, WFP, USAID and the UN Volunteer Program). Moreover, Bank staff
should regularly participate in the Roundtables with donors and NGOs to review progress made in the
implementation of the sector policy.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government has been successfully leading a participatory process which, in 1996, resulted in the
adoption of a health policy outlining key health sector reforms. Subsequently, the Government adopted a
detailed National Health Development Plan (Plan Directeur 1997-2000) to implement the sector policy.
The sector's National Health Development Plan and its implementation were widely discussed and
publicized through media and two Roundtable meetings with donors and NGOs were held as planned.
Furthermore, the Government's commitment to implement key sector reforms in the future will be
confirmed in a Letter of Sector Policy. Government's commitment was further demonstrated with the
opportunity of the restructuring of the current health project, the amendment of the Development Credit
Agreement and the successful collaboration that has followed.
The Government also demonstrated its willingness to tackle the issues of reproductive health services
provision and of control of STD/HIV/AIDS through the adoption, over the last 10 years, of several
strategic and programmatic documents. Its commitment to nutrition is reflected in the health sector policy
and the two community-based nutrition projects.
Regarding the question on ownership, the Government carefully prepared the project with a large team of
national experts who have worked with Bank staff. This team has been involved in all preparatory steps
and has effectively participated in the elaboration of the project design and strategies.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank has been a leading actor in the policy dialogue with the Government on health sector reform.
Through the assistance provided with support from the ongoing health project, the Bank was instrumental
in helping the MOH to design a comprehensive policy framework, effect key sector reforms and strengthen
institutional capacities. Furthermore, the Bank has played a leading role in donor coordination, by ensuring
that MOH annual work programs be discussed and agreed with all donors and that regular meetings be held
between the MOH and donors, and among donors themselves. Donor coordination in health has become "a
best practice" for other sectors in Madagascar. Building on these past achievements, the Bank's support in
the next five years will focus on ensuring that the health sector policy is implemented effectively. In order
to meet this objective, the Bank will provide critical financial support to the Ministry of health to strengthen
sector planning and management capabilities, will provide support to ensure that MOH holds annual
program reviews in close collaboration with donors and will further support the decentralization process.
With respect to lIV/AIDS epidemic, which still has low incidence levels in Madagascar, a key contribution
of the Bank has been in raising awareness of the long range risks and in promoting policy development for
timely prevention interventions. The long-term returns of population and HIV/AIDS interventions
-25 -



constitute a strong rationale for the financing, at this stage, by the Bank and other donors, of
STD/HIV/AIDS and population growth containment strategies.
On the policy front, the Bank will continue to play a leading role, by focusing on decentralization, civil
service and financing reforms. The Bank will coordinate with other Bank-supported projects dealing with
the sanme policy reforms: the Public Management Capacity Building Project (PAIGEP) and the forthcoming
Decentralized Infrastructure Management project. The Bank will also use its comparative advantage in
addressing health sector reforms at macro-economic level within its country policy dialogue and annual
PERs.
For Nutrition, the proposed project will provide support to much needed rehabilitation activities and
strengthen MOH capacity to fulfill it technical, poliicy, and monitoring roles. This enhanced ability to
perform these functions will complement other interventions supported by the Bank, such as the
SEECALINE project, and allow the MOH to engage in expanded partnerships with other contributors to
nutrition.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = 0/D
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
Economic Analysis: An economic analysis of the Second Health Sector Support Project in Madagascar,
and of the environment in which it will operate, has been undertaken during the course of project
preparation (Annex 4). The discussion spells out the economic justification of the project, focusing on
aspects such as: (i) economic and sectoral context; (ii) health sector expenditures and financing; (iii)
cost-effictiveness; (iv) equity; (v) risk and (vi) sector capacity. The findings support the Second HeA.Wth
Sector Support Project as an intervention that: (a) has a convincing economic rationale; (b) does nol crowd
out the private sector; (c) ensures financial affordability and sustainability; (d) supports cost-effectiv
interventions; (e) contributes to poverty alleviation and to the reaching of justified social goals; and (:) adds
net benefits to the national economy.
Cost Effectiveness: The health interventions supported by the project have been chosen for their prox  -,n
cost-effectiveness as demonstrated by results from international studies carries out in Africa and in oiher
developing countries. Annex 4 provides a brief summary of the supporting evidence. E,conomic gains
would include the following:
(a) Reductions in mortality and morbidity rates.
(b) Increases in production and household earnings, by reducing the incidence of communicable
diseases and the prevalence of malnutrition, particularly among poor agricultural workers and w:.nimen.
(c) Rteductions in household and community expenditures on drugs and treatment, especially amca ig the
poor.
(d) Higher returns of public expenditures in health (i.e., better services, more effective preventior
activities, more responsiveness to public health problems and to user expectations).
2. Financial (see Annex 5):    NPV=US$ million; FRR = %
The economic analysis aimed, among other things, ait appraising the situation in three inter-related arc. as: (i)
the health sector's overall expenditures, (ii) the sector's National Health Development Plan (which cortains
measures to implement the Government's policy for the sector but it is narrower in scope as the propc sed
new actions contained in this document encompass exclusively areas characterized by high
- 26 -



cost-effectiveness ratios such as primary health care and prevention, infectious diseases, institutional
strengthening for efficiency gains), and (iii) the proposed IDA financed part of the sector's National Health
Development Plan, i.e., the Second Health Sector Support Project.
(i)   In the period 1996-1998, the health sector budget accounted in average for only US$3.7 per capita
(which represented almnost 10% of the total public budget and 1.3% of the GDP). This low level of funding
was compounded by poor budget execution, efficiency problems and a centralized spending pattem. To
improve the situation, the health sector should implemented sweeping reforms in the years to come:
(a) Recognizing the development of the health sector as a national priority, the Government should
increase the total health expenditures as a share of the GDP from 1.3% in 1997 to 1.95% in 2005.
(b) Taking into account that salaries and wages accounted in the past for only 50% of the recurrent
health expenditures and that, even under this very favorable budget breakdown, the non-salary
recurrent budget was insufficient, the situation of the recurrent budget should be addressed. In
order to ensure sector's sustainability, current health expenditures are expected to increase from
50% of total health expenditures in 1999 to 70% in 2005, while current salary expenditures as a
share of total current health expenditures, will remain stable at about 50%. The latter would
translate into an increase that would still allow (i) the hiring of 1000 health personnel in 1999; (ii)
the implementation of the action plan for staff redeployment; and (iii) a modest salary raise.
(c) The proceeds of the recently mandatory cost recovery scheme ought also to increase, and,
furthermore,
(d) Donor contribution should continue at about the same levels as in the past.
Both the Public Expenditures Review for Madagascar (1999) and the draft MOP for the Madagascar
Structural Adjustment Credit (1999), demonstrate that these measures are feasible.
(ii)   The difference between the projected cost of: (a) the sector's National Health Development Plan
and (b) the projected available resources for the period 2000-2006 was calculated. It appears that the plan
can be considered fully fundable throughout the period under consideration, since the plan's total cost this
period is US$223 million while the financial resources for its implementation are estimated at about
US$244 million.
(iii)   The Second Health Sector Support Project is defined as the elements of the National Health
Development Plan that will be financed by IDA. An IDA credit of US$40 million is proposed to support
the implementation of the National Health Development Plan, while Government will also contribute US$
4.4 million. The foreign exchange component is estimated at US$ 26.2 million (or 59 percent of total
costs). Base costs amount to US$ 37.7 million equivalent (85 percent of total cost) of which about 80
percent are investment costs. The project costs by component and by expenditure category are summarized
in Annex 3 while the project's financing plan is presented in Annex 5. As mentioned in section E point 1,
such a project would support cost effective interventions, it would not pose a large fiscal burden and would
be financially sustainable (see next paragraph).
Fiscal Impact:
The prospects for financial sustainability of the Second Health Sector Support Project are positive. The
project will not pose a large fiscal burden on the country during the project life time, or after project
completion, neither will it lead to modifications of tax instruments. Nonetheless, beneficiary contributions
towards the cost of the program will be more important. However, as described above, the cost of services
in the public sector will remain affordable. Cost recovery for drugs will continue along the lines of the
present arrangement which proved to function well and to be able to provide good quality drugs at
affordable prices. The indigent population will also continue to be protected. Affordability of services and
- 27 -



consumer's willingness to pay will be constantly monitored, aiming to make the under-.served groups the
gainers of this program. During the six years of the sector's program, it is expected that the Goverrnent
will better manage donor inputs (which are expected to remain important), and beneficiaries will
increasingly be involved in both decision-making int, and financial support to, the sector. Decentralization
will also play a substantial role in efficiency gains and in a more rational sector development.
3. Technical:
The project will rely on simple, cost-effective and vvidely available techniques to address priority health
issues. In the case of malariia, indoor spraying with, envirom-nent safe insecticides will be targeted to limited
geographical areas located on the fringes of the higlhlands and in case of outbreaks, depending on the
epidemiological data from the sentinel surveillance system. In some problem areas, such as plague, r,ew
strategies will be studied and tested. Other project components have been prepared on the basis of
international (the directed observed treatment of tuberculosis, for instance) as well as regional norms and
practices, and will be implemented in accordance with acceptable standards. Decisions on civil works and
equipment necessary to expand and upgrade the health delivery system will be made based on an approved
Health Infrastructure Development Plan (Carte sanitaire), and on standardized architectural plans and list
of equipments, discussed and agreed with Government and donors. Investments and recurrent costs
estimates for the project have been based on estimates of prevailing market unit costs, with appropriate
allowance for inflation. A reasonable level of physical contingencies has been included in the cost
estimates.
The 1995-97 policy reforns and the restructuring and successful implementation of the first IDA financed
health project demonstrated MOH's ability to implement policy reforms as well as targeted health
interventions. The strengthening of decentralized health services, nationwide, will require, however,
significant investments to strengthen management and planning capacities at provincial and district levels.
The project will support capacity building activities, in complement to other donors aid, centrally and in all
the districts directly supported by the project. Capacities to properly maintain buildings and equipment will
also be strengthened at provincial and district levels and a greater involvement of the private sector vdill be
sought. Lastly, the project will also strengthen the capacity of selective technical programs dealing with
sector piriority problems such as infectious diseases, nutrition, family planning, and emerging disease; such
as HV/AIDS.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies:
Ministry of Health. Some specialized activities will be executed by UN specialized agencies (such as
WHO, UNICEF, UNFPA), NGOs, national consultants and national research institutions (such as P,-.steur
Institute of Madagascar). Drug procurement, storing and distribution will be carried out by Salama.
b. Project management:
The MOH will be responsible for the overall implementation of the project. The MOHB Secretary Ge neral
will havev primary responsibility for project coordination and supervision; he/she will be the project
director, and will be technica]lly supported by the MOH Director for Planning and Research and by the
National Project Coordinator.. Important decisions will be taken after consulting the MOH managemenlt
team, wliich will also act as the project steering conmnittee. Given the project's wide array of activitie, ,1he
Project Coordination Unit will collaborate with provincial (or inter-regional) and district health
administrations, and with the following MOH Directorates: (a) Health District Development (Direct on de
developpement des districts sanitaires); (b) Infectious Diseases (Direction de la lutte contre les mal,[:rdies
transmissibles); (c) Preventive Medicine (which includes Nutrition and Family Planning Services); awd
with (d) Planning and Research; (e) Health Care Establishments (Direction des etablissements de so is),
-28 -



and (f) Pharmacy and Laboratory for the project component on institutional strengthening. Important
coordination work will also need to take place in regard to other donors' and NGOs' operations. As
mentioned, some parts of the project will be executed by UN specialized agencies (such as WHO,
UNICEF, UNFPA), NGOs, national consultants, national research institutions (such as Pasteur Institute of
Madagascar) and national semiautonomous institutions (such as the Central Drug Procurement Unit:
Salama).
The Roundtable meetings with donors will continue to take place regularly and will provide a forum to
discuss progress in the implementation of the sector policy and the contribution to this policy by donors and
NGOs, to reach consensus regarding policy changes, budget allocations and the like. At least once a year,
progress in the implementation of the proposed project will be discussed either at the Roundtable meeting
or at the launching of health sector's annual operational plans (Plan de travail: PTA). These discussions
will be used to fine tune the project to changes that might occur in the sector and to coordinate, at technical
level, with Government and donors.
The Project Coordination Unit, reporting directly to the Secretary General will carry out administrative
tasks, including keeping accounts, organizing and overseeing procurement, and overseeing activities carried
out by other MOH directorates, districts or undertaken with external assistance. At Negotiations it is
expected that MOH confirms that the PCU will be adequately staffed, considering that the unit also
provides services to AfDB, and that appropriate resources (human and other) will be provided as needed to
meet future project implementation needs (since, gradually, the PCU is expected to be used for other donor
funded operations).
5. Social:
By improving access to quality primary care, controlling major communicable diseases, contributing to
fertility reduction and by improving nutritional status, the project will directly address the major health
needs of the population of one of the poorest countries in Africa. The poor, women and children will be the
primary beneficiaries of the project, as the implementation of the sector policy will yield more than
proportionate benefits to them and their health status will gradually improve. Due to the fact that cost
recovery has been generalized and it is expected to substantially contribute to sector financing, the project
will closely monitor the financial accessibility to health services, throughout its implementation, with
particular attention to the affordability of services in rural areas. Lastly, by timely averting the spread of
the HfV/AIDS epidemic the project would bring substantial social and economic benefits, and contribute to
social equity.
6. Environmental assessment:              Environrment Category E A 1 C
[I B 1 Fl
No direct negative impact on the environment is foreseen:
(i) Rehabilitation or construction of health centers and district hospitals will comply with hygiene and
sanitation standards, will include incinerators, and will lead to a positive impact on the environmnent.
(ii) Health education/lEC activities will promote the use of latrines and environmental hygiene. The
project will also support sanitation activities and will advocate that such measures be carried out in all
concerned sectors.
(iii) The project will involve limited use of environmental safe pesticides to control malaria and plague
vectors.
Regarding malaria, no negative impact on the environment is foreseen, as the insecticides will be: (a)
environmental safe (pyretroids); (b) used in small quantities (compared to pesticide use in agriculture);
(c) used in limited geographical areas on the fringes of the highlands and (d) used exclusively for
indoor spraying. The selection of insecticides and the indoor insecticide spraying will be executed under
the supervision of WHO who will carefully monitor the application of insecticides to minimize any
- 29 -



possible environmental contamination. Impregnated bed-nets (with pyretroids) meeting safety
standards will be promoted.
Similarly, regarding the plague control program (this component will be intrusted to WHO and the
Pasteur Institute of Madagascar) the project will finance operations research to find the right mix of
insecticides and ratticides, or to develop other rnethods to control plague transmission. The use of
Kairthman boxes will prevent any environmental contamination with insecticides and ratticides, End
substantial IEC and sanitation activities, which will be implemented, will have a beneficial impa t on
environment.
(iv) Similarly to the ongoing project, continuous training in techniques for safe application and survcillance
of pesticides will take place. Finally,
(v) There will be no displacement of people.
7. Parlicipatory Approachi (key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced or may
influence; if participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable):
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
The health sector policy was designed in consultation with user representatives, district and regional
administrations, health provider associations, NGOs and donors. This policy and the sector National Health
Development Plan were further discussed and shared with the public by means of the media. Primar},
beneficiary opinion was and it will continue to be probed my means of surveys (in 1998 with the
opportunity of the Audit of the Education and Health sectors, which led to the Public Expenditures Review
published in 1999; and two rnore beneficiary assessments, one prior to credit effectiveness and another one
before credit closing).
b. Other key stakeholders:
In 1998, the MOH organized a three-day "open house meeting" to share its concerns about the situaimion in
the sector and explain its health strategies to a large audience including journalists, health care provid-ers,
politicians, religious leaders, NGOs and donors. This meeting was followed by an one week discussion with
representatives from all 111 districts, under the chairmanship of the Minister of Health. Also in 1998, the
MOH consulted donors and NGOs on sector issues and the proposed strategies to remedy the situatien (in
May and October 1998, with the opportunity of two health sector Roundtables with donors and NGC' s).
Throughout project preparation the Bank regularly shared information and consulted with all major ciDnors
(bilateral and multilateral aid organizations, and NGOs) and financing institutions. In 1997, the
Government's Programme de politique generale identified poverty alleviation as the main objective f )r the
country for the years to come and specifically referred to the commitment to implement the health secltor
policy and to the important contribution of this policy to poverty alleviation. More recently, on Augult 21,
1998, the Prime Minister, in his blueprint address to parliament (Discours programme) reiterated the need
for intensifying poverty reduction activities, the commitment to the health sector's National Development
Plan and its thrusts, and presiented an ambitious set of quantified targets to be reached by 2001. He
estimated the cost of the health sector program in 1999 and 2000 at US$70.4 million.
- 30-



F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project will be designed to promote long-term sustainability by: (a) developing the MOHTs
administrative, management and financial management capacity; (b) decentralizing decision making to
districts and involving communities and individuals in decision making; (c) strengthening the health sector's
capacity to constantly evaluate the quality and effectiveness of primary care and of communicable disease
control activities; (d) ensuring that primary health care and public health interventions have sufficient
resources to impact positively on mortality and morbidity; (e) developing cost-sharing mechanisms and
involving the user of services in the management of funds; (f) involving communities, either directly or
indirectly through elected communal bodies, in health care interventions; (g) relying on local NGOs in
making use of the private sector (for clinical services, public health interventions, management of public
health facilities, and various services such as studies, civil works, maintenance of equipment and vehicles).
The health sector program's financing will not, however, be sustainable in the short term, in the sense that
the Government and the communities will not be able to entirely assume the total operating cost of primary
health care and other priority activities. Thus, the need to rely upon donor support will continue in the
foreseeable future and will only slowly decline in the years to come.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                  Risk Rating        Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Progress in other sectors and             S         Progress in CAS implementation will
macroeconomics development might be                be evaluated regularly. Bank and donor
slower than anticipated.                           activities will also support other sectors.
Poor progress in decentralization to     M         Decentralization will be pursued in all
districts.                                         sectors and will continue to be among
Government priorities. Decentralization
of decision making in health will be
supported and accompanied by capacity
building at district and regional levels
and health services de-concentration.
Cost recovery might not succeed          M         Cost recovery will be monitored and
(totally or partly).                               best practice examples from successful
health facilities and districts
disseminated. Drug procurement and
distribution will be closely monitored.
The drug procurement agency's
(Salama) performance will be audited
and -if needed- technical support
provided.
- 31 -



Private sector might not be involved        M         Incentives for private providers and
significantly.                                        regulations promoting quality of
services will be developed. Annual
discussions on Health Master Plan
implementation will include an analysis
of activities carried out by private
health providers.
From Components to Outputs
Health service utilization will not         M         Fees for services and tariffs for drugs
increase significantly.                               and their possible adverse effects on
service utilization will be studied.
Quality of care and increased
accessibility to services will be pursuwd.
Recurrent budget for health might not       DA        Investment and recurrent costs will be
suffice.                                              monitored. Cost recovery proceeds will
be increased. Should recurrent
expenditures not be met, investments
will be proportionally reduced. As a
fallback option, donors will continue to
finance some critical recurrent costs.
Behavioral change may occur too late to     S         Aggressive IEC campaigns will be
curb STD/H{V/AIDS epidemic.                           carried out.
Community based nutrition projects,         M          The project will continue to benefit
such as Seecaline, may not yield                      from quality supervision and technical
expected results. Community-based                      support, ongoing dialogue with
nutrition programs will not make                       SEECALINE and other community
referrals and provide suppoIt to                      based program providers, and with
mothers.                                              Technical Committee.
Poor interest from beneficiaries and low   MV          Feasibility tests for insecticides will bW.
acceptance of activities to control                   carried out to test their acceptance and
malaria/plague/schistosomiases                        properties in the actual conditions of tALe
country. IEC activities will receive
appropriate attention.
Overall Risk Rating                         M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
-32 -



3. Possible Controversial Aspects
Two aspects of the project may be controversial. First, the rationale of supporting a major investment in
STD/HIV/AIDS prevention, when AIDS is not yet a visible problem, may not be well understood and
supported by some officials who would prefer to focus on more immediate health concerns and issues. The
MOH and donors are currently disseminating the results of a recent AIDS impact assessment study
nationwide and have engaged a constructive dialogue with policy makers and key officials at the central and
provincial levels. The dialogue will continue throughout project implementation, as political commitment
to STD/HIV/AIDS prevention is key to success of any AIDS containment strategies. Second, the
contracting of private services within health districts, based on their comparative advantage, may not be
well accepted by some district health authorities who might not understand why private services would be
preferred. As the MOH has put private sector development at the center of its strategies, considerable
effort will be made to sensitize district health teams during the first health project, as well during the
implementation of the proposed project. Appropriate regulations will also be developed to foster private
services and, at the same time, to ensure quality and affordability of such services.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
*    Submit a Project Implementation Manual satisfactory to IDA.
*    Select an independent auditor acceptable to IDA.
=    Recruit a national project coordinator in a manner satisfactory to IDA.
*    Open a project account in terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA and deposit therein an initial
amount equivalent to US$200,000.
*    Submit a Health Infrastructure Development Plan.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
*  Implement the project in conformity with the Project Implementation Manual.
*  Assure that PCU staffing, in terms of numbers and quality, is commensurate with the unit workload.
=  Provide sufficient counterpart funds and replenish the Project Account through quaterly deposits each
year.
*  Ensure that, every year, the budget allocation for MOH non-salary recurrent expenditures be not less
than 9% of the total Government recurrent budget.
*  Ensure that, every year, the execution (at the level of the Treasury) of the MOH non-salary recurrent
budget be not less than 80% of the respective budget allocation.
*  Ensure that, every year, recurrent expenditures for salaries and wages be not greater than 60% of the
total recurrent expenditures of the public health sector.
* Ensure that new investmnents in any health facility are made in accordance with the HIDP.
Agreements at Negotiations:
* An annual work plan for the health sector (Plan de travail annuel) will be regularly discussed at a
donor/NGO meeting and it will be submitted to IDA, before November 15th of each year (to allow for
the finalization of the Project's Activity, Procurement and Disbursement Plans for the next year) to take
place by December 1 of each year.
- 33-



*  A minimum of two meetings with donors and NGOs will be organized every year (e.g., in
February/March to analyze the results of public expenditures review, the performance of cost recovery,
to assess progress in the collaboration with the private sector, the situation of human resources and, if
needed, the update of the Health Infrastructure Development Plan; and in October/November to review
sector performance and proposed activities for the next fiscal year, their source of financing, and
identify activities to be supported fnancially from the IDA credit during the next fiscal year).
*  Establish and staff the position of Coordinator for Nutrition Rehabilitation of Severely Malnourished
Children.
*  Public health expenditures and cost recovery data for primary, secondary, and tertiary levels, and per
central and decentralized health administrations will be analyzed and discussed with donors and NGOs
at one of the two annual meetings mentioned above.
*  The recommendations made by the external audit of Salama (the central essential drug procuren: ert
facility) will be implemented. The role and performance of Salama will be discussed with donors at
least once a year. By November of each year, IDA will receive a document summarizing main fiidings
and decisions resulting from the annual discussion with donors on this topic.
-   MOH will pursue its commitments concerning its policy of fostering private sector delivery of services
and will discuss the progress made in this regard with donors at least once a year. By November of
eaclh year, IDA will receive a document summarizing main findings and decisions resulting from the
annual discussion with donors on this.topic.
-  A Mid-term Review will take place no later than June 30, 2003.
- Two Beneficiary Assessments (including a module on malaria) will be carried out.
H. Readiness for Implementation
L 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for tho- start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
3 2. ThLe procurement documnents for the first year's activities are complete and ready iFor the start oi
project implementation.
O 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and! of satisfactory
quality.
O 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
A project implementation plan for activities to be carried out during the first year, including a procuriernent
and disbursement plan will be ready by project effectiveness.
A health infrastructure development plan will be adopted before project effectiveness.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
IZ 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
OI 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are r ecommended for approval. The project complies. vith
- 34 -



all other applicable Bank policies.
loan S. Luculescu                AAdams                           M    el N. Sa
Team Leader                      Sector ManagerlDirector          Country ManagerlDirector
- 35 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
MADAGASCAR: Second Health Sector Support Project
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sectorl country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Missiorl)
Poverty reduction through:
1. Ensuring a pro - poor  1. I . Ensure at least 70% of    I. . I 1. Project data and routine Political stabilit,t.
orientation of growth     project beneficiaries are from  reporting system.
(particularly targeting the    rural areas.                                      World prices for principal
rural population who                                                             exports remain stable.
comprises 85% of the poor);  1.2. Increased public health   1.2.1. Public Expenditure
expenditure per capita (from 4 Reviews and annual health    Satisfactory climatic and
US$ to 8 US$ in 2006).     reports.                   environmental factors
(especially absence of
1.3. Enhance fiscal        1.3.1. Same as (1.2.1.) above. draughts and locust invasions)
decentralization by increasing                        to ensure good agricultural
the percentage of budget spent                        production.
at the districts from 60% to
80%4. by 2006.                                       Improved econormic
performance as a result of pr,cJ
2. Human capital development 2.1. Ensure that, every year,  2.1. 1. Public Expenditure  - poor activities will defnitely
focused on primary education, salary recurrent expenditures  Reviews and annual budget  lead to Poverty Reduction,
basic health care, and rural   represent less than 60% in   reports.             which fits in perfectly with the
infrastructure;           total recurrent expenditures.                         Bank goal of Poverty
Alleviation.
2.2. Human Resources       2.2.1. Human Resources
Development Plan elaborated. Development Plan available.
2.3. Increased the percentage  2.3.1. Evaluation surveys.
of the rural population with
access to potable water from
32%7o to 60% by 2006.
3. Strengthening public sector 3. 1. The "Plan Directeur"    3.1.1. Upgraded "Plan
management, thereby       upgraded to an integrated  DirecteuP' available.
improving quality of services, medium- term expenditure
and fostering sector reform.   franmework.
3.2. Developed a clear     3.2.1. Framework available.
framework for the allocation
of resources including credits
to health facilities and
districts.
3.3.1. Public Expenditure
3.3. Increased rate of     Reviews and annual budget
execution of the health plan,  reports.
including MOH budget.
- 36 -



4. Enhancing economic       4.1. Increased number of   4.1.1. Project data and routine
development in partnership   laboratory, clinical,     reporting system.
with the private sector.   management and other
services contracted out to
private hospitals and
non-governmental health care
providers.
- 37 -



Project Development        Ouitcome I Impact            Project reports:           (from ObJective. to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
(General objective):
Improvement of performance
1. To contribute to the    1.1. Reduced fatality rate in   1.1.1. Hospital reporting  in public health facilities.
improvement of the health   severely malnourished       systemn.
status of the population   children institutionalized for                           Higher economi.i returns on
through more accessible and   nutrition rehabilitation by                           public expendit res on health.
better quality health services.  50%                    1.2.1. Demographic and
Health Surveys and other    Satisfactory econoomic
1.2. Reduced IMR (from     surveys.                     performance facilitating the
96/1000 to 80/1000 by 2006i).                           gainful employrnent of a
growing, healthi, vworkforce.
1.3. Reduced MMR (from      1.3.1. Same a (1.2.1.) above.
488/100,000 to 400/100,000                              Improvement in indicators is
by 2006).                                               principally among the poor,
1.4.1. Same as (1.2.1.) above. especially those in the rural
1.4. Reduced Total Fertility                            areas.
Rate (from 6.0 to 5.5 children
per woman by 2006).
Expansion and strengthening
of other sectors like education.
transport, communications,
and sanitation.
Imrproved health and
nutritional status slhould lead
to increased productivity,
especially among thie poor in
the agricultural sector in the
rural areas. In conjumction
with improvemer ts in other
sectors, this should then
contribute signifl -antly to the
sector goal of Poverty
Reduction.
- 38 -



Output from each           Output Indicators:           Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
1. Development of District                                                          Decentralization will
Health Services: Increased    1. 1. Increased patient contact  1.1. 1. Routine Health  continue with strengthening of
accessibility to improved basic from 0.2 to 1.0 per inhabitant Information System reporting. local governments.
health care services.      per year.
1.2. Increased access to health 1.2.1. Same as (1.1.1.) above. Cost - recovery program will
services (<5kmn) from 65% to                           be satisfactorily implemented
80% in 2006.                                           and prove sustainable.
1.3. Increased EPI coverage   1.3.1. EPI coverage surveys.
from 40% to 75% in 2006.                                Community - based Nutrition
Project will be successfully
1.4. Increased number and    1.4.1. Project data and routine implemented.
proportion of health care  reporting system.
workers trained.                                        Marked improvement in other
sectors will impact positively
1.5. Increased patient     1.5.1. Beneficiary          on the physical environment,
satisfaction.               assessments.                e.g. housing, water and
sanitation.
2. Reproductive Health and
STD/AIDS Services:                                                                 Intersectoral cooperation and
2.a. Increased access to quality 2.a. 1. Increased number of    2.a. 1.1. Project data and  international aid will
RH/FP services.            health centers that provide    routine reporting system.  intensify.
RH/FP services.
Household food security will
2.a.2. Increased number of    2.a.2. 1. Same as (2.a. .1.)    increase.
deliveries attended by trained  above.
medical personnel.                                     Increased literacy.
Increase in the accessibility of
2.a.3. Increased Contraceptive 2.a.3. 1. Demographic and    the poor to quality health
Prevalence Rate (modem     Health Surveys and other     services that are better
contraceptive methods) from   surveys.                 managed with community and
9.7% to 17% by 2006.                                   private sector involvement
will contribute to a sustainable
improvement of the health and
nutritional status of the
population.
- 39 -



2.b. Reduction of STD      2.b. 1. Reduced prevalence of  2.b. 1.1. Sentinel Surveillance
prevalence.                STD by 25% by 2006.         data and surveys.
2.b.2. Carried out appropriate 2.b.2. 1. Same as (2.b. 1.1.)
screening of all blood donors  above.
for HIV/AIDS by 2006.
2.b.3. Increased number of    2.b.3.1. Project data and
Ministries, NGOs, and firms  routine reporting system.
with STD/HIV/AIDS
programs.
2.c. Control of HIV prevalence 2.c. HIV prevalence in  2.c. Sentinel Surveillance data
pregnant women maintained  and surveys.
at below 0.25 per 100, by
2006.
3. Preventionl and Control of
Maior Communicable
Diseases: Reduction of     3.1. Establish disease      3.1.1. Routine reporting
morbidity and mortality    surveillance system.        system.
caused by major
communicable diseases.     3.2. Increased number of    3.2.1. Same as (3.1.1.) above.
districts with functional
laboratories.
3.3. Decreased number of   3.3.1. Malaria Control
hospital deaths by cerebral    Program reports and Hospital
malaria in children and    reports. Beneficiary
adolescents (age 1-15 years)  assessments.
by 30% by 2006.
3.4. Decreased placental   3.4.1 Malaria Control
malarial infection.        Program reports.
3.5. Increased tuberculosis    3.5.1 Tuberculosis Control
proportion of cases treated    Program reports.
from 65% to 85% by 2006.
3.6. Prevented plague      3.6.1. Plague Control Program
epidemics in urban areas by   reports.
2006;.
3.7. Increased number of   3.7.1. Schistosomiasis Control
villages in hyperendemic areas Program reports.
receiving Schistosomiasis
treatment.
- 41) -



4. Nutrition:              4.1. Reduced fatality rates of  4. 1. 1. Project data and regular
Reduced infant malnutrition   severely malnourished    SMP and hospital reporting.
through health sector       children by 50% by 2006.
activities.                                            4.2.1. Same as above (4.1.1).
4.2. Increased number of
hospital staff, community
nutrition workers and social
workers trained in nutrition
prevention and recuperation
techniques.
4.3.1 Same as above (4.1.1.).
4.3. Improved capacity to
address health-related
malnutrition through
knowledge management and
partnerships.
5. Institutional
Strengthening: Strengthened 5.1. Regulation to further  5.1.1. Regulation adopted.
management of MOH,          decentralize decision making
provinces and districts, the    to district adopted.
latter in partnership with the
local communities and the    5.2. Monitoring of health  5.2.1. Reports available
private sector.            indicators carried out
regularly.
5.3. A Human Resources      5.3.1. Plan available.
Development Plan for the
health sector elaborated.
5.4. Increased number and    5.4.1. Project data.
percentage of districts with an
effective Health Management
Information System and
District development Plan.
5.5. Increased number of basic 5.5.1. Same as (5.2.1.) above.
and operational research
studies conducted.
5.5. Strengthened           5.6.1. Number of private
collaboration with private  health facilities in rural areas
sector.                    (surveys and sector statistics)
-41 -



Project Connponents I      Inputs: {budget for each    lProject reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                              Outputs)
District health services   $17,800,000                 Supervision reports         District health authorities will
be able to manage and plan
resources.
Infectious diseases        $1'5,900,000                Disbursement reports       Infectious disease epidemic
program will receive enough
technical and financial
support.
Family planning and        $6,400,000                  Demographic and health      Education sector activities will
reproductive health (including                         surveys and other surveys   continue, progress in status oif
STD/HIV/AIDS)                                                                      women will ocCtl.!, and
political momentmim for
reproductive health program
will continue.
Nutrition rehabilitation   $1,500,000                  Hospital and health facility    Hospital managemnent, health
reports.                   facility management, and
financing will improve.
Institutional strengthening    $2,800,000              Health information system   Private sector and NGOs
data and District health   capacity will be fizll,y used.
reports
Total Project Costs        $44,400.000
-42 -



Annex 1
Attachrment 1
REPOBLIKAN'1 MADAGASIKARA
Tanindmzana - FahaUn - Fandrosoana
Antanananvo, le   15 C
MINISTERE DES F)NANCES ET DE L'ECONOMIE
SECRETARIAT GENERAL
DIRECTION GENERALE DU TRESOR
Direction de ia Dette Publique
N' 6      ;/SmFEsG/O/DGT/D0P/RC
TELECOPIE
From/l)e    LE PREMIER MINkISTRE, CHEF DUJ GO0UVERNEMENT, MTNISTRE
DES FINANCES ET DE L'ECONOMIE
FA X      :(261 20) 22 345 30
To/A      : BANQUE MONsDIALE - WASHINGTON
A L'ATTENTIlON DE M. MICHAEL N. SARRIS, DIRECTEUR DES OPERATIONS
POUR MADAGASCAR
FAX       :(202) 473 8564
OBJ-ET     SECOND PROJET D'AMELIORATION DU SECTEUR SANTE (CRESAN II)
TEXTE:
HON-NTEUR VOUS CONFIER QIJE LA REPUBLIQUE DE MADAGASCAR
APPROUVE LES DOCUMNTS JUR1DIQITES RELATIFS AU PROJET SUS-VISE TELS
QUE NEGOCIES A WAS&EENGTON DU 06 AU 08 OCTOBRE 1999.
COMSIUERATIO% lmGITEE
SIGNAATURE 
iNDRIANARfV0 Tan
Copie a:
Mmc Eilee Murry
Repr6sentant R6sidm a.i






Annex 1
Attchnent 1
MADAGASCAR HIALTH IMPROV3EMENT. PROJECT
Letter of Health SectorDevelovment Po
Monsieur Michael SARRIS
Directeur des Operations pour Madagascar
Banque Mondiale, Washington, D.C.
Monsieur Le Directeur,
Nous avons I'honneur de vous faire parvernir ci-dessous l'enoncd de la Lettre de Politique
Sectorielle de la Sant6 a Madagascar, en appui i la requete du Gouvernement pour une assistance
financiere de la Banque mondiale dans le cadre du Second Projet d'Appui au Secteur Sante, ou CRESAN-
II.
Le Gouvernement de la Republique de Madagascar peut se feliciter de I'appui que la Banque
mondiale a accorde au pays dans le cadre du premier Projet d'Appui au Secteur sante (CRESAN-l) dans
ses efforts pour la mise en oeuvre du " Programme du Secteur Sante "(PSS) pour la periode 1992-1996.
Parlant du niveau de financements extdrieurs en effet, la Banque rnondiale a figure parni les premiers
bailleurs du Minist6re de la Sante, avec plus de 21 millions de dollars USD mobilises de 1993 a 1997. Des
progres ont ete accomplis dans le fonctionnernent du secteur et des actions menees pour amrliorer l'etat de
sanrte de la population.
Toutefois, malgre les efforts deployes et les moyens mis a la disposition , les conditions de vie de
la population se sont encore deterior6es et une proportion importante de celle-ci vit, a des degres divers,
dans un ktat de survie et d'exclusion vis a vis des processus de developpement. En 1997, tous les
indicateurs denotent que l'etat de sante de la population s'est plutot aggrave, notawu=ent celui des fenumes
et des enfants. Face a ce constat, le Gouvernement a pris comme objectif central de son Programme de
Politique Generale, presente le 06 Mars 1997 par Monsieur le Premier Ministre devant l'Assembl6e
Nationale, la lutte contre la pauvrete a travers la resolution des diffErents problemes issus de la crise
dconomique et sociale. Un des principes directeurs, a la base de ce Programme de Politique Gen6rale, est
de rendre effectif le concept de "developpement humain durable" dans le cadre d'une "Rdpublique
Humaniste et Ecologiste", afin "que chaque individu ait la possibilite de vivre longtemps et en bonne santd.
d'acquerir Je savoir, d'avoir acces aux ressources necessaires pour jouir d'un niveau de vie convenable, en
etant le principal acteur et b6n6ficiaire?'
Depuis 1997 a ce jour, il est constatd une am6lioration generale des indicateurs de sante
consecutive i une meiLleure utilisation des services, en particulier a la disponibilite permanente des
medicaments et des consommables m6dicaux dans la totafit6 des formations sanitaires fonctionnelles, La
mise en place effective d'un systeme d'information sanitaire depuis 1998 nous permettra d'appr6cier d'une
fac,on peiodique et la performance des services de sante, mais aussi 1'6tat de sante de la population.
Quoi qu'il en soit, Madagascar se trouve, a la veille de I'an 2000, dans un tournant decisif vers
son objectifgeneral, celui d'offiir une meilleure santd pour tous les Malgaches. Pour atteindre cet objectif.
un cadre global pour le developpement sanitaire s'est avere n6cessaire pour mieux coordonner les
interventions dans lc secteur. Le document de Politique Nationale de Sant6, elabor6 en 1996 sur la base
d'echanges ct de debats approfondis entre divers responsables sanitaires de tous niveaux. des representants
d'autres Ministeres et Institutions, des repr6sentants des Organismes internationaux , des Agences de



Annex 1
Attchment 1
Cooperation, d'Organisations Non Gouverrtementales et d'Associations professionnelles, a ete aimsi rjvis6
en 1997 et redhit en, 1999.
La presente lettre a pour objectif de confirmer l'engagement du Gouvernement pour la realisatio,
de cette Politique, dont le document fait partie int6grante de cette lettre, durant la p6riode '2000-2006, et
que le financement qui sera alloue par la Banque mondiale a travers le CRESAN-Il servira exclosivemer.t ai
1'ex6cution des grandes orientations strategiques definies dans cette Politique Nationale de Sante.
Ces grandes orientations strategiques prioritaires sont au nombre de neuf, dont:
-la d6centralisation du systeme national de sante, basee sur le district sanitaire,
-1' amrlioratilon du financement du secteur de la santd;
-le developpement du secteur privd;
-la disponibilitd des medicaments es sentiels et consommables rnedicaux;
-le developpement quantitatif et qualitatif des ressources humaines pour la sante
-la reforrme du systeme d'information pour la gestion,
-la participation communautaire au developpement sanitaire
-la promotion et la protection de la sante; et
-la lutte contre les maladies.
Le Minist6re de la Sante concretise sa volonte de mettre en Q-uvre cette Politique par ]'6laboration
d"un Plan Directeur couvrant la pdriode 1998-2000. Ce Plan Directeur est structure autour de huit
Objectifs generaux, qui consistent a :
-Adapter le cadre juridique et institutionnel du systeme de sante aux priorites de la Politique
Sanitaire Nationale;
-Mettre en place les services de santd de qualite au niveau des districts sanitaires [y compris les
stratgeis de developpement du secteur prive3;
-Ddvelopper le systeme hospitalier de ref&ence;
-Ddvelopper les ressources humaines;
-Aniliorer le financement du secteur sante [incluant la participation financiere des usa gers];
-Augmenter la. disponibilite en medicarnents generiques et en produits sanguins de qua.Jit,;
-Ddvelopper la lutte contre les maladies transrnissibles prioritaires;
-Arn6liorer le bien-etre de la famnille.
Ce Plan permet au Ministere d'utiliser au mieux ses ressources propres et I'aide extt'eriure aussi
bien renboursable que non remboursable, et de mettre en place un systeme de planification visa nt a donner
plu.s de coh6rence aux actions des differents acteurs qui interviennent dans le secteur, complitd par unea
recherche perrnanente de consensus pour l'action . nl a fait l'objet d'un cadrage macro-economique afin de
rendre les programmes d'action proposes compatibles avec l'evolution probable des ressources disponibles
tant nationales que celles provenant de l'aide ect6rieure.
Une premiere Table Ronde a ainsi reuni toutes les parties concernees au d6veloppeament du
secteur de la sante en M[ai 1998, a savoir : le Gouvernement, les societes civiles, les partenaires ext6rieurs,
muiltilateraux et bilat6raux, les ONG, les cadres des Mlnist6res etc.. .L'objectif de cette Table ronde a ete
de reaffirner Ia Politique Nationale de sante et de presenter aux partenaires et acteurs du devieloppernent
sanitaire toutes les strategies de rmise en cBuvre developpees dans le Plan Directeur, afin de y: ennettre a
ceux-ci d'y exprimer respectivement leur positonnemnent relatif a l'appui technique et financiet, ainsi que
lour modaIite de soutien aux programnmes d'actions presentes.
Pour le suivi de! la mise en ceuvre des actes de la Table Ronde du secteur de la sante, le M4inistere
et ses partenaires se sont engages a se r6unir desx fois par an, en Avril et Octobre.
En Avr  il sera prisent6 les bilans ph,ysiques et financiers des r6alisations de l'ann6e 3recidente
en maiticrc de Programmrne d'lnvestissements Publics, de rfonrmes dans le secteur, dont le s;yst6me de
recouvrenent de coiuts, la collaboration avec le secteur privS, le developpement des ressources humaines,
les constructions/r6habilitations des infrastructures saiitaires.



Annex 1
Attchment 1
Pour la reunion d'Octobre, il sera discut6 de faron concertee les actions a entreprendre pour la
prochaine annee avec leurs diverses sources de finiancement, le suivi des indicateurs clds de performance
des Projets, I'etablissement des tableaux croisds de coordination des interventions des partenaires selon
leurs categories de depenses respectives et leurs zones d'intervention definies dans les conventions ou
accords de financement.
Depuis 1997, le Ministere a entrepris un processus de r6forme du secteur. Cette reforme a passe
par 3 etapes bien distinctes:
La premiere etape, effectuee au l' semestre 1997, consistait a faire F'etat des lieux pour orienrer
la reforme. L'analyse en a rapporte que les ressources financieres etaient insuffisantes et utilis6es de faqon
irrationnelle et abusive, entrainant des gaspitlages. L'etat de sante de la population ne s'est pas amdliore.
Bon nombre de formations sanitaires etaient fermnes, faute de personnel ou dI a la destruction ou
delabrement des locaux. Le comportement n6gatif du personnel de sant6 et la faible disporiibilit6 des
m6dicaments ont entrain6 une perte de confiance de la population et un recul de leur utilisation des services
de sante de 1'Etat. La reforme du secteur a ainsi commence par la mise en place d'un nouvel organigramine
et la nomination des Responsables a tous les niveaux sulvant des profils de poste bien definis; qualification
experience, capacite de leadership, moralite et intdgrite.
La seconde etape etait marquee par le debut de la mise en muvre des orientations strat6giques
entreprise au cours du 26 semestre 1997 dont:
l la revision de la Politique Sanitaire Nationale, qui a mis en priorite l'assurance de la qualite des
soins, la sante de la reproduction, et la lutte contre certaines maladies ou probl6mes jusque-la
m6sestiirns (cancers gynecologiques de la femme, sante bucco-dentaire, sante oculaire, lutte
contre les maladies emergentes. -)
-la rnise a jour du Plan Directeur mentionne plus haut, pour lequel la participation au
d3veloppement sanitaire doit etre fondee sur trois valeurs essentielles :"Ethique-Equitd-Justice
Sociale';
* l'assainissement du budget de l'Etat. Des Audits ont ete menes aupres de chaque District
sanitaire et ont permis une analyse complete de la situation relative a la gestion des ressources
financieres et materielles. Des mesures ont ete ainsi prises pour rendre rationnelle l'utilisation
des ressources;
* la planification et la mise en cauvre des r6habiitations et de nouvelles constructions de Centres
de sante, l'objectif a atteindre 6tant de doter chaque commnune au moins d'un centre de sante
de base d'ici la fin de I'an 2.000;
* le redeploiement du Personnel selon des criteres bien definis: anciennete au poste, normes par
rapport a la population desservie, et necessite de service pour des problemes de competence et
de mora1it6,
* la gin6ralisation du Recouvrement des coUats, baptise Participation Financiere des Usagers
(PM );
* les grandes campagnes de Jutte contre les maladies transmissibles ont ete entreprises ou
continnues: l'operation de disinsectisation intra-domiciliaire (OPID) pour la lutte contre le
Paludisme, la campagne de vaccination massive de tous les enfants iges de moins de 5 ans
pour l' eradication de la poliomy6lite(AVA) et la campagne d'elimination de la lepre (CEL).
La troisieme etape, entamee a partir de 1998, consistait a la mise en o=uvre proprement dite de la
rdforme pour consolider tous les acquis. Les approches nouvelles ont fait l'objet d'un appui
methodologique specifique. Les activitds suivantes ont ete ainsi entreprises:
* Organisation de la Table Ronde, avec identification du positionnement de chaque partenaire
par rapport au Plan Directeur,



Annex 1
Attchmrent 1
* Analyse de l'aide exterieure, avec I'appui m6thodologique de l'OMS, qui deviendrn un outil d e
coordination des aides exd:rieures du secteur sa6te;
* Mise a jour de la liste des conventirins siguees, entrant igalement dans le :acdre de la.
coordination des interventions des partenaires au developpement sanitaire;
* Elaboration et mise a jour des textes legislatifs et reglementaires, dont le Cocie de Sante
publique et les textes relatifs A la Politique Sanitaire et les modalites de Recouv'rement des
cocits,
. D6veloppement de I'approche contractuelle, qui constitue un outil d'ouverture dii secreui
sante a des rnouveaux partenaires ( (ONG, Prives...);
a Generalisation du Systeme d'Information Sanitaire pour la Gestion (SISG), qui constitue ur.
outil de decision pour la planification strategique au niveau central, et pour la gestion, le suivi
et I'6valuation au niveau peipherique ;
a Cr6ation de l'Agence des M6dicamnents pour assurer la qualit6 des m6dicaments; et autres
produits pharmaceutiques.
Les prenmiers resultats obtenus concement essentiellement.
-La mobilisation des ressources
* Ressources hurnaines; minse a jour informatisee de l'effectif et redeploiernent des
Agents :1.391 Agents redeployes; recruternent par appel d'offres pour 608  postes de
paramedicaux en 1998 et 981 MWdecins en 1999; am6liorazion de la qualite du perionnel par
l'ouverture   du   Centre   de   Formation   Specialisee   en   Sante   Pub. ique   et
Conmnunautaire(CFSSPC) et des 6 ]Ecoles d'Enseignement Medico-Social (EEMS), fcrrnation
d'infrmniers specialises en anesthdsie-r6anirnation, formation des pharnaciens irLspecteurs,
remise a niveau des techniciens biologistes, octroi de bourses exterieurs:,
* Ressources financieres: paiement de tous les arrieres du Ministere de la Sante qui se sont
6leves a 22 milliards de Fng; evolution vers ia d6centraisation budg6taire conmgnric6e par
I'auzmentation des allocations pour le niveau p6riph6rique, norarnment les Districts sanitaires.
60,6 milliards de Fmg ont ete mobilies en 1997-1998 pour les travaux de constructions er de
rehabilitations, ce qui representent 7S% du montant utilise pour la periode 1993-l9s 8; I'aide
exterieure a la Sante a 6te de 2,2 USI) par habitant en 1997;
W Medicaments: 57% du budget pour [es intrants chimiques et pharmaceutiques ont 61 & alloues
aux Districts Sanitaires pour constituer un capital de d6marrage du revolving en med: carnents.
Ces montants ont 6t6 verses a la Centrale d'Achat SALAMA pour commande de m6di.aments.
* Mat&iels et 6cuipements: acquisitions et r6partitions de lits m6talliques et de divers "nobiliers
hospitaiers ainsi que des lots de petits mateinels mndicaux.
-L'amelioration sensible de V'accessibiiit6 cle la population aux services de soins de base:
* Refonctionnalisation des Formations Sanitaires: 187CSB sur 370 non fonctionnels, ont etc
r6ouverts; 499 CSB ont ete rdhabilitis; 191 CSB1 transformes en CSB2 par I'affeciation de
m6decins; 7 CHDI transformes en CHD2 par la dotation d'unit6 chinurgicale; les CWU et
CHR ont fait I' objet de rehabilitation et de revitalisation;
* Disponibilisation permanente des m6dicaments dans toures les Fornations sanitaire5 par la
generalisation d e la PFU et installation des Phagecom daris toutes les Formations Sanit Lires. La
recette mensuelle moyenne par CSB s'dlve a 500.000 Fmg pour les medicarnents. e:6 le taux
moyen de recouvrement du montant des medicaments alloues est actuellemnent a 31,5;2¶,.
Le Gouvemement Malagasy se rejouit de la reussite de la derniere mission d'evaluation di. iProjet
CRESAN-II qui couvrira la periode 2000-2006. La Banque mondiale, a travers le CRE! AN-Il1.
contribiuera au developpement sanitaire du pays, en complementarite avec les interventions des d ff6rents
partenaires du Mlnist6re de la sante et des organismes de cooperation bilaterale ou multiraterale telis que



Annex 1
Attchnent 1
1'OMS, le FNUAP, J'UNICEF, le PNUD, I'ONU/SIDA, la Commission Europeenne, l'Allemagne, la
France, la Chine, l'Italie, le Japon, la Suisse, les Etats-Unis d'Anerique, l'Association Francaise Raoul
Follereau etc... Leur positionnement vont servir a financer les diffrentes categories de depenses telles que
les r6habilitations/constructions, la fourniture d'6quipements/fournitures techniques, la fourniture de
mobiliers/matriels logistiques, la foumiture de m6dicasnents et de produits parasanitaires, l'appui
institutionnel, le transfert de competence- Par ailleurs, certains de ces partenaires apportent leur appui de
fa,on privilegide dans quelques provinces seulement, voire dans quelques Fivondronampokontany
(Districts). Le Projet CRESAN-JI prevoit, en outre, le financement de la reactualisation du Plan Directeur
actuel qui terninera son cycle triennal de planification en l'an 2000, toujours en coherence avec les
interventions des diffrents partenaires du Minist6re de la sante conformmemnt au principe du suivi de ce
Plan Directeur.
Pour cette periode 2000 a 2006, le Gouvemernment s'engage i poursuivre son objectif d'offrir une
meilleure sante pour tous les Malgaches. Les bases de la reforme du Secteur dtant actuellement posees et
les deux annees d 'exercices ayant deji donn6 des resultats prometteurs, le Departement s'orientera dans la
consolidation des acquis et s'attelera a poursuivre les strategies prioritaires pour le developpement du
Secteur.
La dUcenTralisation de la gestion du systeme de la sante au niveau des Districts Sanitaires sera
poursuivie. CetEe strat6gie evoluera vers l'autonomie du District avec la mise en place des structures de
decision basees sur le partenariat entre les collectivites decentralisees, les communautes et les
professionnels de sante. Cette approche necessitera une amelioraiion de la capacite de programmation. de
coordination et de gestion des ressources a tous les niveaux du systeme de sante, en plus du renforcement
de la competence technique et de la capacite mat6rielle des services. Les activit6s a decentraliser
concernent, enl effet, la gestion des ressources humaines (redeploiement. formation, supervision,
evaluation), la mobilisation et la planification des ressources financieres et materielles du district et la
coordination des interventions de tous les partenaires. La composante renforcement de la capacite
institutionnelle du CRESAN II y sera d'une aide precieuse.
La mise en place des services de sante integres et coordonnes dans le district sera renforcee pour
am6liorer I'ore de soins de qualite au niveau periphcique. Pour cela, il y a lieu de finaliser le contenu et
les procedures d'execution du PMA pour les CSB et les CHID, d'y adapter les normes standardis4es en
matiere de personnel, d'equipement et d'infrastructures pour chaque type de formation sanitaire, et de
doter les CSB et CHD en plateaux techniques conformes a ces normes nationales. Pour les programmes de
constuction, de rehabilitation, de deploiement de personnel et de fournitures d'equipement, la carte
sanitaire comportera un volet prospectif (Plan de developpernent des infrastructures sanitaires) et
constituera l'outil de prise de d6cisions. Cette Carte sanitaire sera disponible grace au financement du
Projet. L'appui du CRESAN U permettra, dans le cadre de la Composante Appui aux Districts, et en
complementarite avec la contribution d'autres partenaires du secteur, la realisation des travaux de
rehabilitation et de construction, ainsi que du plan d' 6quipements.
Toutes les dispositions approprines seront prises pour le fonctionnement ad&quat du systeme
hospitalier de r6f&ere. La priorit6 sera attribuee a la fixation des caracteristiques indispensables du profil
de l'ofre de soins hospitaliers afin d'am6liorer la qualitd de la prise en charge des cas referes. II sera etabli
un Projet d'6tablissement pour chacun des Hopitaux. Les besoins seront recenses sur ia base de normes
definies. Le Gouvernement veillera neanmoins a la r6partition rationnelle des ressources entre les
etablissements et s'engage i renforcer l'autonomie de la gestion des etablissements hospitaliers de
reference.
Le Gouvernement s'attachera i adapter les ressources humaines aux besoins du systeme de sante.
11 prendra toute les dispositions n6cessaires pour mettre en place le Personnel et 1'6quipement dans toutes
les formations sanitaires aussit8t qu'elles seraient rehabilit6es, conformnment au plan de developpenment



Annex 1
Attchment 1
des ressoUrces humairLes et d'6quipements. Des mesures seront prises afin d'accelerer ie processus d,-
recrutement des Agents de sante qui manque:nt. Les efforts d'harrnonisation des effectifs des personnel:s
aux besoins des structures des soins et administratifs seront poursuivis, tant en matiere d'effectif que de
qualification. Le cadre institutionnel de Ia formation des professionnels de sante sera mis en place poui-
assurer le plan de fonrnation pour les dix prochaines annees. L'appui du Projet CRESAN  II sera,
ap'preciable dans l'Plaboration du plan de d6veloppement des ressources humaines du secteur, 1.
fonctionnement du comite intersectoriel pour la reforme de la formation initiale des professior nels de ];3
sante et le fonctionnement des Ecoles de formation des paramedicaux.
Les efforts daans l'optimisation de l'utilisation de 1'ensernble des ressources financieres du secteu:.
seront poursuivis- Le GCouvemement s'engage a maintenir la priorite accord6e au secteur, et allouera
annuellement au Ministere de la sant6, pour la periode 2000-2006, au moins 9%/o du budget total de
fonctionnement de l'Etat afin de permettre une bonne execution du Projet. Les ressources firnnci6res dut
d6partement proviendront ainsi d'un accroisser.nent des allocations budgetaires de l'Etat et des en.Ilectivite;
d6c.entraIis6es, de l'introduction progressive de la contribution des b6n6ficiaires a travers la p irticipatior.
financi&re des usagers et la contribution des partenaires externes. La generalisation de la p;rticipatior
financiere des usagers sera poursuivie a tors [es niveaux de la. pyrarnide sanitaire et l'util,sation des
ressources generees sera rdglementee. Les representants des populations seront de plus en plu:; impliques
dans la prise de decision grace a leur engagement dans la gestion des fonds et dans la eiestion des
Formations Sanitaires.
Considerant la persistance du gap entre les besoins financiers du systerne et des ressources
disponibles, le Gouvernement accordera la priorite au d6veloppement des capacites de programmation et
de gestion financiere a tous les niveaux du systeme de sante. L'appui du CRESAN II sera appreoiable dans
le volet formation mais egalement dans les efforts pour ameliorer l'elaboration et l'execution des budgets.
Parrii les priorit.s pour rendre operationnelle toutes les Formnations Sanitaires, le Gou vernement
s'attachera a augmenter la disponibilit6 des Medicaments essentiels et s'engagera 4 assurer
l'approvisionnement du pays. Les Districts Sanitaires seront dotes de locaux d'enrreposage de
6nddizcaments (LEM), les gestionnaires de ces Entreposages seront formrs et les m6licament v seront
livre:; au moins deux fois par an. La contribution des partenaires exterieurs est sollicit6ti pour la
construction de ces locaux.
Dans certe optique, des efforts particuUiers seront entrepris pour optimiser le fonctionnerae:nt de la
Centrale d'Achat. La qualit6 des m4dicaments a fournir a la population doit etre assure:e par le
developpement de mecanismes permettant le controle des medicaments fabriques ou inrtodu.:ts sur le
territoire national. A cet effet, il a ete cree au sein du Minist6re une Direction de ]',Agence de MWficament.
La creation d'un laboratoHre national de contr6le de quali:t des medicaments figure dans les pen;pactives.
La securite transfusionnelle continuera a etre surveilleo. Le Second Projet CRESAN  cont:ibuera a
1'acquiisition des equiperaents et reactifs y afferents.
Parrni l'evental cles services a offrir aux populations, la lutte contre les Maladies Tran.missibles
est alignee aux priorites du Gouvernement: Paludisme, Peste, Tuberculose, IST/SIDA, i:e.pre et
Bilharaiose. Environ 36% -du Crddit de l'IDA seront alloues a cette composante.
Les efforts pour amnliorer le bien etre de la famille seront consolid6s afin de preserver la 'a=t6 des
groupes les plus vulndrables que sont les femmes et les enfants. La strategie nationale pour une raatermitc
sans risque (MSR) sera g6n6ralis&. La prise en charge de la grossesse et des accouzhements -etiendra
particualirement l'atnentiorn du Gouvernement. Los activit6s de prevention en matiere d'IST/SIDA seront
intensifiees. L'appui de J'EDA  sera d'une importance certaine dans l'effort d'augmentatic a de la
disponibilite des services de Planification Familiale, notarnment dans I'achat des produits con:raceptifs
modernes et dans le developpemnent des Services A, Base Communautaire.



Annex 1
Attchment I
Par ailleurs, la prise en charge int6gr6e des Maladies de 1'enfant (PCIME) sera gen6ralisee. Une
partie de la formation des Agents sera pfise en charge sur Ponds IDA.
Les actions de prevention et de lutte contre la Malnutrition seront renforcees. Un accent
parti culier sera accorde sur la prise en charge des enfants malnutris severes au niveau des h pitau x. Les
ressources financieres sur le Projet seront concentrees a la rehabilitation des locaux ainsi qu't I'achat
d'aliments et de fourrnitures pour les centres de rehabilitation nutritionnelles, La collaboration avec d'autres
projets de nutrition, dont notamnment la SEECALINE, sera renforcee afin d' assurer une coherence des
activites.
Afin d'optimiser les actions, l'utilisation des ressources sera cadree dans les principes de
rationalisation et d'une gestion saine. Le nouveau systeme de gestion du secteur sera maintenu et
consolide. Les activites menees par le Gouvernement et ses partenaires seront guidees par le Plan
Directeur qui sera reactualise par periode triennale. Les revues bi-annuelles de suivi de 1'execution seronT
realisees avec la participation des partenaires internes et extemes. Pour le CRESAN-II, une reunion de
revue annuelle sera organisee avec les acteurs des composantes du Projet afin d'&valuer 1'execution des
activites et de planifier les activites et les propositions de budget pour l'annee suivante.
Pour ce qui est du CRESAN-II, le suivi sera base sur une matrice d'indicateurs jointe a la
presente Iettre, mais l'evolution des indicateurs cles suivants retiendra parriculierement l'attention, erant
donne qu'ils definissent les objectifs du Projet relatifs au developpement du secteur et font partie integrante
a cette lettre de Politique sectorielle:
-Augmentation des possibilites d'acces de la population aux infrastructures sanitaires (dans un
rayon de 5Km) de 65% a 85% d'ici 2006;
-Accroissement des taux d'utilisation des centres de sante par les consultants externes de 0.2
contact par habitant par an a 0,6 contact par habitant par an d'ici 2006;
-Augmentation du taux d'utilisation de l'hopital de district de 50% a 80% d'ici 2006;
-Accroissenient des taux de pr6valence contraceptive de 9,7% a 17% d'ici 2006;
-Augmentation des taux d'immunite des enfants pour les vaccins du PEV de 40% a 75% d'ici
2006,
-Reduction du taux de mortalite a l'hopital des enfants s6verement malnutris hospitalistis pour
rebabilitation nutritionnelle de 20% a I 0% d'ici l'an 2006.
-Maintien du taux de prevalence du VIfI chez les femmes enceintes en dessous de 0,25%.
Enfin, les interventions des differents partenaires du Ministere de la sante, dont la Banque
mondiale, seront compl6tecs par lc d6veloppernent du Secteur prive a but lucratif ou non, associatif ou
confessionnel. Les efforts de conceder des services publics i des Associations i but non lucratif seront
poursuivis, comme la Centrale d' Achat de Medicaments SALAMA, la Pharmacie a gestion corrmmunautaire
des centres de sante. Les Locaux d'Entreposage des Medicarnents (LEM) seront dot6s de statut juridique
de droit prive de type associatif. La mise en concession des unites de pharmacie des Centres Hospiraliers
de Rdfrence i des ONG confessionnelles ou non, et la mise en concession de certains domaines curatifs
sp6cialis6s au sein des Centres hospitaliers seront poursuivies.
Toutefois, la fonction de moderation et le r8le de garant de 1'equite du Ministere de la sante
doivent atre soutenus par la concertation perrmanente avec le secteur prive en vue de la mise en vigueur de
la tarification consensuelle conformement au droit de la population a la sante et a des couits qui leur sont
acceptables et abordables.
Le lourd fardeau que supporte la population, notamment les couches les plus dtfavorisoes, du fait
de la rmaladie et des deficiences constat6es du systeme national de sante imposent des reformes profonds
du Secteur de la sante. Les principaux axes strat6giques de notre Politique Nationalc de Sante privilegient



Annex 1
Attchment 1
ainsi l'organisation et la gestion du systeme de sante, les autres aspects y font partie integrante mais ave,z
un degr6 de developpement variable en fonction des pniorites et des ressources.
Telles sont, Mlonsieur le Directeur, la substance de la Politique de Sante de la RPpublique de
Madagascar et les bases sur lesqLuelles notre Gouvernement voudrait poursuivre une collaboration
avantageuse avec tous ses partenaires et en particulier avec la Banque Mondiale pendant la p,6riode d-
2000-2006,
.E         MINISRE, 
/s:seE t>       E5 OCT. 7929
<.,,.  oZ  s  DIUAkARIVO Tant-i4



Annex I
Attchment 1
LISTE DES INDICATEURS                     2000   2001   2002  2003  2004 2005  2006
INDICATEURS GENERAUX:
Population totalc
Taux de croissance demographique
Revenu par habitant ( S EU)
Taux de croissa=ce du PIB
Pourcentaao de la population totale aynt accft ;i 1'eau potable-
INDICATEURS D_ETAT DE SAN           E LA
POPULATION:
Esperance de vie A la naissance
Taux de miortaJite infantile
Taux de mortalitz infnto-juveinile
Taux de monalitd inatcmc11e
Indice sytuh6tique dc f6condi4d
Taux de prdvalence de la malnutrition proldino-calorique chez Ics
enfants de moins de 5 ans
INDICATEUIRS DE DISPONIDILTE DES RESSOURCES
POUR LE SECTICUR:
Budget de foncdionnement alloud par I'ETat au sectreur
(MInSan+PF}U+Etablisscments autonomes)
Montant
En pourcentage du budget de fonctionnement de l'Etat
Pourcentage du budget de fonctionncmnent du MINSAN aff=c6
aux depense noa salariales
Pourcentage du budgt de fonctionnement alloue aux uiveaux
prmaires et secondaires
Poufcentage du budget de fonctionnement alloues aux DIRDS
Montant des recettes provenant dui recouvrement des cous par
niveau:
1)-CSB/CHD 1
2)- 2/CVICJCHU
Montant des fnancements allouds par les partenaires exteunes
Nomnbre d'infiasructres sanitaires des fonctionne8les par typ et
par niveaux
Pourcentagc d'dquipements en ban ctat
Nombre d'agents de sante et r4par.ition par categories
professionnelles et par niveau
Ratio midein / habitants
Ratto paramedical / habitants
Taux de disponibilite des mdicaments essentiels
Taux de disponibiWlt6 des vaccins
-Effectifs des porsonnels existants et 6carS par rapport aux normes
d'allocation per nivcau: - pdriph6riques
- intermddiaircs
- centrales



Annex 1
Attchment :.
LISTE DES INDICATEURS                     2000  2001   2002  2003  2004 2005  2006
INDICATEURS DE PERFORMANCE DU SECTE1VR
(au 30 Septembre de chaque annee)
-Te.ux de recouvmetnt des rapports du SISG: RM. RMSD
-Nombre dejour de supervision lhors du chlf lieu de la Rgion par
Eqtiipe DIRDS
-Taux d'utilisation dcs services de consultations externes (par
hab. par an)
-Pourcentage de la population totale ayant acc s a une formation
sanjitaire a moins de; krm du domicilc
-Taux de satisfaction des malades
-Taux de couverture vaccinate des enfants dc 0-11 mois par
antigine BCO, Polio oxal, Aiii-rougeoleux
-Pourcentage d'enfants oompletraent vaccincs par les vaccins du
PEV
-Pourcentagc de femines en iigc dc procreer vaccinecs contre Ie
idtanios (VAT2)
-Tax; de couvemure prenatale (numimum 3 CPN/fimmc.)
-Taux de couvermre postnatale (miaiinwum I CPN/femme)
-Nornbre total d'accouchements enregistres dans les ibrnations
sanitaires
-Tauix de prival2ce V1H/SI)A chcz les feaunes enceintes
-Taux do couveurn des accouchements asisids
-Nmobre de naissances vivantes
-Pourcentage des nouveau-nes de poids de nalssance est infirieur
a 2,5 Kg
-Pourentage de dic~s p6rinataux
-Taux d'utilisation des mrthodes contraceptives modcrnes
-Ta=K de prevaIence conuracepEive au niveau national
-Pow centage des enfants de noins de 3 ans dont le poids est
inf6i.cur A la moye (2 dcajts type)
-Taux de mortalite bospitali6re des enLfants s6vtremcnt rinalnutris
admis dans les hopitaux pour rdhabilitation nutritionnelle
-Pourcentage de ia population ayant accEs aux nidicaments
essenLicls
-Cout moyen du traitement par R&gion et par niveau;
CSB;
CID
Utilisation des serces curatifs:
- Taux d'utilisrtion des sewrices curatift par nivean
- Taux d'occupation moyea des ]ius des HMpihaux
((MICR?JCH
-  Dur&e moyenne de sijour idans les H8pitaux
-  Nombre d'interventios clUnrugicales par Region
-  Non*re de cesarienucs (pourcentage)
Pourcentage de consultants rhfirs du niveau pnuiaire vers le
niveau secondaire



Annex I
Attchmnent 1
NDICAThURS D'ACEEVEMNT DES ACTrIVATS                       2000   2001   2002   2003  2004 2005  2006
PLANHlUEFS
(Au 30 Septembre de chague annie)                                    -             -
DEVELOPPEMENT DES DISTRICTSSANITAIRES
-Nombre de Districts Sanitaires audit6s (%/.)
-Nombre de sorties equapes DDDS par supervision (%)
-Noombre de bureaux SSD coustuuits
-Nombre de CSB/CEID construits
-Nombre de CSB/CHD rQabilit6s
-Nombre dc CSB 6quipes
-Nomubro do CHID oquips
-Nomnbre de strucLurcs dentaircs cr6dcs
-Nombre de structurcs dentaires 6quipes
-Nambre DS 6quipes d'outillages de maintenance
-Nombre d'agents de maintenance fonn6s
ASSALNISSEMENT
Nombre de puits equipds de pompes nanuelles construits
Nombre d'mnexatcurs de dechets hospitaliers construits
PALUDISMfE
Nombre de pcrsonnels paraw6dicaux
- Nombre de mdecidn formes i la PEC des cas
* Nombrc de MN vendus
- Nornbre de Districts Sanitaires couverts par le PMNF
* Nombre de population couvert par les caxnpagnes d'aspersion
d'insecticide
- Nombre d'alerre Paludisme
* dans ks Hautns Terres Centrales
. dans le Sud
BILHARZ7OSE
- Nombre d'agents recycls pour le d6pistage et l traitement de
- Nombre de communes d6clar6es hyper-end&niques
- Nombre de communes touch6es par le traitement de masse
- Norubre d'enquetes dpid6miologiques en Bilharziose effeauees
PESTE
- Nombre de cas d6clards
-Nombre de cas con±rtimis
-Nombre de d6ois
- Taux de lhaliit
-Nombre d'agemrs de sante fornms en PEC des cas
-Nombre d-agents dce santE formns en Surveullance
- Nombre d'alerre
TUBERCULOSE
-Nombre d'Agents formns a la prise en charge des cas
-Nombre de laborantins for__s



Annex 1
Attchment 1
-Nombre de CDT supezris6;_
-Nombre de CDT fonaionnant selon ls nornes
-Nombre de cas diclar6s
-Nombre de cas confinnes
-Nombre de deces
-Taux de 16thaiir6
-Nombre agents form6s en Planification nuuitionnelle
- Nombre de fonnrteurs en dictiUque formes
- Nombre de personnels formns
- Nombre de CRENI r4habilits
- Noimbre d'agents du CSB formn6s en MSR
- Nombre d'agerns des CHD formss en MSR
- Noimbre de CHD I tra=sforinds en Centres Laparo-c6satieane
- Nomnbre de CHD/CSB2 quip6s en niatrriel dc srEdilisaicm,
- Nornbre de SBC mis en placc
- Evaluation anrnLelle du SBC
- Nombre d'agenrs forimds enl PCDr
- Nonibre de Centres d'accueils SRA crds.
MATEFRITE SANS RISQUE
.S7J5IDA
- Norrbre de pril6vcments et d6pistage chez les femmas encentes
- Normbre de cas positfs chez les femres enceintes
- Nombre de prcvements HIV
- Nombrc de cas positifs
- Nombre de pr646vements HES
- Nombre dc cas positifs
- Nombre de pr6levements Syphilis
- Nombre de cas positifs
- Nomibre de CRTS r6habilit6s
Execution du budget de fonctioiment du secwur:
- Montants d6caissas
- Taux d'exdcution dtx budget (extapolation sur les 12 mnois de 'arwce)
Intastruures sanitaires:
-  Nombre d'infastrucws construites ou rdhabilit6ws par fypc
- Talix de rtalisation par zappon aux pr6visIons
Equipements:
- Nomibre d'equipements insltads par type de Formnatior1s Sanit ires
-  Taux de realisation par rapport aux pr6visions
Personmel:
-  Normbre de personnel formes par caidgoxies professioneDes
- TauLx de realisadion par rapport aux prMisions
____._______e2 g ;P                    s* %_                  -     _-_
_________________________________= =____=___=__--  -      -             -     -



Annex 2: Project Description
MADAGASCAR: Second Health Sector Support Project
By Component:
Project Component I - US$17.80 million
(1) Development of District Health Services.
The objective of this component is to help develop primary health care and first referral level services in
districts, to improve the geographical accessibility to services and to foster the quality of care. The project
will finance civil works (rehabilitation and construction) for health centers and district hospitals on the
basis of a Health Infrastructure Development Plan, taking into consideration criteria such as the
accessibility to a public or private health facility, the degree of isolation/condition of roads of the respective
geographical area, the commitment of the respective community to contribute towards the cost of operating
the health facility and the utilization rates of the existing infrastructure. IDA will fmance such works in
those districts without fmancial support from other sources, and, if necessary, it will also contribute to the
re-equipping of the newly constructed or rehabilitated health facilities. Furthermore, IDA funds will be used
to carry out studies, to train the personnel, to provide medicines, to support supervision activities, etc.
Moreover, this component will support decentralized health administrations by constructing and equipping
them (DIRDS and SSD), will support sanitation activities in health facilities (wells and incinerators will be
made available), and will pay due attention to maintenance of buildings, equipment and vehicles. Important
contributions to district based activities will also come from the other components dealing with the most
important public health problems of the sector (nutrition, infectious diseases, reproductive health) and from
the investment already made which led to the set up of the central facility for the procurement of essential
drugs (Salama) and to the generalization of cost recovery.
Project Component 2 - US$15.90 million
(2) Infectious disease reduction
2.1 Malaria (about 27% of the total project cost):
a) Highlands: The objective of the project is to maintain the reduction in malaria transmission which has
been achieved with support from the first IDA project. During the next 9 years the project will finance
transport and other logistic expenditures, equipment and the (pyrethroid) insecticides to be used for
spraying campaigns on the margins of the highlands as well as in some villages which had not been
properly protected during previous spraying campaigns. Environmental safe insecticides for targeted,
intra-domicilary, spraying and drugs for chemotherapy of malaria cases will also be made available in
villages where the alert system identifies outbreaks. While the malaria alert and surveillance system will
continue to be financed by the Italian cooperation, additional funding for transport and equipment needed to
complete the coverage of the entire area at-risk will be funded by the project.
b) Lowlands: The project will support Government strategy aiming at reducing morbidity and mortality
associated with malaria without compromising the building up of immunity by inappropriate interventions.
The main target groups are the children and pregnant women for which a more effective chemo-prevention
scheme will be applied. Over the next 6 years, the project will finance:
(i) training of the health personnel, at different levels of the health delivery system, to improve the
treatment of simple, as well as complicated, malaria cases;
(ii) a revolving stock of bed-nets to be sold to the population and the provision of pyrethroid
-43 -



insecticides for their re-impregnation;
(iii) supplies of drugs (at present chloroquine) for the first line treatment of malaria cases, to be sold at
community level by the village health worker cr in village small shops;
(iv) IEC, through posters and radio, to: a) inform on appropriate use of auto-medication with
chloroquine as a drug for frst line treatment; and b) promote the use of bed nets; and
(v) studies to monitor the use of bed-nets and self-medication, and to identify best ways to impiove
them.
Training of health personnel as well as the IEC activities will be executed by the respective DIRDS with
the assistance of the nationail malaria program. Sale of bed-nets and their re-impregnation, as well a.s the
supply of drugs (for the first line treatment of malaria cases) to health workers and shopkeepers will be
subcontracted with local N(JOs. Cost-recovery for bed-nets seems to pose no problem as they are well
accepted by the population. However, for several reasons, introducing cost-recovery for re-impregnation
seems less accepted. Consequently, based on results of studies on acceptability and long-term compliance,
re-impregnation could be fully or partly subsidized from the credit. Cost-recovery will be applied fir the
drugs prescribed by village health workers and sold by shopkeepers. Studies on the effectiveness ard risks
of auto-medication will be conducted at mid-term in order to validate the approach in the local contexct.
While the technical expertise will continue to be provided by the "Malaria scientific network", strategic
decisions on spraying, bed net policy, choice of drugs, etc., will be taken with support from the Roll back
malaria committee (at presenrt in its making) to be chaired by the MOH and to include all important players
in malaria control.
2.2 Tuberculosis (about 3% of the total project cost)
The aim of this component is to: (i) improve the accessibility to TB diagnosis, prevention and treatmernt; (ii)
reduce the number of patients discontinuing TB treatment (drop-outs); (iii) monitor effectiveness and
efficien,cy of TB drug therapy; and (iv) decentralize and strengthen supervision. The project will support:
Government supervision activities (e.g., transport, vehicles, maintenance), case detection and treatment of
cases and the purchasing of specific drugs, should public health funds not suffice. In addition to the costs
of supervision teams, the project will finance the training of the DIRDS teams by the national TB program
in order to decentralize the supervision. As most DIRDS lack the technical skills to supervise TB acaivities,
the transfer of tasks and responsibilities will be progressive. The project will also finance TB culture,s and
anatomo-pathological examitnations, where appropriate. Financial support to the central laboratory i'. also
foreseen to allow periodical assessment of sensitivity to drugs of mycobacterium tuberculosis. While
purchasing of TB drugs will be financed from the public budget, the project will secure funds to covyr any
failure of the public finance system that may occur. It is expected that the continuous availability of TB3
drugs for the short regimen will increase general compliance to treatment and will reduce the number o:f
drop-outs.
2.3 Plague (about 3% of the total project cost)
The objectives are: (i) improvement of case detection and management; and (ii) prevention and control of
outbreaks in rural and urban settings. Detection of plague cases has recently been greatly improved after
the introduction of a new dipstick test which allows health personnel to confirm suspected cases in ti f ield.
The project will support the local manufacturing of this rapid diagnostic tool. Currently, suspected ai id
confirmed plague cases are treated with streptomycin injections, although the WHO recommended di 1, is
doxicycline (a generic drug, orally administered). The project will fund a feasibility study to replace ;he
current scheme with a new olne consisting of early administration of injectable streptomycin followed by,
after 48 hours, an oral antibiotic. In rural areas, the project will support the spraying with insecticidrr
(pyrethroid) around the house of newly detected cases. In urban settings, the project will finance the setting
- 44 -



up of a surveillance system to monitor selected indicators in order to timely detect epidemic outbreaks.
Moreover, the project will help the MOH to advocate measures to improve sanitation in the most affected
neighborhoods of Antananarivo and Mahajanga. The project will also fund laboratory surveillance to
monitor the sensitivity of the bacteria (yersinia pestis) to currently used antibiotics as well as the sensitivity
of rat fleas to environmental safe insecticides. Control of flea and rat populations in urban areas will be
attempted through the use of methods which will not contaminate the environment i.e., Kartmann boxes
(containing insecticides and ratticides proven efficacious in Madagascar). More importantly, the project
will fund a comprehensive review of the strategy for plague control using recent developments in the study
of the dynamic of epidemics and its indicators, the vulnerability of the bacteria and the fleas, and recent
advances in diagnosis and treatment. Due to its highly specialized nature, the epidemiological surveillance
and laboratory activities, as well as the clinical trials, will be sub-contracted with the Pasteur Institute of
Madagascar.
2.4 Schistosomiasis (about 2% of the total project cost)
The aim of this program is to contain the progression of the schistosomiasis epidemic. In the geographical
areas where the disease is widely spread, the project will fund campaigns (transport, equipment and other
expenditures) to identify the villages most severely affected. In these villages, the project will also support
the administration of treatment (free-of-charge to the person) with an effective drug (praziquantel).
Depending upon the form of the disease (intestinal or urinary) the interventions will vary, i.e.,
*Intestinal Schistosomiasis: the screening for hyper-endemic villages will rely on the use of a rapid
assessment method based on the presence of parasite eggs in stools at microscopy in a small
sample of school-age children.
*Urinary Schistosomiasis: the project will fnance a study to develop a rapid assessment method to
screen hyperendemic villages in a similar way to the one developed for intestinal schistosomiasis.
However, the diagnostic of infection may be done through the use of a simple questionnaire or of a
dipstick test to identify the presence of blood in urine.
The concerned DIRDS and districts will be closely associated in this work to enable them to, later on, carry
out surveillance and mass treatment activities.
In the non-hyperendemic areas, both urinary and intestinal schistosomiasis cases will be diagnosed in
patients complaining of suggestive symptoms on the basis of a positive microscopic examination, of a
positive dipstick test, or on the basis of answers to a specific questionnaire. In this case, the cost of the
treatment will be supported by the patient.
Moreover, the project will also fund epidemiological field work and studies (to be subcontracted with the
Pasteur Institute of Madagascar), technical assistance, drugs and insecticides, equipment and will also
support recurrent expenditures.
Project Component 3 - US$ 6.40 million
(3) Family Planning and Reproductive Health (including STDIHIV/AIDS)
The component will: (a) help improve the access to services pertaining to reproductive health (RH) in the
six provinces but with a special emphasis on three undeserved provinces (Fianarantsoa, Mahajanga, and
Toliary); (b) set up higher quality standards for the provision of RH and safe motherhood services in the
six provinces throughout the country; (c) help improve the access to services pertaining to sexually
transmitted diseases, the human immuno-deficiency virus, and the acquired immune deficiency syndrome
(STD/HIV/AIDS) in the six provinces throughout the country; and (d) set up higher quality standards for
the provision of STD/HlV/AIDS services on a nation-wide basis.
RH service delivery will be supported by Information, Education, and Communication (IEC) efforts
-45 -



tailored to specific target groups. RH services will also be integrated with other health interventions,
especially child survival and[ safe motherhood. Higher quality standards will be implemented through better
training in the provision of RH services and more effective, client-oriented service delivery,
STD/HIV/AIDS services will focus on the reinforcement of FIV/AIDS screening and sero-surveillance and
the reduction of the level of STD through the nation-wide implementation of the syndromic algorithms for
the treatment of STD. These activities will be supported by the organization of prevention campaigns and
specific IEC activities among prostitutes and other groups at risk.
Financing:
The sub-component on RH services will complement funding of the RH service delivery activities of the
Ministry of Health. It will specifically fund investment and recurrent costs in the main following areas:
strengthening of central services of Maternal and Clhild Care and Family Planning (MCH/FP); definition of
a national action plan for risk-free maternity (safe motherhood); improvement of case management for high
risk pregnancies and complicated deliveries in health centers and/or district hospitals (levels 1 & 2);
increase in FP service delivery, including the provision of modern contraceptives starting in 2002;
integration of case management activities for children's diseases in 35 Health Districts (HD); and
promotion of a campaign on adolescent sexuality with minimum risk.
The sub-component on STD/HIV/AIDS service delivery will complement funding of the activities of the
Programnme National de Lutte contre le SIDA/MSITWH (PNLS) at the Ministry of Health. It will
specifically fund investment and recurrent costs in the main following areas: strengthening of central
capacity of Ministry of Health; reinforcement of laboratory and testing capabilities; strengthening of the
national sero-surveillance systern; case management activities for STD- and HIV-infected patients; and IEC
activities for STD control.
Implementation arrangements:
The RH service delivery activities will be coordinated by the PHC/FP Unit of the Ministry of Health and
the STD/HIV/AIDS activities will be coordinated under the reinforced Programme National de Lutte
contre le SIDA1/MSTVIH (PNLS). The RH and STD/HIV/AIDS activities funded through the component
will comnplement the activities listed in the National Health Plan (Plan Directeur).
To help develop the above mentioned activities the project will finance equipment, HIV diagnostic kits,
commodities, training, consultant support, studies and surveys, and civil works to strengthen family
planning and maternal care services as well as STD/`IHV/AIDS prevention activities.
Project Component 4 - US$1.50 million
(4) Nutrition
Madagascar has one of the highest rates of chronic and severe malnutrition in Africa. According to a 1997
Demographic and Health Survey, acute malnutrition affects 7% of children under 3 years of age which is
three times the desired level (nearly 1% are severely wasted, having a weight for height score that is below
3 standard deviations), 40% of these children are underweight, and 48% are chronically malnourished . In
some regions and age groups these figures are substantially higher, reaching 12% of wasting and near ly
65% of stunting. Since 1992 these rates have not improved on a national basis, and probably have
worsened. Based on WHO analysis, 54% of infant rmortality under 5 years of age is related to
malnutrition, which translates into 85 deaths per 1,000 live births, with both mild, moderate and seve: e
malnutrition affecting infant rnortality rates. Maternal education in terms of knowledge of good feedinig
practices are low, particularly in the rural areas.
The Government has increasingly recognized the problem and sought to take remnedial action. An expinded
community based nutrition efifort is just getting underway with IDA, WFP, and UNICEF support. Th is
-46 -



$41.0 million program (SEECALINE), is the principal intervention by the Govermnent in nutrition. It takes
preventive and educational action at the community level in the most malnourished areas, which are chosen
based on a 1998 anthropometry survey. Its community and school based programs will expand to cover all
provinces by 2003 when the project ends. The SEECALINE program does not extend to curative or the
medical treatment of severely malnourished children.
Indeed, the management of severely malnourished children has been an area poorly dealt with in the past,
without any institution taking clear responsibility, or there being any coordinated effort. This situation has
now been resolved and the Ministry of Health will take charge of this problem on a national basis,
launching an intensive effort to do so in a comprehensive manner.
With respect to this Severely Malnourished Child Treatment sub-component, a protocol has been developed
by a technical body comprised of leading technical experts in Government, from pediatric institutions,
NGOs, and UN agencies. Approved in 1999, the MOH is ready to implement this effort if it able to obtain
resources to fulfill its program requirements. UNICEF has provided training, medical support, equipment
for technical advice, and is prepared to continue to do so on a limited basis. SEECAL1NE and other
community based organizations also have already contributed, and will contribute in the future, by
furnishing equipment, making and assisting in financing referrals, supporting mothers in bringing severely
malnourished children for treatment, and in post treatment counseling. The Second Health Sector Support
Project will provide a package of institutional strengthening and child treatment support to enable the
MOH, on an increasing basis, to handle severely malnourished children in all 111 Districts in Madagascar.
The Government, recognizing the importance of this program and its complexity will designate an
individual responsible for its execution. In all likelihood this person will be attached to the Service de la
Nutrition of the Direction de la Medecine Preventive and will work closely with the Technical Committee
that prepared the approved Protocol on "La prise en charge des enfants severement mal nouris ". The
MOH will assure appointment of the SMP Coordinator, SMP administrative support, and will provide an
annual program progress report which will include quantified indicators. The key performance indicators as
well as the number of severely malnourished children treated in health facilities and of infant deaths will be
reported by the management information system and/or DHS surveys.
Project financing will include training of District health staff, refurbishing health centers to handle severely
malnourished children, providing specialized rations for severely malnourished children, assuring adequate
supervision and program monitoring.
Regarding Knowledge Management, in recent years there has been a greater willingness on the part of the
Ministry of Health to work with others in tackling national malnutrition problems, particularly those related
to children. Nutrition policies, programs and protocols have been, and will be developed and implemented
with the extensive cooperation and support of other organizations which work in nutrition. The clinical
technical capacity of the MOH has been improving with growing competency in the Direction de la
Medecine Preventive, Service de la Nutrition (SNUJT), However, because of operational demands and
limited staff, there remains a significant gap in nutrition planning and public health nutrition skills, and
nutrition skills at the Province level to provide decentralized feedback and customized implementation of
nutrition activities. Further, there is no effective operational intersectoral mechanism to follow what is
being done in addressing nutrition deficiencies, by who, where, and with what irnpact. (While the
Programme National de Surveillance Alimentaire et Nutritionnelle (PNSAN), principally financed by
UNICEF, exists under the Ministry of Research, it is basically a statistical and research oriented effort with
little relation to interventions.)
With respect to the mobilization of resources and collaboration, the Second Health Support Project will
support the active joint sponsoring by MOH of efforts which enhance the effectiveness of nutrition
programs in Madagascar. Resources will be made available to the Direction of Preventive Medicine to
- 47 -



support workshops and operational studies which lead to common protocols and procedures. One
instrument which will help in sorting out such priorities is the Group d'Action Intersectorielle de Nutrition
(GAIN). GAIN has emerged over the last year as an extremely effective tool for information and program
exchange between the major partners, other sectors, NGOs, and universities. Initiated by USAID and
chaired by the MOH, this informal body now has some 75 participants, and has become a forum for
exchange, consensus, networking, and identification of joint efforts. GAIN's success has been largely due
to its informal nature, and increasing awareness of the importance of nutrition in the country. The criteria
by which the Second Health Support Project will make resources available to the MOH to engage in such
operational research or operational training, will be: there be another an active contributing partner or
partners, and the activity will demonstrably contributed to improvement of nutrition programs which bear
on chikl or maternal nutrition.
The project will also support the development of a multi-sectoral (principally health, agriculture, edX cation,
infrastructure, planning) operational nutrition infonnation system (NIS). NIS will work together wilh the
existing PNSAN unit, which includes specialists in agronomy, economics, and computer science. By
bringing nutrition information into the operational arena on a sustained basis under the auspices of tlhe
MOH, combined with training in nutrition planning (which is virtually non-existent in Madagascar), it
would become a very potent instrument for decision makers to assess the effectiveness of resource
allocations directed at solving the immense nutrition problem in Madagascar. Technical assistance,
training, and office equipment would be fnanced under this elernent.
Finally, the MOH recognizes that nutrition prograrns developed at the national level need feedback from the
Provinces, to tailor them to local conditions. Short term training for two non-medical professionals of each
of the six provinces (in Africa) in nutrition, will be iFinanced to strengthen the capacity in the regions to
address infant and maternal nutrition needs.
Project Component 5 - US$2.80 million
(5) Institutional Strengthentin2
The institutional strengtheninlg component of the project will be complementary to the substantial sul:: port
received by the sector from other external partners such as EU, French Cooperation, WHO, AfDB, etc. and
it will contribute to the improvement of sector resource management and increase program implemernat:ion
capacities in three ways by:
(a) reinforcing ongoing reform efforts at central level and improving the allocation and effectiverin ss of
health sector resources at all levels;
(b) largeting resources wthin the other project components to increase program implementation
capabilities at both central and peripheral levels; and
(c) providing resources to maintain the Ministry's current project management structure.
Approximately US$ 5.9 million have been budgeted to strengthen institutional capacity both directly i'2.8
million) and indirectly (3.1 million). The latter category includes capacity building activities to be finmnced
under the other components of the project (as explained under (b) above).
(a) Sector reform and resou[rce management (IJSS 1.4 million). Following on the achievements oi the
first IDA credit to the sector, the project will support the reform process as well as the improved
managernent of sector resources.
i(a. 1) Sector reform process. By combining credit conditionalities and planned activities, the
project will contribute to the ongoing sector reform process. Specifically, the project will finance reforrn
efforts inl the areas of:
-48 -



*      improved sector coordination through the organization of semi-annual and annual
meetings between the Ministry and its partners (including donors) to review progress in
the implementation of the National Plan for Health Development and sector's actual
performance;
*      increased service coverage by relating financial resources with staff development and
redeployment and with the overall Plan for health infrastructure development;
*      financial access and equity by strengthening analysis of the sources and uses of health
sector financial resources in general, and by monitoring the implementation of the cost
recovery process in particular; and
*      increased efficienocy and effectiveness through the development of policies and plans for
maintenance, the promotion of private sector activities, etc.
In addition, the project will provide support to the Ministry's Legislative Service which
has the responsibility of ensuring that the various legislative and regulatory texts are up
to date and consistent.
(a.2) Sector resource management. The project will strengthen the performance of key sector
management functions at all levels, and specifically:
*      planning and budgeting: The project will provide equipment, training, and operational
support to monitor progress and update the 5-Year Sector Development Plan as well as to produce
an annual Public Expenditure Program. The project will also promote initiatives to inventory and
prioritize research in the sector and to link the various planning documents produced at central,
provincial and district levels. Funds have been included to update periodically the Health
Infrastructure Development Plan to be produced prior to the implementation of the project.
*      human resource development: Following on the computerization of personnel files
fmanced by the first project, this new project will finance decentralization of the system to the
provincial level and use the information to prepare a human resource development plan, comprising
future personnel requirements (quantitative and qualitative), annual staff redeployment based on
existing norms, and projected training needs. In addition, the project will support operations of the
Intersectoral Commnittee on Training, which is responsible for implementing the recently adopted
National Training Policy for both initial and in-service training. The project will also finance
rehabilitation, teaching equipment and materials, and curriculum development for schools at
central, provincial, and district levels.
fimancial management and accounting: In support of the Ministry's efforts to strengthen
financial management and control, the project will finance training of central and provincial staff in
budget preparation techniques and in the use of the Ministry's computer program for monitoring
budget execution, BUDSAN. District level training would focus on financial management for the
district medical inspectors and on physical accounting for the district accountant. The project
would also finance periodic internal audits. Limited additional equipment will be provided to the
financial service (recurrent budget preparation) and to the investment service (investment budget
preparation).
*      physical accounting and maintenance: Procedures, introduced by the Government to
ensure accurate inventories of equipment purchased by the Ministry, will be reinforced. Based on
a preliminary analysis of infrastructure and equipment maintenance practices, the project will
finance a study to recommend improvements in the organization and financing of the Ministry's
maintenance policy. Future project interventions will be based on the findings of the study.
*      monitoring and evaluation: the project will continue to finance the reform of the Ministry's
management information system begun under the first project. The project will support additional
training for statistical staff at central and provincial levels and purchase computers for central level
and selected health districts. Existing data collection formats for the health district will be revised
and formats for the regional and university hospitals will be elaborated; manuals for completing the
-49 -



formats will be produced, and the project will provide operating funds to support frequent
supervision by MO)H to ensure data quality and timely reporting. The project will also finance
printing of the annual statistical digest for two years and an analysis of utilization patterns at
health center and district hospital levels.
The project will also provide limited support for the International Relations Service to strengthen donor
and NGO coordination.
(b) Program implementation (US$ 3.0 million). To improve implementation of the project's other
components, the project will provide resources to strengthen the capabilities of those central directc rates
responsible for providing technical guidance and slupport, specifically: (a) the District Developmenil:
Directorate (DDDS) and the Health Facilities Directorate (DES) for the development of health districts;
and (b) the Preventive Medicine Directorate (DMP), the Pharmacy and Laboratories Directorate (DP,L),
and the IEC Service for the transmissible diseases and family health components.
For the DDDS, the project will provide some office equipment a vehicle, short-term training., and
operating funds to pursue the district planning and annual audit activities. The project will also fund the
pre and post-project beneficiary assessment to be carried out by this directorate.
For the infectious d[iseases and family health components, the project will furnish limited office
equipment and vehicles to the central directorates, finance short-term training and participation at
international conferences, support strategy development and annual program reviews (for malaria and
tuberculosis), and provide resources for epidemiological surveillance and research as well as evaluaicon.
In the case of the IE,C Service, the project will finance limited audio-visual equipment to thi
service; the financial resources to produce and distribute IEC materials have been included in the budgfets
of the specific technical interventions to ensure the pertinence of the materials to be produced.
(c) Project management (US$ 1.5 million). Project management capabilities in the areas of
planning, procurement, financial management, and reporting were developed under the first project and will
be maintained to ensure smooth imnplementation of the new IDA project. The same project unit will also be
used for the management of the recently negotiated AfDB project (Projet Sante II). It is expected that,
gradually, this unit, which is already part and parcel of the MOH structure, will handle other donors'
budgets as well as the investment budget of the MOH. IDA will: (a) finance limited rehabilitation of office
space and purchase of office equipment; (b) strengthen existing personnel through the recruitment of'
additional procurement (for civil works) and accounting staff; and (c) provide consultant services for the
annual audit and mid-term review. AfDB will also contribute to the extension of office space and share in
fmancing the operating costs.
- 50 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
MADAGASCAR: Second Health Sector Support Project
Development of Health Districts                            7.27         7.83         15.10
Infectious Diseases                                        4.04         9.50         13.54
Reproductive Health                                        1.41         4.03          5.44
Nutrition                                                  0.53         0.73          1.26
Institutional Strengthening                                1.82         0.56          2.38
Toltal Baseline Cost                                      15.07        22.65         37.72
Physical Contingencies                                    1.50         1.69          3.19
Puice Contingencies                                       1.62         1.85          3.47
Total Project Costs             18.19         26.19        44.38
Total Financing Required              18.19        26.19         44.38
Goods                                                       0.98          16.99        17.97
Works                                                       8.32           7.79         16.11
Services                                                     1.29          0.49         1.78
Training                                                    0.94           0.85         1.79
Operating Costs                                             6.66           0.07         6.73
Total Project Costs     18.19         26.19        44.38
Total Financing Required     18.19         26.19         44.38
Other: Operating Costs
Services: Technical Assistance and Studies
- 51 -



Annex 4
MADAGASCAR: Second Health Sector Support Project
Economic Analysis
I.    Introduction
I .    An economic analysis of the Second Health Sector Support Project in Madagascar, and of the
environment in which it will operate, has been undertaken during the course of project preparation. The
following discussion spells out the economic justification of this project, focusing on aspects such as: (i)
econornic and sectoral contiext; (ii) health sector expenditures and financing; (iii) cost-effectiveness; (iv)
equity; (v) risks and (vi) sector capacity. The findings show that the Second Health Sector Support Project
as an intervention that: (a) has a convincing economic rationale; (b) does not crowd out the private sector;
(c) ensures financial affordability and sustainability; (d) supports cost-jeffective interventions; (e)
contribiutes to poverty alleviation and to the reaching of justified social goals, and (f) adds net benefits to
the national economy.
2.    The Govermment's National Health Policy and its Health Sector Development Plan (Plan
Directeur) main thrust is to provide access to better quality primary health services for the entire
population and especially for the rural poor. The Second Health Sector Support Project supports this
strategy and will provide fimancial support to: (i) strengthen sector management and administrative
capacity, and decentralized decision making; (ii) support priority health programs with emphasis on
endemic infectious diseases, nutrition and reproductive health (including FP, STD and AIDS); and (iii)
improve quality of and access to district health care services.
3.    The analysis is based on data and information from Politique nationale de sante (Ministere de la
sante, April 1996, Plan directeur santi (1998-2000), Plan de Financement (Ministere de la sante, June 30,
1998); Documents prdparatoires de la table ronde du secteur sante (Ministere de la sante, Mars 1998);
Discours progamme prisentJ par Monsieur Tantely Andrianarivo (Premier Ministre chef du
Gouvernement, August 1998); Examen des depenses publiques secteur sante (European Union - W'orld
Bank, 1996); Audit de restructuration du Ministere de la Sante (European Union - World Bank,
September 1998); Etude du secteur sante (CREDES, December 1995); Measuring the Burden of Dt sease
and the Cost-Effectiveness of Health Interventions (Jha, Ranson, Bobadilla, 1996); CAS for Madaga scar
(World Bank report #16249-MAG), draft Public Expenditures Review for Madagascar (1999), drafl
Policy Framework Paper (IS199-2001); draft MOP for the Madagascar Structural Adjustment Credil
(SACII, 1999), World Development Report 1993: Investing in Health (table B.6 and B.7, pp 222-223):
Better Health in Africa: Experience and lessons learned by R.P.Shaw and E.Elnendorf; The World IF,ank
1994; Wtorld Development Indicators 1998.
HI.    Economic and Sectoral Context
4.     Recent performance. Since 1995, as a result of stabilization measures undertaken by the
Government, economic conditions begun to improve. Growth during 1990-98 averaged 1.3 percent.
Inflation declined to 6.2% in late 1998 (from a peak of 49% in 1995). Also, fiscal management improved,
with the fiscal deficit (excluding grants) at 7.4% of GDP in 1998 (compared to 11.4% in 1994).
Investment was also slowly expanding, with private investment surpassing public investment in 1998r, for
the first time since 1990. For the second year in a row, in 1998, GDP growth exceeded the populaticil
growth. In parallel, a package of structural reforms was developed in collaboration with the private sector
- 52 -



which considerably changed the termns of trade in favor of the rural sector. Although sustained growth has
remained elusive, progress on adjustment has been gaining momentum, and other elements of an improved
business climate have begun falling into place. Areas of progress have included macroeconomic stability,
fnancial sector reforms, and actions to encourage competition and open the country to foreign investment
and tourism.
5.    Just as economic growth has been fundamental to general health gains, the converse also
incr easingly appears to be true. There is a growing body of evidence that health gains in Madagascar have
contributed to development and, particularly, to economic enrichment of the lowest income groups.
Strengthening and further developing the Madagascar's health care system are, therefore, important to
support a progressive economic reform.
6.    Links to CAS and to Economic Sector Work. Poverty reduction is at the center of the Bank's
Country Assistance Strategy, which was presented to Board in February 1997. The key challenge
ideintified is to ensure that the 10.7 million poor people of the country (i.e., 70% of the total population,
with over 85% of the poor living in rural areas) become better off and that their living conditions improve.
7.    The project will support this overarching goal by focusing on improving access to better quality
health services for the entire population and especially the rural poor. Three key CAS objectives are
particularly relevant for this project: (i) human capital development, which focuses on primary education,
basic health care and rural infrastructure; (ii) public sector strengthening and the development of its ability
to deliver quality services; and (iii) the creation of a favorable economic environment allowing full
development of public and private sectors. The CAS specifically mentions indicators and monitorable
actions such as: improvement of quality of health services in the 111 health districts of the country,
finalization and implementation of the health sector policy and development plan, reduced malaria and
tuberculosis morbidity and mortality rates, improved drug availability and affordability, the set up of cost
recovery for drugs and the containment of HIV/AIDS epidemic.
8.    Moreover, a multidonor Public Expenditures Review (PER) has been initiated in the health and
education sectors with the main objective to help Madagascar in establishing a transparent mechanism to
allocate public resources for health in a manner that promotes economic growth and helps reduce poverty.
The challenge is to concentrate public resources on compensating for market failures and to efficiently
finance services that will particularly benefit the poor.
9.    Rationale for Public Intervention and Financing. The characteristics of the health care market
generally, but in Madagascar specifically, make it unlikely for private providers to render all, or the
majority, of services needed by the population as for many services there are market failures (1). In
M[adagascar, public interventions in the health sector are warranted because of:
(i) the geographic maldistribution of services (in rural areas, public services account for about 80%
of total health service delivery, and this ratio sharply increases in the remotest areas) and persistent
problems with accessibility and affordability of health services.
(ii) the fact that public services provide a mix of preventive and curative basic health services
(while private providers tend to preferentially deliver curative services to the better off population
groups);
(iii) the population's low awareness and demand for preventive services and for public health
goods; and
(iv) the strong seasonality of revenues and low income of the rural population.
TIhe public sector's goals, ((a) improvement of health outcomes with a focus on maternal and child care,
and infectious diseases; and (b) development of a system that can deliver affordable quality primary
- 53 -



services to the entire population) are, therefore, timnely and relevant.
10.   Nevertheless, it should be noted that public sector health services in Madagascar are being
increasingly funded with contributions from non-public sources e.g. through cost recovery (which operates
at all levels of the health delivery system). Further, users of health services and local administrations are
involved in decision making in health, as part of management committees ("Comite de gestion") of various
health facilities. The Government decentralization policy has also led to gradually allocating more
discretionary funds to regional and district health administrations and to delegating decision making away
from the central authority.
11.    The private sector: the rationale and sco7e of its intervention. Compared with many otli er
African countries, the private sector is somewhat better developed in Madagascar (see Box 1 belowl.
There are indications (see paragraph 16) that, at present, users of health services are spending more money
in the private than in the public sector (US$3.50 vTrsus US$2.30 per capita (1998)). The rationale for
increased private sector development in Madagascar is strong and is based on the good performance of
private facilities (such as NiGOs and confessional services) and budget lirnitations in the public sector
(which will remain severely under-funded during the next ten years, if not beyond).
NGes nd.ofsinlfaiiis.nprallwt h srnteigo the rol  oSta~te".  Among th
,~~~~~~~~~~~n  c i1l il i 
mesues~ enviaged tofst.teeeopetofterv.tscorae
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Te ar IsaU Xal  .E    In
: ! m~~~~~~~l*r  rnpb faiJ| tie|s I
a) development of regulations to foster the development of the private sector, to, assure the de..ivery
- 54 -



of quality care and to maintain its affordability.
b) provision of incentives to private doctors to practice in remote geographical areas in which
public health facilities are not available or do not fully meet the demand in services of the
population.
c) development of new outreach public services taking into account the accessibility to both public
and private facilities (thus, saving public resources).
d) contracting out with private providers the delivery of care (including of tasks traditionally not
carry out by the private sector, such as preventive activities and the provision of services to the
indigent population), and expanding the use of NGOs and confessional services. ,
e) contracting with private providers public sector's non-clinical activities, such as maintenance of
medical equipment, catering, and management/administrative tasks.
f) development of regulation and quality control measures to ensure quality of drugs in private
pharmacies and to allow private pharmacies to purchase essential drugs using the services of the
central drug procurement unit (Salama).
13    At some future point, when prepayment arrangements are in place (mutualites and/or insurance
schemes) a more radical change of the entire health system could be envisaged with the MINSAN
ma,intaining its policy and coordinating role, while most clinical services will be provided by non-public
facilities.
14.   While the proposed project does not contain many activities with regard to the development of the
private sector, sector work has been proposed to analyze the present role and potential of the private sector
in Madagascar, to determine the proper private/public mix of services taking into account the comparative
advantage of each of the sub-sectors and, also, their limitations.
III.   Health Sector Expenditures / Health Sector Development Plan / Health Sector Support
Project
15';.   This part of the economic analysis aims at assessing the situation in three inter-related areas:
(A) health sector's overall expenditures,
(B) the health sector development plan (for the years 1998-2000 and its projections) which
contains measures to implement the Government's policy for the sector but it is narrower in scope
as the proposed actions encompass exclusively areas characterized by high cost-effectiveness ratios
such as primary health care, prevention, infectious diseases, institutional strengthening for
efficiency gains, and
(C) the proposed IDA financed part of this plan referred to in the text as the " Second Health Sector
Support Project".
A.    Health Sector Expenditures; Trends and Structure
16.   As a first step in the assessment of affordability of the Health Sector Development Plan, an
analysis of the MOH budget and expenditures was carried out and projections were made based on trends
out to 2005 (see Annex A).
17.   Table 1 below presents a summary of the budget allocations and expenditures for the years 1996 to
1998. In 1998, the relatively high share of the public budget allocated to health (close to 10% of the public
budget and about 1.3% of the GDP) contrasts with strikingly low actual expenditures of about US$2.30
per capita, of which donor contributions were estimated at about US$0.70 per capita. This was the result
- 55 -



of two main factors: the modest size of the public budget overall, and, low expenditure rates in the health
sector (about 69% of estinumted expenditures for 1998). A study (2) suggests that about US$3.50 was also
spent for health in the private sector (this includes the "prevoyance sociale", for-profit and not-for-profit
private providers, and traditional health providers). The total per capita annual expenditure for health was
therefore about US$5.80. Notwithstanding this figure, health expenditures are low and insufficient to
finance a minimum package of health care (3) estimated by the Bank to cost between US$9 and 12 per
capita and per year, in low-income countries.
Table 1. Health sector budget allocations and budget execution in Madagascar.
(1996: 1US$-= 4,061 FMG; 1997: IUS$ = 5,091 FMG; 1998: IUS$ = 5,533 FMG)
1996              1997               1998
GDP (millions FMG)                               16,852,40(        19.122.600        20.90LZ3
Population (millions)                             .    .5 _19______________ _      __    14.
Total Government Budget (millions FMG)  _         2,079.61    .     2,756.80r         3.57,55
Health Budget Allocation (millions FMG)            225.00f           251.321            261 .515
Health IBudget Execution (millions FMG)            17468              168.96            ' 80A44
Execution/Allocation (%)                              78%               67%       -       69%
Public Health Budget per capita (US$)                 4.11              3.56. 3.31
Public Health Expenditure oer capita (US$)            3.1               2.391             2.29
18.    Salaries and wages accounted for a relatively small proportion of recurrent health expenditures
(about 51%) and compared favorably to other African countries. Nevertheless, the nearly 50% of budget
available for recurrent non-salary budget was insufficient to adequately cover sector requirements. Thus in
1997, FMG52 billion was expended for recurrent non-salary expenditures from the public budget, and
about FMG14 billion more vvas added by funds generated from cost recovery. This total amount wa; riot
sufficient to support the health care delivery system and translates into poor maintenance, lack of
equipmemit, and -- ultimately -- in poor quality care.
19.    While part of the solution to the insufficient non-salary recurrent budget seems to lay in the
expanding cost recovery scheme, recently generalized and made mandatory (January 1998), projectic is
indicate that cost recovery contributions to the non-salary recurrent budget will grow, but will remaini
relatively modest (about 27%/o in 1999 and 29% in 2005). Other contributions to the recurrent budget. also
come from donors as recurrenlt expenditures "hidden" in the investment budget (see paragraph 21).
20.    The situation of the recurrent budget is particularly worrisome, because the sector policy
emphasizes the improvement of accessibility to primary health care and to first referral facilities, and as its
priority, outreach services, rehabilitation and re-equipping of existing health facilities. This calls not mnly
for an increased recurrent budget allocation (recurrent expenditures as share of total public spending on
health are projected to increase from 63% in 1997, to 69% in 2005), but also for: (a) planned investniants
in accorcdance with both recurrent and investment budget projections, hence a need to develop an
infrastructure planning (Carte sanitaire); (b) measures to foster efficiency gains, such as increased use of
private providers; and (c) further development of cost recovery schemes (which, depending upon user
willingness to pay could, in thie future, sell drugs at a higher price and encompass more services, thereby
recovering a greater share of the costs of public health services). (4)
21.    The investment budget and expenditures are only known in part, since some donors do not chaf nrnel
all of their funds through the public sector and also because of problems with PIP data reporting. In I.997,
the investment expenditures accounted for 36.5% of the total public spending in the sector, of which donors
- 56 -



contributed 80%. Nonetheless, considering that: (a) the recurrent budget limitations oblige donors to pay
for some recurrent expenditures (in many African countries recurrent expenditures, "hidden" in the
investment budget, represent up to 40% of donor expenditures), and (b) donor activities not channeled
through the public system rarely include large investment expenditures, it can be inferred that investment
expenditures are actually significantly smaller.
22.   Health expenditures analyses also show that the public sector budget was used significantly to
deliver services for the benefit of the poor and the rural population, and to develop primary health care.
One study (5) indicates that of the health expenditures in 1998 alnost 39% of the recurrent non-salary
buiget was allocated to district health facilities (CSB-1, CSB-2, CHD-1, CHD-2), while only about 10%
was allocated to secondary and tertiary hospitals (CHR and CHU) (see table 2 below). As a consequence
of the new orientation of the National Health Policy, there has been an increasing trend in the recurrent
budget allocated to districts; for example, in 1998 on average FMG268 million was allocated per district
which is three times as much as in 1995. The share of the budget reserved for central administration was
large (48%), however, 2/3 of the central level recurrent budget is for technical goods (fournitures
techniques) including drugs, which are then distributed to the districts, as well as for various personnel (6)
expenses. (About 4% of the budget is also allocated to provincial administration.)
Table 2: Functional Composition of Recurrent Expenditure in 1998
A.E u i g X ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10
9 S S 5~W__  4 1                                   i             39
23.   Cost Recovery. In January 1998, cost recovery for drugs became mandatory for all public primary
health facilities. Cost recovery for services, following different schemes, has been also applied in many
public and private hospitals for many years. Cost recovery raised an estimated FMG22 billion in 1998 and
it is expected to make an increasingly important contribution to the sector's recurrent expenditures reaching
FMG38.3 billion in 2001. At present, cost recovery schemes in operation, for example the FIB scheme,
developed with UNICEF support, is a lump sum payment program covering both drugs and services; in
Mahajanga arrangements, set up with GTZ support, services are either pre-paid by means of an annual
contribution or paid when delivered, and drugs are paid when prescribed; to community pharmacies
(PHACOM), supported by Swiss cooperation, families made annual contributions and receive free of
charge drugs. These arrangements currently co-exist with the newly set up scheme of the Government
(PHAGECOM) which covers about 75% of the health centers and consists of payment for drugs using a
profit margin of 35% above the drug price at the central drug procurement unit (Salama) (7). As
mentioned, projections indicate that cost recovery contributions to the non-salary recurrent budget will
grow, but will remain relatively modest (about 27% in 1999, and 29% in 2005).
24.   During the 1998 PER exercise the following issues were identified:
a) Information on cost recovery is incomplete (8) and probably underestimates the actual proceeds
of the system. Development of a financial monitoring system able to provide accurate data is
essential. Moreover, regulation of the use of funds generated by cost recovery for financing drug
procurement by Salama, should be reviewed and strengthened.
b) Various cost recovery arrangements have been operating simultaneously in the country; these
should now be evaluated and a coherent approach developed.
- 57 -



c) Management committees (Comites de gestion), set up in health centers and in district hospitals,
which administer cost recovery funds, operate without adequate guidance. Therefore, the
finalization of documents on rules and procedures for cost recovery in health centers and hospitals
should take place as soon as possible.
d) A standardized format for monthly financial reports to be submitted by health centers
management committees should also be finalized and adopted.
e) Since cost recovery funds are to be used to replenish drug stocks and for discretionary
expenditures by the health facilities (supplementing the recurrent non-wage budget allocations)
there is need to develop sufficient accounting and financial management capacity at the perilhery
and also to make possible adequate auditing.
25.   Conclusion. In the period 1996-1998, the health sector budget accounted in average for onl;y
US$3.70 per capita (which represented almost 10% of the total public budget and 1.3% of the GDP) This
low level of funding was compounded by poor budget execution, efficiency problems and a centralized
spending pattern. To improve the financial resources situation, the health sector should implement
sweeping reforms in the years to come:
(i) Recognizing the development of the health sector as a national priority, the Government sliould
increase the total health expenditures as a share of the GDP from 1.3% in 1997 to 1.95% in 2005.
(ii) Taking into account that salaries and wages accounted in the past for only 50% of the rec;urrent
health expenditures aand that, even with this favorable budget breakdown, the non-salary recurrent
budget was insufficient, the Government should address the non-wage recurrent budget shortage.
To ensure sustainability, current health expenditures are assumed to increase (from 50% of t:tal
health expenditures in 1999 to 70% in 2005), while current salary expenditures, as a share of total
current health expenditures, will remain stable at about 50%. The latter would translate into an
increase that would still allow (a) the hiring of 1000 health personnel in 1999; (b) the
implementation of the action plan for staff redeployment; and (c) a modest salary raise.
Nonetheless, the non-wage recurrent expenditures will increase from FMG102 billion in 1999 to
FMG239 billion in 2005;
(iii) Assuring that proceeds from mandatory cost recovery schemes will increase, and donor
contributions continue at about the same levels as in the past.
Both the draft Public Expenditures Review for Madagascar (1999) and the draft MOP for the Madag. scar
Structural Adjustment Credit (1999), demonstrate that these measures are feasible.
B.    Health Sector Development Plan; Cost and Financing
26.   The total cost of the three-year slice (1998-2000) of the plan was estimated by Government at
about US$70 million. An amount of US$4.5 million will be covered from the MOH budget, and the
remainder (US$65.5 million) by donors. A detailed break-down of the cost of each objective and its
fimancing source (MOH or donors) is presented in table 3. Moreover, the table indicates that about 12. 5%/o
of the total cost are recurrent costs, while 87.5% are investment costs. Over 90% of the donors and 4?'% of
the MOH contributions are designated investment costs.
- 58 -



Table 3: Estimated current and investment cost of the Health Sector Master Plan (1998-2000)
b obective and source of financina  in US$)
1,650,059      92,840            0       115,500     1,441,719      607,615
of 1I3' n  _20,644,725   590,000           0        577,380    19,477,345    7,910,746
9,535,423     717 824     1 742 125       45,200     7,030,274    5,923254
i lV~      1,948,385       99,350      125,000            0      1,724,035      547,965
1,105,405      96,870            0       450,000      558,535       966,195
5,192,610     267,450       100,000      400,000     4,425,160    2,677,240
vir      10,639,722      138,600           0      1,264,500    9,236,622     6,566,483
~                19,688,687     395,497       133,800    3,502,953    15,656,437    5,309,173
70,405,016    2,398,431    2,100,925    6,355,533    59,550,127    30,508,671
General objective I   Adapter le cadre juridique et institutionnel du systeme de sante auxpriorites de
la politique sanitaire national
General objective II    Developper des services de sante de qualite au niveau des districts sanitaires
General objective III   Developper le systeme hospitalier de reference
General objective IV    Adapter le developpement des ressources humaines aux besoins du systeme de
santk
General objective V   Optimiser l'utilisation de lensemble des ressourcesfinancieres du secteur
General objective VI   Augmenter la disponibilite en medicaments essentiels gendriques et de produits
sanguins de qualite
General objective VII  Developper la lutte contre les maladies transmissibles prioritaires
General objective VIII Ameliorer le bien-tre de lafamille
2-7.    The affordability of the extended Plan de Developpement (2000-2006). The affordability of the
extended plan was determined on the basis of estirnated projected financial resources and estimated costs,
using the following assumptions:
(i) projections in nominal GDP were calculated on the basis of an 8% annual growth throughout
the period 1999-2005;
(ii) total health expenditures as a share of GDP (%) would increase at a reasonable rate (e.g. by 0.2
percentage from 1998 to 1999; by 0.1 ifrom 1999 to 2000; by 0.1 from 2000 to 2001; and by 0.05
yearly from 2001 to 2005). This implies that total health expenditures as a share of GDP, which
was 1.31% in 1998, would increase steadily to reach 1.95% in 2005, which is generally consistent
with other African country experience (see table 4 below);
rahe 4. Publ    S         luares a             s1 e   llar
1.64        1.69        1.56       1.61         1.39
, =   ,      ~~~~1.23     1.22        1.11       1.18
, g  *       ~~~~1.68     1.55        1.86
--L:   _   _1.42     _            0.99        1.14
23.          ~~~~1.11     1.13        1.17       1.50        1.82
--W         --i        2.42       2.46          --
- 59 -



(iii) current health expenditures as a share of total health expenditures would be expected to
increase from 50% in 1999 to 70% in 2005, while current salary expenditures as a share of current
health expenditures would remain stable at about 50% throughout the period. The latter would
translate into an increase in nominal terms that would still allow: (a) hiring of 1,000 health
personnel in 1999; (b) the implementation of the action plan for staff redeployment; and (c) a
modest salary raise;
(iv) costs throughout the period would increase annually by 10% to compensate for inflation (5%)
and for under estimated unit costs (9) (5%);
(v) donor contributions to investments in the HSDP would remain stable (80% of total investment,
while the Government would contribute the remaining 20%);
(vi) based on the discussions with donors and the analysis of their current expenditures HSDP
donors would fnance recurrent costs amounting to about 10% of their investments;
(vii) Government contributions to HSDP recurrent expenditures during 1998 to 2000, would
account for, on average, 8.5% of the public non-salary recurrent health expenditures. For the
years 2001 to 2005, Government contributions to HSDP recurrent expenditures would increase in
nominal terms, but each year they would represent a lower share of total Government recurrentn
non-salary expenditures for health. In other words, non-salary recurrent expenditures for health for
the operation of the health delivery system would increase relatively more than the recurrent
expenditures of the HSDP.
(viii) Projections for the year 2006 regarding expenditures and the cost of the HSDP, were made on
the basis of the average increase in the respective values during the three preceeding years.
Based oln these assumptions, financing availabilities were estimated, i.e. the difference between the
projected cost of the extendecl HSDP and the projected available resources for the period 2000-2006. These
are set forth in Table 5 below.
T'able 5: The fnancing of the Health Sector .Development Plan (2000-2006) (millions FMG)
94,810   101,127   107,537   119,971    133,270   143,579   154,477   165,825   178,209
Investment Government         23,703    25,282    26,884    29,993     33,318    35,895    38,619    41,458    44,552
Total investment             118,513    126,409    134,421    149,964    166,588   179,474   193,096   207,281   222,761
Recurrent Donors               9,481    10,113     10,754    11,997    13,327    14,358    15,448    '16,582    17,821
Recurrent government (HSMP)    8,000     8,250     8,650      8,656     9,213     9,438     9,562     9,560     S,622
Total recurrent               17,481    18,363    19,404    20,653     22,540    23,796    25,010    26,142    27,443
Total HSMlP (FMG)            135,994   144,772    153,825   170,617    189,128   203,270   218,106   213,423   250,204
Total HSM1P (USD)         24,578,717 25,636,926 26,864,247 29,734,597 32,823,332 35,107,067 37,378,865 39,6111,121 42,2:1,4,253
Cost of HSMP (USD)        23,468,339 23,468,339 23,468,339 25,815,173 28,396,690 31,236,359 34,359,985 37 795,994 41,5r6,593
Difference (USD)           1,110,378  2,168,587  3,395,908  3,919,424  4,426,642  3,870,708  3,018,870  1 8S5,127   :318,660
28.    Conclusion From table 5 it appears that the extended Health Sector Development Plan can be
fully funcled throughout the period under consideration (2000-2006) (the plan's total cost during this period
is about US$223 million while potentially resources available for its implementation are about US$244
million).
C.      Financing of the Second Health Sector Support Project
29.    The Second Health Sector Support Project is defned as these elements of the extended
DevelopmLent Plan that are to be financed by IDA and to which Government will also contribute funds. An
IDA credit of US$40 million is proposed to support the project whose total cost is estimaited at US$ 44.4
-60 -



million. The foreign exchange component is estimated at US$ 26.2 million (or 59% of total costs). Base
costs amount to US$ 37.7 million equivalent (85% of total costs) of which about 80% are investment costs.
The project costs by component and by expenditure category are summarized in Annex 3 while the project's
financing plan is presented in Annex 5.
30.    Conclusion. As shown in the following sections (C I and C2) the Second Health Sector Support
Project would be fnancially sustainable and affordable and would support cost effective interventions.
C. I   Fiscal Impact, Cost Recovery and Financial Sustainability
31.   During project implementation, Government contributions on average will amount to about
USS650,000 or not more than 1.0 % of the total 1999 health budget. After project completion,
Government will have to carry the recurrent costs induced by the project. Extrapolating from the figures of
the eleven months preceding the project closing in 2006 (see recurrent cost figures in Annex 5), this will
mean Government financing of about US$650,000 annually. This can be achieved, if the health budget
allccation is increased by less than 3.0 % throughout the project period of 5 years. If these projections are
correct and the health budget increases by 10% yearly, this goal will be (more than) achieved. Table 6
below summarizes: (a) the required annual Government contributions to the project, (b) the fiscal
implications thereafter, as well as (c) budget increases necessary to meet additional demands, and (d) the
budget amounts corresponding to a 3.0% annual growth. The table shows that the recurrent cost
implications of the project can be easily accommodated in the low-case scenario of a 3.0% annual budget
increase which can be obtained even if the total health expenditures as a share of GDP remains at the 1998
level of 1.31% (in fact, less than a 1 % annual growth in the health budget would suffice).
Tabe : isal moictinsof tbe Smeod eas t Sector. SuDot oect/S  n urn r*cs
Sb.~~~~~~~~~~~-
u~~~~~~~~ oT  o 61,163.804                                   _                   61 163.8-04-
a i soo.oool so°.°°°0,00                       61.6-63.804          0.82       61.775.442
: l  F         8~~~100 ,000        200,000     621,63,804           0. 342     63,017 128
2 ~~~~~1.000.000                        0      62.163,804           0.00       63.647.300
2 ~~~~~500.000                    -500.000    61.663.804          -0.80       64.283.773
~~~~~500,000                        0      61,663.804           0.00       64.926.610
t!kXW04Bi  100.000            -400.000     61.263.804          -0.65       65.575.877
4 4  650,000             550,000     61,813,804           0.90       66,231,635
3,2.   Prospects for financial sustainability of the Second Health Sector Support Project are positive.
The project will not pose a large fiscal burden on the country during the project life, or after project
completion, nor will it alter tax policy. However, beneficiary contributions towards the cost of the program
wvill be more important, but within an affordable range for most people. Cost recovery for drugs will
continue along the lines of the present arrangement which proved to function well, and to provide good
quality drugs at affordable prices. The indigent population will also continue to be protected.
Affordability of services and consumer's willingness to pay will be constantly monitored, with the objective
of making under-served groups the main gainers of this ptogram. At the end of the five year program, it is
- 61 -



expected that the Government will better manage donor inputs (which are to remain inportant), and
beneficiaries will increasingly be involved in both decision-making in, and financial support to, the sector.
Decentralization will also play a substantial role in efficiency gains and in a more rational sector
development.
C.2    Cost-Effectiveness Analysis
33.    While public fnancing is fully justified, it is necessary to focus on those health services with high
returns and impact on the health status (and avoid spending scarce public resources on services
characterized by low cost effectiveness ratios (11). To this end, an examination of cost-effectivenes:s ratios
of the interventions included, in the Second Health Sector Support Project was carried out. In the ab&;ence
of empirical data from Madagascar, this consisted of analyzing the interventions foreseen in the project
based on cost-effectiveness ratios for health interventions in various studies in low-income countries
available in literature. In parallel, the coherence of the proposed project activities with BHA and 1993
WDR vvas also checked.
34.    The results of the analysis are presented in table 7. The table is limited in that it does not pr vide a
quantitaLtive analytical basis for interventions not included in the basic package of health care, and th-, 50
interventions studied in the WDR 1993. It does show, however, that interventions proposed for IDA
fnancing are highly cost-effective and consistent with the BHA and 1993 WDR recommendations.
- 62 -



Table 7.Cost-Effectiveness of Health Interventions and their coherence with
Better health in Africa and 1993WDR
~~~~
F90~~~~~~~I
1. Development of primary health services to
deliver an essential package of health care  16.3      ---          Y             Y              100
Child immunizations                                12-17                                 (children and
Pre and post natal care                            30-50                                pregnant women
Assisted delivery                                   100                                      >50)
Diarrhea                                            5-8
Respiratory infections                             3-130
2. Infectious disease control:              18.1       ----         Y             Y              80
Malaria                                             8-25
Impregnated net- beds                              43
Schistosomiasis
Tuberculosis                             2.8        3-5
Plague
3. Reproductive health                       1.4      35-50         Y             Y              60
Family planning                                    20-30
HIV/AIDS prevention                                 5-12
STD                                              1-3/60-63
4. Nutrition                                          15-20
Rehabilitation of severe malnourished              40-50         Y             Y               2
children
5 Institutional strengthening                                       Y             Y
Human resources management                                      Y             Y
Improved budget and planning performance                        Y             Y
Develop a health information system                              Y             Y
Develop regulation and incentives for                           NA            NA
private sector
WV.     Equity Analysis
35.     The sector policy main thrust is the provision of affordable health outreach services. The project
will provide extensive coverage in under-served urban and rural areas and, as such will make a substantial
contribution to improved equity and poverty alleviation.
36(.    The reduction of major public health problems (such as malaria, tuberculosis, STD/HIV/AIDS,
schistosomiasis and plague which affect disproportionately the poor populations in rural areas and urban
slams) will also contribute to equity and poverty alleviation.
37.     By applying cost recovery across the board in the health delivery system, and by setting up tariffs
in.troducing incentives for making use of primary health care facilities, the better off population (which in
Africa tends to be the user of tertiary services) will pay more. Conversely, the access of the poor to
affordable and good quality services will increase. Coupled with the availability of good quality essential
drugs in the outreach facilities, the project will contribute to greater equity balance. Further, the poor will
substantially benefit from the extensive prevention focus. Health and nutrition prevention programs, family
planning and other activities with large externalities will continue to be free of charge at the delivery point,
or be made available at low cost. Moreover, the affordability of fees and drug prices for the poor
- 63 -



population will be monitored and measures taken to protect the indigent population.
38.   The potential to convert cost recovery into pre-payment arrangements is also worth mentioning,
since it will make possible risk sharing and it will introduce incentives for health providers (public but also
private) to carry out more, and better, prevention and health promotion activities.
39.   Reduced fertility rates will stimulate economic growth and will increase the role of women in
economic development and in society. Additionally, the health status of women and children will be
enhanoed (resulting in lower maternal and child mortality and morbidity). Children will receive the beenefits
of a higher investment in human capital per capita, and more care in their families, which will enabl'- better
school performance and work prospects.
V.    Sensitivity analysis linked to major risk factors
40.   Annex 4B presents a detailed list of identified risks and proposed risk mitigation measures. Vhile
all important, the following four seem critical:
(a) Political stability and ownership of the project The Government has embarked upon a process
of democratization, decentralization and, very recently, of economic renewal to redefine the role of the
public sector, and, to foster a supply response from the private sector. While the country seems to
have passed the point of no-return of this reform process, the potential for reversals and political
instability cannot be ignored. Slower growth will exacerbate wealth and income distribution issues.
With regard to the ownership of the project, project preparation work has been carried out in clos;e
collaboration with Government, donors and NGOs. All have strong commitment to the process,
including the highest leve.ls of Government. To a large extent, good project perfornance will
contribute to reinforcing ownership and commitment to the health sector policy, and in turn will
ultimately enhance political stability.
(b) Future economic performance may not improve as projected, and therefore may not provide
adeqluate funding, hindering the implementation of the sector policy. Modest growth and
fluctuations in economic performance show the degree to which the economy remains vulnerable to
exogenous factors. While the CAS clearly spells out the poverty alleviation and growth program
should economic growth be less than anticipated, the sector policy will need to be downsized and
sharper priorities set. The health sector can deal with such eventualities because it operates on the
bases of a three-year rolling plan and of an Annual operational working plan (PTA) which offer tlie
possibility to yearly adjusting operations to variations in financial resources or to changes in the ]r iealth
situation of the country. Donor commitment and financial contributions to the sector policy are a [so
regularly monitored with opportunity of Round table discussions on sector performance and sector
annual plans. Other important contributions to sector financing (i.e., from donors and users of
services) have been stable and increasing. This is because the MOH has pursued a transparent relat:ion
with donors and NGOs, and the success of cost recovery is one of the sector's priorities. Lastly,
expected efficiency gains are to be obtained from the development and greater reliance on the privat-
sector, contributing to overall sector performance. Efficiency gains will also contribute, in an indirect
mamner, to health sector financing as donors and the private sector in general feel more confident iheir
investment in health brings convincing returns.
(c) Sector capacity may remain weak and may delay the occurrence of efficiency gains. Beti -r use
of existing resources is part and parcel of the Govermnent policy for the country, and at the core cf lhe
CAS.. Furthermore, it is one of the thrusts of the health sector policy. Important support, not only
- 64 -



from the proposed credit but also from donors such as the EU, French cooperation, and the WHO, aims
at irnproving the system performance. Five essential aspects are being pursued in this regard with
financial support form the project:
(i) the strengthening of the administrative, financial management and program management
capacity of the Ministry of health;
(ii) the decentralization of the decision-making from the central level to regions and districts
health administrations, and the empowerment of health facilities to take decisions on their
budgets (which will lead, in the case of more important health facilities, to semi-autonomous or
autonomous status);
(iii) the use of most cost-effective interventions, which has been analyzed in the previous
section;
(iv) the development of the private sector and more reliance on its services, as described above;
and
(v) the emphasis on improving the quality of health services (through disseminating examples
of best practice; rewarding providers for the quality of services rendered rather than for their
quantity; developing competition between providers, monitoring performance based on well
chosen quality indicators and by ensuring the availability of essential drugs).
(d) Donor support may not be sustained at anticipated levels. Donor participation in both policy
dialogue and in planning and management of health programs will be intensified. Donor coordination
through MEDAC and MOH will be strengthened.
- 65 -



Annex 4A: Public Sector Budg et and Expenditures on Health
1996                  1997             1998       1999       2000   i  2001       _2002
Millions FMG                                         Allocated  Executed   Allocated   Executed Programm       Proj.      Proj.       Proj.      Pr'4.
Cunrent hea,lth (a)                                    101,100     65,600    120,140    107,240    143,002    197,716    238,97 1    278,504    323,377
Salaries (b.), (b.2).                                 50,000        n.e.    61400      55,000      70.995     95,299    116,1      134,239    155,86
Non-salaries (c)                                      51,100        n.a.    58,740     52,240      72,006    102,417    123,787K  144,265    1&t1,509
Investrnent health (e)                                 123,906    109,085    131,181      61,722    118,51     126.409    134,421    149,964    1'1 3,588
Total Pubilic Health                                   225,008    174,665    251,321    168,962    261,515    324,125    373,392    428,468   .419,965
Cost recovery (d)                                          n.a.       n.a.       n.a.     14,000     22,000     27,600     33,380      38,300     413,902
Cost recovery as share of current non-salary expenditures (%)                                 27         31         27         27          27         28
Total Public Health plus Cost Recovery                 226,006    174,685    251,321    1t2,962    283,515    351,725    405,752    466,768    611;,S67
.          ,                                                                 l           - -
Population (l)                                      13,493,851 13,4193,851 13,871,679 13,871,679 14,258,699 14,656,517 16,065,433 15,449,602 15,143,567
Exchange rate (1987:1,069.21 FMG I US$) (f)              4,061       4,061      5,091      5,091      5,533      5,647       5,726      5,738  _ _,762
GDP deflator (1987=1 00)                                   602        802         646        648        881        707        729         750 _       773
GDP deflator (1994=100)                                    178        178         191        191        201        209        216 _       222        229
GDP nominal                                          16,852,400 16,852,400 19,122,600 19,122,600 20,007,736 21,608,354 23,337,023 25 203,985 27,220,303
Growth In GOP                                               23         23         13          13          5          8.        _ 8 __       8          8
GOP per capita in SUS                                      292        292         251        251        258        268        280         294      _ S1
Total health exp./GDP (%)                                  1.34       1.04       1.31       0.68       1.31        1.50       1.60       1.70       1.80
Current health fTotal Public Health (%)                  44.93       37.55      47.80      63.47      54.68      61.00       64.00      65.00      63.00
Growth in Total public health                                                                             4         24          15         15         14
Growth rate current health                                                      18.83      63.48      19.03      38.26       20.87      16.54      It;.11
Growth rate iivestment health                                                    5.87     -43.42       -9.68       6.86       6.34      11.58      11.09
Growth rate current salaries                        ..                    ...... 22.80       n.a.     15.63       34.23      20.87      16.54      116t.11
Growth rate current non-salaries                                                14.95        n.a.     22,58       42.23      20.87      16.54      1r.11
Health exp. per capita (nominal) FMG                  16,674.68  12,i45.55  18,117.58  12,180.33  18,340.72  22,114.76  24,784.71  27,733.25  30.25.20
Health exp. per capita (nominal) US$                      4.11        3.19       3.56       2.39       3.31        3.92       4.33       4.83       5.37
Health exp. Per calpta (real) USS                         4.11        3.10       3.40       2.30       3.40        3.60       3.90       4.20       4.70
Health exp. par capita (real) FMG (Base year 1987)     2,770.20   2,150.67   2,802.53   1,884.12   2,694.25   3,126.71   3,402.14   3,696.00   4,IIDI 35
Health exp. per capita (real) FMG (Base year 1994)     9,362.79   7,268.89   9,472.04   6,367.99   9,106.08  10,567.73  11,498.63  12,491.82  13,!,Z3 85
GDP projections are calculated on the base of a 5% annual growrth in the period 1999-2002 and a 6% annual growth in thi-.
period 2003-2005
Growth in total health expenditures as share of GDP (%) is assumed to increase by 0.2 percentage point from 1998 to 199! ; by
0. I percentage point from 1999 to 2000; by 0. I percentage points from 2000 to
2001; and by 0.05 percentage points yearly from 2001 to 2005.
The current health exp as share of total health exp is assumed to increase from 50% in 1999 to 70% in 2005
The current salary exp as share of current health exp is assumed to remain stable at 0.482 % during the whole period
(a)     1996 and 1997: Execution = Authorized budget (ordonnanace) / Source Operations Globales du Tresor).
(b. 1)  1999: Hiring of 1,000 agents i(postes budgetaires); From 2000 to 2005: implementation of action plan for staff redeployment at the prir-
[b.2]   1998 = 12,330 agents; 2001 = 14,250 agents
(c)     1997: Execution = Authorized budget (ordonnance).
(d)    European Union: Cost recovery on Medical consultations: FMG  14 billions in 1997 (refer to A.Ortiz : "Le prix de lh sante A Madagasca
then El 1O % indexation a year.
(e)     1998 to 2007: World Population Projections (1994-95 Edition), The World Bank.
(f)     Source for exchange rate and GDP deflator: World Bank Development data 1998.
-66f -



Annex 4B: Detailed List of Identified Risks and Proposed Risk Mitigation Measures
Risks                          JRisk minimization measure
Inputs
1Financing available from the different sources will be insuffidient
-Macro-econonic performance does not meet projections thereby   -Government continues to pursue its current macro-econorric policies.
requiring reductions in Government's budget allocations to health  Contingency plans w ill be prepared so that any decision to reduce the
scope of activities w ill sti safeguard pyiority activities.
Implementation of cost recovery nreasures is slow and/or  -Government w ill closely monitor cost recovery performance and ensure
perforrrence of cost recovery systems isless than anticipated  drug availability.
-Donor support is not sustained at anticipated levels    -Donor participation in both policy dialogue and in planning and
managenient of health programs w ill be intensified. Donor coordination
throuigh MEDAC and MOH w ill be strengthened.
2-Allocation of financial resources is insufficient to cover recurrent   -Annual review s w ill establish acceptable recurrent and investment
costs                                                     budget allocations
Maintenance capabilities do not keep pace w ith the expansion of   -Annual review w ill closely monitor the proposed development of
ifatutr,equipment and transport                     maintenance capabilities at central and decentralized levels.
3  -Proposed facility staffing norrns prove difficult to meet  -Studies of staffing norms w Ill be conducted and utilization of personnel
_______ ______ _______ ______ _______ ______ ______ will be  monitored  to  ensure  feasibility.
-Recurrent expenditures for salaries and w ages are greater than    -The irriplementation of the Health resources policy and its costs w ill be
anticipated                                              closely monitored.
1Process
4  -Decentralization of health administration responsibilities is slow and  -A review of MOH, province and district structures w ill be carried out to
the roles of MOH, provinces and districts remains unclear.  propose specific policy organizational and capacity building measures.-
l5 orgarnizafton of health services is more difficult than anticpated
-Integration of appropriate services in the primary health care units  -Training for health staff and IEC for the population w ill emnphasize the
(PHCU) and development of referral procedures takes longer than   issues of health services supply and demanidat the PHCU level.
anticipated.                                              Developrrent of referral guidelines w ill be an immediate priority.
Supervision w ill be emphasized.
6  Implementation of the civil w orksleguipment program s delayed _____________________
-Agreement on facility design and standards is difficult.  -Recruitment of qualified technical personnel w ill be enivisioned and w ork
w ill be closely monitored by MOH.
r    -Procurement capabilities are inadequate.                 -Recruitment of qualified technical personnel w ill be envisionied.
--  -oca costrctio/reabiitaion apaitis ae indeqateB26 StandardJization of documentation and procedures will be encouraged.
-Locl cnstucfinlrhablitbon apaite ar inaequte.326 -Procurement plannfing will appropriately package contracts.
7T Training programs do not respond adequately to sector needs
r -Training capacity is insufficient
-The quality of traininig of persnnel is inadequate____________________________
8  -Esential drugs and medical supplies are not regularly available    -Annual review w ill closely monitor the amounts and proportion of
government allocation to drugs. Implementation of thie cost recovery
policy should Increase funds available for drug procurement.
-rocurement and distributfion of drugs is inadequate     -Salamna will be supported and the recomnendations (of this year) of the-
independent auditor report on Salama implerrented.
FZOOTNOTES
(1) Imperfect information, limnited access to services, problems with affordability, and the consumer's lack of
knowledge in health matters contribute to market failures. This is generally the case of services of benefit to the
- 67 -



commuunity as a whole (i.e., public goods, such as safe drinking water and sanitation) and of services with
significant externalities for wlich there is low consumer demand and high price elasticity. Disease prevention is
an example of such latter service. For example, inmunizations against infectious illnesses protect the immunized
persons but also decrease transmission of infectious diseases to the remaining population. The demand for such
services is generally low, especially in low-income countries. As a result, the private sector usually does not
provide immunization services; the public sector does it, and because of consumer's little willingness to pay, such
services are excluded from cost recovery. Consequent to this situation, the private sector's role in the provision of
clinical services, in many developing countries, including Madagascar, is limited to the provision of curative care
to the better off urban populatiion. In sub-Saharan Africa, strong solidarity among the members of large families,
palliate this situation, as-in many cases-a relative will pay for the sick person's treatment. However, this
applies, more often than not, to curative care. The public sector, therefore, has, for the time being, an important
role to play in providing basic health care and, especially, preventive services, to the needy.
(2) CRE:DES, December 1995
(3) The JS$9 to 12 estimated in both the WDR 1993 and in "Better health and Africa" are not inclusive of tie cost
of the secondary and tertiary care services, and of the central and regional health administrations. As in Africa
expenditjres at primary health care level represent about 30% of total expenditures in the public sector, one can
infer that a system spending US$10 for the minimum package would probably spend, in total, about US$30 per
capita and per year.
(4) Drugs are currently sold at 140% of their procuremnent price, which is less than in many drug schemes in.
Africa.
(5) Audit de restructuration du Minist&re de la Sante, EU/WB, September 1998
(6) i.e., for personnel other than civil servants
(7) Salama own profit margin is 17%
(8) A survey conducted in 1998 in 9 communes in Madagascar showed that household contributions through cost
recovery (for health services and drugs) were important and varied from US$0.8 to as much as US$2.7 (during the
same year total health expenditures per capita were US$2.4).
(9) Cost estimates were verified during project preparation and found underestimated.
(10) Figures calculated on basis of Annex 5 - Government contribution to project: figures for 2005 contains
additional $900,000 to include recurrent costs for six months of 2005 after project closing; figures after 2003
consist of recurrent costs brought about by the project.
(11) The 1993 World Development Report states that in a comparison of costs required for different interventiors
to achieve one additional year of healthy life, outcomes can be expressed in terms of disability-adjusted life years (
DALYs). The ratio of cost and effect, or the unit cost of a DALY, is defined as the cost-effectiveness of the
intervention. A DALY is calculated as the present value of the future years of disability-free life that are lost as
the result of the premature deaths, disease or injury occurring in a particular year. The lower the unit cost to gain
one DALY, the greater the value for money offered by the intervention.)
(12)The bigger figure is for treatment in health centers; the smaller is for prevention.
- 68 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
MADAGASCAR: Second Health Sector Support Project
Years Ending
December 31
..     ... .   .   .. . .
IYear 1  1 Year 2         Year 3      Year 4      Year 5    Year 6      Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs            1.1        6.8         7.7        7.7        7.2        3.8       3.5
Recurrent Costs              0.2        1.2        1.4        1.4        1.3        0.7        0.6
Total Project Costs           1.3_       8.0         9.1        9.1        8.5        4.5       4.1
Total Financing               1.3        8.0         9.1        9.1        8.5        4.5       4.1
Financing
IBFtDIDA                    0.8        7.2        8.0        8.0        8.0        4.0        4.0
Government                  0.5        0.8        1.0         1.0       0.5        0.5        0.1
Central                 0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial              0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers               0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
User FeeslBeneficiaries     0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Others                      0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing       1.3        8.0        9.0        9.0        8.5       4.5        4.1
.............   ....    ......   ..... ..... .   . ....'.  J
Year1 I   Year 2  | Year 3  | Year 4  | Year 5         Year 6  | Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0       0.0        0.0
Rocurrent Costs            0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Costs          0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Total Financing               0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Financing
1EIRDIIDA                  0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Government                 0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0         0.0
Central                0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Provincial              0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers              0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries    0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                     0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing      0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0       0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
- 69 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
MADAGASCAR: Second Health Sector Support Project
Procurement
No special exceptions, permits or licenses need to be specified in the Credit documents for International
Competitive Bidding (ICB), since Madagascar's procurement practices allow IDA procedures to take
precedence over any contraty provisions and local regulations. Procurement of works, goods, and
consultant services financed by the IDA credit will be carried out in accordance with the Guidelines:
Procurement for IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995, revised in January and August 1996,
September 1997 and January 1999) and Guidelines for the Selection of Consultants by the World Bank
Borrowers published in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and January 1999. National
Competitive Bidding (NCB) advertised locally would be carried out in accordance with Madagascar' s
procurement laws and regulations which are acceptable to IDA. Procedures include local advertising,
public bid opening, clarity in evaluation criteria, award to the evaluated bidder, non-exclusion of foreaign
bidders,, and no preference in bid evaluation for domestic contractors. A General Procurement Noticev was
discussed and agreed upon during negotiations and will be published in Development Business. The project
implementation plan, comprising a procurement and a disbursement plan, was agreed with IDA. This plan
will be reviewed prior to the start of each project year.
Civil Works estimated to cost US$16.0 million dollars (IDA fnancing US$14.2 million) are for the
construction and rehabilitation of health centers and district hospitals, in health districts nationwide. They
are estirmated to cost less than US$200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$10 million, and
will be procured through NCB procedures. Contract for small works estimated to cost less than
US$75,000 per contract, up ito an aggregate of US$6.0 million, may be procured under lump-sum i.e.,
fixed price contracts awardedl on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors
invited in writing to bid. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic
specifications, the required completion date, basic form of agreement acceptable to IDA and relevant
drawings where applicable. The awards would be made to the contractors who offer the lowest price
quotation for the required work, provided they demonstrate they have the experience and resources to
complete the contract successfully. These contracts would be mostly for works relating to small
constructions such as the rehabilitation of health facilities in rural areas.
Goods (excluding pharmaceuticals and insecticides) estimated to cost US$4.7 million (of which US$ .3
million financed by IDA), include medical equipment: for district hospitals and health centers, furnitur D ior
district hospitals and health centers, equipment and supplies, training and audiovisual equipment and
supplies, vehicles, and other supplies. Goods will be grouped, where feasible, into packages valued al least
US$100,000 and it will be procured through ICB. Procurement of office firniture and supplies estim.ated
to cost less than US$100,000, up to an aggregate of US$2 million, will be procured through NCB. The
project will also require the purchase of relatively small, mainly consumable items, for MOH's
decentralized district structures, such as vehicle spare parts, which would be difficult and impractical -:o
package and procure following NCB procedures. These goods are estimated to cost less than US$50,000
equivalent per contract and, up to an aggregate of US$300,000, may be procured through prudent national
shopping (for items available locally) or, up to US$450,000, through international shopping (for those~
goods not available on the national market) on the basis of quotations obtained from at least three qualified
suppliers, or through IAPSO (Inter-Agency Procurement Services Offices of the UNDP). Spare parts,
operating expenditures, minor off-the shelf items, pharmaceuticals and other proprietary items costing less
than US$5,000 per contract, up to an aggregate of US$150,000 equivalent, may be procured directly from
- 70 -



manufacturers and authorized local distributors.
Pharmaceuticals and Insecticides totaling US$11.5 million will be procured through LIB procedures up
to an aggregate of US$3.5 million through Salama (the local agency specialized in drug purchasing and
distribution) or from non-governmental organizations which specialize in drug supply. These agencies can
ensure the quality of drugs at all levels of the supply cycle and have due authorization from primary drug
manufacturers to
upply their products. Salama's procedures, have been reviewed without objection by IDA. The
procurement is based on the establishment of a list of prequalified suppliers. This list is to be updated every
two years through the launching of widely advertised pre-qualification notice. It was agreed that to use
Banks's standard bidding documents for the procurement of Pharmaceuticals and vaccines contraceptives
might be procured fromUNFPA, while toxic or potentially toxic products, like insecticides for malaria and
plague control, will be procured through UNIPAC or IAPSO for an aggregate amount of US$8.0 million,
because these products must conform to norms of and get clearance from WHO (on dosage, modalities of
application and protection of users and health workers handling them) to ensure that they will not be
harrnful to humans and to environment.
Specialized infant formula for severely malnourished: Nutriset, the specialized infant formula for
severely malnourished, or similar products, will be procured through UNICEF. While the total value for
all such procurement would be around $670,000, procurement would be carry out in smaller amounts,
depending on program needs and product's shelf life, such as once very 3-6 months.
Conisultant Services, training and studies financed by IDA would be for: (i) preparation of documents,
feasibility studies, supervision of works, data collection, accounting and financial management, audits and
impact analysis; (ii) short-term consultancies on specific technical matters such as nutrition, family
planning, procurement, financial management, public health, health economics and statistics, and the design
of training courses; (iii) training abroad and locally of health facility and MOH staff, and (iv) services
related to behavioral change and communication including the design, production and
distribution/broadcasting of messages and information campaigns. Consultants financed by IDA, totaling
US$1.8 million would be hired in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Selection and Employment
of C'onsultants by World Bank Borrowers dated January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and January
1999. Selection of consultants will be done through competition among qualified short-listed firms in
which the selection will be based on Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) by evaluating the quality
of the proposal before comparing the cost of the services to be provided. For audits the Least-Cost
Selection (i) will be the most appropriate method, i.e., the firm with the lowest price will be selected,
provided its technical proposal received the minimum mark required. Single Source Selection (SSS) will
be exceptionally used for the training of health services providers, IEC related services, implementation
(including expenditures related to training, surveys and supervision) of the Infectious Diseases Program
(malaria, plague and schistosomiasis) by WHO, and implementation of the Operational Research Program
to identify plague intervention strategies by Institute Pasteur of Madagascar. Services for short-term and
ad hoc consultancies, lectures and small studies which can be delivered by Individual consultants will be
selected through comparison of qualifications against job description requirements among those expressing
interest in the assignment, or approached directly by the Borrower. For training abroad and in-country, the
program, containing names of candidates, cost estimates, content of the courses, periods of training,
institution selection would be reviewed annually.
To ensure that priority is given to the identification of suitable and qualified national individual consultants,
short-lists for contracts estimated to cost less than US$100,000 may be comprised entirely of national
- 71 -



consultants, if a sufficient number of qualified firms (at least three) are available at competitive costs. The
Standard Request for Proposal (SRFP) forms as developed by the Bank will be used for the appointment of
consultants. Simplified ccintracts will be used for short-term assignments, simple missions of standard
nature (and not exceeding 6 months) carried out by individual consultants or frms. The Government will
be briefed during negotiations about the special features of the new guidelines, in particular with regards to
advertisemnent and public bid opening.
Procurement for the Project will be handled by MOH's Unite de Gestion du Projet CRESAN whic: 1was
responsible for all procureiment matters of the first IDA financed health project. This unit will be
strengthened by addition of on architect who will be in charge of overseeing the implementation of 1:he civil
works component. It will also be able to handle operations of other donors (AfDB) and will become a, Unite
de coordination des projeits (PCU) as, besides procurement and financial management tasks, its otlier tasks
will consist of coordinating MOH departments and services involved in project implementation. Its tasks
will comprise: (a) maintaining a register of all interested bidders; (b) maintaining a detailed list of technical
specifications of goods and services to be financedl by the project; (c) preparation of the procurement plan
and calendar; (d) preparation and/or finalization of bidding documents and requests for proposals; (e) bid
evaluation and preparation of evaluation reports; (f) contract approval process; (g) receipt of goods and
services and dispatching; aind (h) processing international and local price quotations. Staff in the unit have
been formally trained in proxurement and have also benefited from on-the-job training over the past 3
years. In addition, local consulting firms will be asked to support the team in the preparation of detailed
architectural designs and other technical matters (including supervision of works) for the rehabilitation of
health centers, district hospitals, and MOH's decentralized health districts.
Decentralized health districts will play an importartt role as they will be responsible for the overall activity
planning in their respective districts, including the preparation of equipment lists, and any other infcrmation
needed by the MOH and PCU to prepare bidding documents for the procurement of goods, or terms of
reference for the selection of consultants as well as the evaluation of their performance from the tectmnical
point of view. All technical specifications for medical equipment, drugs, insecticides will be preparod by a
specialized consulting firm and will be submitted to IDA for review.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
1. -Woirki                          0.00          10.00          6.00           0.00          16.00
(0.00)         (9.00)        (5.20)         (0.00)        (14.20)
2. Goods                            3.50           2.00          12.40          0.00           17.901
__(3.50)           (1.60)        (11.40)        (0.00)        (16.5'))
3. Sentices                        0.00      0      .00           1.80          0.00           1.8C'
(0.00)         (0.00)        (1.60)         (0.00)         (I.6C)
4. Training                         0.00           0.00           1.80          0.00           1.8c
(0.00)         (0.00)        (1.70)         (0.00)         (I.7C 
- 72 -



5. Operating Expenses                0.00            0.00            6.90           0.00           6.90
(0.00)         (0.00)          (6.00)         (0.00)          (6.00)
Total                             3.50            12.00          28.90           0.00           44.40
(3.50)         (10.60)        (25.90)         (0.00)         (40.00)
1 Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be fnanced by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
2 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through LIB, UN agencies, national and international
shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff of the project management office, training,
technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to managing the project.
- 73 -



Prior review thresholds tlable B)
IDA Review. All contracts for construction of civil works and purchase of goods above the threshold
value of US$100,000 will be subject to IDA's prior review procedures. The use of IDA's standard bidding
docurnents would considerably expedite the prior review process as IDA review would primarily fxcus on
invitations to bid, bid data sheets, contract data, technical specifications, bill of quantities/scheduk of
requirement and other contract specific items. The review process would cover over 50 percent of the total
value of the amount contracted for goods and about 40 percent of the amount contracted for civil works.
Selective post review of contracts awarded below the threshold levels will apply to one in three con tracts.
Draft standard bidding documents for NCB were reviewed and agreed upon with IDA during Negctiations.
For consultant services, prior review will include the review of budgets, short-lists, selections procedures,
terms of reference, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and draft contracts. Prior IDA review
will not apply to contracts for the recruitment of consulting firms and individuals estimated to cost less than
US$100,000 and US$50,000 equivalent respectively. However, IDA prior review will apply to the Terms
of Reference of such contracts, regardless of value, to single-source hiring, to assigtnents of a crit cal
nature as determined by IDA (PCU staff, financial audits, etc.) or to amendments of contracts raisi [g the
contract value above the prior review threshold. For consultant contracts estimated above the US$200,000
opening the financial envelopes will not take place prior to receiving the Bank's no-objection to the
technical evaluation. For contracts estimated to cost less than US$200,000 and more than US$100I00Q the
borrower will notify IDA of the results of the technical evaluation prior to opening the financial proposals.
Documents related to procurement below the prior review thresholds will be maintained by the borr o,wer for
ex-post review by auditors and by IDA supervision missions. The PCU will be required to maintain all
relevant procurement docurnentation for subsequent review by IDA. The PCU will submit to IDA periodic
procurement schedules detailing each procurement package in progress and completed as part of the normal
project reporting exercise.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
1. Works                        >200                     ICB                      "'ES
>75 and <200                NCB                 YES ; )r >$ 1 00
Aggreg. US$10.0 million
<75                      Other               Post Review
Aggreg. US$6.0 million      ___
2. Goods                        >100                     ICB                      ' ES
LIB                    -ES
Aggreg. US$3.5 million
UNIPAC/IAPSO                  7 ES
Aggreg. US$8.0 million
>50 and <100                 NCB                  Post (eview
Aggreg. US$2.0 million
Other               Post teview
<50             Aggreg. US$0.9 million             __      _
- 74 -



3. Services                     >200                   QCBS                YES, 2-step review
>100<200                  QBCS               YES, 1-step review
<100                   QCBS                 Post Review
Least Cost           Post Review
4. Miscellaneous                >50                   Individual           All US$0.2 million
<50                                        Post Review
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:   US$19,7 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 76 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceedls (Table C)
Method of Disbursement
It is envisaged that based upon the outcome of the financial management assessment, disbursements will be
transaction-based (traditional mode) as they were done under the National Health Sector Project (Cr.225 1
MAG) in accordance with procedures outlined in the Bank's Disbursement Handbook. LACI type
disbursements could be introduced on a pilot basis eighteen months after credit effectiveness. The Elaitik will
follow up on an Activity plan to strenghten financial management to enable the use of LACI procecures
which will be develop and executed by the PCU).
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Table C indicates the disbursement schedule, the amounts (in US$) for each expenditure category andi the
disbursement percentage applicable to each. The disbursement percentages have been calculated ort a
tax-inclusive basis such that, when applied to invoices denominated in local currency, the percentage not
financed by the Bank be sufficient to cover Government counterpart contributions and eliminate an:,r Bank
financing of local taxes and duties.
The credit closing date is forecast for December 31, 2006, about six months after the end of the
disbursement period. Category 5 (operating expenses for MOITs Unite de Coordination des Proj 'ts)
includes expenditures for materials, equipment maintenance, contractual level support staff, fuel, spare
parts, End vehicle insurance, utility and conmmunications expenses, special account banking charges and per
diems to travel to the field.
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
1. Works                                    13.50             80% of local and 100%, of foreign
_____________________________         _______________  _            _expenditur  _  _
2. Goods                                     4.50             80% of local and 100'. 'O of foreigr
_____________________________                                        expenditure,
3. Drugs and insecticides                   10.10             80% of local and 100%i'D of foreign
_________________________________ .___________.______ expenditurs ___ _
4. Technical Assistance, Training,           1.80             100% of local and 100%',o of foreign
Studies                                                                expenditure _       _
5. Operating Expenditures                    6.10                          85%
6. Unallocated                               4.00
Total Project Costs                         40.00
Total                                       40.00
Use of istatements of expenditures (SOEs):
The PCIJ will use SOE procedures in which expenditures are summarized by category. The documei tation
for withdrawals of SOEs would be retained by MOH's Unite de Coordination des Projets for reviei', by
IDA staff during supervision missions and for annual audits. SOEs will be used for payments of cowracts
of less than US$100,000 for goods and works and consultant contracts of less than US$100,000 and
US$50,000 for firms and individuals respectively. SOEs will likewise be utilized for all training and
- 76-



operating costs.
Speicial account:
The special account will be opened in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA and receive an advance of
US$1.5 million to cover IDA's share of 4 months of estimated expenditures. Upon effectiveness, an
amount of US$750,000 will be advanced to the special account with the balance of the initial deposit.
Audlit
An independent auditor acceptable to IDA will be recruited to perform the first 3 annual audits for this
project. The auditor will audit the use of all IDA funds, including the special account, statements of
expenditure, and the systems of internal controls.
- 77 -



Annex 6
Attachment 1
1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
SECOND HEALTH SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
Procurement Capacity Assessment
Summary of Findings and Actions
Assessment  a                                 Risk Assessment
Item Assessed                  l       Satis-    Major Weaknesses           I       I     1         Actions              Proposed
NuWll Poor  Fair  factory                          Low    Ave.   High          Proposed          Completion Date
(a) Legal Aspects                            X                               X
(i) Laws &                        X               Cumbersome set of      X                        Streamlining of         In process
Regulations                                       regulations                                   regulations
(ii) NCB Procedures                       X                              X
(iii) Internal codes and          X                                              X
manuals
(b) Proc. Cycle Mgmt.             _           X   .                          X  .
(i) General handling                      X                              X
(ii) Procurement                          X                              X
planning                  .                                     ._
(iii) Preparation of              X               Lack of specialized            X               Provide technical        continuous
documents                                     staff (re. Drugs/Cw)                          support (consultants,
Salama for drugs)
(iv) Management of                        X                                      X             Add qualified staff to    by effectiveness
process                                                                                            PCU
(v) Bid evaluation                        X __X                          X                     __            __
(vi) Contract award               X                                      x
(vii)Preparation and              X                Lengthy approval              X                See (a) (i) above
signing of                                         procedures
contracts                                   l
(viii) Contract                                                          X
management      I      I      I   I_I
(c) Organization and   |                                                     X
Functions          I_I___._.__
Afl   _  _                      _  _A                                      _ __-v_ _   . _ _   _



Annex 6
Attachment 1
2of4
Assessment                                      Risk Assessment
Item Assessed                             Satis-    Major Weaknesses                                      Actions               Proposed
Null  Poor  Fair  factory                             Low    Ave.    High           Proposed           Completion Date
(i) Organization of                 X                Lack of support staff   X                        Add support staff to    By effectiveness
unit and functions                                                                                       PCU
(ii) Internal manuals                        X                               X
and instructions
(d) Support and                                 X                                X
Control Systems
(i) Auditing                                 X                               X
(ii) Legal assistance                        X                               X
(iii) Technical and                          X                               X
administrative
controls
(iv) Code of ethics                          X                               X
(v) Anticorruption                                          N.R.
initiatives                                  .
(e) Record keeping                              X                                X
(i) Public notices                           X                               X
(ii) Bidding                                 X                               X
documents
(iii) Bid opening                            X                               X
information
(iv) Bid evaluation                          X                               X
reports
(v) Formal appeals                           x                               x
and outcomes
(vi) Signed contract                         x                               x
documents
(vii)Claims and                              X                                X
dispute resolution
records
(viii) Comprehensive                         x                                x
disbursement data
(f) Staffing               =            X                    See (b) (iii)       X               ._      See (b) (iii) & (c) (i)
C:\TEMP\4000595S8.doc



Annex 6
Attachment 1
3 of 4
[             }         Assessment                                       Risk Assessment   |
item Assessed              r r r    Satis-    Major Weaknesses                                            Actions               Proposed
Null  Poor  Fair  factory                             Low    Ave.   High           Proposed           Completion Date
(g) General                             X                                                X
Procurement
Environment
(i) Promoting a                     X                                                X
culture of
accountability                                                       .                                              .
(ii) Reputation of                  X                                                X
procurement corps              _ .                                       _
(iii) Salary structure              X                                                X _______
(iv) Freedom from                   X                                                X
political
interference
(v) Existence of                    X                    See (b) (iii)               X
experienced and
capable staff 
(vi) Clear written            X                       Responsibilities not           X                 Project operation     By effectiveness and
standards and                                       clearly defined                              manual to address this  continuously thereafter
delegation of                                                                                            issue
authority                                                                             I        I
(vii)Sound                                  X                                X
budgetlfmancial
systems                                              l_l
(h) Private Sector                      X                                                X
Assessment
(i) General efficiency              X                                                X
and predictability    _                                               _ _____
(ii) Transparency                           x                                        X _           i
(iii) Quality of contract           X                                                X                    See (a) (i)
mgmt.                                                                                 I        I
(iv) General reputation_                                                             x =  X                                __X_|__.
C:\TEMP\UOJO959R df c



Annex 6
Attachment 1
4 of 4
Prior Review Thresholds Proposed                                                                    Overall Risk Assessment
Goods US$ 100,000 (equivalent)                                                                          High
Works US$ 1 00,000(equivalent)                                                                       Average
Consulting US$ 100,000 and 50,000 (equivalent) for firms and individuals respectively                   Low
Post Review Ratio: One in 3 contracts
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special   Form prepared by: S. Ben-Halima
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)                                          (Procurement Specialist/Accredited staff assigned
to the project)
Signature:
Date: November 3rd, 1999
Comments: This is a follow up project which will use the capacity already created with the opportunity of the first credit to the health sector. This first
credit, after adequate measures were taken at mid-term review, was executed satisfactorily from a procurement and financial management standpoint. In
addition the PCU will further be strengthened to allow it to properly handle the management of both IDA and AfDB credits to the health sector.
C:\TEMP\-0005958.doc



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
MADAGASCAR: Second Health Sector Support Project
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identiFication)
Appraisal mission departure              06/15/99                    06/15/99
Negotiations                             10/13/99                    10/07/99       _      __
Planned Date of Effectiveness            04/15/99                                 ._   _   __
Prepared by:
Ministry of Health
Preparation assistance:
The Belgium Trust Fund supported the work carried out by John May and Jean-Pierre Manshande. A
PHRI) grant was used to prepare the community based nutrition project SEECALINE and the remaining
about $200,000 is being used to finance the Infrastructure Development Plan and the project
Implemnentation Manual.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
. N. _m.,               W  0             E;UIIYc'9<L^"''  i2X0E'17
The Project Team:
Marie-Odile Waty                  Health economist, was the initial project's TTL and author of the PCD
Sergiu Luculescu                  Public Health; TTL
Mpoy-Kamulayi                     Legal aspects
Richard Seifinan                  Nutrition
John May                          Reproductive health, and STD/HIV/AIDS
Slahecldine Ben-Halima            Project implementation
Eileen Murray                     Public health and project implementation
Astrid Helgeland-Lawson           Health economics
Jean-Pierre Manshande (consultant)   lnfectious diseases
Peter B3achrach (consultant)      Planning and Institutional capacity
Astania Kamau                     Task Assistant, Procurement Assistant
Nathalie Lopez-Diouf              Team Assistant
The Quality Assurance Team:
Ok Panmenborg                     Public health
Bernhard Liese                    Public healtfhinfectious diseases
Christopher Walker                Public health
Marie-Odile Waty                  Health economics
Florent Agueh                     Implementation
- 78 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
MADAGASCAR: Second Health Sector Support Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
* Ministry of Health: Manual of Procedures of the Second Health Sector Support Project.
*   Ministry of Health: Financial Management Manual.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
C. Other
* Ministry of Health: National Health Policy.
*   Ministry of Health: Principal Plan 1997-2002
*Including electronic files
- 79 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
MADAGASCAR: Second Health Sector Support Project
Difference betw!en expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions        disbursene.nts
Project ID    FY   Borrower                    Purpose                               IBRD         IDA      Cancel.   Uncisb.      Orig F_rm Rev'd
Numter of Closed Projects: 60
MG-PE-52186    1999 GOVERNMENT                  MICRO FINANCE                          0.00      16.40        0.00       6.19     0.00      0.00
MG-PE-57378    1999 GOVERNMEhIT                SAC tl                                  0.00     100.00        0.00      98.36     000       0.00
MG-PE-64305    1999 GOVERNMEhT                  SOCLAL FUND Ji1                        0.00      15.00        0.00       4.32     0.00      0.00
MG-PE-1559     1998 GOVT OF MADAGASCAR          EDUCATION SECTOR DEV                   0.00      65.00        0.00      61.58     9.97      0.00
MG-PE-1564     1998 GOVERNMENT                  RURAL WATER SEC.PILO                   0.00      17.30        0.00      15.71     8.90      0.00
MG-PE-1568     1998 GOVERNMENT                  NUTRMON II                             0.00      27.60        0.00      25.96     2.56      0.00
MG-PE-56487    1998 REPUBLIC OF! MADAGASCAR    MINING PROJECT                          0.00       5.00        0.00       4.60      1.09     0.00
MG-PE-1S37     1997 REPUBLIC OF'MADAGASCAR    ENVIRON. II                              0.00      30.00        0.00      16.45     -1.70     0.00
MG-PE-15SS     1997 GOVERNMENT                  PRV SECT DEV & C.B.                    0.00      23.80        0.00      15.91     16.82     0.00
MG-PE-40019    1997 GOVERNMENT                  CAPACITY BUILDING                      0.00      13.63        0.00       4.53      1.88     0.00
MG-PE-48697    1997 GOVERNMENr OF               URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE                   0.00      35.00        0.00      29.99     9.76      0.00
MG-PE-1533     1996 MADAGASCAR                  ENERGY SECTOR DEV PR                   0.00      46.00        0.00      32.85     16.99     0.00
MG-PE-35669    1996 GOVT OF MADAGASCAR SCAR  SOCtAL FUND 2                             0.00      40.00        0.00       L.97     -5.15     0.00
MG-PE-1522     1995 GOVT MADAGASIFOND D'INTER  IRRIGATION 4I                           0.00      21.20        0.00       3.6(3    4.23      0.00
MG-PE-1563     1995 GOVT. OF MADAGASCAR        AG.EX(TENSION PROJECT                   0.00      25.20        0.00       3.561    4.16      o.0o
MG-PE-1550     1993 GOVERNMENr                  FINANCIALINSTITUTIO                    0.00       6.30        0.00       1.64      1.78     1.30
MG-PE-1520     1991 GOVTOFMAriAGASCAR           NATHEALTHSFCTOR                        0o00      31.00        000        .4.04    2.45     -2.13
MG-PE-1512     1990 GOVERNMENl'                TANA PLAIN DEV                         0o00       30,50        6.63       550      10.96     0.00
GOV.OF MADAGASCAR
Total:      0.00      549,13       6;63     36f.01     84.50     -0.63
Active        Closed
Projects       Projects        Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):       199.77        1,197.99       1,397.76
of which has been repaid:        0.00         115.43         115.43
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:       590.50        1,063.77       1,654.27
Amount sold:         0.00           6.86            6.86
of which repaid:        0.00           6.86           6.86
Total Undisbursed:      366.01           40.24         406.25
Actual disbursements to date nminus intended disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
-80 -



MADAGASCAR
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
31-Jul-1999
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval        Company                         Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic
1983/89            Nossi-Be                        0.71    0.00     0.24    0.00    0.71     0.00     0.24    0.00
1985/89            COTONA                          0.10    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.10    0.00       0.00    0.00
1990/91            AEF FIARO                       0.00    0.00    0.47    0.00    0.00    0.00       0.47    0.00
1991               BNl                             0.00    0.00    2.61     0.00    0.00    0.00      2.61    0.00
1992/93/95         AQUALMA                         3.47    0.00     0.61    0.00    3.47    0.00      0.61    0.00
1995               AEF Karibotel                   0.27    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.27    0.00       0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:         4.55    0.00     3.93     0.00    4.55    0.00     3.93    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
]FY Approval       Company                         Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic
Total Pending Commitment:        0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
- 81 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
MADAGASCAR: Second Health Sector Support Project
Su16.                                                    9122199
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                               Saharan       Low-
Madaaascar       Africa   income        Development diamond'
1998
Pooul teloan mid-vear artiii ons)                         14.8        628      3 515                   Life expectancy
It,NP oar r:enlta(Atlas method. 1.13)                      280        480        15201
GNP i'Atles met6hod. US$ bllions)                          3.8        304      1.844
Avrareo annual orowth. 1992-94
Population (%                                              29         2.8        1.7
Labor force (112.                                                     2.6S       1~9      GNP           xy  vro3s
per            /           pr~ mary
Most irecent eatiniat. Itlateat vesir avallabl,. 11992.98)                                capita                          enro   itP
'Poverty I16 ot oDoulatlon below national oovedy Ifbir)-
Urban oooulatlon (6Ofttotl oopuIahbOr)                      28         33         31
lifp esJnofartanr. Cl birth (vyears)                                             RI 11 8
Infant mortalitir (aer 1. 000 livre births]                 94         91i        89
Child rrtalnutrltion (% of children under 51                34                                       Access to sate water
Access to safe watekr (16 of Dooouafion)                    16         47         74
IlliteraCy W % Of population ace 15+1        ~46                       42         32
Grosstrlrmarv enrollment (1  fsho-q   oueol                 72         77        108.              - Madagascar
Male                                                     73          84        113                   Low-income group
Female                                                    70         890      10.3
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG'7EWM TRE-NDS
1977     1987        1997      1998g
Economic ratloa
GO P fuJSS billions)                             2.4       2.68       3.5        3.7
Gross dlomestic finvstmentlGO)P                  8.1      10.1       11.        13.
Exoorts ofocoods and services/GDP               16,4      16.8       21,~8      21.21                      Trade
Gross domesticisavlnos/GOP                       4.5       5.2        3.3        5.3
Gross national savinnasGDP                       4.4       44         5.9        5.7
Current accouint batancelGOP                     .2.7     .5.7       -5.8       .7.5
interest oavrmentatGOP,                          0.2        .          1.        1.2      Domestic                       Ivsmn
Total debt/GOP                                  12.4    143,5       115.9      108.32     Savings
Total debt serviceiexoorts                       12.2     50.7       22.0       23.0
Pre.4ant valuen ci debt/rlDP                                         Ain2.
Present value of dabtiexports                       .        ..     324.8-
Indebtedness
1977487  1984-98      1997       1998   1999.03
faverace annual orowth)
f' DIp    I                  -0; I.4)   1.1      37          39        5- Madagascar
GNP oar ceolta                         -3.5      -1.2      1.5         1,8       2.~8                    Low-income groupo
Exports of Ooods and services:         .5,0       3.4     -3.8        -4.5       8.
STRUC'TURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987        1997      11998      Growth ratea of output and Inveatment ('A,
(16 of GO2P)
AnrircuttcirA                                   32,A      311.2      31 5       30.8 
Industrv                                        17.0      13.7       13.4       13.6        TN
Manufagcturino                                    .     11.4        11.1..               0
Services                                        50.2      50.1       55.0       55.8 
Private consumption                             84.5      85.7       89.0       87.2    -20 j       097655                5      A
General novernment consumotion                  11.0       9.1         7.68        .                    _G01        ---D
Imoorts of anoods and services                  20.0      21.5       30.3       29.7                                        --  ._
(avareoc annual orowthl          ~~~~~1977-87  1988.98    1997      198        Growth rates of exports snd Imports (%)
Aariculture                                       1.7      1.7         1.9       2.1      20
Industry                                        -2.0        .         4.7        5         5t
Manufacturinoa.                                          0.1         1.7          .      0
Services                                         -0.8      1.2        4.6        5.1 
Private ernnsmirtifinn                           -09       11.11      11.7        8.0 
General ccovernment consumotion                   1.7     .1.7        14.8      -4.0      -1
Gross domnestic investment                       .1.8     .1.0        -0.6       9.0      101
Imoorts of ooods and services                   -6.2       3.6        7.8        4.9     1               Exports    l--mp)onts
Gross national oroduct                           -0.8      1.5        4.7        4.9-
Note: `1998 data are preliminary estimates.
'The diamonds show tour key indicators in the countrv tin bold) compared iwith its income-orouc averaoe. It data are missino. the diamond wilt
hie incomnlate.
- 82 -



Madagascar
PFICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977     1987       1997       1998      Inflation (%)
Deomestic prices
(% change)                                                                               so
Consumer prices                                           18.9        4.5       6.2      40
Implicit GDP deflator                            8.6      23.0        7.5       8.6 _
Government finance
(X of GDP, includes current grants)
CLirrent revenue                                          15.3       11.8      10.9              J3   04    ss    se    s7    g
CLurrent budget balance                                    3.6        0.9        0.6                -GDP deflator           CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                   -3.4        -5.6      -7.2
TRtADE
(L'S$ millions)                                 1977     1987       1997       1998      Export and Import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                                        332        504       519      1,000
Coffee                                                    93         33        41
Other food                                                89         10        16       75-
Manufactures                                              69        342       403
Total imports (cif)                                        409    802    791 so   *_ _
Food                                                      52         49        56       2
Fuel and energy                                           55        117       105
Capital goods                                            102        148       153         o   _     ___
92   63   64   05   04   07   68
Exoort Drice index (1995=100)                      ..       94         81        89
Irnoort orice Index (1995=100)                     ..       79         92        87                *Exports       *Imports
Terms of trade (1995=1001                                  119        8R        103
EALANCE of PAYMENTS
1977     1987       1997       1998      Current account balance to GDP ratlo(S)
l"USS millions) 
Exports of goods and services                    385      425         772       801       0
I nports of goods and services                   447      552       1,063     1,098       -2
Resource balance                                 -62      -127       -290      -297
Net income                                        -1      -175       -103        -85
Net current transfers                              0   154   195   101                        t "     'I* l l|
Current account balance                          -63      -147       -198      -281
Financing items (net)                             77       216        253       163      10
C(hanges in net reserves                         -14       -69        -55       118      -12
iltemo:
IReserves includine aold (USS millions)            0        25        286       170
Conversion rate (DEC. local/USS)               245.7  1.069.2    5.093.4   5,441.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987       1997       1998
fUSS millions)                                                                           Composition of total debt, 1998 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed             293    3,680       4,105     4,056
IBRD                                            26       36           3         1                         A: I
IDA                                             77      550       1,212     1,329
Total debt service                                47       247        229       233                                       : 1329
IBRD                                             2         4          4         2         G: 1,525
IDA                                              1         6         19        25
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                 22       102        193       117
Official creditors                              17      269         113         .C 58
Private creditors                               20       -16         -3        -2
Foreign direct investment                       -3                   14        16                F: S
Portfolio equity                                 0                                                    E: 575     0 564
World Bank program
Commitments                                      0      138         159        98       A- IBRD                        E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                    9        93        130       101       B-IDA      D- Other multilateral   Fprivate
Principal repayments                             0         3         13         2
Net flows                                        9        90        117        99
Interest payments                                2         7          9        15
Net transfers                                    6        83        108        84
Development Economics                                                                                                        9/22199
-83 -






IBRD 20035R1
.                .       -                          -         -               .      f/@Antsiranana
MADAGASCAR
faP d tadr                                                        -                                  N
CRaptale ol?ordrf .t e1  ml
Ac-vaoo hr rotfrd                                                                            ?rroj  -\                 -
4. A?ravtMr -tloeee                                                               0 t            -                   .f
®    ,toroma   poM oo3apirah                                              ata'aO± 
I I Rr;on t, (d r*ts
_____OaeritOa  barderJer                                                                0                          r,bai/J 
M) Cvt?atsthe d Ettang-  -B-rg r                        - Mamr4oara           - 
_  _   hNtenr bourdrJrisMarov                             . -    ? 90    M       .poat                         ,Maara?ro       tt
o a   "4. '<t  A\--           tjA    +e 
>                   ~~~~~Aarbatoboaa           a             '   
0O          M A H A J AN GA
f+S BesaIompy   fMaevoooruanW a- /                                //Tsit.n-  7
f               ;             0   X    0    A    ~~~~~~~~~        ~~Aadmlaaerro  4/ rthAnodiftotrra      ,
fy   \>~  Morofenobe  W      ~       A       \        'aroaa '                      Faaaaroira r5sinanana     K>
Morofest ba                          Ankaab,       0nl0,rbe0                                                      <4z< <;raxtst
~"o.4.~r~!         Ambolodrazcto
-~~          Aakoraba..                     >0,,mapn
R Arorsoov          ANTANANARIVO
aroaood,dy .        Miornoar,vo    h   im                      o AYan                                       $
T 0 L I Ao R Yc~maq
90                                                      ZOovI__,NO, aaO.Ota  n        dnn p Anarqmas,ao  + z atronAry' 
¢                    )     ~~~~~~~M,ondrwvora_            Farors,fto     q!ma 0lsp Anosrbeaa'Alra 
tr,,,0,h~ ~   ~Fmnantsmrab  '.                                -'Mtaa,r
,>>                 Sa \a4oinbrrrA    - r-              FANAR  ANTSOA
.z.                                 /                         ? >Maartao             ,0_. .*Mo olomab O-  -9     Qe       r -                                     2a'
90                   0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KMTIZ 0                      s        0       5       0
Moaj +.    k                                    Aoomoa                      .                .                              I
e.~ ~ ~ ~ ~~<   LI AR                            10obarrbaadroaono    '7Ambositrra                 NorryVorimra
0     '                         Fiano  Xflsot.4.               -      ~Ao
T     oafOad 
Maraarha&           /         Oot         erarono                    C      g            'O 1
) 4.                    T                                            4LIA   YAr  mba.oooah       ,
~~~~0rooa                           F IA NA R.A NTS O A                  4.i
\2    .. 0    -. -4-          Ivothtbe          . lrhipenQ    aIttMFtfRA  0 S0           too li 2o0
N, ,ondrozo                  tar \.   >   O-  +i   tAt     n         S
-   So orahaX  \                                                    -< eiFcoagasmit
4.tio    \>,                              0M,dor y    V a a a g ojdraaa                  , .>TANZANIA    \      /AlOfxfZAl
.          ,%            .~~~Bermloy -Sod                   .         Atle .          -                                                   INC8 t\  C/A/Vg
24               t                                 .OBeraketog~~~~4.< 4 5X                                     ZAM0B)N3N,>5    R.0   N   00         j
7'he           t                        kSCMoorne rs                                                                     N --I
7he  broourdoor/ma.  ca/at-a.                 4.                    °/                                                                  bA   
lder   J.,- aforoa rd  aroy         Amao-1,1 -  - 0 
other-  oo,rrornIMtiomahoa2ro                                  -                                                         AMBABrvEf , v             dAotarraor    /
fh'°dej  mrrap   do,  of  A-booso-                                                  ,                                    r         5
irrr fudsyrrnon the   fat of                                    A0                                                                                            A/
Thpn YWord  Zok rarap                                  -Sd                     --                                                                   MAAACAR
-ry ordgrratro aorheJg~lo                                                                                                   --t
or any  -rdoraerrrert                                    ',aa C0 r.                                                       SOL,H
or        AoFepronar of s1Ia
AFIA54AZLAND
.boroodories.4^  kAzLtr 
DECEMBER 1994



