Report No. PID9381
Project Name                     Algeria-Energy and Mining TA Loan (EMTAL)
Region                           Middle East and North Africa Region
Sector                           Oil & Gas Transportation;
Mining & Other Extractive;
Electric Power & Other Energy Adjustment
Project ID                       DZPE67567
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF ALGERIA
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF ENERGY AND MINES
80, Avenue Ahmed Ghermoul, Alger, Algerie
Contact Person: Mlle Nour-El-Houda
Nabila Boughalem, Chef de la Cellule de
Gestion du Projet
Tel: 213-2-67-02-78
Fax: 213-2-67-03-37
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                June 13, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         July 15, 2000
Projected Board Date             December 12, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
Main Sector Issues:       The fundamental issues in the energy and mining
sectors in Algeria are:Volatility of the oil market having considerable
impact on macroeconomic situation: the Algerian economy is heavily
dependent on the income from the export of crude oil, other oil products
and natural gas.Sectors operated by quasi-monopolistic state-owned
enterprises (SOEs) with limited managerial autonomy. Sonatrach focuses on
oil and gas exploration, production, transport and export; Sonelgaz is a
fully integrated SOE responsible for generation, transmission and
distribution of electricity and distribution of natural gas; Naftec is the
refining enterprise; Naftal is responsible of distributing hydrocarbon
products within the country. As per the mining sector, exploration
services are monopolized by ORGM, a state agency, and industrialized
operations are dominated by five enterprises incorporated in the
state-controlled Holding Mines. It has been recognized that this
institutional arrangement has its limitation as far as controlling costs,
improving efficiency and generating enough financial resources for future
development.Pricing systems with levels below economic costs that provide
subsidies for certain consumers, lead to wasteful consumption and limited
cost efficiency.Sectors are putting a burden on public finances either for
investment finances or consumption subsidies. As a result of the factors
described above and a high debt service requirement, the SOEs are
financially constrained and unable to maintain, let alone expand, their
productive capacity to meet demand.Substantial capital requirements to
meet demand and to optimize the use of Algerian natural resources to
increase Government' s revenues.    As  indicated in the Government's
program, hydrocarbons activities have slowed and need to be enhanced to
make optimal use of Algerian potential. Investment requirements in this



sector for the next five years are estimated at about US$ 20.0 billion.
In the electricity sector needs to meet future demand including the
rehabilitation of the existing system are estimated at about US$ 12.0
billion for the next decade. Finally the mining sector is characterized
by important untapped resources, and the investments required to develop
these resources are also important.Little private sector participation in
the sectors (expected to increase in the next five years), despite the
adoption of the 1991 petroleum legislation which opened the hydrocarbon
sector to investments by foreign oil companies on a Production Sharing
Agreement basis, exploration activities with the participation of
International Oil Companies are concentrated in prolific areas, whereas
high risk areas and smaller prospects are handled by Sonatrach
only.Government Strategy:The energy and mining sectors are critical to the
overall Algerian economy, accounting for about 95t of total exports and
60t of budgetary revenues.   The Government recognizes that the
rehabilitation and growth of the overall economy hinges on addressing the
issues listed above through profound reforms. Efforts to introduce
reforms in the sectors have been initiated as early as 1991 for the
hydrocarbons sector and 1996 for the power sector. However, much remains
to be done and the Government's program announced in January 2000 has
established long-range policies for the energy and mining sectors to (i)
maximize the role of competition and market forces; (ii) harness economic
principles and commercial incentives; (iii) promote private sector
participation; and ( iv) reform the corporate structure of the SOEs to
adjust to the new rules of the sectors.
2. Objectives
The proposed project will assist the MEM and its agencies in their efforts
to implement the Government's market-oriented reform program. The main
objectives of the project are : (i) redefinition of the role of the state,
clearly separating its policy and regulatory roles from its role as owner
of public enterprises, enabling the latter to play fully their commercial
roles; (ii) development of legal and institutional environment conducive
to address market failures, increase competitiveness and private sector
participation; (iii) restructuring of the SOEs to adapt to sector reforms
and the new business environment.    Also, the proposed project will assist
in designing a comprehensive strategy to optimize the valorization of the
gas resources and the market position of the Algerian gas, both internally
and externally.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank has a long track record in developing similar energy sector
reforms in Latin America, Eastern Europe and Asia. The Bank is well
positioned to provide assistance in this transformation by bringing its
knowledge of other countries' experience. The introduction of market
competition in the energy and mining sectors will require the definition
of a market model and a market structure by adequate legal instruments
which imply the formation and development of new institutions and a
serious redefinition of the roles of the SOEs. It is essential to create
the proper conditions for an adequate monitoring and control of the sector
performance by independent institutions, particularly with respect to
social, health, safety and environmental aspects.Algeria can benefit from
the Bank's experience in sector reforms, including particularly sector
policy formulation, modernization of its legal and institutional
frameworks and restructuring of SOEs. Given its experience and
- 2 -



established presence in the country, Bank involvement would facilitate the
achievement of the project objectives in a timely manner.
4. Description
The proposed project would comprise the following components which will be
implemented through provision of advisory services, computer software and
hardware when needed, and training:(a) Hydrocarbons: (i) review, design
and implementation of a legal and institutional framework consistent with
the proposed strategy of reforms; (ii) set up and assistance in initial
operation of a license contract management and promotion agency; (iii)
set up and assistance in the initial operation of the regulatory entity;
(iv) assistance to Sonatrach in its efforts to adapt to sector reforms and
new business environment; and (v) assistance in setting up a data bank.(b)
Electricity: (i) review, design and implementation of a legal and
institutional framework consistent with the proposed strategy of reforms;
(ii) establishment and initial operation of the regulatory entity with
development of various regulations; (iii) establishment of a new entity
responsible for contracts management; (iv) implementation of the
restructuring of Sonelgaz with the various institutions as will be defined
by the new Electricity Law under preparation; (v) assistance in processing
the first IPP; and (vi) training of relevant staff of the various
institutions mainly in reforms and sector regulations.(c) Mining: (i)
completion of the regulatory framework and respective regulations; (ii)
establishment and successful operation of the an autonomous regulatory
entity; (iii) execution of a mining promotion program with setting up of a
data bank; and (iv) institutional strengthening of the various enterprises
in the sector.(d) Gas strategy: design of a comprehensive strategy for
private sector participation in the gas sector to optimize the
valorization of the gas resources and the market position of Algerian gas
internally and for export. (e) Overall: (i) institutional strengthening of
MEM; and (ii) set up of a Project Implementation Unit within MEM.Estimated
Cost: Preliminary total cost is estimated at about US$15.0 million. This
estimated cost and its allocation by component will be reviewed during
appraisal.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
GOVERNMENT               5.0
IBRD                     10.0
IDA
Total Project Cost       15.0
6. Implementation
Implementation period: July 2000 - December 2004IImplementing Agency:
Implementation of the proposed project will be the responsibility of MEM
through the Project Implementation Unit (PIU). PIU is being established
within MEM and will be assisted by consultants and the various enterprises
in the sectors. The key PIU staff, namely the Project Manager,
financial/accounting and procurement specialists, are being appointed to
ensure adequate project preparation and implementation. Project oversight
and policy guidance:Project Administration: The project Manager heading
the PIU will be responsible for supervising the consultants financed by
the project and for ensuring proper procurement and financial management,
with the assistance of the related specialists as stated above.
Financial Management, Accounting and Financial Reporting, Audit, and
-3 -



Disbursements: will be reviewed and agreed upon during appraisal.
Monitoring and Evaluation: The PIU would be responsible for monitoring
progress against performance indicators to be agreed upon during
appraisal. The PIU will submit semi-annual project management reports
(PMRs) and financial management reports (FMRs), summarizing project
implementation and the utilization of the project funds. These reports
would cover implementation status, deviations, if any, from the agreed
implementation plan; problems and constraints and corrective actions and
updated disbursement and commitment tables. The PIU will prepare a
mid-term report to serve as basis for a Project Mid-Term Review and would
also prepare and submit an Implementation Completion Report within six
months of the Loan closing date.
7. Sustainability
By developing a competitive framework for market-oriented reforms in the
energy and mining sectors, and adapting the SOEs to the new business
environment, the proposed project will help improve service efficiency and
energy access, accelerate investments, address market failures.
Incentives to sustain project objectives include transparency and
competitiveness of the overall contractual arrangements. Improved service
coverage and quality at more competitive prices will be sustained as
private investments grow in both infrastructure and services. Empowering
the new regulatory entities and ensuring financial independence will
enable regulatory functions to be sustained without dependence on
budgetary support.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Experience in other countries indicates that improving the enabling
environment increases the ability of a country to improve efficiency,
attract and retain appropriate private investments. The results of
reforms can be measured in terms of increasing outputs, government
revenues, cost savings, consumers satisfaction, productivity gains, job
creation and more efficient public institutions.Experience in other
countries with capacity building suggests that emphasis on beneficiary' s
participation, intensive supervision, organization and coordination in the
field are critical for timely and effective implementation.     Ownership
and political commitment are key to ensuring strong local leadership,
availability of counterpart funds, and clear delineation of ministerial
responsibilities.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  There is no direct impact of the Technical
Assistance activities to the environment.    However, the project will
bring improvement in the Government environmental regulatory capacity in
all sub-sectors by improving quality standards of products and operations.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Zoubeida Ladhibi-Belk
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
-4-



Telephone:   (202) 458-0020
Fax:   (202) 477-1691
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending August 4, 2000.
- 5 -



