Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 21778-AL
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$18.0 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FOR AN
ENERGY AND MINING TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN (EMTAL)
February 2, 2001
Infrastructure Development Group
Middle East and North Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective July 2000)
Currency Unit = Algerian Dinar (DZD)
DZD 1.0 = US$.014
US$1.0 = DZD 72.26
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANCM        Agence Nationale de Contr6le des Mines    MOF             Ministiy of Finance
ANPM        Agence Nationale du Patrimoine Minier    MW               Megawatts
ASM1DAL   Entreprise Nationale des Engrais et        NAFTAL           Societe Nationale de Commercialisation des
Produits Phytosanitaires                                 Produits Petroliers
BAD         Banque Algerienne de Developpement       NAFTEC           Societ6 Nationale de Raffinage du Petrole
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy              NGO              Non-Governmental Organization
CPFA        Country Profile of Financial            NPA               National Popular Assembly
Accountability
DGM         Direction generale des Mines             ORGM             Office de la Recherche Geologique et Miniere
E&P         Exploration and Production               PIP              Project Implementation Plan
FARAH       Financial Accounting, Reporting and      PMR              Project Management Report
Auditing Handbook
FERPHOS   Entreprise Nationale du Fer et des         PMU              Project Management Unit
Phosphates
FMS         Financial Management System              PPF              Project Preparation Facility
GDP         Gross Domestic Product                   PPIAF            Public-Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility
IBRD        International Bank for Reconstruction and   SA            Special Account
Development
ICR         Implementation Completion Report         SGA              Algerian Geological Survey
IDF         Institutional Development Fund           SOE              Statement of Expenditure
LFC         International Finance Corporation        SOEs             State-owned Enterprises
IGF         Inspection Generale des Finances         SONATRACH        Enterprise Nationale de Recherche,
d'Exploration et de Commercialisation des
Hydrocarbures
LACI        Loan Administration Change Initiative    SONELGAZ         Societe Nationale de l'Electricite et du Gaz
LPG         Liquified Petroleum Gases                TA               Technical Assistance
MEM         Ministry of Energy and Mines
Vice President:    Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Manager/Director:        Christian Delvoie
Acting Sector Director:      Sonia Hammam
Sector Manager/Task Team Leader:          Zoubeida Ladhibi-Belk



ALGERIA
ENERGY AND MINING TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN (EMTAL)
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  6
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       8
3. Benefits and target population                                                      8
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       9
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          11
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         12
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                           13
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   13
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        13
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           14
2. Financial                                                                          14
3. Technical                                                                          14
4. Institutional                                                                      15
5. Environmental                                                                      16
6. Social                                                                             17
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 18
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                    18
2. Critical risks                                                                     19
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     20



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            20
2. Other                                                                              20
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          21
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         21
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          22
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                    28
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         42
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary           43
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary    44
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       45
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     54
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   55
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  56
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            57
MAP(S)
IBRD 29992



ALGERIA
Energy and Mining Technical Assistance Loan (EMTAL)
Project Appraisal Document
Middle East and North Africa Region
MNSID
Date: February 2, 2001                            Team Leader: Zoubeida Ladhibi-Belk
Country Director: Christian Delvoie               Acting Sector Dir.: Sonia Hammam
Project ID: P067567                               Sector(s): GP - Oil & Gas Transportation, NN - Mining &
Other Extractive, PP - Electric Power & Other Energy
Adjustment
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan (TAL)   Theme(s): Energy; Mining
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
[X] Loan     [ ] Credit   [ ] Grant     [ ] Guarantee    [ Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 18.0
Proposed Terms: Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
Grace period (years):                                  Years to maturity: 16.5
Commitment fee: 0.85% of                               Service charge: %
undisbursed balances for first four
years; 0.75% thereafter
Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
Financing Plan:    Source                                    Local         Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                        4.00           0.00           4.00
IBRD                                                            1.80           16.20         18.00
Total:                                                          5.80           16.20         22.00
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF ALGERIA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF ENERGY AND MINES
Address: 80, Avenue Ahmed Ghermoul, Algiers, Algeria
Contact Person: Ms. Nour-El-Houda Boughalem, Project Management Unit Manager
Tel: 213-21-67-02-78                Fax: 213-21-67-03-37                Email: Nboughalem@Yahoo.Fr
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/USSM):
FY         2001       2002        2003      2004       2005
Annual   1.50        4.00       6.50       4.50       1.50
Cumulative    1.50        5.50      12.00      16.50     18.00
Project implementation period: 4.5 years: July 01, 2000 - December 31, 2004
Expected effectiveness date: 05/30/2001  Expected closing date:  06/30/2005
X:S PAD Fon  R.v Mwdh, 2000



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
In December 1999, the Government of Algeria announced its new policy and strategic objectives for the
energy and mining sectors. The main thrust of this policy is to: (i) improve efficiency in the energy and
mining sectors while securing adequate energy supplies to the economy; (ii) allow market forces to play
their respective roles; (iii) increase revenues by further developing untapped resources; (iv) address
environmental concerns; (v) promote efficient use of public resources and protect public interest; and (vi)
alleviate the financial burden of energy and mining enterprises on public finances.
The proposed project will assist the Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM) to implement the Government's
market-oriented reform program in the energy and mining sectors, and would particularly assist in the: (i)
separation of the role of the state, as policy maker, regulator and owner of mining resources, from its role
as owner of public enterprises, enabling these latter to become fully commercially-oriented entities; (ii)
development and implementation of a legal and institutional environment conducive to develop market
mechanism, increase competition, and private sector participation; (iii) improvement of service quality and
energy access, energy efficiency and environmental standards; and (iv) state-owned enterprises (SOEs)'
efforts to adapt to sector reforms and the new business environment. Also, the proposed project will assist
MEM in launching its first and innovative power generation plant(s) for 2000MW with private sector
participation.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Progress towards achieving the project development objective will be monitored with the following key
performance indicators for each of the sectors (mining, electricity and hydrocarbons):
*   increase in private sector participation
a   improvement in the efficiency of the restructured SOEs
* increase in Government's revenues from the sector
*   reduction of pricing subsidies.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 15316-AL          Date of latest CAS discussion: 02/05/96
The project will contribute to the Government of Algeria's objective of achieving sustainable economic
growth through increased competition and private sector participation.  The legal, regulatory and
institutional reforms supported by the project will create an enabling environment conducive to more
competition and private sector participation. It is expected that the next CAS, scheduled for FY2002, will
take up these objectives.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Main Sector Issues:
The fundamental issues in the energy and mining sectors in Algeria are:
*   Volatility of oil and gas prices having considerable impact on the macro-economic situation
- 2 -



of Algeria. Algerian economy is heavily dependent on the income from the export of crude oil,
oil products and natural gas, which accounted for about 30% of GDP in 1998. Therefore the
volatility of oil prices is having a considerable impact on the macro economic situation of
Algeria. Because of the importance of hydrocarbons revenues, the collapse in intemational
prices in 1998, which led to about 40% fall in total export revenues, largely explains the
contraction of GDP growth from an average annual increase of 4.5 percent in 1995-1998, to an
average decline of 0.4 percent between 1998-1999. Hydrocarbons are expected to remain the
predominant source of export earnings for years to come, generating some U$15-20 billion per
year during the period 2000-2005, depending on the crude oil price. Similarly to virtually all
producer countries, Algeria experienced a fiscal crisis (limited access to foreign credit) and
balance of payments crisis. It has tried to increase diversification of its source of revenues by
investing more in export of petroleum products and natural gas.
*   Sector operated by quasi-monopolistic state-owned enterprises (SOEs) that play both state
and commercial roles with limited managerial autonomy.   In the hydrocarbons sector,
SONATRACH focuses on oil and gas research, exploration, production, transport, marketing and
export; NAFTEC is the refining enterprise, and NAFTAL is responsible for distributing
hydrocarbons products within the country. In the electricity sector, SONELGAZ is a fully
integrated SOE responsible for generation, transmission and distribution of electricity and
distribution of natural gas by pipeline. As for the mining sector, exploration services are
monopolized by the state-owned agency, Office de la Recherche Geologique et Miniere (ORGM),
and industrialized operations are dominated by the enterprises of the state-controlled Holding Sid
Mines. It has been recognized by all concemed parties, that this institutional arrangement gives
limited incentives to stimulate managerial dynamism, control costs, and improve efficiency.
*   Pricing systems with levels below economic costs that provide implicit subsidies for certain
consumers, and lead to wasteful consumption and limited cost efficiency. There is currently a
distortion between domestic prices and intemational prices with an impact on Government
revenues and equity distribution. In the hydrocarbons sector, a preliminary estimate of these
subsidies amounts to about US$ 500 million per year. In the electricity sector, while high voltage
and medium tariffs are already above and near their economic cost respectively, low voltage
tariffs, which relate to about 42% of total consumption, are still below economic costs.
*   Sectors are putting a burden on public finances either for investment finances or
consumption subsidies. As a result of the institutional arrangements, the pricing policy
described above, and high debt service requirements, the SOEs are financially constrained and
unable to maintain let alone expand their productive capacity. In the electricity sector for
example, Govemrnment contributions amounted to about US$ 1.0 billion in 1998.
*   Substantial capital requirements to meet demand and to optimize the use of Algerian
natural resources and increase Government's revenues. As indicated in the Govemrnment's
program, hydrocarbons exploration, production, refining and distribution need to be enhanced;
SONATRACH's investment requirements for the next 5 years are estimated at about US$ 20
billion. In the electricity sector, needs to meet future demand as well as to rehabilitate the
existing power system and reduce system bottlenecks, are estimated at about US$ 12.0 billion for
the next 10 years. Finally the mining sector is characterized by substantial untapped resources,
due to lack of financial resources for exploration and development.
- 3 -



*   Little private sector participation in the sectors. Despite the adoption of the 1991 petroleum
legislation which opened the hydrocarbons sector to investments by foreign oil companies,
exploration activities are low compared to the potential and remain concentrated in prolific areas;
and refining and distribution of petroleum products remain almost exclusively the responsibility
of SOEs. In the electricity sector, responsibility for generation, transmission and distribution of
electricity remains with Sonelgaz and attempts towards introducing private sector participation
are just at the initial stages. As for the mining sector, the existing legal and institutional
framework maintains considerable barriers to private investment, resulting in difficult access to
mineral resources because of discretionary and unclear conditions to obtain and maintain mining
titles, unavailability of adequate data, perceived unstable investment conditions, and a sector
domination by mining SOEs.
*   Large scope for improving energy efficiency. Algeria has taken several steps to improve
end-use energy efficiency and conservation. The Agence pour la Promotion de la Rationalisation
de l'Utilisation de l'Energie (APRUE), a national agency, under the authority of the Ministry of
Energy and Mines, has been established to promote energy efficiency and conservation. In 1999,
Algeria has enacted a law on energy efficiency and conservation which sets up a national fund
for energy efficiency and makes energy audits compulsory. In spite of these measures, the
potential for improving end-use energy efficiency remains large, and its realization would
require, as demonstrated in other countries, the development of incentive measures, competitive
pressures, market-based energy and financial services.
v   Limited awareness to environmental issues. In the upstream sector there are pending issues
such as significant gas flaring which impact on the global environment, and also local issues
such as oily waters from the production facilities discharged in the environment. The downstream
sector is still struggling with non-compliance with the decree 93-160 on industrial effluents
discharges in the environment which impact on coastal zones, wadis and harbor environments.
The downstream sector is also characterized by air pollution problems coming from refining
facilities, storage facilities and by fuel quality problems essentially due to lead content of
gasoline. Despite the adoption of environmental Law in 1983 (Law 83-03), environmental rules
and regulations are still to be improved.
Government Strategv:
As stated earlier, the energy and mining sectors are critical to the overall Algerian economy, accounting for
about 95% of total exports and 60% of budgetary revenues. During the years of high oil prices, the state
had the resources to provide employment, infrastructure and services through an inefficient centrally
controlled system. Social indicators improved markedly and poverty declined thanks to high investment in
education, health, basic infrastructure, and generous subsidies. The decline in oil prices in the 1980s put an
end to this, highlighting the inefficiencies of the economic structure. Unemployment grew rapidly to 25
percent, and acute housing shortages developed. The housing crisis was further compounded by a high
population growth rate (2.9 percent) and continued rural migration to cities.
The Government recognizes that the rehabilitation and growth of the overall economy hinges to a large
extent on addressing the issues listed above through profound reforms and strengthening of the energy and
mining sectors. Efforts to introduce reforms in the sectors have been initiated as early as 1991 in the
hydrocarbons sector and 1995 in the power sector, when Sonelgaz and the Government commissioned a
Power Sector Restructuring Study, used as a basis for the proposed reform program in the power sector.
However, much remains to be done and the Government's program as outlined in December 1999 has
- 4 -



established long-range policies for the energy and mining sectors to: (i) modernize and strengthen the legal,
regulatory and institutional frameworks; (ii) maximize the role of competition and market forces; (iii)
establish economic principles and commercial incentives; (iv) promote private sector participation in all
activities by creating a level playing field for the private investors and the SOEs; and (v) reorganize the
corporate structure of the SOEs. Government's strategy for the sectors is in Project files and was
confirmed formally to the Bank by letter dated August 7, 2000.
Specific to the hydrocarbons sector, the Government strategy is to: (a) establish an enabling legal and
institutional framework conducive to private investments through a new hydrocarbons law being prepared;
(b) set-up new autonomous regulatory and contracting agencies, that will take over the government
functions currently exercised by SONATRACH; (c) gradually deregulate prices and open the downstream
markets to private participation and competition; (d) introduce a model contract and tender procedure for
award of exploration/development rights, ensuring both streamlining and transparency in the procedure and
intemational competitiveness; (e) encourage private investments downstream and improve the quality of
fuels; (f) update and enforce environmental impact assessment procedures, and develop environmental
protection standards; and (g) optimize the valorization of gas resources both for export and domestic
market, through a strategy of diversification and market penetration. During negotiations, agreements
have been reached that the process of submission of a draft hydrocarbon law, acceptable to the Bank, to
the Competent Authorities,i.e Council Of Government, Council of Ministers as well as the National
Popular Assembly (NPA), will be completed no later than December 31, 2001.
In the electricity sector, the key policy objective is to meet rapidly rising demand while maintaining quality
of service at reasonable cost. The institutional framework is being defined in an electricity law the
preparation of which is well advanced.   The draft law provides for an enabling legal and institutional
framework conducive to private investments in generation and distribution with the following principles: (a)
generation will be deregulated and subject to market forces; (b) transmission will remain publicly owned
and provide open access to suppliers and purchasers; (c) distribution as a natural monopoly will be fully
regulated; (d) prices will be liberalized at the generation level and regulated at the transmission and
distribution levels; (e) retail competition will be introduced for large consumers; (f) an independent
regulatory authority will be established; and (g) Sonelgaz will be reorganized to adjust to the new legal
framework and market forces. During negotiations, agreements have been reached that the process of
submission of a draft electricity law, acceptable to the Bank, to the Competent Authorities,i.e Council Of
Government, Council of Ministers as well as the National Popular Assembly (NPA), will be completed
no later than June 30, 2001.
In the case of mining, the legal regulatory and institutional framework has been reviewed and defined in a
new draft mining law approved by the Council of Government and the Council of Ministers, and submitted
to the NPA for approval.   The new  mining law establishes: (a) an enabling legal framework to
significantly increase private investment in Algeria's mining sector; (b) sector institutions to effectively
enforce laws and regulations, administer mining titles, and monitor sector performance and development;
(c) provisions for environmental and safety protection during the whole mining operation cycle; and (d) the
provision of basic geological data and other services for promotion of private investments.
- 5 -



3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project will help addressing the sector issues as identified in Section 2. Through the establishment of
adequate legal and institutional framework conducive to private sector participation, the strengthening of
existing and/or creation of new institutions in the sectors, the reliance on market forces to establish prices,
and the reorganization of SONELGAZ and other enterprises in the mining subsector to adjust to the new
strategy, the project will set the stage to:
*   demonopolize the sector activities with the exception of the natural monopolies, and increase
competition;
*   help control costs and improve efficiency of the sectors
*   increase private sector participation;
*   develop operations in an environmentally sustainable manner;
*   increase Government revenues; and
*   reduce the burden of the sectors on public finances.
A prerequisite for all these reforms is the commitment (i) to reach consensus on principles of reforms with
all stakeholders, including labor unions, SOEs; and (ii) to develop a comprehensive strategy and road map
per sub-sector, identifying options and action plans in order to meet the objectives of the reform. The
analysis of the various options led the Government to make several strategic choices which have been the
basis for designing the proposed project:
(i) Private versus public ownership: The Government has opted to introduce gradually private participation
in the development and operations of the sectors, which is consistent with its strategy to primarily direct
public resources to social sectors, and increase Government's revenues. Accordingly, and as a first step,
SOEs in the electricity and mining subsectors will be restructured to become more commercially-oriented
entities.
(ii) Creation of autonomous regulatory agencies for each subsector (i.e hydrocarbons, electricity and
mining): The Government has committed to divest MEM's existing regulatory functions and to empower
and staff an independent regulatory authority for each subsector.
(iii) One versus three regulatory agencies: Given the status of preparation of the various laws, and in
order to expedite the process while taking into account the specifics of each sector, the decision was taken
to go with three separate regulatory authorities, one each for hydrocarbons, electricity and the mining
subsector. The possibility of combining two or three agencies will remain open for the future.
(iv) Multi-buyer model in the electricity sector and retail competition: The Government is planning to
implement models which would progressively provide wholesale competition and also allow the
development of retail competition.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project would comprise the following components (Annex 2 also provides a brief background and
strategy for reforms for each subsector):
-6 -



(a) Hydrocarbons: (i) review, design and implementation of a legal, regulatory and institutional
framework, upstream and downstream, consistent with the proposed strategy and reforms including
the development of suitable environmental policies and regulations for the hydrocarbon sector on the
basis of sectoral environmental assessments for said sector; (ii) set-up and assistance in initial
operation of a contract management and promotion agency with a state of the art data center; (iii)
set-up and assistance in initial operation of an autonomous regulatory entity; and (iv) training of
relevant staff.
(b) Electricity: (i) review, design and implementation of a legal, regulatory and institutional
framework, for electricity and natural gas distribution by pipelines, consistent with the proposed
strategy and reforms including the development of suitable environmental policies and regulations
for the electricity sector on the basis of sectoral environmental assessments for said sector; (ii)
design, establishment, and operation of an autonomous regulatory entity and, at a later stage, a
system operator and a market operator; (iii) implementation of the restructuring and reform program
of the sector in general and the reorganization of SONELGAZ in particular; (iv) assistance in the
launching of an innovative and challenging first power generation program with private sector
participation ("2000 MW Project"), to be used for local market and export; and (v) training of
relevant staff of the various sector institutions mainly in reforms and regulations.
(c) Mining: (i) review, design and implement the legal, regulatory and institutional framework and
respective regulations consistent with the proposed strategy and reforms including the development
of suitable environmental policies and regulations for the mining sector on the basis of sectoral
environmental assessments for said sector; (ii) establishment and assistance for initial operation of
an autonomous national agency for geological survey and mining control and an autonomous
national cadastral agency; (iii) implementation of a mining promotion program; (iv) assistance to the
Holding SIDMINES {comprising the Entreprise Nationale du Fer et des Phosphates (FERPHOS),
the Entreprise Nationale des Engrais et Produits Phytosanitaires (ASMIDAL), and the Entreprise
Nationale du Marbre (ENAMARBRE)}, the Office de la Recherche Geologique et Miniere
(ORGM), and the Entreprise Nationale de l'Or (ENOR), in their effort to adapt to the sector reform,
and with strategic private partnership; and (v) training.
(d) PMU: institutional strengthening of MEM and set-up of a Project Management Unit (PMU)
within MEM.
Estimated cost:   Table below gives the summary of the estimated costs by components (including
contingencies):
-7-



Indicative             Bank-       % of
Component                    Sector        Costs      % of    financing   Bank-
S(U$M)    Total      (US$M)  financing
(a) Hydrocarbons                    Hydrocarbons         7.55       34.3       7.55      41.9
--Legal and Institutional Framework
and Institutional Set-up
(b) Electricity                     Electricity          5.75       26.1       5.75       31.9
--Legal, Institutional Frarnework and
Institutional Set Up
--Restructuring of Sonelgaz
--2000 MW Project
(c) Mining                          Mining               4.22       19.2       4.22      23.4
--Policy, legal and regulatory
framework
--Institutional Set-up
--Support to mining companies and
SOEs
(d) PMU                                                  0.30        1.4       0.30        1.7
(e) administration fees, custom duties                   4.00       18.2       0.00        0.0
and taxes
Total Project Costs                   21.82       99.2      17.82       99.0
Front-end fee                     0.18        0.8       0.18        1.0
Total Financing Required                     22.00      100.0      18.00      100.0
All the Institutional components listed above include training activities as described in Annex 3
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project will support the Government of Algeria in its effort to reform sector policies and institutions.
It includes:
*   for each subsector, establishment of  new legal and institutional framework, set-up of
autonomous regulatory agencies and other new institutions as defined in the agreed strategy and
detailed in C. 1 above, opening the subsectors to private sector participation and competition;
*   assistance to the SOEs in the electricity and mining subsectors to adapt to the new mandate and
legal and regulatory framework instilling competitive behavior;
*   launching of the first power generation program with private sector participation;
3. Benefits and target population:
The project will benefit the Algerian economy and hence the population, through the following benefits:
(i) induced by the project: with a contribution of 30% of GDP, about 95% of export revenues, and
60% of total government revenues, the energy sector is key in the development of the Algerian
economy. It is therefore essential that efficiency of development and operations of the sector in an
environmentally and socially sustainable manner, be enhanced and maintained. This will enable the
- 8-



Government to further support economic growth, and the social infrastructure to meet the needs of the
poor.
(ii) as a direct result of the project: (a) establishment of a modem, consistent and homogeneous energy
and mining legal and regulatory framework, and state of the art institutions that will provide the
governance to protect public interest, and assure efficient use of public resources; (b) better
understanding of how Government, private sector, and communities can work together in dealing with
foreign investors; (c) transparent administration of the state's revenues from the hydrocarbons sector;
(d) restructuring of the SOEs into efficient and commercially oriented enterprises; (e) establishment of
new agencies to assure faster and non-discretionary award and administration of contracts, improved
understanding of issues involved in managing such rights, and improved enforcement capacity of
environmental, health and safety regulations; (f) improved knowledge of existing environmental and
socio-economic conditions, as a basis for improved management and participation of local
communities; (g) protection of the environrnent from potential damage caused by activities and a better
grasp of how to improve fuel quality and, in general, how to define environmental protection norms and
standards in the energy and mining sectors.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period: July 2000 - December 2004
Implementing Agency: Implementation of the proposed project will be the responsibility of MEM through
the Project Management Unit (PMU). PMU will be assisted by consultants and the various concerned
enterprises in the sectors. The Manager of the PMU has already been appointed. Measures to appoint the
rest of the key PMU staff, namely the financial/accounting and the procurement specialists have been
initiated. In addition, PMU will be initially assisted by a sector specialist from the various concerned
enterprises until the required appointment is made.
Project oversight and policy guidance:
Project Administration: The Manager heading the PMU reports directly to the Minister, and will be
responsible for coordinating the services of the consultants financed by the project and for ensuring proper
procurement, financial and administrative management of the project. A Project Implementation Plan (PIP)
has been prepared by the PMU. The PIP defines the various roles and responsibilities, individual work
programs, and performance indicators, and includes a timetable to be closely monitored for successful and
timely project execution. The PIP includes detailed arrangements for project and financial management,
procurement and accounting procedures. The PIP is in the Project Files.
Project Management Reporting: The PMU will prepare quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs),
consisting of analysis of the project implementation progress (narrative and indicators), procurement
activities, and project financial statements including summaries of all sources and uses of project funds,
expenditures detailed by category and contract, and Special Account statements. Copies of such quarterly
PMRs will be submitted to the Bank 45 days after the end of each quarter.
Financial Management Systems of MEM: The Financial Management System (FMS) currently in place in
the MEM is part of the overall FMS of the Government, and is based on principles and procedures defined
by the legal framework applicable to the pubic sector and more specifically to governmental institutions,
including the Law on Government Accounting of 1990.
-9-



MEM prepares an annual budget for its current and capital expenditures. The annual budget is submitted
for approval to the Ministry of Finance (MOF), which closely controls budget preparation and execution.
Payments against the budget are authorized by MOF's representatives in the MEM. The Government's
accounting system registers commitments and actual expenditures against the budget. The accounting
system uses the cash method.
The Ministry's accounts are subject to annual audits by the Government's audit department, Inspection
Generale des Finances (IGF).
Project Financial Management: Financial management arrangements for the project are detailed in Annex
6 and summarized below.  The expenditures of the proposed project and their financing will be
administered by the PMU. An action plan for developing the necessary systems and procedures at the
PMU has been agreed, and is detailed in the PIP. Accounting and financial procedures have been also
defined in the PIP. An assessment by the Bank of the financial management system to be developed by the
PMU will aim at ensuring that the system is operating satisfactorily and generating PMRs acceptable to the
Bank. The assessment of the financial management system will take place no later than June 30, 2002.
Special Account: To facilitate disbursements from the proposed loan, a Special Account (SA) for an
amount of US$ 1.5 million equivalent will be established at the Central Bank (Banque d'Algerie). Initially
the funds in the SA will be limited to US$ 1.0 million equivalent until project expenditures will have
reached US$ 5.0 million equivalent.
Loan Disbursements and Payments Processing:  Disbursements from the Bank loan will use traditional
procedures, i.e. other than those based on PMRs. Payments from the SA and requests to the Bank for
replenishment of the SA will be initiated by the PMU and processed through the Government-owned
Algerian Development Bank (Banque Algerienne de Developpement: BAD). This is based on procedures
applicable to foreign-financed projects implemented by the Government and its non-commercial entities, i.e.
Law 90-21 of August 15, 1990 on Government accounting, and the Economics Ministry Resolution of
August 14, 1993 defining the implementation modalities of Government projects supported by external
financing through the Algerian Development Bank, together with regulations and instructions of 1987,
1994, and 1997.
Project Accounting: Accounting for all project expenditures and their financing will be done by the PMU,
in addition to the accounts kept by BAD for the proposed loan. As already mentioned, the staff of the PMU
will include a qualified accountant. The PMU will acquire the necessary computers (PCs), other office
equipment, and a project accounting software, all to be funded from the proposed loan.
Project Audits: The project accounts and financial statements, the Special Account and all disbursements
based on Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) will be audited each year by independent auditors acceptable
to the Bank. The auditors will apply international audit standards and follow the Bank's guidelines in the
Financial Accounting, Reporting and Auditing Handbook (FARAH), as well as specific terms of reference
for the audits of this project to be prepared during the project launch mission. During negotiations,
agreements were reached that audit reports will be sent to the Bank annually six months after the fiscal
year closing date (December 31), i.e., by June 30 of the following year, and that the audit of the PPF will
be included in thefirst year audit of the project.
Monitoring and Evaluation: The PMU will be responsible for monitoring progress against agreed
performance indicators specified in Annex 1. As stated earlier, the PMU will submit quarterly PMRs
summarizing project implementation and the utilization of project funds. They will cover implementation
- 10-



status; deviations, if any, from the implementation plan; problems and constraints and corrective actions
being taken; and updated disbursement and commitment tables. During negotiations, agreements were
reached that not later than December 31, 2002, the PMU will prepare a detailed mid-termn report to
serve as the basis for a Project Mid-Term Review to be carried out on February 28, 2003. The PMU will
also prepare and submit to the Bank an Implementation Completion Report (ICR) within six months of
the Closing Date of the Loan.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The proposed project approach is consistent with the Bank's strategy for the energy and mining sectors,
which calls for shifting the government's role from ownership and operations to policy making and
regulation, promoting efficiency and quality of services, and increased private sector participation.
Rationale
The Government of Algeria is committed to this strategy and the choice to open the sector for private
investments has clearly been made. To pursue its policy objectives, the Government of Algeria is moving
on a fairly fast track The preparation of modem mining, hydrocarbons and electricity laws, which include
new institutional and regulatory frameworks for all these sectors, is well advanced, and the draft mining
law has been already submitted to the NPA. Dealing in an integrated way with the preparation and
implementation of the energy and mining reform programs will create substantial synergies.
Alternatives
The Government of Algeria has decided to request a technical assistance loan instead of an investment loan
to benefit from the Bank's global knowledge and experience in these sectors.
Provide separate technical assistance loans for each subsector. This approach was rejected because of
timing, inconsistency with Government's approach and fear to lose the benefits of synergies.
Process the operation as a Learning and Innovation Loan: This option was disregarded because sector
reforms similar to the ones proposed are well proven Bank products and the amount required exceeds the
LIL limits.
- 1 1-



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                      Project                   (PSR) Ratings
I_________________________________ ___________________________  (Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                    Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Improve power sector financial     Power III (Loan 2981 -AL),        S              S
performance through financial      completed in June 1997.
restructuring and institutional
restructuring of the public power utility
Sonelgaz, while supporting the
expansion of its transmission system.
Help attract foreign investments,  First Petroleum project( Loan      S             S
improve efficiency of petroleum    3395-AL); completed in June
services companies and drilling    1997.
operations, optimize production of
Sonatrach's oil fields and address
environmental problems.
Improve telecommunications         First telecommunication           S              S
infrastructure, strengthen MPT's   Project( Loan 2370-AL);
organization and financial management completed in June 1992
capabilities, and restructure tariffs.
Acceleration of the Govermment's   Privatization support              S             S
privatization program              project-LIL (Loan 70290-AL);
approved on June 26, 2000
Creation of an enabling environment to Telecommunications and postal  S             S
improve access to efficient and    sector reform project ( Loan
affordable communications services by 70270-AL); approved on June
opening the telecommunications and    27,2000.
postal services to competition and
private participation.
Other development agencies
Canadian Intemational Development   Private Sector Development
Agency                             Fund ( ongoing)
European Union                     Privatization TA Project
(ongoing)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
- 12-



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The Bank has gained a broad experience in providing Technical Assistance to Governments willing to carry
out similar sector reforms. Lessons learned in other energy sector restructuring and privatization programs
and in the completed operations in the power and petroleum sectors in Algeria are reflected in the project
design. These lessons include:
*   political commitment, ownership and consensus building among all stakeholders including labor
unions are a prerequisite to ensure effective implementation of far reaching reforms, and their
sustainability;
* far reaching reforms can only be achieved gradually;
* bringing international expertise on reforms early in the process increases the chances for success;
* a clear legal and regulatory framework has to be defined as early as possible in the reform process;
* establishment of self financed and autonomous regulatory entities early in the process;
* relevant borrower's staff need to be trained in major aspects of the reform program and project
implementation mainly regulation, procurement;
* the project management unit has to be functional as early as possible during the preparation of the
project.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Borrower commitment to the project is high. The Government has long been aware of the necessary
changes to be brought to the energy and mining sectors in order to enhance their efficiency and make them
reliable support to the growth of the economy, and took the initiative in requesting the Bank's assistance in
this respect. This commitment is demonstrated by:
-   Government's policy for the energy and mining, encompassing the major principles for reforms, has
been indicated in the Government's Program, already approved by the National Popular Assembly
(NPA), and confirmed to the Bank by letter dated August 7, 2000;
-   Preparation of the various draft laws setting the main rules and regulations of the reform program
is well underway. The draft mining law has been approved by the Council of Ministers and
submitted to the NPA. Drafting of the Electricity Law is well advanced; the draft was presented to
various stakeholders in an open seminar on July 18-19, 2000; its finalization for submissiori to the
Competent Authorities is expected in mid-2001. Drafting of the hydrocarbons law is also ongoing,
and its submission to the Competent Authorities is expected in 2001;
* availability of funding out of a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) was finalized in August 2000;
* efforts are being made to inform and build consensus among the various stakeholders through
numerous seminars/workshops, media campaigns, meetings with labor unions, etc.;
* measures have been taken to initiate the procurement process for hiring consultants to assist in the
tender process for the first power plant to be implemented with private sector participation, and for
the hiring of consultants to advise in the design and set up of regulatory agencies and other new
institutions; and
* the setting up of the PMU has been initiated with the recruitment of the Head of the Unit, and
measures are underway to select the procurement and financial specialists.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank has a long track record in the development of similar energy and mining sector reforms in Latin
America, Eastem Europe and Asia. Algeria will be able to benefit from the Bank's experience in sector
- 13-



reform, including particularly formulation of strategic choices, modernization of its legal and institutional
frameworks and restructuring of State owned enterprises. The Bank is well positioned to provide
assistance in this transformation process by bringing its knowledge about other countries' experience and
helping Algeria address properly the issues of its energy and mining sectors, while taking good stock of the
lessons learned. The Government of Algeria recognizes the Bank's extensive experience and has sought
Bank's assistance as it embarks in its reform program. In addition, the Bank's group could offer, through
various instruments (lending from IBRD and IFC, guarantees, advisory services) the support that the
Government of Algeria may request to further develop private sector involvement in the energy and mining
sectors.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
0 Cost benefit     NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
Given the size and nature ( technical assistance) of the project, an economic analysis is not required. The
project focuses on policy, legal and institutional reforms which, if implemented successfully, will enable the
energy and mining sectors to contribute more effectively to economic growth and poverty reduction.
The economic benefits of the reform program supported by the project are likely to include: discovery of
additional reserves and increased production, improved efficiency of operations, increase in exports and
fiscal revenues, and increase in private capital flows, allowing for more resources to be allocated to social
sectors development.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Given the size and nature ( technical assistance ) of the proposed project, a financial analysis is not
required.
The past and current financial performance of SOEs to be restructured under the proposed project will be
examined and financial projections established, in the context of the assistance to the restructuring of these
SOEs.
Fiscal Impact:
The required changes in the taxation system for new hydrocarbons exploration and production contracts
will be designed and implemented as part of the proposed project with the objectives to be competitive
internationally, provide adequate incentives to attract exploration activities in non traditional areas and
maintain a fare share for the State. Moreover, the project is expected to result in increased fiscal revenues
in absolute value from the increased activity in the sector.
As to the downstream reforms, the project will analyze the impact of lifting subsidies and
gradual pricing liberalization on fiscal revenues, new investments and macro economic
aggregates.
3. Technical:
The introduction and use of state-of-the-art technology and systems to support sector management has
been, as a rule, very successful under technical assistance projects in other countries, particularly within
- 14-



the fields of surveying and management, environmental impact assessments review and monitoring, data
processing and information management, software for support to decision-making, etc. Similar technologies
and systems will be introduced through the proposed loan and no particular difficulties are foreseen.
4. Institutional:
The implementing agency, MEM, and its PMU will face an ambitious schedule for carrying out a set of
closely inter-related project activities, which are relatively novel and complex. Their ability to implement
the project has been assessed and will be enhanced through local and foreign technical assistance and
training programs included in the proposed project, to assist PMU to reinforce its financial, procurement,
and sectoral coordination capabilities.   Local and foreign technical assistance and training are also
envisaged for: (i) the various regulatory agencies and other new institutions in the sectors, to develop their
economic, financial, technical and legal skills; and (ii) the SOEs to be restructured, to help them implement
their restructuring program and operate within the new mandate.
4.1 Executing agencies:
The Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM) and its various agencies in the sectors.
The project would support the setting up of new sector agencies which will result in an important cultural
change for public employees. At the start and during the planned transition period, staff experience and
implementation capacity of the new agencies will be limited within this new environment. Therefore, there
is a major need for technical transfer at all levels, including management and operation. The project
includes a substantial provision for training as well as hiring international consultants and national staff
who will be in charge of the implementation of specific project sub-components. The Project will also
contribute to strengthen management capacity in the various existing and new agencies through targeted
specific training programs, as well as through on-the-job training with the support of consultants to be
contracted under the loan.
4.2 Project management:
In order to ensure adequate project implementation, MEM decided the setting up of a PMU and appointed
the Manager of PMU early in the process. In order to adhere to World Bank guidelines, these efforts will
be complemented by the appointment of experienced procurement and financial specialists, and later by
sectoral specialists.
4.3 Procurement issues:
The project will finance technical assistance services for studies and other consultant assignments (57% of
the project cost). Procurement of goods will be limited (19% of the project cost, with one package
accounting for 14%). Procedures for selection of consultants and procurement of goods will be in
accordance with applicable Bank's policy and guidelines. The project elements, their estimated costs and
procurement methods are summarized in Annex 6, Table A. All other procurement information, including:
(a) publication of General Procurement Notice (GNP); (b) Bank procurement thresholds and prior review
process with the implementation agency's procurement capacity assessment and required training; and (c)
procurement plan providing packaging and estimated schedule of the major procurement actions, are
summarized in Annex 6, and detailed in the PIP.
No Bank's Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) has been made yet. Existing country's legal
and institutional frameworks for public enterprise procurement were reviewed during the procurement
- 15 -



capacity assessment of the project agency and found to be generally in line with the Bank's Procurement
Guidelines. However, the capacity assessment identified certain practices and procedures not acceptable to
the Bank for which assurances were obtained from MEM' s officials, for not using them under the project.
Theses practices and procedures and the procurement capacity assessment of the project agency are
reflected in Annex 6. The overall procurement risk assessment rating for the project is considered as
average.
4.4 Financial management issues:
During project preparation, an evaluation of the PMU's financial management capacity and its ability to
meet Bank's requirement was carried out. The action plan resulting from this assessment is incorporated in
the PIP. The PMU will procure a computerized financial management and accounting system to be used
for management of the Bank's project. During negotiations, agreements have been reached that adequate
computerization, accounting and financial management system in the PMU will be a condition of
effectiveness.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The project is a Technical Assistance Project supporting reforms in the energy and mining sectors, to
improve efficiency, and lay the ground for more competition and private sector participation. The Project
includes legal, institutional and capacity building components. As a result, there are no environmental
issues in the proposed Project. The Project is expected to have a positive impact on the environment, by
building capacity for environmental management at the national level and within the energy and mining
sectors especially in the new regulatory agencies. It will include in particular development of sectoral
environmental assessments and respective guidelines for energy and mining projects and will thereby
support the Government's environmental strategy. For the sub-component related to the assistance for
launching a 2000 MW power generation program with private sector participation, the call for proposals
will include terms of reference for the development of the related Environmental Assessment.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Not applicable.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: N/A
Not applicable
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Not applicable.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
During project implementation consultation will take place with NGOs, landowners, and industry
representatives regarding the energy and mining sector environmental aspects.
- 16 -



6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The Government has already initiated the launch of media campaigns on the overall benefits of the reform
program, and to promote social acceptance of this program. Social concerns were discussed, since the
reform and restructuring program could have an impact on employment. The reform program will have a
net positive effect through: (i) improvement of services; (ii) creation of new institutions and hence new jobs;
(iii) new private investments induced by the establishment of the new legal and regulatory framework which
will boost the creation of new job opportunities in new areas that will be opened for oil and mining
exploration and exploitation; and (iv) the reallocation of more public resources to social programs.
However, possible negative impact on employment could be induced by the reforms and the restructuring
program. The Government confirmed that it will include in its action program a more detailed evaluation
of the social impact of these reforms to adopt appropriate safeguard measures.
Furthermore, and under the newly approved Privatization Assistance Loan, the Ministry of Participation
and Coordination of Economic Reforms is setting up a Division in charge of addressing the labor issues in
coordination with other ministries and agencies concerned . Specifically, the mandate of this Division is to
help design and implement plans mitigating the social impact of the reforms and future privatization.
These plans will complement an already comprehensive social safety net in Algeria which has been enacted
with the beginning of the macroeconomic program in 1994, including broad legislation pertaining to
retrenchment benefits, early retirement schemes and social security compensation.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Workshops involving major stakeholders, including representatives of labor unions and civil society have
already been organized, and will continue to be organized, to discuss the new legal and institutional
framework, and the main concepts underlining the development of the energy and mining sector, including
social issues. The Bank is assisting in this aspect through a PPIAF grant and the proposed loan will
enhance this activity.
Discussions between Government, unions and employers, and between unions and employers' association
and the industries are taking place and are intended to improve the social climate and create an environment
favorable to the reform program. In addition the information campaign launched to explain the process to
the general public will also help build a broad consensus.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?                                                                   0
In addition to the various workshops and seminars already held since April 2000, the proposed project
includes activities to: (a) develop a consultation/communication policy and strategy regarding energy and
mining in Algeria; and (b) increase the awareness within sector institutions, companies, local governnents,
labor unions, NGOs and civil society, including local communities.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
Not applicable
- 17 -



6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Not applicable
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Polioy                                     Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)             0 Yes * No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                     0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                      0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                        0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                    0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                     0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                               0 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)     0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)           0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Not applicable.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
By developing a competitive framework for market-oriented reforms in the energy and mining sectors, the
project will help accelerate investments, address market failures and enhance service efficiency and energy
access, while improving environmental standards. Incentives to sustain project objectives include
transparency and competitiveness of the overall contractual arrangements. Improved service coverage and
quality at more competitive prices will be sustained as competition develops and private investment grows
in both infrastructure and services. Empowering the new regulatory authorities and ensuring financial
independence will enable regulatory functions to be sustained without dependence on budgetary support.
- 18 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating             Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Government commitment to implement         M         (a) Govermnent's Program; (b) Government's
reform program                                       request to the Bank to assist in implementing the
reform program; (c) early start of preparation of
the primary legislation accompanied by media
campaigns, seminar and workshops to build
consensus; (d) support of the Bank as part of
overall sector reform dialogue with all
concerned parties. In addition the mid-term
review will ensure that the reform is proceeding
in conformity with the project development
objectives.
Stakeholders and population concerns vis    S        (a) broad information campaigns; and (b) MEM
a vis the reform program                             constant dialogue with major stakeholders
throughout the implementation process and
initial operation.
Overall investments conditions stability    S        (a) preparation of secondary legislation and its
adoption early in the process (covenant of the
mid-term review); (b) early set up of the new
agencies, in particular the regulatory agencies;
(c) road-shows and promotion activities.
Inadequate recurrent budgets for the       M         (a) rapid executive decrees to facilitate initial
newly set up agencies and inefficient                operations of Regulatory institutions; (c)
management                                           adequate budgetary provisions for the first year
of operation of the new agencies; and technical
assistance for the new agencies funded under the
project.
From Components to Outputs
Continued project ownership                 S        (a) Continued progress in implementing the
sectoral reforms; (b) continued sector reform
dialogue with stakeholders, from preparation
throughout implementation; (c) timely
implementation of sector reforms and project
activities, including training of staff and
provision of adequate infrastructure.
- 19 -



Staff stability                             M          Conditions regarding the provision of necessary
staff and resources to effectively implement the
reform would be part of the loan agreement and
of the PIP.
Implementation and procurement delays        S         Early set up and adequate staffing of the PMU;
demonstrated ownership and clear commitment
by project and sector agencies staff regarding
the PIP; a substantial portion of the procurement
documents and TORs ready during the first year
of project implementation; procurement and
financial training in WB procedures already
initiated and to be continued during the first six
months of project implementation.
Performance                                 M          Adequate and timely provision of technical
assistance and supervision by the Bank.
Social stability                             S         Government confirmed its commitment to adopt
appropriate social safeguard measures.
Overall Risk Rating
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The main possible controversial aspect is the risk of social instability due to the reform program. In order
to minimize this controversy, the Government stated clearly that it will maintain employment in the sector
in the context of the reform program, and that it will adopt appropriate safeguard measures. In addition
media campaign and seminars on the overall benefits of the reform program will continue during project
implementation.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
*   Borrower to put in place adequate computerization, accounting and financial management system in
PMU;
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
*   completion of the process of submission of the draft Law on Electricity and natural gas distriburion by
pipelines, satisfactory to the Bank, to the Competent Authorities ( Council of Government, Council of
Ministers as well as the NPA) no later than June 30, 2001;
*   completion of the process of submission of the draft Hydrocarbon Law satisfactory to the Bank, to the
Competent Authorities ( Council of Government, Council of Ministers as well as the NPA) no later
than December 31, 2001;
* PMU's financial management system to be assessed by the Bank no later than June 30, 2002;
*   submission to the Bank of quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs);
- 20 -



*   project accounts audits to be submitted to the Bank not later than six months after the end of each
fiscal year;
*   complete staffing of the PMU as needed and with a core of sectoral staff no later than one year after
project effectiveness;
*   promulgation of required decrees and regulations specific to each subsector (hydrocarbons, electricity,
and mining) no later than December 31, 2002;
*   set up of the three regulatory agencies (one for each subsector, i.e., hydrocarbon, electricity, and
mining respectively), agreement on their respective organization chart, and appointment of core local
staff to contract out consultant services to assist in this design/concept stage and in the initial operation
of the agencies no later than one year after enactrnent of the relevant laws;
*   set up of other institutions as foreseen by the various laws, in particular a contract management and
promotion agency for the hydrocarbon subsector, a power system operator and a power market
operator for the electricity subsector, and a Cadastrial Agency for the mining subsector;
*   mid-term review (MTR) report to be submitted to the Bank not later than June 30, 2002, and MTR of
the project to be carried by February 28, 2003.
H. Readiness for Implementation
D1 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
El 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
DG 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Zoubeida Ladhibi-Belk             Sonia Hammam                       Christian Delvoie
Team Leader                       Acting Sector Dir.                 Country Director
- 21 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
ALGERIA: Energy and Mining Technical Assistance Loan (EMTAL)
Hierarchy  f Objectives           Indicators          !MonitoringA &Evaluation    Crntical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Higher and sustainable rate of
economic growth through      *  Increase in private     *  CAS discussions        *  Macroeconomic
increased competition and       sector participation    *  Portfolio reviews         environment and political
private sector participation in   *  Improvement in the                               stability
the Energy and Mining           efficiency of the
Sectors.                       restructured SOEs
* Increase in Government
revenues from the
sectors
*  Reduction of pricing
subsidies
Project Development        Outcome / Impact           Project reports:            (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
Reform of the energy and
mining sectors, setting the  * Enactment of laws on                                *  Government
stage to improve sector       Mining, Hydrocarbon and   *  Government                  commitment and
efficiency, introduce market  Electricity                  self-evaluation of policy   acceptance by other
forces, develop untapped   *  Establishment of the         and institutional          stakeholders of the
resources, address            agencies foreseen under      progress.                  reform process.
environmental concerns and    the new legal framework    *  Supervision mission by    *  Successful operation of
alleviate financial burden on   *  Restructuring of        WB                         the new agencies.
public finances               SONELGAZ and support                                 *  Participation by the
to the public enterprises of                            private sector
Consistent with the           the Mining Holding                                   *  Creation of a
Government Energy and         (ENAMARBRE,                                              competitive market
Mining Program which          FERPHOS), ENOR and                                      structure
received support from the     ORGM for adapting to the
World Bank                    reforms
Impact indicators:
* Award of new mining
titles and new
hydrocarbon exploration
and production contracts
based on the new
contractual instruments
* Successful bidding
auction for the 2000MW
project(s)
* Effective reduction of
funding of investment in
the MEM's sectors by the
state budget
- 22 -



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Hydrocarbons - Le2al                                                             *  Government commitment
Framework                  Output # 1: Draft                                        to implement reform of
Hydrocarbon Law                                          the hydrocarbon sector
* Fiscal parameters for new  *  Draft Hydrocarbon Law
contracts              *  Supervision Reports      *  Consensus at the political
*  Model agreement        *  Issues and Option Paper     level on principles and
* Specialfiscal terms for    *  Model Contract           the new roles in the
SONATRACH's existing   *  Consultant Report           hydrocarbon sector and
producing areas                                       the liberalization of the
* Evaluation of the Impact                               downstream petroleum
of downstream opening                                 sector
Output # 2: Separation of                             *  Pricing structure for
Roles                                                    petroleum products
*  Contracts between the   * Consultant Report         politically acceptable.
contracting agency and * Progress Report by PMU
SONA TRA CH covering                             *  Overall environment
SONA TRACH's                                        conducive to attract
exploration and                                     private investments
production (E&P)
* Preparation and
establishment of
dividend policy between
SONA TRA CH and the
Government:
Output # 3: Secondary      *  Draft of secondary
legislation                   legislation and required
*  Technical and            new decrees
Economic regulation
* Environmental
assessments and
regulations
*  Gas marketing
regulation
* Tender procedures for
E&P contracts
- 23 -



Hydrocarbons - Institutions'
Set Up                     Output # 4: Contract         *  Consultant Reports for For each of the agencies:
management and promotion        each of the two agencies
Agency -Set up and Initial   *  Progress Report by
Operation                       PMU                    *  Sufficient funding of the
* Legal aspects                                         agency
* Design and start up of
the agency                                       *  Efficient operation of the
*  Office furnishing and                                agency
equipment
*  Training                                          *  Hiring of qualified Staff
* Data center
Output # 5: Regulatory
Agency - Set up and Initial
Operation
*  Legal aspects
*  Design and start up of
the agency
* Office furnishing and
equipment
*  Training
Electricity - Leeal.       Output # 6 Legal Framework    *  Draft of the Electricity   As for the Hydrocarbon's
Institutional Framework                                    Law                    Component
and Institutional Set UP     * Electricity Law          *  Draft of secondary
*  Secondary legislation      legislation
(technical, economic,
and environmental       *  Institutional
aspects, tender            Development Programs
procedures for private  *  Consultant Reports
sector participation,   *  Supervision Reports
etc.)                   *  Progress Report by PMU
*  Environmental
standards and
regulations revisited
Output # 7 Establishing the
Electricity and Natural Gas  a  Training Programs
Distribution Regulatory      *  Progress Report by PMU
Commission
Output # 8 Developing and
implementing training
programs
- 24 -



Electricity - Restructuring   Output # 9 Sonelgaz     *  Draft legislation
of the SOE - Sonelgaz      restructured and creation of   *   Audit Report
separate corporatized entities  *   Consultant Reports
* Audit of Sonelgaz'     *   Opening Balance Sheet
accounts
* Establishment of the
new generation,
transport, distribution
(electricity and natural
gas by pipelines)
companies
*  Transfer of assets,
liabilities and other
rights and obligations to
the new companies
* Decentralization and
transfer of management
information systems and
staff to the new
companies
* Financial restructuring
measures
Electricity - 2000 MW      Output # 10: Agreement     *  Consultant Report
Proiect                    between Government of      *  Bidding Document Issued
Algeria and private parties for *  Environmental assessment
the development of the 2000   completed
MW Project(s):             *  Finalized Legal
*  Preparation, processing    documentation
and completion of the   *  Progress Report by PMU
transaction through
financial closure.
- 25 -



Minin2 -Policy. Ieeal and    Output # 11 Completion of                            As for the Hydrocarbon's
reLulatory framework      the regulatory framework and  *  Secondary Legislation  Component
operative procedures       *  Consultant Report
* Progress Report by PMU
Output # 12 Workshops and
seminars:
*  in Algeria, for public
officers to explain the
new legalframework
and its application;
*  in Algeria, for investors,
operators and other
stakeholders to inform
about the new legal
framework;
*  abroad, to promote the
benefits of the new legal
framework
Minin2 - Institutional Set-up                         *  Consultant Report
and Information Systems    Output # 13: Regulatory    * Progress Report by PMU
Agency and Information
System- Set up and Initial
Operation
* Legal aspect
* Design and Start-Up of
the agency
*  assessment and
establishment of sector
environmental
regulations
*  Office furnishing and
equipment
*  Training
*  Data Center
Mining Support to
state-owned mining         Output # 14: SOEs           *  Audit Report
enterprises                restructured                *  Consultant Reports
* Audit of the mining
sector's SOEs           *  Consultant Report
*  Technical and economic   *  Progress Report by PMU
evaluation of ENOR
assets
* Propose options for
partnership with private
investors
*  Restructuring of ORGM
- 26 -



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators         Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Project Components /      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:         (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                           Outputs)
Financed by the Bank
Hydrocarbon                        (in US$)                                      *  Adequate Capacity to
(see Annex 2 for details)          7,550,000         Consultant Reports             implement the project
( see Annex 2 for the list of
* Legal, Institutional and                          reports)                     *  Timely procurement in
Fiscal Framework                                                                  accordance with Bank
* Institutional Set-up                               Monitoring through Bank task   guidelines
* Data Bank                                          management procedures for a
sector reform project.
Electricity                       5,750,000
(see Annex 2 for details)
*Legal, Institutional
Framework and Institutional
Set Up
*Restructuring of the SOEs
* 2000 MW Project(s)
Mining:                           4,220,000
(see Annex 2 for details)
*Legal, institutional and
regulatory framework
*Institutional Set-up
*Support to mining
companies and SOEs
Project Management Unit            300,000
- 27 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
ALGERIA: Energy and Mining Technical Assistance Loan (EMTAL)
Detailed Project Description and cost estimate
The project will consist of four components: I) hydrocarbons; 2) electricity; 3) mining; and 4) assistance to
the setting up of the Project Management Unit (PMU). The hydrocarbons, electricity and mining
components will basically comprise three similar sub-components as indicated below. The electricity
component will also include assistance to MEM in launching the 2000 MW power generation plant(s) with
private sector participation:
(a) assitance on legal and regulatory matters, dealing mainly with the preparation of new laws and/or
regulations and procedures;
(b) assistance on institutional matters, dealing mainly with the establishment and the initial operation
of new institutions, including the contracting and regulatory agencies; and
(c) assistance to reform the state-owned entities (SOEs) in the electricity and mining subsectors,
dealing with the adaptation of SOEs to the new sector policy, and support to private sector
development.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$7.55 million
The Hydrocarbons Sector Component
I     The policy of the Government of Algeria concerning the hydrocarbons sector is based on the
following principles:
*   optimizing the value of the vast natural resources,
*   preservation and increase of the State revenues
2.    Sub-sector background:
A - Upstream
As of today, the upstream hydrocarbons operations are dominated by the national company,
SONATRACH which is:
*   the main oil and gas producer (approx. 88%);
*   the owner and operator of the pipeline network;
*   the responsible entity for the management of the data base, the promotion and negotiation of
exploration and production (E&P) contracts (30 contracts) and related administrative tasks;
*   the entity that collects on behalf of the state royalties and taxes;
*   the only crude oil and gas supplier to the domestic market;
*   the entity in charge of all gas exports;
*   called to play a state policy role in addition to its commercial role;
- 28 -



*   faced for the next five years, with investments needs in the order of 20 billion US$ for
exploration and production activities;
*   benefiting from government guarantees for financing its investment plans.
In general, the system of management and control of the sector is characterized by a weak performance, in
spite of the recognized large production and geological potential and the success of the exploration carried
out by international partners of SONATRACH since early 1990. In concrete terms, the upstream sector is
characterized by:
*   a limited number of new contracts;
*   an exploration effort concentrated in a specific geological region;
*   an insufficient cost management;
*   an insufficient technical and environmental control of the operations; and
*   a lengthy negotiation process for awarding contracts to private investors.
3.     The key objectives of the reform program for the upstream hydrocarbons sector are to:
*   separate the commercial functions of the SOEs from the state roles.
*   assign the functions related to negotiations, management and control of contracts and of
implementation of regulations to autonomous government agencies.
*   allow the public company to focus solely on commercial activities in competition with private
companies
*   accelerate and promote a larger and diversified private participation
*   reduce the state debt and limit state guarantees to SOEs in future investmnents
4.     The reform strategy upstream includes two key aspects:
Legal. fiscal, and contractual -- basically to put in place a framework, applicable in particular to new
ventures, that will ensure:
*   the development of exploration and production (E&P) model contracts that provide
international competitive terms and a level playing field for the private investors and the SOEs;
*   transparency and efficiency in procedures from access to data bases through award, signing
and management of the contract;
*   promulgation of regulations;
*   promotion private sector participation in all exploration and production activities, including
pipelines;
*   receipt by the government of a fair share of the economic rent from  exploitation of
hydrocarbon
*   the exploration of frontier zones and the exploitation of marginal fields and gas resources
*   respect for technical and environmental standards and norms.
Institutional -- basically to create and implement two new entities:
*   A contractual autonomous agency - in charge of the management of the data base, the
promotion of E&P activities and the signing and management of contracts
*   An autonomous regulatory agency - in charge of the application of regulations (inter-alia,
technical, safety, environmental and, specific to pipelines, economic regulations)
- 29 -



The resources required for carnying out this strategy are not included in the proposed project.
B - Downstream
5.     The downstream sector is characterized by:
(i) a state monopoly in the hands of two companies: Naftec (refining activities) and Naftal (storage
and distribution of petroleum products and LPG),
(ii) most facilities requiring upgrading and rehabilitation investments,
(iii) a system of transfer prices and administered margins throughout the supply chain which is not
providing for fmancing the required investments,
(iv) insufficient technical and environmental controls and monitoring, and
(v) a poor quality of consumer's services and products.
6.     The objectives of the reform for the downstream sector are to:
- separate the roles of the companies (mainly trading and operation of the storage and transport
facilities) from the State, responsible for setting the rules to protect the interest of consumers,
- proceed with the deregulation of prices and margins which should be progressively set by
market's supply and demand forces,
 assign the enforcement of regulations to an autonomous agency,
- allow the existing downstream companies to focus on their refining, trading and distribution
functions in competition with private companies, and
- promote the participation of private companies in all downstream activities.
7.     The opening of the supply chain to private companies includes a transition period with three
phases -a,b,c- during which:
a. 1     Retailers will be obliged to post in a visible manner the prices they apply. Moreover, the
retail margin will be free and, consequently, final consumer prices will no longer be controlled. This
first step is expected to take place during the first semester of 2001. It will encourage private
investments in this segment of the supply chain.
a.2      Since this date, retailers will be allowed either to obtain products delivered at their
installations or to purchase them at the wholesale depots.
b. I     Subsequently, the use of wholesale logistic and distribution system will be made available
to all operators on the basis of a unique tariff and a non-discriminatory principles,
b.2      An ex-refinery pricing system, linked by an adjustment formula to international prices, will
be implemented, allowing the identification and gradual elimination of subsidies.
b.3      Downstream taxes, including tax collection procedures, will be adapted to the new context,
ensuring same fiscal revenues.
b.4      The setting up of an autonomous, fnancially viable, regulatory agency which will cover all
hydrocarbons activities.
- 30 -



b.5      Regulations will be reviewed to eliminate any existing barrier to the entrance of new
operators and to enforce, in a reasonable period, improved fuels quality specifications and safety and
environmental standards.
c. I     As the number of participants in the wholesale and retail business increases, the logistic
system will be opened to several operators. To achieve this, the system would be subdivided in
sub-regional systems given in concession to different operators that would apply tariffs in
accordance with real transport costs.
c.2      Taxes on imported petroleum products will be gradually eliminated, allowing refineries in
the mean time- to complete rehabilitation/upgrading investments.
8.     To complete the transition it would probably take 3 to 5 years. At the end, the entire petroleum
supply chain will no longer be controlled. The operators will be free to import and/or export products and
to sell at free prices.
Component Description:
9.     This sub-component will finance intemational and national consultants to assist the MEM, and
subsequently the new contracting and regulatory agencies, in preparing the legal documentation for and
implementing the reform strategies upstream and downstream. The following activities are included:
(i) Legal and regulatory framework: Work required with respect to the preparation and discussion of the
draft law and the drafting and implementation of complementary regulations and model agreements;
Upstream      Downstream
a) Legalframework: The consultant will assist the MEM in conceptualizing and    $ 150 000      $ 25 000
drafting the new law
b) Fiscal parameters for new contracts:                                        $ 150 000       $ 25 000
The consultant will assist in establishing parameters for Government take that
will be competitive internationally, provide adequate incentives to attract
exploration in non traditional areas and provide a fair share for the State,
including purchase of software and training
The consultants will assist in the design of a tax system adapted to the reformed
downstream sector ensuring the same fiscal revenues.
c) Model agreements: The consultant will assist the MEM and the contracting    $ 150 000
authority in formulating new model agreements for exploration and production
including the various contracts with SONATRACH called for by the transitory
provisions of the law.
d) Specialfiscal terms for Sonatrach 's existing producing areas: Following
analysis of the production profiles and the annual cash flow received by the
Government from each of SONATRACH's producing fields, the consultants will     $ 330 000
assist the MEM and the contracting authority in establishing a fiscal package for
each such contract area that would result in an equivalent cash flows for the
Government under the new contracts.
- 31 -



e) Preparation and establishment of dividend policy between SONA TRACH and
the Government: Consultants will analyze SONATRACH's business plans,
projected costs and investments, projected capital requirements and debt service
and projected cash flows and after tax income and assist MEM in defining a
dividend policy to be applied by Government to SONATRACH that will allow      $ 210 000
Sonatrach to operate as a commercially viable entity and to borrow without
Government guarantees while providing the shareholder with dividends when
certain financial objectives are met.
JJ Technical and Economic regulations: Consultants will assist the MEM in    $ 1,050,000     $ 250,000
adapting and/ or formulating a package of technical and economic regulations    plus    plus
required to complement the new hydrocarbons law including, i) calculation and  $100,000       $100,000
payment of royalty, ii) nomination and tendering and award of contract areas, iii)
delineation and relinquishment of contract areas, iv) minimum exploration work  for purchase of   for purchase of
commitments, v) minimum technical standards for upstream and downstream  API and other    API and other
operations, vi) marketing of natural gas, vii) pipeline tariff and free access, viii)  technical and  technical and
entrance conditions to downstream operations, ix) construction and operation of  safety norms  safety norms
storage facilities, x) minimal security strategic storage, xi) LPG     (API: American
commercialization, etc. Consultants will assist in on-the-job training during  Petroleum
initial implementation                                                 Institute)
g) Environmental assessment and regulations: After analysis of general         $ 260 000     $ 160 000
environmental legislation and regulation in Algeria and a companion with
regulation in others countries. Consultants will recommend specific
environmental regulations and assist in staffing and training of the specialists
assigned to the regulatory agency that will administer such regulation.
Sub-total (i)                                  $ 2,350,000     $ 560,000
- 32 -



(ii)    Institutional framework - establishment and assistance in initial operation of the new agencies:
Upstream      Downstream
I - Establishment and assistance in initial operation of a contract management
and promotion agency;
a) Legal aspects: Consultants will prepare required legal documentation            $ 30 000
b) Design and Start-Up of the agency: Consultants will develop and assist in the  $ 260 000
implementation of the new organization, information system, staffing and skills
requirements, recruitment of personnel and provide on the job training in the
start up phase.
c) Office furnishing and equipment: Purchase of office furnishing and equipment.   $ 40,000
d) Training:                                                                      $ 100,000
e) Data Center: The proposed data bank is intended for the future petroleum     $ 3,000,000
rights administration agency (contracting agency). The data bank will be
maintained by the contracting agency to assist in promoting and monitoring the
development of the hydrocarbons sector, by: (i) making available geophysical,
geological and well data; (ii) allowing a meaningful and timely data exchange
with the various operators that would facilitate the operators' operations; and, (iii)
enhancing sector entity capabilities in project development.
The database would involve computer hardware and software equipment for (i)
collection, including transcription, scanning, digitization and loading of available
relevant geological, geophysical and production data; (ii) data storage; and (iii)
data management and process application. The equipment would include large
capacity data retrieval and transmission systems. The proposed data bank would
be developed taking into account experience with existing facilities in the country,
particularly with regard to data conditioning and management.
Sub-total (ii-1)                                  $ 3,430,000
Upstream      Downstream
2 - Set up and assistance in initial operation of the regulatory entity through
advisory services and training of relevant staff
a) Legal aspects: Consultants will prepare required legal documentation.           $ 15 000     $ 15 000
b) Desgi nand Start-Up of the agency: Consultants will propose the concept and   $ 235 000    $ 235 000
design of the agency and will develop and assist in the implementation of the
new organization, information system, staffing and skills requirements, assist in
recruitment of personnel and assist in the start up phase.
c) Office furnishing and equipment: Purchase of office furnishing and equipment.  $ 30,000      $ 30,000
d) Training:                                                                      $ 70,000      $ 70,000
Sub-total (ii-2) The GoA will need to provide some initial capital to cover   $ 350,000    $ 350,000
facilities and initial operating costs. While the Contracting Agency will receive
royalties in the first month of operation, the Regulatory Agency will require a
larger sum until it will receive sufficient funding from fees for the services
rendered.
- 33 -



(iii) Complementary Studies for the adaptation to the sector new policy, and support to private sector
development Some of the resources included in this part are related to activities during the Project
Preparation phase (PPF)
Upstream       Downstream
Fiscal revenues, new investments and Macro economic impact                                        $ 50,00C
The sector reform and the economic viability of refineries                                       $ 150,00(
Adaptation of wholesale distribution and separation of trading, logistic operations              $ 120,00('
and retail activities
Promotion of retail investments - information campaign both petroleum products                    $ 50,00(
and LPG                                                                                   _
Legal and Technical-Economic assistance for drafting required new decrees and                     $ 20,000
preparing measures to open the retail business to private operators
Other                                                                             $ 60,000        $ 60,00(
Sub-total (iii)                                    $ 60,000       $ 450,0011
TOTAL Hydrocarbons Sub-component                            $ 6,690,000      S1,360,0011
Project Component 2 - US$5.75 million
The Electricity Sector Component
10.    The policy of the Government of Algeria (GoA) is to reform the electricity power sector in order to
improve the overall efficiency of the sector by promoting competition whenever feasible, and attracting
private investment while preserving the consumer's interest.
Subsector Background
11.    The electricity sector is dominated by Sonelgaz, a vertically integrated state-owned monopoly
which produces, transport and distribute electricity power. Sonelgaz also distributes natural gas. The
installed power capacity is about 5,800 MW. Essentially composed of (steam and gas) turbines using
natural gas as primary fuel. Hydro-power is very limited (240 MW), and captive generation (about 500
MW) is marginal and is to be used only as back-up. As a result of intense rural electrification efforts over
the last decades, more than 95% of the population has access to electricity, which ranks Algeria among the
most electrified countries in the world. Access rate to natural gas is about 30%, which also ranks Algeria
among the countries with the largest natural gas distribution network.
12.    Electricity power tariffs have always been administered with a severe impact on the financial
situation of SONELGAZ. Since 1995, Sonelgaz has been authorized to significantly increase its tariffs;
and implemented, with the Government assistance, several financial restructuring measures. In spite of
these achievements, there is a significant potential for improving the financial and technical performance of
Sonelgaz. Tariffs are still significantly distorted and, on average, below costs: low voltage tariffs are set at
about 66% of economic costs while medium and high voltage tariffs are respectively at 95% and 112% of
economic costs. Transmission and distribution losses remain high, at about 23-24%; and, other operational
parameters (such as availability of generating capacity) and service quality standards remain below
international benchmarks.
- 34 -



13.    The demand for electricity is expected to grow at an average annual rate of about 5 to 6% over the
next ten years; which would require overall capital expenditures (in generation, transmission and
distribution) of the order of US$ 10-12 billion. Meeting the growing needs of the population and of the
economy, without creating any financial burden to the state exchequer is the challenge that the Government
of Algeria has decided to address through an in-depth reform of its electricity power sector.
14.    The Government has adopted in December 1999 a program of policy and reform measures, with
far-reaching implications for the power and natural gas distribution sector. The objectives of the sector
reforms are to: (i) promote private investment, while creating a level playing field for all enterprises in the
sectors; (ii) reduce budgetary support; (iii) improve the overall efficiency of the sector through corporation,
commercialization and competitive pressures; and (iv) promote utilization of natural gas.
15.    To achieve these objectives, the Government has embarked upon a comprehensive program of
reforms, which includes the main following components:
a.    Unbundle the functions of generation, transport, distribution and supply in order to introduce
competition in bulk and retail electricity power;
b.    Restructure (horizontal unbundling) the generation and distribution sectors in order to increase
market and benchmark competition;
c.    Establish an independent regulatory commission to regulate the natural monopoly segments of the
industry (transport and distribution wire business);
d.    Establish progressively an independent system operator and a market operator to support the
development of competitive markets.
16.    The Government is preparing a draft bill ('Avant Projet de Loi sur l'Electricite et la Distribution
du Gaz Naturel par Canalisations") which would provide the primary legal framework for implementing
the above measures. The Government has also started a large participatory process including all the parties
of the civil society to build consensus around this reform agenda. In particular, the Government, with the
support of the PPIAF has convened a workshop in Algiers to discuss this reform program (July 2000), and
started having similar regional meetings to enlarge the participation of the civil society and labor unions in
the development and implementation of the power sector reform program.
17.   In addition, SONELGAZ has started an intemational, competitive solicitation for the development
with private sector of a 2000 MW generation program (400 MW private power project to meet local needs
and the development of about 1,600 MW private project(s) for export). Given the availability of natural
gas in Algeria, the site and environmental constraints faced in a number of countries (notably in Europe) to
generate additional power, Algeria may have a comparative advantage in exporting power based on natural
gas. To exploit this comparative advantage, Algeria has decided to export electricity generated with
natural gas. Given the novelty of the approach and the multiple challenges that it will face, Algeria has
decided to adopt a pragmatic attitude ("testing and learning from the market") and has requested the World
Bank to provide expert assistance as well as financial support to finance consultants to help in the design
and implementation of this initiative.
Component Description
18.    This sub-component will finance intemational and national consultants to assist the Ministry of
- 35 -



Energy and Mines (MEM), SONELGAZ and subsequently, the successor utilities and the regulatory
agency, in:
a.   Restructuring SONELGAZ, establishing the new utilities and system and market operators,
and strengthening their capabilities. This activity will include: (i) the audit of SONELGAZ'
accounts; (ii) the establishment of the new generation, transport, distribution (electricity and natural
gas) utilities; (iii) the transfer of assets, liabilities and other rights and obligations to the new utilities;
(iv) decentralization and transfer of management information systems and staff to the new utilities;
(v) financial restructuring measures; (vi) institutional capacity strengthening for the new entities
(notably on commercial, financial, economic, environmental human resources and regulatory
matters); and (vii) establishment of the independent system and market operators. A consulting firm
will be contracted (budget: US$ 2,200,000). Individual consultants will also be hired to assist on
task management and on specific, punctual matters (budget: US$ 100,000).
b.   Establishing the Electricity and Natural Gas Distribution Regulatory Commission. This activity
will consist in defining the structure, main functions, tasks, positions, staffing requirements, logistics,
priority works, financial requirements of the Regulatory Commission. A technical assistance will
also be provided to help the Regulatory Commission in preparing its own regulations, guidelines,
methodologies, codes and rule, setting, among others, performance standards, and conducting
proceedings and reviews, including energy efficiency and environmental matters as provided by the
relevant statutes. About 20 rules, codes, etc. are to be prepared. Required assistance will be
provided by reputed consulting firm as well as individual, national and intemational, consultants.
The budget for this second phase will be: US$ 800,000 for the consulting firm, and US$ 200,000 for
individual consultants.
c.   Preparing the legal documentation required for continuing the implementation of the reform
program. Given the importance of the secondary legislation ("Decrets" and "Arretes")for the
successful application of the new legal framework, the Government has decided to prepare it
carefully and to get the support of consultants for this. This secondary legislation concerns, among
others: (i) the establishment and operation of the "Caisse de Perequation de l'Electricite et du Gaz
Naturel"; (ii) the procedure for granting authorizations to generating companies; (iii) the rights and
obligations of generating companies; (iv) the rights of "Clients Eligibles". The Govemment will hire
individual consultants as well consulting firms (notably legal consulting firms); the budget will be
US$ 50,000 for individuals, and US$ 150,000 for consulting fimis (essentially legal advisors).
d    Assisting Algeria in implementing the proposed power generation program (2000 MWV Project),
with private sector participation. High-level intemational and national consultants will be hired to
assist the 2000 MW project team in preparing, conducting and completing the proposed transaction
until its financial closure. The consultants' support will encompass technical, commercial, legal,
financial, economic and environmental aspects as may be needed. These consultants will include a
consulting firm (consortium composed of a merchant banker, and legal and technical advisors),
which will be selected through intemational competition. The budget for this sub-component is: US$
2,000,000.
e.   Developing and implementing training programs. This sub-component will include the definition,
implementation and coordination of training activities aiming at upgrading the skills of managerial
and operational staff in the context of the restructured sector. Training will be provided through a
number of channels: study tours, training in intemational and national institutions, in-house training.
- 36 -



The project will fund these training activities, as well as consultants and training materials
(documentation, software, computers and related equipment). The budget for this sub-component is
US$ 250,000.
Summary
Budget
Firms          Individuals          Total
n/im    000 $    m/ni    000 $    m/in    000 $
Establishment Regulatory Commission         20       800      40       200      60     1 000
Preparation secondary legislation (technical,  25    150      10        50      35       200
economic and environmental)
Restructuring of SONELGAZ                   75     2,200      25       100     100    2,300
2000 MW Project                             50    2,000         -         -     50    2,000
Training program                              -      200                50        -      250
Total    170     5,350      75       400    245      5,750
Project Component 3 - US$ 4.50 million
The Mining Sector Component
19.    The policy of the GoA concemning the mining sector is based on the following principles:
*   Improve the contribution of mining to the national and regional economies
*   Develop job opportunities for local communities
Subsector Background
20.    This policy will be implemented through:
a.     The development of untapped mineral resources through the opening of exploration and
exploitation activities to private investment, both national and foreign;
b.     A new definition of the respective roles of the state and the private sectors: the state
becomes a regulator, instead of both operator and regulator; and the private sector is the main
responsible for investment in exploration and exploitation of mineral resources.
21.    As of today, the mining sector contribution to the national and regional economies is small: it
corresponds to less than 1% of the GNP and exports are still rather minor. A variety of minerals are
produced, in general in minor amounts, but only iron ore (domestic use), phosphate and mercury (exports)
outputs are significant. The sub-sector of industrial minerals is apparently developing with good
perspectives. However, this performance does not correspond to the mining potential of the country, both in
volume and diversity of production, as assessed by analogy with countries with a similar geological
environment. During the last decades, in spite of the resources invested in exploration by the state, very few
new mineral deposits have been put into production. Also, production in existing operations has not been
developed according to their potential, due to deficiencies in management and investment strategies.
- 37 -



22.   The mining sector is dominated by SOEs, most of them grouped within the Holding SIDMINES:
FERPHOS (iron and phosphates), ENOF (non-ferrous metals, industrial and construction minerals),
ENASEL (salt), ENG (omamental stones and construction materials), ENAMARBRE (omamental stones).
In addition, ENOR has been created to exploit gold deposits in the Hoggar region but is not producing any
ore as yet. Other state-owned holdings are also involved in the operation of many small to medium scales
deposits of industrial minerals, omamental stones and construction materials (e.g. Holding
Batiment-Construction, with a dozen of companies; Holding Chimie (siliceous material for the production
of glass), as well as several regional holding companies, producing mainly construction materials).
23.   Private mining enterprises are presently producing mainly construction materials and ornamental
stones in about 200 small and medium scale operations. A few of them also produce salt.
24.   Exploration activities have been in recent years fully dominated by the Office de la Recherche
Geologique et Miniere (ORGM), a state-owned service agency. As already mentioned, very few of the
prospects studied by the agency have turned into mining operations and the information is mainly kept in
the archives of the entity without proper promotion or access to investors. In an effort to improve the
situation, a hundred of prospects have been offered for public bidding in April. As a result, twenty four
exploitation pennits have been granted to national private companies in July to develop some of these
prospects.
25.   The Govemnment of Algeria has already taken important steps to implement the new sector policy.
A Mining Law has been approved by the Government Council and the Council of Ministers, and presented
to the National Popular Assembly for approval. The new law will establish a level playing field among all
enterprises in the sector with: (a) the set-up of an enabling legal framework aiming at significantly
increased private investment in Algeria's mining sector; (b) the strengthening of sector institutions to
effectively enforce laws and regulations, administer mining titles, and monitor sector performance and
development; and (c) the promotion of private investment through provision of basic geological data and
other services.
Component Description
26.   The reform of the mining sector component will include the three following sub-components:
a.    Sub-component 1 - Policy, Legal and regulatory framework (USD 360,000). The drafting of a
new mining law and its regulations has been initiated and completion of the legal framework will be part of
the Project, including the design of operative procedures regarding, for example, the processing and
management of mining rights, of Environmental Assessments (EAs), and of investment agreements for
large scale projects. An information program for stakeholders regarding the new rules and their
implementation, as well as a training program for the staff of the agencies in charge to enforce the legal
norms will be carried out. In addition, seminars will address the understanding, application and follow-up
of fiscal issues related to mining. Finally, the sub-component will include a program to promote the new
legal framework for mining, focusing on foreign investors. The loan will finance short term local and
international consultants to complete the regulations and design of procedures, and to implement the
different series of workshops and seminars, as well as a promotion campaign.
- 38 -



1. Policy, legal and regulatory framework                                     Estimated cost
(USD)
Completion of the regulatory framework and operative procedures                  50,000
Workshops and seminars:                                                           60,000
- in Algeria, for public officers to explain the new legal framework and its application;
-in Algeria, for investors, operators and other stakeholders to inform about the new legal
framework;
- abroad, to promote the benefits of the new legal framework
Support to national operators to help them to adjust to the new legal framework  150,000
Promotion and information material regarding the new legal framework and procedures  100,000
(brochures, booklets; publication in local and intemational newspapers etc..)
Total sub-component 1                                                           360,000
b.    Establishment and initial operation of autonomous regulatory and information agencies (USD
3,050,000). The two new autonomous agencies - the National Agency for Mining Properties (ANPM),
and the National Agency for Geology and Mining Control (ANGCM) - will be established as soon as the
law is enacted and become operative over a three years period. On the basis of the functions defined under
the new Mining Law, the scheduled activities include: (i) a first phase (six months), to define work
programs, prepare the operation manuals and procedures, design the human resources and financial
management systems, identify and select staff as well as implement a first training program regarding the
sector reform, and mission and functions of the new agencies; and (ii) a second phase (two years), to
initiate operations, provide the infrastructure and equipment necessary to fulfill the functions, and
implement a second, mainly on-the-job, phase of training for the staff. The project will also provide funds,
during the second phase, to implement three management and information systems, consisting of (i) the
mining properties management system, including the cadastral system (ii) the mining control management
system, in particular the environmental information and management system; and (iii), the geological and
mining information system (in coordination with the development of the information and processing system
to be developed under Australian aid). In addition, a program aiming at the national and intemational
promotion of the country's mining potential will be implemented, through the compilation, processing,
interpretation and dissemination of results of a countrywide mineral resources assessment. Resources will
be allocated to the General Mining Directorate (DGM) within the MEM to upgrade its capacities. A small
group of national sector policy advisers will provide guidance during the initial steps of reform
implementation. The loan will finance short term and long term local and intemational consultants, the
purchase of goods, including specialized and office hardware, software, equipment and materials, as well as
training and incremental operating costs.
Sub-component 2 - Institutional Set-up and Information Systems         Estimated cost
(USD)
Local consultancy: sector reform coordination (3.5 years)                 120,000
Local consultancy: sector reform "leaders" (1.5 year) and short term national  270,000
consultants
International consultants for the detailed design and implementation planning  180,000
of the new agencies and their information/management systems
Intemational consultants to assist in the implementation of the new agencies  350,000
and their information and management systems
- 39 -



National consultants for data entry in the new management and information  100,000
systems
National consultants for the identification, selection and transfer of ORGM  30,000
documentation to SGA
Goods: purchase of hardware, software and accessories, incl. training related  620,000
to the installation and operation of the information and management systems
of the new agencies and DGM. (in two phases).
Goods: purchase of field equipment for the new agencies (portable GPS,    100,000
monitoring instruments etc..)
Training: study trip for the managers of the new agencies and reform leaders  100,000
to get acquainted with institutional capacity building processes and results
abroad (e.g. visit to Brazil, Peru and Chile).
Training: workshops for staff of the new agencies (a) to understand and   100,000
participate to the institutional reform process; (b) to learn new technologies
and work methodologies to be applied (on the job and workshops/seminars in
Algeria)
Incremental operating costs in the initial phase of establishment of new  150,000
agencies and information/management systems
International consultants (Geological Survey) to compile, process and interpret  600,000
existing information, plus field checking, to assess the mineral resources
potential of Algeria; to introduce modem methodologies for processing and
assessment (on the job training at SGA)
International and local consultants for sector environmental assessment.  150,000
Goods: publication of results (web site, CDs, books, maps, brochures etc..)  100,000
Training: workshops and promotion in Algeria; participation to conferences,  80,000
seminars etc abroad
Total subcomponent 2                                                    3,050,000
c.    Support to state-owned mining enterprises to adjust to the sector reform (USD 810,000). The
Project will assist public mining enterprises and service agencies to adjust to the reformed sector policy and
regulatory framework through the provision of sector specific assistance to the mining SOEs - including the
mining enterprises part of the "Holding SIDMINES", in particular FERPHOS, ENAMARBRE and
ASMIDAL, and to ENOR and ORGM, to identify and implement the necessary adjustments and
restructuring. The loan will finance short term and long term local and intemational consultants, as well as
training.
- 40 -



Sub-component 3 - Support to National Mining Companies and Service    Estimated cost
Agency                                                                       (USD)
At the request of the Holding SIDMINES: international consultant services to  500,000
carry out an audit of the mining sector and of the Holding, and provide
recommendations for restructuring
At the request of ENOR, international consultant services to carry out a  60,000
technical and economic evaluation of ENOR assets and propose options for
partnership with private investors.
At the request of ORGM: international consultant services for the restructuring  100,000
of ORGM
Local consultant services: communication and information campaign regarding  50,000
the restructuring of mining SOEs
Total sub-component 3                                                  810,000
Mining Component - Cost Summary                                       Estimated cost
(USD)
1. Policy, legal and regulatory framework                              360,000
2. Institutional Set-up                                              3,050,000
3. Support to mining companies and SOEs                                810,000
Total Mining Component                                               4,220,000
-41 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
ALGERIA: Energy and Mining Technical Assistance Loan (EMTAL)
Local       Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Component                US $million   US $million   US $million
Electricity
-Legal, Institutional Framework and Institutional Set Up  0.27      0.81         1.08
-Restructuring of the Sonelgaz                        0.27          1.80        2.097
-2000 MW Project                                      0.00          1.80         1.80
-Training                                             0.05          0.18         0.23
Mining
-Policy, legal and regulatory framework               0.04          0.28         0.32
-Institutional Set-up                                 0.33          1.83         2.16
-Support to mining companies and SOEs                 0.04          0.69         0.73
-Training                                             0.01          0.58         0.59
Hydrocarbons
-Legal and Institutional Framework                    0.12          3.10         3.22
-Institutional Set-up                                 0.36          2.99         3.35
-Training                                             0.04          0.18         0.22
Project Implementation Unit including Training            0.09          0.18         0.27
-Administrative Cost, Taxes and Custom Duties         3.60          0.00         3.60
Total Baseline Cost                                       2.02         14.42        19.64
Price Contingencies                                       0.58          1.60         2.18
Front-end fee                                                          0.18          0.18
Total Project Costs              5.80         16.20        22.00
Total Financing Required               5.80        16.20         22.00
Local       Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Category               US $million    US $million    US $million
Goodsl'                                                     0.97          3.20          4.17
Works                                                       0.00          0.00          0.00
Servicesv                                                   0.83         11.67         12.50
Training                                                    0.10          1.05          1.15
Administrative Cost, Taxes and Custom Duties                4.00          0.00          4.00
Front-end fee                                                             0.18          0.18
Total Project Costs      5.80         16.20        22.00
Total Financing Required      5.80          16.20        22.00
a/ Including goods and services funded through PPF.
- 42 -



Annex 4
ALGERIA: Energy and Mining Technical Assistance Loan (EMTAL)
Not Applicable
- 43 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
ALGERIA: Energy and Mining Technical Assistance Loan (EMTAL)
Not Applicable
- 44 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
ALGERIA: Energy and Mining Technical Assistance Loan (EMTAL)
Procurement
1.    Responsibility. The Ministry of Energy and Mining (MEM), through its newly created Project
Management Unit (PMU), would be responsible for the overall project's procurement activity, including
compliance with procedures and timetables agreed with the Bank. The project's implementation would
require significant technical assistance services for studies and other consultant assignments (57% of the
project), for which selecting, contracting, and monitoring of consultants would be the predominant
procurement activity. Procurement of goods would be limited to: (i) office supplies and computer hardware
and software equipment (5% of the project cost) to be used by some of the project's consultants and, to a
limited extent, by PMU; and, (ii) a data bank (14% of the project cost) to be used by the future petroleum
rights administration agency. Training would represent about 5.0% of the project cost, and administrative
fees, taxes and all customs duties would represent about 19% of the project cost.
2.     Capacity Assessment. A procurement capacity assessment (PCA) of the project implementing
agency, PMU, was initiated during project preparation and completed during project appraisal. The PCA
(Project Files) concluded that PMU would be able to carry out the project's procurement activity with the
assistance of a procurement consultant to be employed under the project. The consultant's terms of
reference were reviewed and found satisfactory. The PCA also concluded that the Algerian Procurement
Legislation for goods, works and services, is generally in line with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines.
However, the PCA revealed several incompatibilities between applicable Algerian procurement rules,
procedures and practices and applicable Bank procurement policies and procedures. Some of these
incompatibilities include: (i) bid opening taking place one to eight days after bid submission date; (ii) under
ICB, bid security to be counter-guaranteed by a local bank; (iii) bid price to be on FOB or C&F basis, not
including CIF prices for comparison purpose; (iv) use of local materials often required under ICB
contracts; (v) price not necessarily the guiding selection criteria under works and goods contracts; (vi) price
negotiation with the lowest evaluated bidder; (vii) use of a merit point system in bid evaluation for goods
and works; and, (viii) lack of proper advertising.
3.    For employment of consultants, government agencies and public enterprises tend to apply existing
legislation for services through open competitive bidding (not through a short list) where price is the
predominant factor. Based on the PCA, the existing legislation for consulting services is not acceptable to
the Bank, because it is meant for services in which physical aspects of the activity predominate (i.e.,
geophysical survey, well drilling, plant operation and maintenance, etc.).
4.    Algerian procurement rules, procedures and practices not acceptable to the Bank were discussed
with MEM's officials and PMU's chief, from whom assurances were obtained that all incompatibilities with
applicable Bank's Procurement Guidelines and policy would not be permitted in carrying out procurement
under the proposed project. Similarly, assurances were obtained for the project to fully comply with
applicable Bank's Procurement Guidelines.
5.    Risk Assessment. This is a key aspect of the project's PCA. It is closely related to PMU' s
experience, existence and application of written rules and procedures and expected transparency and
predictability of the process. While PMU is still being formed, the procurement consultant, to be mobilized
within the next two to three months, is expected to play a key role in the project's procurement activity.
MEM is also making arrangements with sector entities involved in the project, for temporary transfer to
- 45 -



PMU of procurement staff familiar with Bank-financed procurement. Based on this arrangement and
taking into account agreements reached between MEM's officials, PMU and the Bank, the overall
procurement risk assessment rating is considered as average.
6.    Staffing Training Requirements. Given the volume of activity, a three staff procurement team,
including the consultanim, would be required. Once the procurement consultant is mobilized and the team
formed, a procurement workshop would be organized with Bank's support. The workshop would focus on
World Bank's applicable procurement policy, in general, and consultant selection procedures, in particular.
Meanwhile, PMU' s chief and selected staff from the sector entities involved in the project were explained
Bank's Consultant Guidelines, particularly with regard to preparation of Terms of Reference (TOR),
advertising and preparation of the short list of consultants. In addition to a procurement workshop, the
PMU team will also participate in a disbursment workshop.
7.     Procurement Plan. Key instrument for carrying out the project procurement by PMU was the
development of a procurement plan consisting of detailed consultant requirements and selection processes.
The plan provides: (i) the number and types of consultant services (studies, advisory assignments, etc..);
and (ii) service estimated cost, duration, procedures to be followed, process timing schedule. The plan
would allow PMU to monitor the implementation of key project activities trough periodical updates, at least
every 3 months. The updates, which should provide the timeliness of overall project procurement process,
will include the (i) list of contracts completed, under execution, under process, and to be processed in the
upcoming calendar semester and, tentatively in the subsequent semester; (ii) costs of completed and under
execution contracts, estimated costs for upcoming contracts; and (iii) expected timing schedule. The
monitoring updates will be used as procurement process tracking system.
8.    Project Procurement Activities. The project procurement activities would involve some $22.00
m, consisting of: (a) the hydrocarbon sub-sector for a total of about US$7.55 m (consultant services $4.25
m, data bank $3.00 m, office supplies including computer hardware and software $ 0.10 m, and training
$0.2 m); (b) the electricity sub-sector for a total of about US$5.75 m (consultant services $5.35 m,
computer hardware and software for about $ 0.20 m. and training $0.20 m); (c) the mining sector for a
total of about US$4.22 m (consultant services $2.75 m, office supplies, computer hardware and software
equipment and miscellaneous items $0.87 m; and training $0.60 m); and d) PMU for a total of about
US$0.30 m in office supplies and computer hardware and software, consultants and training. The rest of
the project amount (about $4.18 millions) consist of adminsitratives fees, taxes and customs duties and
Front-End Fee of the proposed project.
9.    Bank Financed Consultant Services.  The proposed project would finance: (a) for the
hydrocarbon sub-sector: (i) about 7 major studies for about US$3.00 m to be carried out under Quality-
and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) procedures; and (ii) about 14 consultant assignments for about US$1.25
m would be carried out under Consultants' Qualifications (CQ) procedures; (b) for the electricity
sub-sector, about 4 major studies and advisory services for about US$5.35 m to be carried out under
QCBS procedures; (c) ior the mining sector: (i) about 3 major studies for about US$2.38 m to be carried
out under QCBS procedures; and (ii) about 5 consultant assignments for about US$0.37 m be carried out
under CQ procedures; and (d) for PMU, one procurement, financial, mining, electricity, and hydrocarbon
Consultant for about US$0.1 m.
10.    Consultant Selection Procedures.  Bank-financed consultant selection will be carried out in
accordance with the previsions stipulated in the Loan Agreement and Banks Guidelines for Selection and
Employment of Consulfants (published in January 1997, revised in September 1997 and January 1999).
Bank's Standard Request for Proposals (SRFP) will be used whenever possible, with the different selection
- 46 -



methods described in the Guidelines, i.e., quality- and cost-based selection (QCBS), selection based on
Consultant's qualifications, and single-source selection. The use of SRFP is mandatory for contracts
estimated to cost more than US$200.000 equivalent. SRFP will consist of two standard forms of contract:
one for complex time-based consultant assignments (i.e., design, engineering and supervision services,4
management services, etc.. for which remuneration is determined on the basis of time actually spent by
consultants) and the other for assignments remunerated on a lump-sum basis (i.e., clear and unambiguous
tasks with well defined inputs and outputs). SRFP also includes samples of contracts that may be used for
smaller contracts (US$200.000 or less US equivalent) under time-based or lump-sum remuneration.
11.   Request for Proposal (RFP) will include a standard Letter of Invitation (LOI), standard
Information to Consultants, the Terms of Reference (TOR), and a standard Form of Contract. The
standard Information to Consultants and the standard General Conditions of Contract may not be modified
under any circumstances. However, the Data Sheet and the Special Conditions of Contract may be used to
reflect country and assignment conditions.
12.   Non-Bank financed consultants selection would be carried out following procedures similar to
those of the World Bank and Algerian's procurement rules and regulations. Assurances were obtained from
PMU that non-Bank financed consultants would be properly coordinated to meet the agreed overall project
objective and avoid implementation delays.
13.   Procurement Proceduresfor Bank Financed Goods. The project's office supplies and computer
hardware and software equipment, estimated to cost about US$1.17 m (5% of the project cost) would be
procured under National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures, which will be modified to meet Bank's
applicable procurement policy. The project's data bank, estimated to cost about US$3.0 m would be
procured under Limited Intemational Bidding (LIB) procedures, in agreement with Bank's applicable
procurement policy. The data bank, which is highly specialized equipment supplied by a very limited
number of firms, would be used by the future petroleum rights administration agency.
14.   All Bank-financed procurement would be carried out in accordance with the provisions stipulated
in the Loan Agreement and Bank's Guidelines for Procurement (published in January 1995, revised in
January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999) for supply of goods. Bank's Standard
Bidding Documents would be used for Bank-financed goods.
15.   Given the limited value and type of goods to be procured under the project, no International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedure has been contemplated. Based on the nature and type of equipment
to be procured, the most efficient and economical approach for procuring the goods to be financed under
the Loan, would be under (i) National Competitive Bidding (NCB) for office equipment and work stations
(computer hardware and software); and (ii) Limited International Bidding for the data bank.
16.   International or National Shopping Procedures. Under the National Shopping Procedure (NS),
PMU should obtain and compare at least three quotations to establish reasonableness of price. To
minimize the risk of getting only one or two quotations, PMU is advised to initially request more than three
quotations. If there is not enough suppliers to ensure at least three quotations, then international shopping
is used. Under international shopping, PMU should request quotations from suppliers from at least two
different countries, including Algeria. Quotation for foreign goods located in Algeria and offered by a firm
located in Algeria, are considered as quoted from abroad for purposes of satisfying the "two different
countries" rule. This is applicable for imported goods, particularly computer hardware and software, fax
machines, etc., that are normally imported by dealers of the foreign manufacturers who are also able to
provide after sales services.
- 47 -



17. Methods for Non-Bank Financed Procurement. Non-Bank financed procurement of goods would
be carried out in accordance with Algerian's procurement rules and regulations. Assurances were obtained
from MEM and PMU that procurement arrangements not financed by the Bank would be properly
coordinated to meet the agreed overall procurement plan and avoid project implementation delays.
18.  Advertsing. A General Procurement Notice for procurement of consultant services was published
in the United Nations Development Business (UNDB) paper, No. 539 of 31 July 2000. The Notice would
be updated annually for outstanding consultant services. Requests for expressions of interest for 5 major
studies were be published on-line in UNDB during the first week of August 2000 and will be advertised
(print) in issue No. 541 of 31 August 2000. All remaining consultant services estimated to cost
US$200,000 or more would be subject to requests for expressions of interest to be published, on-line and
print, in UNDB, as they become available. In addition, all consultant services and assignments would be
published in at least one national newspaper of a large circulation. Furthermore, PMU may also advertise
some of the project's studies in an intemational newspaper or a technical magazine. PMU may seek
"expressions of interest" by contacting embassies, professional organizations, or firms that it knows or that
are registered in DACON (paragraph 1.15 of IBRD' s Guidelines for Selection and Employment of
Consultants). In this case, the information required would be minimum, limited to make a judgment on the
firm's suitability. Sufficient time (not less than 30 days) will be provided for responses, before preparing
the short lists.
19.   Bank Procurement Review. Bank's review of selection of consultants would be in accordance
with the provisions stipulated in the Loan Agreement and Appendix I of Bank's Guidelines for Selection
and Employment of Consultants. Subject to the threshold level, Bank's review would consist of prior
review, before inviting proposals and post review, after signing the contract but prior to withdrawal of
funds (or prior to the first replenishment of the Special Account). The review would include, but not
limited to advertising, consultant short list, TOR, LOI, applicable procedures, selection criteria, cost
estimate, the contract packaging, evaluation of proposals, contract implementation program, etc.
20.   Bank Prior Review. Bank's prior review would be applicable to procurement of goods contracts
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more, per contract.
21.   Bank's prior review would be applicable to: (i) consultant contracts estimated to cost the equivalent
of US$100,000 or more, per contract, under QCBS procedures, generally intended for consulting firms;
(ii) employment of individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more, per
contract; (iii) amendments to contracts for employment of consulting firms raising their contract value to
US$100,000 or more; (iv) amendments to contracts for individual consultants raising their contract value to
US$50,000 or more; (v) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank (i.e.,
special audit); and, (vi) All sole source contracts. In addition, in all cases, for contracts with firms or with
individual consultants, regardless of the estimated contract cost, the Bank should be given the opportunity
to review, comment and provide its "no-objection" for the terms of reference, prior to inviting consultant
proposals.
22.   Bank Post Review. Bank's post review would be applicable to all above mentioned contracts when
their cost is below the threshold for prior review.
23.   In addition to the regular tasks of prior and ex-post reviews, Bank may also carry out spot checks
of the quality and consistency of its financed procurement work, with the objective of strengthening the
fiduciary responsibilities.
-48 -



24.    Proposed Procurement Supervision Mission Frequency. The proposed procurement supervision
mission, including special procurement supervision for post-review/audits is one every six months, in
conjunction with supervision missions for overall project implementation review.
25.    Procurement Records.   Detailed procurement records, reflecting the project's consultant
assignment and services, including records of time taken to complete key steps in the process, review and
audits, will be maintained by PMU. The records, which will be maintained for at least two years after the
project's closing date, should include public notices for expression of interest, request for proposals and
addenda, TORs, proposal opening information, technical and financial evaluation reports, formal appeals
by consultants and outcomes, signed contracts with related addenda and amendments, records on claims
and dispute resolution, and any other useful information.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category             ICB            NCB           Other'          N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                             0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                             0.00            1.17           3.00           0.00           4.17
(0.00)         (1.17)         (3.00)          (0.00)        (4.17)
3. Services                          0.00            0.00           12.50          0.00           12.50
Consultant                          (0.00)          (0.00)         (12.50)        (0.00)         (12.50)
4. Training (including               0.00            0.00           1.15           0.00           1.15
workshop)
(0.00)         (0.00)         (1.15)          (0.00)         (1.15)
5. Front-end fee                     0.00            0.00           0.00           4.00           4.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Front-end fee                                     0.00           0.18           0.00           0.18
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.18)          (0.00)        (0.18)
Total                             0.00            1.17           16.83          4.00          22.00
(0.00)         (1.17)         (16.83)         (0.00)        (18.00)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
21 Includes goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs
related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Note: For goods: ICB: International Competitive Bidding; NCB: Nat;onal Competitive Bidding; Other:
includes Limited International Bidding, National Shopping, International Shopping and Direct
Contracting; For consultant: see below. NBF: Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured under
parallel co-financing procedures, consultant services under trust funds, any reserved procurement, and
any other miscellaneous items).
NOTE FOR THE TABLE BELOW. QCBS: Quality- and Cost-Based Selection; QBS: Quality-Based Selection;
SFB: Selection under a Fixed Budget; LCS: Least-Cost Selection; CQ: Selection Based on Consultants'
Qualifications; Other: Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines); NBF: Not
Bank-financed.
-49 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract Value                               Contracts Subject to
Threshold             Procurement              Prior Review
Expenditure Category          (US$                   Method                   (US$)
1. Works
2. Goods                                                                  Prior review for all
contracts > 50,000
<100,000 up to 900,000         NCB
aggregate
>50,000 up to 3,000,000         LIB
aggregate
<50,000 up to 500,000         IS / NS
aggregate
3. Services
Consultants
Firms                     >>100,000                 QCBS             All contracts >100,000
<100,000 up to 300,000    QCBSICQIothers               None
aggregate
<100,000              Sole Source             All Contracts
- Individuals          Up to 600,000 aggregate   See Section V of the    All (TORs,Contracts,CVs)
Guidelines
> 50,000
See Section V of the       TORs only
<50,000                Guidelines
<100,000               Sole Source            All Contracts
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every six months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Paragraphs 20 and 21 provide detail of Bank's prior review
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 50 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Expenditure Category        Amount in US$million          Financing Percentage
Goods (a)                                  3.25           100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and
80% of local expenditures for other
items procured locally
Consultant's Services (a)                  12.22                       100%
Training                                    0.70                       100%
PPF                                         0.65
Front-end fee                               0.18
Unallocated                                 1.00
Total Project Costs                        18.00
(a) Excluding goods and services funded through the PPF.
Retroactive financing
A retroactive financing is planned to cover expenses not exceeding US$350,000 incurred during the two
months before the signature of the loan agreement
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
26.   Disbursements against consultants' contracts exceeding US$ 50,000 for firms and individuals, and
against contracts for goods exceeding US$50,000, will be fully documented. For all expenditures below
US$ 50,000, disbursements could be made against statements of expenditures (SOEs). Supporting
documents for SOEs will not be submitted to the Bank, but will be retained by the Banque Algerienne de
Developpement and made available to the Bank during supervision.
Special account:
27.   Disbursements from the Bank loan would be made using the traditional disbursement procedures,
i.e., other than those based on Project Management Reports (PMRs). An assessment will be carried out to
assure that the project financial management system to be developed by the PMU is acceptable to the Bank.
This assessment will aim at ensuring that the system is operating satisfactorily and should take place no
later than June 30, 2002.
28.   To facilitate disbursements from the proposed Loan, a Special Account for an amount of US$ 1.5
million equivalent would be established at the Central Bank (Banque d'Algerie). Initially the funds in the
SA would be limited to US$ 1.0 million equivalent until project expenditures will have reached US$ 5.0
million equivalent.
29.   Payments from the SA and requests to the Bank for replenishment of the SA will be initiated by the
PMU and processed through the Government-owned Algerian Development Bank (Banque Algerienne de
Developpement; BAD). This is based on procedures applicable to foreign-financed projects implemented
by the Government and its non-commercial entities, i.e. Law 90-21 of August 15,1990 on Government
accounting, and the Economics Ministry Resolution of August 14, 1993 defining the implementation
modalities of Government projects supported by extemal financing through the Algerian Development
Bank, together with regulations and instructions of 1987, 1994, and 1997.  To facilitate the loan
- 51 -



disbursement procedures, the settlement of suppliers and consultants invoices, as well as the reconciliation
of accounts between the PMU and BAD the relevant routines have been included in the Project
Implementation Plan, and a specific contact person for the proposed project will be identified within BAD.
Financial Management Systems
30.   Financial Management Systems of MEM: The Financial Management System (FMS) currently in
place at the MEM is part of the overall budgeting, accounting, control and auditing system of the
Government, and is based on principles and procedures defined by the legal framework applicable to the
public sector and more specifically to governmental institutions. The basis is the Law on Government
Accounting of 1990.
31.   MEM prepares annual budgets for its current expenses and capital expenditures. The annual
budget is submitted for approval to the Ministry of Finance (MOF) which consolidates the budget
proposals from all the Ministries. MOF is in charge of close control of budget preparation and execution.
Payments against the budget are authorized by MOF's representatives in the MEM. This authorization
process aims to ensure that the expense to be paid has been budgeted, and to issue the official instruction to
make the payment The Government's accounting system registers commitments and actual expenditures
against the budget. The accounting system uses the cash method. A more detailed study of the Algerian
public sector accounting procedures is presently underway at the Bank as part of a Country Profile of
Financial Accountability (CPFA).
32.   The Ministry's accounts are subject to annual audits by the Government's audit department,
Inspection Generale des Finances (IGF).
Financial Management System for the Project
33.   Accounting for all project expenditures and their financing will be done by the PMU, in addition to
the accounts kept by BAD for the proposed loan. This project accounting system will be separate from the
Ministry's overall budgeting and accounting system. An action plan for developing the necessary systems
and procedures at the PMU has been prepared. The staff of the PMU will include a qualified accountant/
financial management specialist; measures for filling the position are advanced. The PMU will acquire the
necessary computers (PCs), other office equipment, and a project accounting software, all to be funded
from the PPF.
34.      The accounting software to be selected should be able, among others, to:
*   keep track of expenditure commitments (contracts signed) in each category. There may be about
20 contracts, mostly with consulting firms, under the proposed project;
*   record actual project expenditures (invoices settled) by contract and category. The volume is
likely to be an average of about 10 to 15 invoices to be processed each month;
*  record the project financing becoming available (e.g., a loan agreement becoming effective) and
the funds used from these financing sources;
*   produce the financial data needed for the PMRs. The reports in the requested formats may not
be produced automatically by the available systems though, and may require manual procedures;
- 52 -



* produce accounts and financial statements in different currencies (e.g., in national currency and
in US dollars), from accounting input in various currencies.
35.     There are various user-friendly software packages available at reasonable cost which could
handle the modest volume of data generated by the implementation of this project. The PMU will inquire
which software packages are available in Algeria, and which ones are being used or acquired by other
Algerian project units implementing similar projects at present, e.g. the ALG - Telecom and Postal Sector
Reform Project and the ALG - Privatization Support Project.
36.     An outline of project disbursement, accounting and reporting procedures has been included in the
Project Implementation Plan prepared by the PMU in the MEM. This manual also covers the documents
flow as well as administrative, accounting and intemal control arrangements between the PMU and BAD
which has the responsibility to operate the Special Account at the Central Bank and process disbursement
requests to the World Bank.
Project Management Reporting
37.   The PMU will prepare quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs) consisting of:
   Analysis of project implementation progress, in narrative form and using quantitative indicators
(ratios) linking implementation performance to project expenditures;
:   Procurement activity reporting (see above);
*   Project financial statements, showing among others:
- expenditure commitments versus budgeted project cost, by category;
- all sources and uses of project funds;
- expenditures detailed by category and contract, and
- Special Account analysis.
38.     The format of the PMRs will be based on the PMR format in the Bank's LACI handbook. It has
been agreed during negotiations and annexed to the Project Implementation Plan. Copies of the quarterly
PMRs will be forwarded to the Bank within 45 days of the end-of-quarter reporting date.
Project Audits
39.   The project accounts and annual project financial statements, the Special Account and the
Statements of Expenditures submitted to the Bank with disbursement requests will be audited each year by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. The audit of the PPF will be included in the first year audit of
the project. The auditors of the project will apply international audit standards, the Bank's guidelines for
project audits as reflected in the FARAH (Financial Accounting, Reporting, and Auditing Handbook), and
specific terns of reference for the audits of this project, to be prepared during the project launch mission.
The auditors will review the project-related accounts and supporting documents at both the PMU of the
MEM and at the BAD. Audit reports should be received by the Bank six months after the fiscal year
closing date (December 31), i.e., by June 30 of the following year.
- 53 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
ALGERIA: Energy and Mining Technical Assistance Loan (EMTAL)
ProjectdShedulet                                    Planned                      Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       7
First Bank mission (identification)              11/20/99                       11/20/99
Appraisal mission departure                      07/13/2000                     07/13/2000
Negotiations                                     10/18/2000                     11/27/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    05/30/2001
Prepared by:
Ministry of Energy and Mines and its main agencies in the sectors.
Preparation assistance:
PPIAF grant
A Preparation Project Facility (PPF) for an amount of US$650,000 ( agreement letters signed and received).
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                      Speciality
Zoubeida Ladhibi-Belk              Energy Sector Manager, Task Team Leader, MNSID
Eleodoro Mayorga Alba              Senior Petroleum Economist, COCPO
Djamal Mostefai                    Lead Energy Specialist, SASEG
Gotthard Walser                    Senior Mining Specialist, CMNPO
Hannachi Morsli                    Principal Petroleum Engineer and Procurement Specialist, COCPO
Ralf Dickel                        Senior Gas Specialist, COCPO
Hartwin Nickel                     Consultant - Financial Management Specialist
Hocine Chalal                      Consultant - Environmental Specialist
Moharnmed Bekhechi                 Senior Counsel, LEGOP
Dominique Bichara                  Counsel, LEGOP
Mohammed Al-Sheikh                 Counsel, LEGOP
Thu Ha Nguyen                      Senior Disbursement Officer, LOAEL
Radia Lalouani                     Procurement Analyst, MNSID
Blanche E. Williams                Program Assistant
Brigitte Prophete                  Program Assistant
- 54 -



Annex 8: Documents In the Project File*
ALGERIA: Energy and Mining Technical Assistance Loan (EMTAL)
A. Project Implementation Plan
PIP, December 1, 2000. Provided prior to negotiations (November 2000) and discussed and finalized
during negotiations.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Procurement Capacity Assessment of the Project Management Unit.
C. Other
1.  Investment Program for the Power Sector
2.   Tariff Study (June 2000)
3.   Sectoral Restructuring Study by Coopers & Lybrand (1998)
4.   Recommendations for the implementation plan for SONELGAZ restructuring by
PriceWaterhouseCoopers (1999)
5.   Electricity and gas demand by PriceWaterhouseCoopers (1999)
6.   SONELGAZ Annual Report
7.   Draft Electricity Law
8.  Request for proposals for the construction and operation of one or more power plants with a total
capacity of 2000 MW
*Including electronic files
- 55 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
ALGERIA: Energy and Mining Technical Assistance Loan (EMTAL)
Jan-2001
Difference between expected
and actual
Onginal Amount in USS MIlliqns                              disbursements'
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                       IBRD         IDA                         Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig  Frrn Rev'd
P069947       2000 DZ-TEERP                                         83.46       0.00                            0.00     83.46      21.00      0.00
P070123       2000 DZ-Privatization Assistance (LIL)                 5.00       0.00                            0.00      5.00       0.00      0.00
P070308       2000 DZ-Telecommunicatbons and Postal Sector           9.00       0.00                            0.00      9.00       1.44      0.00
P042940       1998 DZ-LOW INCOME HOUSING                            150.00      0.00                            0.00    140.00      95.20      0.00
P043724       1997 RURAL EMPLOYMENT                                 89.00       0.00                            0.00     61.79      61.79     10.79
P004978       1996 SOCIAL SAFETY I                                  50.00       0.00                            0.00      5.13       5.13      5.13
P004960       1996 IND.POLLUTION CTRL.                              78.00       0.00                            0.00     66.74      33.74     20.74
P004907       1995 OZ-HIGHWAYS VI                                   130.00      0.00                            0.00     53.50      45.30      1.17
P0049.        1994 DZ-WATERSUPPLYANDSEWERAGE                        110.00      0.00                            0.00     93.10      83.10     10.18
P004954       1993 BASIC & SEC. EDUCATI                             40.00       0.00                            5.00      6.92      11.92      0.00
P004964       1992 ALG-CADASTRE                                     33.00       0.00                            4.67      2.32       6.99      4.72
Total:     777.46       0.00                            9.67     526.95     365.80     52.72
ALGERIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jan-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                                   Disbursed
IFC                                        IFC
FY Approval               Company                                 Loan    Equity       Quasi    Partic        Loan    Equity       Quasi    Parti
1998                     ABCA                                     0.00        1.88      0.00        0.00       0.00       1.88       0.00       0.00
2000                     AIP                                       0.00       0.30       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.0')
1999                     Aldaph                                   6.19        1.70      0.00        5.31       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.01)
1992                     Helios                                   3.33       0.00       0.00        0.00       3.33       0.00       0.00       0.0)
1998                     SGA                                      0.00        1.00      0.00        0.00       0.00       0.19       0.00       0.01)
Total Portfolio:                 9.52       4.88       0.00        5.31       3.33       2.07       0.00       0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval              Company                                     Loan       Equity        Quasi         Partic
Total Pending Commitment:                    0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
- 56 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
ALGERIA: Energy and Mining Technical Assistance Loan (EMTAL)
M. East   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                              & North   middle-
Algeria     Africa   Income       Development diamond*
1999
Population, mid-year mi i/lions)                        30.0        291     2,094                   Life expectancy
GNP Per capita (Atlas method, US$)                     1,550      2,060      1,200
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                        46.6        599     2,513                         T
Average annual growth, 1993-99
Population (%)                                            1.8       2.1        1.1     G                   N
Labor force (%)                                           3.7       3.0        1.2     GNP                                Gross
per                              primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1993-99)                                  capita             .           enrollment
Poverty (% of pooulation below national poverty line)     14
Urban pooulation (% of total population)                  60         5B        43
Life expectancy at birth (years)                          71         68        69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                  35         45        33
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                13         15        15                 Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (% of population)         70         71        86
Illiteracv (% of poPulation a.qe 15+)                     33         36        16
Gross primarv enrollment (%of school-age population)     108         95       114    I          Algeria
Mate                                                   113        102       114     [         Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                 102         88       116
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989       1998       1999
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                             33.3     54.9       47.4       47.9
Gross domestic investment/GDP                  42.4     29.0       27.7       27.4                      Trade
Exports of qoods and services/GDP              31.1     18.6       22.9       27.6
Gross domestic savineslGDP                     40.7     29.3       27.1       31.7
Gross national savings/GDP                     38.1     29.6       25.0      28.9
Current account balance/GDP                    -4.9     -1.9       -1.9        0.0      Domestic                      Investment
Interest pavmentslGDP                           3.8      3.2        4.0        3.9      Savings
Total debt/GDP                                 55.6     49.3       64.7       58.6          9/
Total debt servicelexports                     28.8     66.3       45.6       38.3
Present value of debt/GDP                                          63.2
Present value of debt/exports                                     265.9
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99      1998      1999   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                   3.1       1.2      5.1        3.3        39                Algeria
GNP per capita                        0.0      -0.9       5.2       1.5        1.9               Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services         3.4       2.6       1.6       6.2        5.3
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1998       1999      Growth of Investment and GOP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                             10
Aericulture                                    10.6     14.9       12.1       11.4
Industrv                                       50.5     41.6       47.3       50.7      s
Manufacturing                                10.2      11.0       10.6       9.6      a
Services                                       38.9     43.5       40.6       37.9      -5    9s   96   97   98   99
Private consumption                            45.6     53.8       54.8       51.3    -10
General govemment consumotion                  13.7     16.9       18.1       17.0                             -*o-GDP
Imports of qoods and services                  32.8     18.3       23.5       23.3
1979-89  1989-99       1998      1999      Growth of exports and imports I%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                     4.7      2.6       11.4        2.7    1O
Industry                                        2.7      0.8        3.9        4.8      s         _               .     - 
Manufacturing                                 5.7      -7.1        6.7       1.5
Services                                        4.0       2.0       3.9        2.8                                     go 7  5   97     95   99
Private consumption                             2.6       2.6       2.4        2.9    -10
General government consumption                  4.7       3.8       2.6        2.5
Gross domestic investment                      -1.6      -1.7       3.3        2.7    -15
Imports of qoods and services                  -2.8     -2.3        6.5        1.8                  Exports     lImports
Gross national product                          3.1       1.2       5.9        3.0
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) comoared with its income-group average. If data are missine. the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 57 -



Algeria
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979    1989       1998      1999      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% chanqe)
Consumer prices                              11.5      9.3        5.0      2.6
Implicit GDP deflator                        14.0    14.6        -4.1     10.9    20
Govemment finance                                                                   o
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                        94   95   96   97   98   99
Current revenue                                 ..    28.9       27.8     29.8    -20
Current budget balance                         ..      9.1        4.0      5.5             -GDP deflator  -4-CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                        ..    -1.8        -3.9     -0.5
TRADE
1979    1989       1998      1999      Export and import levels (US$ mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                            ..   9,561      10,140    12,320    15.000
Crude oil                                     ..   1,894      1,943     2.735
Condensate                                    ..   2,535      1,953    2,422
Manufactures                                         234        42        46      10.011
Total imports (cil                             ..  10,289       8,630    8,960
Food                                         ..   2,925       2,657    2,609      s,ool
Fuel and energy                               ..    127         110      127
Capital goods233                                              297      3,5 
93  94  ss  50  97  se  09
Export price index (1995=100)                  ..    101          81        93
Import price index (1995:100)                  ..       85        92        94                0 Exports     * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..    119          88        99
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979    1989       1998      1999      Current account balance to GOP (%)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services              10,137   10,147    10,880    13,040     a
Imports of goods and services              10,911   11,336    10,850    11,520
Resource balance                             -774   -1,189        30     1,520     4
Net income                                 -1,091   -1,893    -2,000    -2,290
Net current transfers                         226    2,053     1,060       790       0 -
Current account balance                    -1,639   -1,030      -910        20      4  93        .
Financing hems (net)                        2,060      388      -180    -2,370
Changes in net reserves                      -421      642      1,090    2,350     .B -
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)      2,916    1,104     7,121     4,668
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUS$)              3.9      7.6       58.7     66.5
EXTERNAL DEST and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989       1998      1999
(US$ millions)                                                                      Composition of 1998 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       18.507   27,072     30,665   28,079
IBRD                                       227      960      1,676     1,540                   G: 186 A: 1,676
IDA                                           0        0         0         0                                    1
Total debt service                          3,053    7,001     5,136     5,084         F: 9,054
IBRD                                        30      183        333      327                                      :2,713
IDA                                          0         0         0         0
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                             21        68       107
Official creditors                         710       107      -213      -106
Private credKtors                         2,112     339      -1,328    -1,002
Foreign direct investment                    26       12         5       460
Portfolio equiy                               0        0         2         0                             E: 15,025
World Bank program
Commitments                                 188     839        150         0     A.- IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                               47      204         56        74     8 - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                          7      112       208       199    CC-IMF                       G - Short-term
Net flows                                   40        92      -152      -125
Interest payments                           22        70       124       126
Net transfers                                18      21       -276      -251
Development Economics                                                                                                8125100
- 58 -



IBRD 29992
M  e O' t e r r a n e a n                           S e a
1 6                                                                                             21        2Hdo
ALGE RIA/ALGERIE                                                                                                                                                                                EI
4        13sAdo               9 .              t20                                                                           D .r)   X    S-7   / 2\-|DieIfo  i 7   /7
/ 45  0.                                                                                                                                                                              0 32   .  ' 3   l  /  s  &  }   >   J x, !B 
A.F ToAn UnAc d6
WILAYA NAMES                                                       _ __PAVED NATIONoAL ROADS                               0      TOWNS AND VILLAGES                                                               -.I ie
NOMS DES WIL4YATE                                                               ROUTES NATIONALES                                    VUILES ET VfLLAGES                         i                             iF    , ALGIERS! 
ADNREFAR                39 EL CUED                  4 OUIM EL 30UAGHI                              ROUTES SECCNDAIRES                                    SIEGES DES WILAYATE                                    .-               am  Areo ofMop      (       L
46 AIN TEMOUCHENT         36 EL TARP                48 RELIZANE                             -----*   RAILROADS                                     !      NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                _'         32 -;.J.3   
16 ALGIEES                47 GHAEEAIA               20 SAIDA                                         VOIES FERREES                                         CAPITALE                                                                           * /' o.o47J/ 1o
23 ANNABA                 24 GUELMA                 10 SETIF                                                                                                                                                  -3'Y '+>             > -./^< '  305         \      m
S EATNA                  32 ILLIZI                 22 SIDI EEL ARBES                         4+    AIRPORTS                                      -   -WILAYA E0UNDARIES                                        o'      _-       -
R RECHAR                 18 JIJEL                  21 SKIKDA                                        AEROPORTS                                             LIMITES DES WILATATE                                 <3            A LGtR L.
44  6~~~~~~~~~~~~..  -L
6 BEJAIA                 40 KHENCIHELA             41 SOUK AREAS                                                                                                                                              p                  dr     J' 3
7 EISKRA                  3 LAGHOUAT               11I TAMANGHASSET                                                                                       LIMITE INTERNATIONAL ROUNDARIES R>I 1/ 
P ELIDA                  29 MASCARA                1 2 TrE3ESSA                                                                                           LIIE  NENTOAE    ~~.                                                              . 11
34 BORDJ SOS ARRERIDJ     26 MUESRA                 14 TIARET.3                                                                                                                                                                      \.                -      '_
10 BOUIRA                 43 MILA                   37 TINDOUF                                                                                                                                                             \N \                       6 *soso 
35 E0UMERDES              27 MOSTAGANEM             42 TIPAZA                                                                                                                                                                    .~  -           72
2 CHLEP                  28 MSILA                  38 TISSEMSILT                                                                                    TN. mpnno.pnod.c.dLy h.M2pS.eg-niSnotTeWordBonk.                              \N    >, 
17 DJELPA                31 ORAN                    13 TLEMCEN                                                 KILOMETER                             on/dmf20610 so do no0ir'p0on 6,. poor oPT,WrlnndBook Snoop  -0 .4,                           7Aa: 
Th.'                                                                                            NOVEMBE 1991
H    ILMETRSonoeoion  f,no,o,                                                                        S1,                                   1.         20
W-4 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OEBR18



