                                 Document of
                              The World Bank




                                                    Report No: ICR0000694




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                 (IBRD-70480)

                                    ON A

                                    LOAN


                   IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 18.0 MILLION

          TO THE PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA

                                    FOR A

 ENERGY AND MINING TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN PROJECT (EMTAL)


                               February 20, 2008




Energy & Economic Support Unit
Sustainable Development
Middle East and North Africa Region

                                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                        (Exchange Rate Effective December 2007)

                          Currency Unit = Algerian Dinar (DZD)
                                       DZD 1.0 = US$ 0.014
                                         US$ 1.00 = 70 DZD

                                            FISCAL YEAR
                                    January1 to December 31


                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ANGCM     Agence Nationale de la Géologie et du        MOF        Ministry of Finance
          Contrôle Minier
ANPM      Agence Nationale du Patrimoine Minier        MW         Megawatts
ASMIDAL   Entreprise Nationale des Engrais et Produits NAFTAL     Société Nationale de Commercialisation
          Phytosanitaires                                         des Produits pétroliers
BAD       Banque Algérienne de Développement           NAFTEC     Société Nationale de Raffinage du Pétrole
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy                  NGO        Non-Governmental Organization
CREG      Commission de Regulation de l'Electricité    NPA        National Popular Assembly
          et du Gaz
DGM       Direction Générale des Mines                 ORGM       Office de la Recherche Géologique et
                                                                  Minière
ALNAFT    Agence nationale pour la valoriasation des   PIP        Projet Implementation Plan
          ressources en hydrocarbures
ARH       Agence de regulation des hydrocarbures       PMR        Projet Management Report
FERPHOS   Entreprise Nationale du Fer et des           PMU        Projet Management Unit
          Phosphates
FMS       Financial Management System                  PPF        Projet Preparation Facility
GDP       Gross Domestic Product                       PPIAF      Public-Private Infrastructure Advisory
                                                                  Facility
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstruction and    SA         Special Account
          Development
ICR       Implementation Completion Report             SGA        Algerian Geological Survey
IDF       Institutional Development Fund               SOE        Statetement of Expenditure
IFC       International Finance Corporation            SOEs       State-owned Enterprises
IMF       Internatioanl Monetary Fund                  SONATRACH  Entreprise Nationale de Recherche,
                                                                  d'Exploration et de Commercialisation des
                                                                  Hydrocarbures
LACI      Loan Administration Change Initiative        SONELGAZ   Société Nationale de l'Electricité et du
                                                                  Gaz
LPG       Liquified Petroleum Gases                    TA         Technical Assistance
MEM       Ministry of Energy and Mines




                               Vice President: Daniela Gressani
                           Country Director: Mats Karlsson
                             Sector Manager: Jonathan Walters
                     Project Team Leader: Noureddine Bouzaher
                         ICR Team Leader: Noureddine Bouzaher

              THE PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
            ENERGY AND MINING TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN




                                             CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 5
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 9
 3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 14
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 19
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 21
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 23
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 24
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 25
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 26
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 27
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 28
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 30
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 31
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 33
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 48
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 49
 MAP

A. Basic Information
                                                                     Energy and Mining
Country:               Algeria                Project Name:          Technical Assistance
                                                                     Loan (EMTAL)
Project ID:             P067567               L/C/TF Number(s):      IBRD-70480
ICR Date:               02/20/2008            ICR Type:              Intensive Learning ICR
                                                                     GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     TAL                   Borrower:
                                                                     ALGERIA
Original Total
                        USD 18.0M             Disbursed Amount:      USD 12.95M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Energy & Mining
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process          Original Date  Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:        07/06/2000    Effectiveness:         08/18/2001       08/18/2001
Appraisal:             07/14/2000    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              02/27/2001    Mid-term Review:                        05/05/2003
                                     Closing:               06/30/2005       08/31/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Significant
Bank Performance:                             Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Moderately Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings               Borrower                Ratings
Quality at Entry:       MS                    Government:            MU

Quality of Supervision: MU                    Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:       MS

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            MU                    Performance:           MU


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                              QAG Assessments
     Performance               Indicators             (if any)              Rating

Potential Problem Project No                  Quality at Entry      None



                                             1

at any time (Yes/No):                            (QEA):
Problem Project at any                           Quality of
                           Yes                                       None
time (Yes/No):                                   Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Unsatisfactory


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                               Original         Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                              100


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Environmental policies and institutions                        Primary
Law reform                                                    Secondary
Legal institutions for a market economy                        Primary
Regulation and competition policy                              Primary
State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization          Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:            Daniela Gressani                  Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:          Mats Karlsson                     Christian Delvoie
Sector Manager:            Jonathan D. Walters               Zoubeida Ladhibi
Project Team Leader:       Noureddine Bouzaher               Zoubeida Ladhibi
ICR Team Leader:           Noureddine Bouzaher
ICR Primary Author:        Djamal Mostefai



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

 In December 1999, the Government of Algeria announced its new policy and strategic
objectives for the energy and mining sectors. The main thrust of this policy was to: (i)
improve efficiency in the energy and mining sectors while securing adequate energy
supplies to the economy; (ii) allow market forces to play their respective roles; (iii)
increase revenues by further developing untapped resources; (iv) address environmental
concerns; (v) promote the efficient use of public resources and protect the public interest;
and (vi) alleviate the financial burden of energy and mining enterprises on public
finances.




                                                2

The proposed project would assist the Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM) to
implement the Government's market-oriented reform program in the energy and mining
sectors, and particularly assist in the: (i) separation of the role of the state, as policy
maker, regulator and owner of mining resources, from its role as owner of public
enterprises, enabling these latter to become fully commercially-oriented entities; (ii)
development and implementation of a legal and institutional environment conducive to
develop market mechanism, increase competition, and private sector participation; (iii)
improvement of service quality and energy access, energy efficiency and environmental
standards; and (iv) state-owned enterprises (SOEs)' efforts to adapt to sector reforms and
the new business environment. Also, the proposed project would assist MEM in
launching its first and innovative power generation plant(s) for 2000MW with private
sector participation.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target       Formally      Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value        Values (from          Revised      Achieved at
                                             approval             Target     Completion or
                                            documents)            Values      Target Years
               Reform energy & mining, to improve sector efficiency, introduce market forces,
Indicator 1 :  develop untapped resources, address environmental concerns & alleviate public
               finances financial burden

Value          Inadequate Mining,        Promulgation of                   New hydrocarbon

quantitative orElectricity &             new Hydrocarbon                   law promulgated on

Qualitative)   Hydrocarbon Laws. New law.                                  04/28/2005 but
               laws to be enacted.                                         amended July 2006
Date achieved 12/31/2002
Comments
(incl. %        The amendment brought in 2006 led to a major reversal of the original

achievement)   hydrocarbon reform model.


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target        Formally     Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value        Values (from                       Achieved at
                                             approval            Revised     Completion or
                                            documents)        Target Values   Target Years
Indicator 1 :  Creation of regulatory agencies for electricity and mining
                                                                           ANGCM (Mining)
                                                                           01/24/2005

Value                                    Agencies are                      ANPM

(quantitative  Regulatory agencies non   established                       (01/24/2005

or Qualitative)existent                                                    CREG
                                                                           (Electricity)
                                                                           01/24/2005
                                                                           ARH



                                              3

                                                                           (Hydrocarbon)
                                                                           11/14/2005
                                                                           ANALFT
                                                                           (hydrocarbon)
                                                                           11/14/2005
Date achieved 02/27/2001                 04/18/2005

Comments        The agencies have been formally established but are not yet fully operational

(incl. %       and may not be in a position to operate according to the principles underpinning

achievement)   the reform model. Furthermore, the amendment to the hydrocarbon law of July
               2006 significantly reduced the autonomy of the hydrocarbon sector agencies.


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                 Actual
 No.    Date ISR
        Archived                DO                        IP                Disbursements
                                                                            (USD millions)
  1     04/12/2001          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     08/01/2001          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      0.00
  3     02/08/2002          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      1.66
  4     08/09/2002          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      1.70
  5     02/04/2003          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      2.37
  6     03/31/2003          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      2.79
  7     07/11/2003          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      3.16
  8     01/31/2004          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      6.95
  9     03/30/2004          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      6.97
  10    06/29/2004          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      7.61
  11    12/21/2004          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      8.76
  12    03/23/2005          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      9.59
  13    06/30/2005          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      9.61
  14    12/28/2005          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    10.49
  15    03/24/2006          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    10.49
  16    08/25/2006    Moderately Satisfactory         Satisfactory                    10.84
  17    12/20/2006    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                 11.43

  18    06/04/2007          Moderately                Moderately
                           Unsatisfactory           Unsatisfactory                    11.53


Comments:

The change of DO rating from late 2006 relate to the overall performance of the project,
particularly the hydrocarbons component (following the amendment to the petroleum law
in July 2006). The project was designed with hydrocarbons reform as a prominent
objective but the petroleum law amendment substantially reversed the reform gains made
18 months earlier with the initial passage of the hydrocarbon law.

H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                              4

I. Disbursement Profile




1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)

1.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance)
Project appraisal took place in 2000-2001. Algeria was starting the new millennium with
high hopes as it emerged from a security crisis that had led to bloodshed in the country
throughout the previous decade. It was also emerging from a severe economic crisis that
had pushed the country to the brink of insolvency in 1994, which it managed to overcome
with IMF and World Bank assistance in the context of stabilization and structural
adjustment programs. However, the country remained saddled with debt, a situation that
limited its options, and the slump in oil prices in 1998 prompted a very prudent approach
to fiscal management. The April 1999 presidential elections ushered in new political
leaders who wanted to institute sweeping political and economic change in Algeria. The
1999 Government Economic Program included a reform package aimed at expediting the
transition toward a market economy, strengthening competitive mechanisms, opening the
country to international trade (preparing the Association Agreement with the European
Union and negotiating access to the World Trade Organization), and assigning a lead role
to the private sector in the development process.

Dialogue between Algeria and the World Bank was entering a new phase. Algeria was
actively seeking the advice and assistance of the Bank in the implementation of its reform
program, and the Bank was quite willing to provide this assistance, which was in keeping
with its objective of knowledge-sharing and supported the structural reforms of a key
sector in the Algerian economy. For this reason, the project was the perfect forerunner to
the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) between Algeria and the Bank, which was
approved in June 2003.



                                              5

Against this backdrop, the mining and energy sector was at the forefront of the reform
effort. This sector was by no means in a state of crisis and its main enterprises (largely
public) were considered to be among the top performers in Algeria. The reform
envisioned was not a response to a crisis; rather, it reflected a desire for enhanced
functioning of the sector through the introduction of a new operating model based on the
principles of the new economic policy adopted by Algeria. The following were the
objectives of the policy adopted for this sector in 1999: (i) improving the efficiency of
this sector while securing adequate supplies to the economy; (ii) allowing market forces
to play their respective roles; (iii) increasing revenue by developing existing reserves and
untapped resources; (iv) addressing environmental concerns; (v) using public resources
more efficiently and better safeguarding the public interest; and (vi) reducing the burden
placed by the sector's public enterprises on public finances.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The project was intended to support the efforts of the Ministry of Energy and Mines
(MEM) to implement the new liberalization policy adopted by the Government for the
energy and mining sectors and, in particular, to successfully:

· Separate the roles of the State as policy maker, regulator, and owner of mining
    resources from its role as owner of public enterprises, with a view to enabling the
    latter to operate as purely commercially oriented enterprises;

· Develop and establish a legal and institutional environment conducive to the
    development of market mechanisms and increased competition and private sector
    participation;

· Improve service quality and energy access as well as energy efficiency and
    environmental standards;

· Adapt public enterprises to new situations resulting from sector reform and the new
    business environment; and

Launch the first and innovative power generation project (2000 MW) with private sector
participation

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The original project development objective was not revised during the mid-term review
conducted in May 2003 or during project implementation. Delays were experienced in
procurement but the program was felt to be on track and not necessitating a restructuring
until the amendment to the petroleum law in July 2006 and the decision of SONELGAZ
to finance the market system operator out of its own resources. By then and within one




                                               6

year of project closing, a restructuring of the project would have been neither useful nor
realistic.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,
(original and revised, briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD
and as captured in the PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected
to benefit from the project)

The primary target group was the Ministry of Energy and Mines and State owned
enterprises under its control, more specifically, SONATRACH, the national oil company,
SONELGAZ, the national utility and the mining sector at large.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

Project components had been designed with a view to establishing legal, institutional, and
organizational instruments and developing the expertise necessary for reform.             A
prerequisite for successful reform, these instruments were to be designed in such a way as
to encourage the separation of the different roles of the State, create competitive markets
for activity segments that do not constitute natural monopolies, open access to the private
sector, and transform all public enterprises into purely commercial enterprises subject to
open competition by private enterprises. To support this transformation in the sector's
mode of operation, new skills were to be developed. To that end, the project included the
following components:

a. Hydrocarbons. (Initial component cost: US$7,550,000)

· Review, design, and implementation of a legal, regulatory, and institutional
    framework, upstream and downstream, consistent with the proposed strategy and
    reforms, including the development of suitable environmental policies and regulations
    for the hydrocarbons sector on the basis of sectoral environmental assessments;

· Establishment and assistance with the startup of a contract management and
    promotion agency with a state-of-the-art data base;

· Establishment and assistance with the startup of an autonomous regulatory entity; and

· Training of necessary staff.

b. Electricity. (Initial component cost: US$5,750,000)

· Review, design, and implementation of a legal, regulatory, and institutional
    framework for electricity and natural gas distribution by pipelines, consistent with the
    proposed strategy and reforms, including the development of suitable environmental
    policies and regulations for the power sector on the basis of sectoral environmental
    assessments;




                                              7

· Design, establishment, and operation of an autonomous regulatory agency and, at a
    later stage, of a system operator and a market operator;

· Implementation of the restructuring and reform program of the sector and the
    reorganization of SONELGAZ in particular;

· Assistance with the launching of an innovative and ambitious first power generation
    project with private sector participation ("2000 MW Project"), intended for the
    domestic market and export; and

· Training of necessary staff of the various sector institutions, notably on issues of
    reform and regulation.

c. Mining. (Initial component cost: US$4,220,000)

· Review, design, and implementation of the legal, regulatory, and institutional
    framework and regulations, consistent with the proposed strategy and reforms
    including the development of suitable environmental policies and regulations for the
    mining sector on the basis of sectoral environmental assessments;

· Establishment and assistance with the startup of an autonomous national agency for
    geological survey and mining control and a national cadastral agency;

· Implementation of a mining promotion program;

· Assistance to the holding SIDMINES, among them, FERPHOS, ASMIDAL,
    ENAMARBRE, ENOR, and ORGM enterprises, in their effort to adapt to the sector
    reform and mobilize strategic private partnerships; and

· Training of necessary staff.

d. Project Management Unit (PMU). (Initial component cost: US$300,000)

· Institutional strengthening of MEM in project management and setting-up of a Project
    Management Unit (PMU) within MEM.

1.6 Revised Components

The components were not revised during project implementation (nor during the mid-
term review). However, the implementation schedule was modified owing to a slower-
than-planned implementation pace. The closing date of the project was extended twice
by one year.     The costs of the components were readjusted during implementation
because a number of tasks were not performed. At the time of ICR writing, US$12.95
million have been disbursed. The remaining US$5.05 have been canceled.

1.7 Other significant changes



                                             8

(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)

No formal change was made to the project definition either at mid-term review or during
implementation.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

Project Preparation. The project was prepared in a particularly favorable context for
sector reform. A preliminary review and some preparatory work were done by the
government and enterprises of the sector, using their own resources as well as those
offered by the Bank (PPF) and a PPIAF grant. The drafting of legislation had been
planned even prior to Bank involvement.               Under the leadership of the minister
responsible for the sector, an outreach effort, certainly unprecedented in Algeria, was
launched with the aim of presenting and discussing the reform content, not only within
the sector but also with civil society.

The design of the project was consistent with the reform agenda of the Government of
Algeria. The following points must, however, be stressed a posteriori:


a.      Ownership of preparatory work by the agencies of the sector was strong.
        However, their experience with, and exposure to this kind of reform were limited.
        As a result, discussions regarding reform measures with the Bank were
        sometimes difficult. For example:

            Preparation of the draft electricity law had started prior to Bank involvement.
            The latter provided numerous comments on this draft law and more generally
            on the reform process in this sub-sector. Few of these comments were taken
            into account;

            The Algerian authorities, through the Ministry of Energy and Mines, showed a
            very strong and active willingness to conduct sector reform, which was
            reflected in the very optimistic and ambitious content and schedule for the
            reform. For example, the execution of a highly complex project involving the
            generation of 2000 MW by a private operator was supposed to take place in
            under two years.       The comments made by the Bank (including senior
            management) on several occasions regarding the need to ascertain the
            appropriateness of this project as well as its unrealistic execution schedule
            were not always heeded by the Algerian authorities at the start of the project.

b.      The content of the reform supported by the project was affected by major
constraints faced by Algeria over the decade (see paragraph 1) and which reemerged as a


                                                9

result of the slump in international oil prices in 1998. For this reason, one of the
objectives of reform for each sub-sector (hydrocarbons, electricity, and mining) was
private sector participation so that the latter could finance investments that could not be
supported by the State and/or public enterprises; and

c.      The critical issue of natural gas pricing for domestic use and export was not
appropriately dealt with in the reform agenda. The price of natural gas on the domestic
market is much lower than the export price. Domestic and other use of natural gas
(including for electricity generation) is therefore significantly subsidized. This dual gas
pricing system distorts resource allocation and transfers the rent to export-oriented, gas-
based chemical industries. Therefore, in the absence of a thorough understanding of the
Algerian natural gas pricing policy, assessing the extent of subsidies associated with the
energy sector and the feasibility of some key actions of the reform agenda (launching of
the 2000 MW project, third party access to the natural gas transport and distribution
network) was bound to be a most difficult exercise.

Quality at entry. The reforms as envisaged for the critical energy sector were novel in
Algeria. They were also wide ranging and complex because they were introducing
business models, attitudes and behaviors starkly different from anything known so far in
the sector. Readiness for reforms within the energy sector and outside it was limited
which delayed, for example, the adoption of the petroleum law.

The can do attitude of the Ministry of Energy and Mines and the willingness of the Bank
to push forward reforms into a critical sector of the Algerian economy were a good omen
for a speedy implementation.        However, in the process, a number of things were
overlooked such as: (i) the building of a consensus on the reforms contemplated; (ii) the
scope of reforms; and (iii) the gradualism and pace of implementation.

Assessment of risks. At appraisal stage, the risks identified were on the lack of capacity,
backtracking on reform commitments and social concerns over reforms. While the ICR
team feels that the risks were correctly identified, the risk of political backtracking on
reform commitments was underestimated. This has led, for example to the amendment of
the petroleum law of July 2006 reneging on crucial provisions of the petroleum law
adopted about a year earlier.

2.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions
taken, as applicable)

During implementation, the following factors had an impact on how the project was
carried out:

a.      The first factor is the sharp increase in oil revenue resulting from the surge in
oil prices on international markets. The revenue of SONATRACH and the Algerian
treasury rose considerably and allowed for greater financing by the Algerian banking
sector, thereby making the demand for private financing of energy and mining
infrastructure much less pressing. At the same time, however, the interest of the private


                                              10

sector has been sustained because of high oil prices, despite the reversal in hydrocarbon
policy.

b.      This reversal came as a result of a Presidential Order signed on July 29, 2006
amending major provision of the hydrocarbon law promulgated as part of the reforms
supported by the EMTAL project on April 28, 2005. SONATRACH, the national oil
company, was to become a commercial company like any other that would compete on
equal basis with other oil companies. The regulation, the bidding and the signature of
contracts for exploration and development were entrusted to the Hydrocarbon Regulatory
Agency and the Promotion of Hydrocarbon Resources Agency, respectively.                 The
changes backtracked on the role of SONATRACH in upstream oil, the transportation via
pipelines and the refineries, making the national oil company a de facto monopoly,
especially in pipelines and refineries. Furthermore, SONATRACH has a mandatory
participation of at least 51% in all competitive bids for exploration and development
contracts.   A surcharge ranging from 5 to 50% is applied to "exceptional profits"
whenever the average monthly oil price exceeds $30 per barrel. Downstream, prices are
set directly by the government. The role of the regulatory agency is unclear. Finally, the
autonomy of the agencies has been reduced is no longer specifically mentioned in the
amendment to the law and the oversight of the Ministry of Energy and Mines has been
strengthened..

c.      The second factor pertains to political developments. For example, the draft of
the hydrocarbons law, which was completed in 2002 but which was highly controversial
from a political standpoint, was not submitted to parliament until 2005, when it was
adopted by a strong majority. Eighteen months later, the hydrocarbons law enacted by
parliament was significantly amended as explained earlier by a Presidential Order.

d.      The third factor is the pace at which the project activities proceeded in the
Algerian decision-making and administrative environment. One example is
noteworthy: The appointment of key staff to the newly-established agencies in the
mining and electricity sectors by the Office of the President was delayed by more than
three years, a situation that inevitably affected the start up schedule. Possible reasons for
this delay, to which Bank missions have drawn attention repeatedly, include the general
political context, reservations regarding the choice of individuals, slow pace of
authorization procedures, etc. To be certain, there appears to have been a disconnect
between the initial political will to reform and the speed of decision making for reform
implementation.

e.      The fourth factor and a major impediment to project implementation in Algeria,
as has been pointed out in 2002 and 2004 in the context of procurement assessments, are
the national procurement regulations on contract award, which apply in addition to
Bank procurement rules and regulations.          This is exacerbated by: (i) a relatively
inexperienced counterpart staff in the Project Management Unit (at least when they
assume their duties) and in executing agencies and (ii) the constraints imposed by the
Bank's own procedures. This situation has led to significant delays in obtaining and
mobilizing advisory services and to excessive polarization in discussions between the



                                              11

Bank and its counterpart staff on procurement issues (to the detriment of substantive
issues). The slow pace and complexity of the procurement process have contributed to
delays in the implementation of the reform. A systemic problem observed in procuring
services is the apparent lack of interest of consultancy firms to bid for studies of relative
importance financed by the project. Delays were often experienced due to re-bidding.
As a result, either the bidding was unsuccessful and the activity has to be abandoned
(especially near the closing date of the project) or the choice of firms was limited to one
or two firms.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

2.3.1 The performance indicators were largely process indicators (e.g. establishment of
        the regulatory agencies, promulgation of a law, etc.) that did not say much about
        the substance and the content (e.g. establishment of autonomous regulatory
        agencies able to make independent decisions on the following matters..., increase
        in revenues, reduction of subsidies, level of private investment, etc.). For
        example:

a.      Expected outcomes. The wording contained in project documents is vague and
        general and no indicator has been quantified in order to measure the progress to
        be made using some kind of benchmark situation (for example, the level of
        subsidies at the time of start up of the project or the private sector contribution to
        investment financing in the sector). Some indicators, which are certainly useful in
        other countries, are not very meaningful in the Algerian mining and energy
        sectors. For example, one of the indicators identified is the level of financing of
        sectoral investment under the government budget. However, in Algeria only
        mining exploration and rural electrification investments1 have been financed
        under the government budget. In addition, given that the amounts financed in this
        manner have been relatively modest, use of this form of financing is not
        completely unjustified, as would be the case with investments in revenue-
        generating activities.

b.      Expected outputs. While the performance indicators related to expected outputs
        were correctly identified, their definition was often imprecise, a factor that made
        it difficult to assess properly product quality in relation to reform objectives. Two
        particularly significant examples are:

        · Establishment of regulatory agencies. One key feature of these agencies is
            their independence and autonomy, to the fullest extent possible, particularly in
            relation to government authorities. The establishment of a regulatory agency
            in the context of the reform envisioned by the Algerian Government is truly



1       It should be noted that rural electrification objectives are largely met and that investments in this
        area are negligible. The decline in funding of this activity under the government budget is
        therefore not tied to the implementation of sector reform.




                                                    12

           meaningful only to the extent that its independence and autonomy are
           guaranteed.    2   Consequently, any performance indicator related to the
           establishment of a regulatory agency should allow for assessment of whether
           the agency established meets the criteria for discharging its functions in
           accordance with the spirit and letter of the reform process.

       · Restructuring of SONELGAZ.                 This event was rightly selected as a
           performance indicator.      In the context of reform aimed at introducing
           competition into the electricity sector, this restructuring was essential in order
           to separate the activities related to the production, transport, distribution, and
           sale of electricity on the one hand, and to develop competitive mechanisms for
           each segment other than transport, (which is viewed as a natural monopoly),
           on the other. The choice of SONELGAZ restructuring as a performance
           indicator should also have been supplemented by criteria that allow for
           assessment of the extent to which this restructuring contributed to the
           development of competitive mechanisms in the electricity sector.

2.3.2 Implementation. Monitoring of project results through performance indicators
has been uneven.

a.     The major phases of reform were clearly and easily monitored as a result of
       indicators tied to legal and institutional measures (enactment of laws on the
       reform of the mining, electricity, and hydrocarbons sectors, establishment of
       regulatory and contracts agencies.        However, given the actual definition of
       performance criteria (see section above), a number of essential aspects of reform
       such as the harmonization of the institutions established with the spirit of the law
       and their functioning in keeping with this spirit could not be assessed using the
       performance indicators.

b.    Performance indicators, other than those linked to legal and institutional measures,
       were only very partially identified during implementation. For example, an effort
       was made to assess the outcomes achieved in the mining and hydrocarbons
       sectors in terms of private sector participation, increased revenues, and reduced
       subsidies. This assessment was, however, very broad and did not draw enough of
       a distinction between the factors explaining the changes in the indicators selected.
       For example, the increase in revenue from hydrocarbons exploration stems largely
       from exogenous factors (developments in the international market). Similarly, the
       higher number of mining titles granted is due less to the specific reform measures
       adopted by Algeria than to the change (very simple but very positive) in the
       attitudes and approaches of the Algerian authorities, independently of reforms.
       For example, the award of mining titles started even before the promulgation of
       the law on mining sector reform.


2      Autonomy is only one of the key features of the type of regulatory agency envisioned in the
       context of reform in Algeria.




                                             13

2.3.3 Utilization. The utilization of performance indicators to make decisions related
to project management and resource allocation was relatively limited. This is attributable
to the nature of the indicators themselves (for example, those linked to legal or
institutional measures), which can be described as "binary" (for example, was the
regulatory agency created or not?). The decisions made regarding project management
(for example extensions) were based on factors that could not be captured by these
indicators (reasons for the delay in the establishment of agencies and the political
environment, among other things).

2.4 Observance of safeguards.

No particular observation can be made in this regard. This is a category C technical
assistance project.
N/A

2.5 Post-Implementation

N/A

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

The general objectives and the content of the sectoral reform supported by the project
were fully relevant, at appraisal, in the context of Algeria's economic policy, which was
aimed at ensuring the country's transition to a market economy that is open to
international trade and based on private initiative. The Algerian Government Program
adopted in 1999 was clear. This structural reform was also in keeping with what is
considered by the Bank to be "best practice" in the energy sector. This intervention in
the energy sector laid the groundwork for the actions set forth in the 2003 CAS, which
made provision for reforms of this kind in the infrastructure sectors. In the current
context characterized by a drastic improvement in the financial situation of Algeria, the
objectives of the project are still relevant but much less in line with Algeria's actual
economic policy dominated by state intervention, public investment and financing.
Furthermore the project objectives were ambitious and, in the case of a number of project
components (such as the 2000 MW project), the expected outcomes were unrealistic.
This ambitious approach was reflected in scope, complexity, and intensity of sector
reform and in the implementation schedule.

    Consequently:

a. The model adopted for the electricity sector, that is, a market structure based on free
    access by third parties to the networks, the selection of an independent market
    operator, and the use of supply and demand to determine wholesaler prices, is
    complex and has been applied in only a small number of countries in the world.


                                                14

b. The plan to assign execution of a 2000 MW project to a private independent power
    producer (an investment of close to US$2 billion) aimed at the domestic market and
    at exporting electricity to Europe via a submarine cable, posed a major challenge
    given that the price of natural gas was not established and Algeria had no experience
    with private investment in power generation;

c. The elimination of the SONATRACH monopoly with respect to upstream petroleum
    and hydrocarbons transport and refining and the "normalization" of the role played by
    this enterprise, a major Algerian industry, was technically relatively simple but
    politically extremely difficult. This situation has, of course, been changed by the
    amendment to the petroleum law (see footnote 1 to paragraph 2.2 a, above).

d. The opening of the downstream hydrocarbons sector and the gradual liberalization of
    prices required a package of complex and sensitive measures.

All these measures and initiatives were to be implemented over a three- or four-year
period. This ambitious approach, both in terms of the content and schedule for reform,
was supported at the start of the project by a strong political commitment and resolve,
something that was all the more remarkable in light of the absence of a serious crisis in
the sector that would require urgent and radical measures. However, this ambitious
approach was not backed by the necessary human resources and expertise with the
experience of structural reforms of such a magnitude.              Furthermore, to bring all
stakeholders to share the objectives and content of the reform may not have been either
straightforward or complete (i.e. the reform was not welcomed by all). Finally, some
ambiguities, particularly with respect to trends in natural gas prices on the domestic
market and the scope of SONELGAZ restructuring, were not cleared up. Some relevant
lessons that the Bank ought to have taken into account in project design such as a
political consensus as a prerequisite and the need for gradual implementation were not
given sufficient consideration.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 2)
The project development objectives were only partially achieved:

· In the hydrocarbons and mining sectors, the separation of the role of the state as
    policy maker, regulator, and owner of mining resources from its role as owner of
    public enterprises, with a view to enabling the latter to operate as purely
    commercially oriented enterprises, has been partially achieved. The separation of
    roles has formally taken place with the creation of new institutions and the
    preparation and adoption of an enabling legislation. However, with the reversal of
    policies in the hydrocarbons sector, the purpose of enabling the national oil company,
    SONATRACH, to operate as a purely commercial enterprise, has not been achieved.
· In the electricity sector, SONELGAZ was unbundled and an electricity regulatory
    commission was created. However, SONELGAZ is nowhere near operating as a
    commercial company.          An enabling legislation was adopted but private sector


                                                15

   participation is low (e.g. only one IPP with majority private sector participation).
   There are no indications that service quality and energy efficiency have improved as a
   result of the project. This also applies to improved environmental standards in
   hydrocarbons, electricity and mining sectors.
· Finally, the implementation of the power generation project (2000 MW) with private
   sector participation has not taken place.

The rate of achievement of the development objectives of the project varies from one
sector to another as detailed below. It is unsatisfactory in the case of hydrocarbons;
moderately unsatisfactory in the case of electricity; and satisfactory in the case of mining.
Details are given below:

Hydrocarbons

a.      New institutions in the subsector (ARH and ANALFT) were created but started
        operations only recently and have not yet reached the "cruising" phase.
        Significant delays have been experienced with the development of a number of
        the tools that are essential for their functioning, such as the ANALFT database,
        which is hampering the work of these agencies.
b.      Very few measures projected for the liberalization of the downstream sector have
        been implemented and this segment of the sector remains largely under state
        control.

c.      Reform of the hydrocarbons sector fell well short of expectations. Despite strong
        opposition to the hydrocarbons law in 2002, it was promulgated in 2005,
        following the 2004 presidential elections. However, a Presidential Order of July
        2006 rescinded a significant number of the measures adopted under the law and
        restored the quasi-monopoly of SONATRACH in the hydrocarbons upstream,
        transport, and refining sectors, among others, and reduced the autonomy of the
        sector's agencies (ARH and ANALFT). This amendment introduced significant
        changes to the planned content of hydrocarbons reform.

Electricity

a.      The legislative and institutional framework outlined in the reform program has
        been implemented in this subsector via the promulgation of the electricity law and
        the establishment of the regulatory agency (CREG). This marks a significant step
        in the reform process.

b.      An important and necessary step for the establishment of a competitive electricity
        market has been taken with the restructuring of SONELGAZ and the creation of
        subsidiaries in generation, transport, and distribution of electric power. However,
        this marks an intermediate step and the success of electricity sector reform will
        depend heavily on how subsequent phases are carried out.                To date, all
        SONELGAZ subsidiaries are controlled by a holding, a situation that can
        perpetuate a monopolistic structure in the sector and undermine all the reform



                                              16

        agenda in the electricity sector.     Furthermore, SONELGAZ is engaging, or
        intends to engage, in non-core areas (telecommunications, etc.)

c.      Significant power generation capacities are being created but SONELGAZ
        continues to be the key player in this area, either directly or indirectly, through
        AEC, a subsidiary of SONATRACH and SONELGAZ.                          In fact, with the
        exception of one project (Hadjret Ennous), the entire generation system will be
        controlled by SONELGAZ by 2010. The sector will continue to be dominated by
        a single player, no electricity market has yet been established and no market
        operator has been established. The objective established in 2002 of opening 30
        percent of the electricity market to "eligible" clients three years after
        promulgation of the electricity law has not been achieved.

Mining

a.      The reform process is most advanced in this sector. The basic law has been
        promulgated and the specialized agencies (ANPM and ANGCM) were established
        from the start of the reform process. Most of the secondary legislation has been
        enacted. Privatization of the entities in the sector (ENOR, for example) was
        handled efficiently and this approach is bearing fruit. The award of mining titles
        took place in accordance with the regulations and in a transparent and diligent
        manner. As a result, there was a significant relative increase in private sector
        participation.

b.      However, the geological database, an essential tool for the functioning of
        ANGCM, has not yet been set up and neither the ANGCM nor the ANPM are
        fully operational.

3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

N/A: This being a technical assistance loan, no cost-benefit analysis was done at
appraisal

About US$5 million have been canceled (out of US$18 million) because a number of
activities could not be carried out before the closing date of the project or were financed
out of own resources. The most important of these activities are the data bank for
ALNAFT, the petroleum contracting agency, and the market system operator for the
electricity sector financed by SONELGAZ' own funds.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating:

The overall rating of the project is moderately unsatisfactory (MU).



                                             17

a.       The legal and institutional foundation underlying reform of the sector has been
         established. This is an important phase inasmuch as it lends a certain degree of
         permanence to the process. Reform concepts and principles in the mining and
         electricity areas in particular have now been assimilated by the actors.
         Institutions are beginning to function in accordance with these concepts and
         principles. The systematic use of competitive bidding in particular has made
         commercial transactions transparent. Compared to the starting point, the current
         situation represents a significant change.

b.       However, As already noted in Section 3.2 above, there are also significant
         shortcomings in the subsectoral achievement of objectives:

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Impact on Poverty

The project had an on the economy as a whole, and on poverty through indirect channels,
particularly through job creation in areas and skills where the poor has a comparative
advantage (mining and construction of power stations, transmission and distribution lines,
etc). In addition, the new resources generated by the petroleum, electricity and mining
sectors could be used for poverty alleviations efforts by the government through the
budget process.

(b) Institutional Capacity
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

Significant progress has been made with measures adopted in the institutional framework.
In the mining sector, this progress is likely to be sustainable and, to the extent that the
instruments available to the new institutions become more efficient, institutional capacity
capable of leading to progress would have been created. In the electricity and
hydrocarbons sector, the scope of institutional capacity generated will depend largely on
the subsequent phases, if any, of the reform process.

(c) Other Unexpected Outcomes and Impacts

3.6.     Outcome of workshops

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)
The participants of the workshop (held in Algiers on December 10, 2007) agreed on
several points: the importance of the efforts to change the institutional framework, the
ambition and optimism in setting the reform agenda and schedule, the insufficient
training effort and changes in attitudes and behaviors required by the new models in the
energy and mining sectors and, in hindsight, the possible appropriateness of the Technical
Reimbursable Assistance (TRA) instrument for such an operation. There was however a
lack of consensus on key points such as:




                                                18

       The institutional measures are necessary but not sufficient to ensure the success of
       the reform and the risk that the reform could be considered completed once the
       institutional measures have been implemented;

       The impact of a favorable change in the overall country financial position over the
       course of the reform agenda and the risk that this may diminish or eliminate the
       pressure for carrying the reform agenda to its conclusion;

    · Overoptimistic objectives and schedule may reduce the capacity to manage and
       control the reform process.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating:
The situation is different for each sector.

4.1    The mining sector

The risk is negligible. The key phases of reform have been completed with the opening
of mining activities to private investment, the establishment of agencies (ANPM and
ANGCM), and the development of secondary regulations that provide clarification as
well as a frame of reference for the functioning of the sector. The results already
achieved have been both positive and visible, and future progress will entail the
enhancement of institutional efficiency (strengthening of human resources, development
of management instruments, etc.). Consequently, the risk that the results already
achieved will be eroded or that further progress will not be made is minimal.

4.2.   The electricity sector

The risk is significant. The situation is quite different in this sector. Subsequent phases
will play a decisive role in the success of the reform effort. The prevailing situation can
be described as follows: (i) a long-standing operator continues to have a monopoly owing
to the control exercised by the holding over its subsidiaries; (ii) generation capacity of
newly established enterprises has increased significantly; however, with the exception of
a lone private operator, these enterprises remain under the direct or indirect control of
SONELGAZ; (iii) a regulatory commission is in the launching phase and is operating in a
general environment that is unfamiliar with the functioning of regulatory entities in a
completely autonomous and independent fashion; (iv) relations between SONELGAZ,
the monopoly, and the regulatory agency have not yet stabilized; and (v) Algeria is in a
very comfortable financial situation; as a result, Algerian public banks are in a position to
finance all investments in the sector, a situation that is not conducive to seeking private
investors.

This situation may very well derail the reform envisioned. The current monopoly may
remain in place while the plethora of legally distinct operators may create the illusion of
greater fragmentation in the production market and thus of greater possibilities for the
development of a more competitive market. However, the control of all these operators



                                             19

by a main shareholder (SONELGAZ) may eliminate any effective form of competition in
the generation process. Furthermore, given that SONELGAZ is also the sole shareholder
of the transport network and distribution companies, the entire new institutional structure
put in place will amount to a mere internal reorganization of a long-standing monopoly.
The electricity market will not end up being more competitive. Both the regulatory
function and institution will face a heightened risk of being controlled by a public
authority and/or dominated by the all-powerful monopoly controlling almost the entire
sector. Such a scenario would represent the failure of the reform process.

4.3.     The hydrocarbons sector

The risk is high . This sector is now moving in a direction different from the one
                      3

envisioned when the project was started. The 2006 amendment to the hydrocarbons law
introduced sweeping change to the model that was to be used for the functioning of the
hydrocarbons sector.

Of particular significance is the change in the role of SONATRACH, which was
supposed to become a purely commercial company but instead has become the
instrument of energy and industrial policy in Algeria. SONATRACH, which is awash in
financial resources owing to the surge in oil prices on the international market, has a pool
of managers and officials that is unrivalled in Algeria. It also acquired well-recognized
expertise in the area of international negotiations and has become the preferred
instrument for the development effort of the government. This key role is evident in the
upstream hydrocarbons sector, transport, and refining (August 2006 Order which
guarantees SONATRACH majority shares in any company involved in this area).
SONATRACH is involved in power generation either through its subsidiary AEC (which
is also a subsidiary of SONELGAZ or directly through its equity investments).
SONATRACH is also involved in the water sector (through its subsidiary, the AEC), and
is also a buyer of water produced through the desalination of sea water, which makes it
possible to offer SONATRACH financial backing as a guarantor for private investors and
to subsidize the sale of this desalinated water. SONATRACH is also a sponsor of the
extensive iron ore deposits in Gara Djebilet, and remains a key player in the development
of petrochemicals, which calls for public participation in order to capture a significant
portion of the surplus generated by the difference between the price of natural gas on the
domestic market and the international market.(see para. 2.1 c above)

In an environment characterized by easy access to financing, inadequate management
capacity, significant distortions in the pricing system and, more generally, a business
environment that leaves much room for improvement, the approach chosen is meant to be




3        The development outcome to which the risk has been assessed is the one upon which the project hydrocarbon
component has been based when it was appraised in 2001 (the development outcome had not been changed over the
project implementation period). Such an assessment does not entail any judgment upon the policy change brought by
the amendment to the hydrocarbon law in 2006.




                                                      20

a pragmatic and effective response to development challenges, but is one that is totally at
odds with the objectives and spirit of the reform envisioned in the context of this project.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance:
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry (i.e., performance through lending
phase)
Rating: This is judged moderately satisfactory (MS) for the following reasons:

a.      The Bank made a major effort to support a strongly reformist Minister of Energy
with technical assistance to underpin the reform program. Perhaps, more important than
the technical assistance itself was the signal of the Bank's engagement and support. The
team followed the reform model adopted by the Bank and applied to several Latin
American countries, including Bolivia, Ecuador and Peru, among others. Today, this
model may need revisiting to take into account several developments that have taken
place with what appears like a sustained rise in oil prices such as the reform policies to be
adopted by oil and gas rich countries not facing a financial constraint to reform.

b.      Nevertheless, during project preparation, a number of factors could have been
discussed in more detail with the Algerian Government, in particular the policy for
setting natural gas tariffs on the domestic market, the reorganization of SONELGAZ and
the development of a wholesale market, and the development of safeguards aimed at
avoiding the repetition of monopoly situations.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory (MU)
        When the project started, the Bank team provided extensive comments on the
        reform program (draft laws, reform models in the electricity, hydrocarbon and
        mining sectors), advised about the risks of maintaining a monopolistic structure in
        the electricity sector and warned against the overoptimistic approach for
        developing the 2000 MW project, The Bank team spent a considerable amount of
        time in assisting the implementing agencies and the PMU in preparing terms of
        reference for the key consultancies, explaining Bank procurement procedures and
        reviewing bidding packages,
        The supervision missions should have nevertheless raised a red flag whenever the
        dialogue was difficult or in threat of going off-track and the political will to
        reform was waning. The ISR ratings should have been more severe especially
        after the amendment of the petroleum law in July 2006. The decision to amend
        the hydrocarbon law was taken by the Algerian government. It did not consult the
        Bank in anyway. The Bank has therefore had no opportunity to engage in any
        dialogue on the future of the hydrocarbon sector in a context of high and rising oil
        prices. In essence, as the political momentum of reform declined, supervision of
        substantive issues also declined. The supervision team should have signaled this
        evolution more forcefully in ISRs and aide-memoires.


                                                21

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory. see 5.1 (a) and 5.1 (b) above

5.2.    Borrower Performance.

a) Borrower Performance

This has been judged moderately unsatisfactory (MU) for the following reasons:

    · The political will to implement energy sector reform did exist at the time of
        project startup, as evidenced in particular by the promulgation of the highly
        controversial hydrocarbons law in 2005. However, this political will weakened,
        particularly in the case of the hydrocarbons sector. As a result, an operating
        model for the sector that was different from the one initially envisioned in the
        project context was implemented via the amendment of the 2006 hydrocarbons
        law.

    · Efforts targeting outreach, transparency, and awareness building in the definition
        and implementation of this reform have certainly been among the most far-
        reaching ever undertaken in Algeria with respect to this type of reform. However,
        at the same time, training efforts have not kept pace with projected changes.
        Consequently and by way of example, no far-reaching activities have been
        undertaken to communicate to senior officials in the electricity sector all the
        methods of functioning of the electricity market, as described in the reform law.          4



    · Decision-making processes have, in general, been protracted (for example the
        appointment of officials of the specialized agencies) and administrative
        procedures (procurement-related) are often cumbersome. Significant ambiguities
        and uncertainties related to key aspects of the reform have not been addressed,
        such as the true scope of the autonomy of regulatory agencies, competition in the
        electricity markets and the reform of the petroleum sector downstream.

b) Implementing Agency Performance

This has been rated Moderately Unsatisfactory (MU) because of the following reason


    · The Project Management Unit (PMU) played an important role in handling
        project-related administrative matters (procurement, contract management,
        progress reports, etc.). However, the PMU acted more like a go-in-between


4                 The Algerian authorities have, for example, decided not to hold an important seminar
        aimed at deepening knowledge about and providing training on the projected functioning of the
        electricity market (the cost was considered excessive).




                                                    22

        between the Bank and the agencies in the sector involved in the reform process
        (SONATRACH, SONELGAZ, CREG, AFNAFT, ARH, ANPM and ANGCM).
        It did not have the capacity or the authority to address substantive issues. This
        has hampered the dialogue as it was approached piecemeal with each agency.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory. see 5.2 (a) and 5.2 (b) above


6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

These lessons revolve around the following points:

a.      Institutional measures do not, in and of themselves, ensure implementation of
        reform in keeping with its objectives. For example, while the restructuring of
        SONELGAZ is necessary, it does not by itself create the market and competition
        in the electricity sector. Similarly, the establishment of regulatory agencies does
        not guarantee the desired decoupling, a priori, of economic and political
        approaches. For example, during the summer of 2007, government discussions
        were held to review electricity tariffs. As a result, CREG was stripped of one of
        its key functions, namely the capacity to set tariffs based on an economic
        approach that was different from the political approach. The excessive attention
        paid to the mechanics of institutional measures (for example, the establishment of
        agencies), without there being a candid and clear application of the principles
        driving these institutional measures may have hidden from view the true objective
        of the reform.

b.      The ambitious approach adopted in determining objectives and the schedule is a
        double-edged sword. Without a doubt, it can generate enthusiasm and serve as a
        catalyst for action; however, this approach can render illusive any notion of
        gradualism, realism, and schedule. In the interest of speed, essential steps were
        overlooked, particularly in the case of activity preparation (for example,
        feasibility studies on the 2000 MW project were bypassed owing to the
        implementation schedule selected).        These shortcomings are found in the
        implementation phase. Effectiveness and assessments become very difficult and
        some control over the implementation phase is lost.

c.      The development of the human resources and expertise required to create an
        environment of reform and to help new institutions function in this
        environment must be addressed when the project is designed and activities are
        outlined. This point should be discussed in detail during project preparation.
        Specific training components with the appropriate budgets must be included in the
        project, implementation of project activities must be linked to training (for
        example, specialized agencies can function in "shadow mode"), and if necessary,




                                              23

        training institutions can be included in the project in order to develop and provide
        training modules.

d.      A comprehensive assessment is necessary to determine the merits of applying
        reform models that have been developed for liberalized economies, whose
        governance, judicial system and, more generally, operations have been
        "stabilized," to transition economies that are functioning in a "second-best"
        environment. For example, in instances where the legal system is not yet well
        established, the creation of an "autonomous" regulatory commission (the
        autonomy of which can never be guaranteed) is not necessarily the best solution.

e.      Adaptability and change are necessary in an evolving environment. Changes in
        overall environment do impact on the reform models that country clients are
        ready to implement. Paying proper attention to these changes and anticipating
        their effect on country clients should be a key part of Bank's work. More
        specifically, there may be a need to review the reform models applied to the
        hydrocarbon sector and assess whether the Bank has a convincing reform model
        for the hydrocarbon sector for countries with relatively large-scale reserves and
        low exploration and production costs in a high price environment.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
Comments by the borrower mainly dealt with disputing certain facts such as the
monopoly of SONELGAZ over the renewal of its generation equipment, the privatization
of ENOR. These factual comments, whenever justified, have been taken into account in
this version of the ICR.        Other comments by the borrower reflect a difference of
appreciation of certain key aspects of the reform. For example, the 2000 MW power
project was seen as ambitious but realistic, even though it did not materialize. The
amendment to the hydrocarbon law is simply seen as a simple « adjustment » not
fundamentally changing the initial objectives of the reform as far as SONATRACH is
concerned. They also do not agree that the autonomy of the entities of the sector
(ALNAFT and ARH) has been significantly reduced. Finally, the objectives are seen as
having been globally achieved. This in turn translates into the borrower appreciation that
its performance has been satisfactory. However, the borrower judges that the Bank teams
have lacked availability and proactivity, which may relate to delays in procurement
approvals and other procedural issues.

(b) Cofinanciers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                             24

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                 Appraisal Estimate    Actual/Latest
          Components                                                      Percentage of
                                    (USD millions)    Estimate (USD
                                                       millions) (1)       Appraisal

(A) HYDROCARBONS-
LEG.&INST.F/WORK&SETUP                    7.55               3.69              49

(B) ELECTRICITY-LEG.,
INST.F/WORK&SETUP                         5.75               3.51              61

(C) MINING-POLICY,
LEG.?.F/WORK ETC.                         4.22               5.45             129

(D) PMU                                   0.30               0.30             100
(E) ADMIN. FEES, CUSTOM
DUTIES & TAXES                            4.18               4.00              96

             Total Project Costs         22.00               16.95

(1) Of the US$18 of the Bank loan, US$5.05 were undisbursed


(b) Financing
                                                    Appraisal Actual/Latest

          Source of Funds              Type of      Estimate      Estimate  Percentage of
                                     Cofinancing      (USD          (USD      Appraisal
                                                    millions)     millions)
Borrower                                          4.18         4.00         96
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development                                   18.00        12.95        72




                                            25

Annex 2. Outputs by Component


Component           Output
Hydrocarbons        · Draft Hydrocarbon Law
                    · Separation of roles
                    · Secondary legislation
                    · Contract management and promotion agency (set up and
                      initial operation)
                    · Regulatory agency set up and operational
Electricity         · Legal framework
                    · Establishment of the electricity and natural gas distribution
                      regulatory commission
                    · Development and implementation of training programs
                    · Restructuring of Sonelgaz and creation of separate
                      corporatized entities
                    · Agreement between Government of Algeria and private
                      parties for the development of the 2000 MW project

Mining              · Completion of the regulatory framework and operative
                      procedures
                    · Workshops and seminars
                    · Regulatory agency and information systems set up and
                      operational
                    · State owned enterprises restructured

Project
Management Unit
(PMU)




                                      26

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

Not Applicable




                                        27

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes



(a) Task Team members

           Names                        Title                Unit      Responsibility/
                                                                         Specialty
Lending
Zoubeida Ladhibi-Belk    Energy Sector Manager,            MNSID Team Leader
Eleodoro Mayorga Alba    Sr. Petroleum Economist           COCPO
Djamal Mostefai          Lead Energy Specialist            SASEG
Gotthard Walser          Sr. Mining Specialist             CMNPO
Hannachi Morsli          Pr. Petroleum Engineer            COCPO
Ralf Dickel              Sr. Gas Specialist                COCPO
Hartwin Nickel           Fin. Management Specialist        Consult.
Hocine Chalal            Environmental Specialist          Consult.
Mohammed Bekhechi        Sr. Counsel                       LEGOP
Dominique Bichara        Counsel                           LEGOP
Mohammed Al-Sheikh       Counsel                           LEGOP
Thu Ha Nguyen            Sr. Disbursement Officer          LOAEL
Radia Lalouani           Procurement Analyst               MNSID
Blanche E. Williams      Program Assistant                 MNSID
Brigitte Prophete        Program Assistant                 MNSID
Supervision/ICR
Radia Benamghar-Lalouani Procurement Analyst                MNAPR
Dominique M. Dietrich    Language Program Assistant         MNSSD
Sophie Marie-Odile
Jablonski                Junior Professional Associate       MNSIF

Angeline Mani            Language Program Assistant         MNSSD
Eleodoro O. Mayorga Alba Coordinator                        COCPO
Gotthard Walser          Lead Mining Specialist             COCPO



(b) Staff Time and Cost

                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                     No. of staff weeks     USD Thousands (including
                                                            travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY00                                       34                        231.79
  FY01                                       50                        309.00
  FY02                                        5                         13.89
  FY03                                                                   0.00
  FY04                                                                   0.00
  FY05                                                                   0.00
  FY06                                                                   0.00


                                         28

 FY07                                 0.00
 FY08                                 0.00
                   Total:     89    554.68
Supervision/ICR
 FY00                                 0.00
 FY01                         18     76.95
 FY02                         31    145.70
 FY03                         28    155.04
 FY04                         20    104.74
 FY05                         27    124.34
 FY06                         35    180.55
 FY07                         10     77.95
 FY08 (Estimate)               4     35.0
                   Total:    170    882.87




                            29

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)

Not applicable.




                                    30

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

The stakeholders' workshop held in Algiers on December 10, 2007 to draw lessons from
the implementation of the EMTAL project attracted representatives of all official
agencies and institutions of the Algerian energy sector. The objective of the workshop
was less to reach a consensus than to exchange ideas on key aspects of the EMTAL
project, namely: (i) The role of institutions in the reform process; (ii) The impact of the
national economic context on the implementation of the reforms; (iii) The setting of
ambitious objectives and their achievement, (iv) Training; and (v) Was a loan the most
appropriate Bank instrument for supporting the reforms?

During the discussion, the following points emerged :

   a. All participants recognized the importance of the work accomplished in the
       creation of new institutions in the energy sector. New institutions are an integral
       part of reforms and are a necessary condition for their success. A broad agreement
       however proved elusive when the workshop dealt with the achievement of
       substantive project objectives such as a clearer definition of the role of the state
       and the separation between policy, regulatory and economic/commercial roles of
       state enterprises, the development of competitive markets and the increased
       involvement of the private sector. Some participants argued that these objectives
       were only partially reached and that the institutional measures taken, while
       necessary, were not sufficient to ensure the success of reforms. Other participants
       felt, on the contrary, that the objectives were achieved and even, against all
       evidence, that competitive markets have been created. Some participants thought
       that there is a risk that the reforms will stop at the establishment of institutions.
       Participants also discussed what should be done beyond that and singled out the
       forming of a professional culture common to all stakeholders in the energy sector
       and the necessity of making progress on reforms in other sectors as well (banking
       and finance and local administration, for example).

   b. The participants acknowledged that the context in which the reforms took place
       has markedly changed with the rapid rise in oil prices and financial resources
       available. The difficulty of attracting private investment and the lesser need for it
       in the current context and the unmet basic needs of the population, have led to the
       country's continuous reliance on public investment and on public enterprises as a
       means of delivery. Several participants have noted the need to look at each sector
       separately. In the mining sector, for example, private sector participation has
       steadily increased. Some participants have therefore asked whether in the absence
       of a need for private funding in the context of significant public financial
       resources, there is a danger that the reforms will stall or be rolled back

   c. The participants thought that the objectives and the schedule of implementation of
       reforms have, overall, been ambitious. They again raised attention to the need to
       look at each sector separately. In the mining sector, where the changes induced


                                             31

   by the reforms was less encompassing than that of other sectors (hydrocarbons
   and electric power), the objectives were substantially achieved. In the case of
   electricity, the ambition was in the complexity of the measures contemplated, the
   schedule of implementation and the scope of the changes foreseen. In the case of
   hydrocarbons, the near complete abandonment of the existing operating sector
   model was, in view of its political dimensions, a major challenge. In spite of this,
   a majority of participants stated that ambitious objectives were necessary to create
   a dynamic process to carry through the reforms even though it was not possible to
   achieve all objectives in the time frame set by the project.

d. The majority of participants have acknowledged that the training effort has been
  largely insufficient with regard to the changes brought about by the reforms
  supported by the project. Participants also pointed out that in the absence of a
  new common professional culture attuned to reforms not only in the energy sector
  but in sectors closely associated to it as well (e.g. Finances), there is a danger that
  old behaviors and attitudes, built during years of command and control economy
  will again resurface and prevail. Participants have therefore insisted that in this
  type of project, training should be given an absolute priority and the necessary
  financial, human and organizational resources allocated to it.

e. The last question discussed had to do with the alternative Bank instrument that
   could have been used instead of a classic loan. Participants recognized that the
   Reimbursable Technical Assistance (RTA) instrument could have been used to
   support the reforms in the energy sector. The objective sought by Algeria was not
   financial. It was rather a need for Bank experience with similar reforms in the
   world and particularly in Latin America. With hindsight and given the costs
   incurred by Algeria and the Bank, the participants expressed the view that an
   RTA could have been an interesting alternative to a loan.




                                         32

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

     A.       Summary of Borrower's ICR

                             MINISTERE DE L'ENERGIE ET DES MINES

                                      Cellule de Gestion de Projet

                           Projet d'assistance technique dans les secteurs
                                      de l'Energie et des Mines

                                            BIRD AL- 7048

                                  Rapport d'achèvement du projet



1) Rappels des objectifs du projet EMTAL :

Le projet Energy and Mining Technical Assistance Loan (EMTAL) se proposait d'assister le
Ministère de l'Energie et des Mines (MEM) à la mise en place des réformes du Gouvernement
dans le secteur de l'Energie et des Mines. Il devait contribuer à :

 · la séparation entre le rôle de l'Etat régulateur, propriétaire du domaine minier et promoteur
      des investissements du rôle des entreprises afin de permettre à ces dernières de jouer
      pleinement leur rôle en tant qu'entités commerciales ;
 · le développement et la mise en place d'un cadre juridique et institutionnel propice au
      développement de mécanismes de marché, à une concurrence accrue et à la participation
      du secteur privé ;
 · l'amélioration de l'efficacité des services et de l'accès à l'énergie tout en améliorant l'efficacité
      énergétique et les normes environnementales ;
 · l'appui aux entreprises du secteur pour qu'elles puissent s'adapter aux réformes sectorielles
      et au nouvel environnement économique.

Il s'agit de mettre en place les conditions nécessaires à l'adaptation du secteur de l'énergie et des
mines aux conditions de fonctionnement d'une économie de marché libre, ouverte et
compétitive : consacrer à l'Etat son rôle de propriétaire du domaine minier, de promoteur de
l'investissement et de protecteur de l'intérêt général, accélérer et promouvoir une participation
plus grande et plus diversifiée du secteur privé dans le secteur de l'énergie et des mines et
protéger l'environnement.
Ceci notamment par la mise en place d'un nouveau cadre juridique, réglementaire et
institutionnel

C'est ainsi que les principaux objectifs visés par composante étaient les suivants:

A) Secteur des Mines :

   1- Conception et mise en place du cadre juridique, réglementaire pour le secteur des mines
       conformément à la stratégie de réforme du secteur visant l'établissement de la
       concurrence dans les activités minières.
   2-   Conception et mise en place du cadre institutionnel pour gérer, dans la transparence,
       l'équité, l'efficacité et le respect de l'environnement, le domaine minier dans ses
       composantes de titres miniers, de prospective, de législation, d'information et contrôle
   3- Conception et mise en place d'un programme de promotion des substances minérales, en
       vue de partenariats et de participation directe des investissements privés aux activités
       minières




                                                   33

  4- Assistance aux entreprises publiques minières pour leur adaptation au cadre de la réforme
       du secteur minier.
  5- Indentification et réalisation de programmes de formation pour le personnel concerné des
       agences et de l'administration centrale des Mines

B) Secteur des hydrocarbures :

1- Conception et mise en place du cadre juridique réglementaire et institutionnel pour le secteur
    des hydrocarbures conformément à la stratégie de réforme dudit secteur définie dans le
    programme, y compris l'élaboration de politiques et réglementations environnementales
    appropriées pour ledit secteur
2- Création, mise en place et appui au fonctionnement d'une agence de gestion et de promotion
    des marchés, y compris une banque de données conforme aux règles de l'art.
3- Création, mise en place et appui au fonctionnement d'un organe de régulation autonome.
4- Indentification et réalisation de programmes de formation pour le personnel concerné.



C) Secteur de l'électricité :

1. Conception et mise en place d'un cadre juridique, réglementaire et institutionnel pour
    l'électricité et la distribution du gaz naturel par canalisation, conformément à la stratégie de
    réforme dudit secteur, y compris l'élaboration de politiques et réglementations
    environnementales appropriés pour ledit secteur sur la base d'Evaluation Environnementale
    Sectorielles.
2. Création, mise en place et appui au fonctionnement d'un organe de régulation autonome,
    d'un opérateur de système et d'un opérateur intervenant sur le marché.
3. Mise en oeuvre du programme de restructuration et de réforme du secteur de l'électricité et
    de la réorganisation de Sonelgaz.
4. Lancement du premier programme de production d'électricité avec la participation du secteur
    privé.
5. Indentification et réalisation de programmes pour le personnel concerné.

2) Rappels des Indicateurs clés de performances :

Le suivi des progrès dans la réalisation des objectifs de développement se fait sur la base de :

    -    niveau d'achèvement du cadre réglementaire et des procédures de fonctionnement des
         institutions et leurs outils
    -    niveau de participation du secteur privé,
    -    amélioration de l'efficacité des entreprises réorganisées : audit des entreprises du
         secteur des mines, évaluation technique et économique de l'ENOR en vue d'un
         partenariat et restructuration de l'ORGM,
    -    augmentation des recettes de l'Etat retirées du secteur,
    -    réduction des subventions aux entreprises,
    -    niveau de communication, en Algérie, par des ateliers et des séminaires pour
         l'explication des nouveaux cadres juridique, réglementaire et institutionnel vers les
         investisseurs et opérateurs et autres parties prenantes, et à l'étranger, par des actions
         d'explication et d'information sur les avantages du nouveau cadre juridique minier en
         Algérie.
    -    Conception, mise en place et démarrage de l'agence ALNAFT (gestion et de promotion
         des contrats) y compris une Banque de Données.
    -    Conception, mise en place et démarrage de l'ARH (Régulation)
    -    Création de la Commission de régulation de l'électricité et de la distribution du gaz
         naturel par canalisation
    -    Réorganisation de Sonelgaz et création d'entités commerciales distinctes




                                                   34

    -    Accord entre le Gouvernement Algérien et les opérateurs privés pour le développement
         du projet 2000 MW
    -    Formation du personnel concerné

3) Exécution du projet :
Les réalisations sont traduites par des mises en place d'institutions et d'instruments et outils,
issus de plusieurs études, qui sont les suivantes :

    A) Volet Mines :
Le projet EMTAL a permis, pour le volet Mines, avec l'appui des consultants, nationaux et
étrangers, spécialisés et sélectionnés, de réaliser des travaux et des études qui ont concerné :
    -    La révision totale de la loi minière et la production de ses textes d'applications, une étude
         sur la compétitivité légale et fiscale, la confection d'un code minier (recueil des textes
         législatif et réglementaires relatifs aux activités minières), ainsi que l'examen et la
         production d'éléments et recommandations concernant la protection de l'environnement
         liée aux activités minières dans le cadre de l'étude environnementale sectorielle des
         mines
    -    La conception de l'architecture, des missions et de l'organisation ainsi que de la mise en
         place des institutions minières, comprenant les deux nouvelles agences minières (ANPM
         et ANGCM) sur la base d'une étude institutionnelle et l'appui à la définition des missions
         et moyens de l'administration centrale des Mines sur la base d'une étude d'appui à DGM.

    A partir de l'étude institutionnelle, il a pu être réalisé la définition et l'acquisition
    d'équipements informatiques pour les systèmes SIG pour les deux agences. Il a, aussi, été
    réalisé la conception et la mise en place d'outils pour les agences, sur la base des études
    concernant le cadastre minier SICMA et un prototype de portail pour les données
    géologiques et minières/SIGM. De même qu'une étude a été lancée, en dehors du
    financement du projet EMTAL, pour la mise de la banque de données géologiques et
    minières ; cette étude est encore en cours
    -    La participation à des évènements miniers internationaux et nationaux, l'organisation
         (hors du financement du projet EMTAL) d'une conférence internationale sur les
         ressources minérales de l'Algérie « CIRMA 1 », et une étude d'évaluation du potentiel
         minéral, ont

         permis de lancer la promotion en vue de partenariats pour le développement des activités
         minières
    -    La mise à niveau des entreprises publiques et le désengagement de l'Etat de la sphère
         économique ont été appuyés par deux études d'appui à la restructuration et
         transformation de l'ORGM et une étude pour l'ENOR (étude qui n'a pu être finalisée du
         fait du consultant)
    -    Des formations techniques ont accompagné certaines de ces études pour la gestion des
         systèmes d'informations et des outils des agences. Des regroupements régionaux, avec
         les Directions des Mines et de l'Industrie et certains opérateurs miniers, ont permis
         d'entamer le processus d'explication et de vulgarisation du nouveau contexte législatif,
         institutionnel et économique des mines ; à signaler que ces regroupements ont été
         financés par les fonds propres du secteur.

Il est à noter que certaines actions programmées n'ont pu être réalisées, telles :

    -    L'étude d'appui au Service Géologique National,
    -    la conception et la mise en place des systèmes d'information et de gestion du contrôle
         environnemental (SIGE) et du contrôle technique minier (SICOM),
    -    L'étude portant code algérien de report des résultats de l'exploitation minière des
         ressources et réserves minières (équivalence de terminologie des réserves et ressources
         minières utilisée en Algérie avec celles utilisées à l'international)

B) Volet Hydrocarbures :




                                                    35

   1.  Projets de Conception et mise en place de l'agence de régulation et de l'agence de
       contrats pour le secteur des hydrocarbures.
   2.  Réforme du secteur pétrolier aval
   3.  Elaboration de la loi sur les hydrocarbures et des paramètres fiscaux y afférents
   4.  Etude sur la tarification transport et le libre accès au réseau de transport par pipeline
   5.  Quelques actions de formations ont été réalisées.

   Les actions ci après décrites ont été programmées dans le cadre du projet de réforme du
   secteur des Hydrocarbures et n'ont pu être réalisées :
      -    Création de la banque de données ALNAFT : l'appel d'offre lancé conformément aux
           procédures et dossiers types de la BIRD a abouti à l'attribution du marché au cabinet
           Schlumberger. Etant donné d'une part, la réserve formulée par la Commission
           Nationale des Marché Publics à savoir obtenir une prorogation         de la date de clôture
           du projet EMTAL pour donner son visa sur le contrat BDN et, d'autre part le refus de la
           BIRD de proroger les délais du projet EMTAL, la Création d'une Banque de Donnée
           Nationale sera réalisée sur les fonds propre d'ALNAFT.
      -    Etude portant sur l'évaluation de la réglementation Environnementale, analyse des
           besoins en matière d'actualisation du cadre réglementaire relatif à la protection de
           l'environnement dans le secteur des Hydrocarbures
      -    Etude portant système de contrôle et réglementation,
      -    Etude sur la prise en charge des aspects liés au contrôle technique des activités

C) Volet Electricité : La majorité des actions prévues dans le cadre du plan d'exécution du
projet pour la composante électricité ont été réalisées :
     1. Etudes de Conception et mise en place d'une commission de régulation de l'électricité et
         du gaz.
     2. Etudes de Réorganisation du secteur de l'électricité et du gaz
     3. Projet portant Assistance internationale technique, juridique et financière pour le « projet
         2000 MW »
     4. Quelques actions de formations ont été réalisées.

Les actions suivantes programmées sur le projet, n'ont pu être réalisées :

- l'étude sur la mise en place s'un opérateur marché : une étude sur la mise en place d'un
opérateur marché a été lancée par Sonelgaz
- le projet 2000 MW, dont la faisabilité et le financement sont en cours de négociations.

4) Evaluation de la réalisation du projet :

Malgré le retard enregistré dans la mise en place de certains instruments et,          bien qu'il reste
encore des actions inscrites dans le cadre des objectifs assignés mais non encore réalisées, les
objectifs les plus importants de la réforme ont été réalisés :

                      i.     Volet Mines :

Dans l'ensemble, le niveau de mise en place des réformes est satisfaisant car :




     - la loi minière qui édicte les principes de transparence, d'équité, de séparation claire des
         rôles de l'Etat, régulateur, et des opérateurs, commerçants, des avantages fiscaux, de la
         protection de l'environnement, et ses textes d'application sont publiés (cf annexe).
         L'éventail des textes réglementaires, existant, couvre globalement les besoins, et les
         textes qui resteraient porteraient sur des précisions de certains points de la loi minière
         d'une part, et d'autre part sur des instrumentations de détail, qui pourraient avoir une



                                                     36

   importance (certaines recommandations des consultants, notamment dans le cadre des
   études sur la compétitivité légale, l'étude d'appui à l'administration centrale chargée des
   Mines et l'étude environnementale sectorielle, peuvent servir à identifier les compléments
   de textes réglementaire à émettre).
-  les agences minières et l'administration centrale des mines, avec les rôles dévolus à chacun, sont
   mises en place et en phase de développement, avec une majeure partie de
  leurs outils, le système cadastral, le portail SIGM et les bases de données. Bien qu'une partie des
   outils ne soient pas encore conçus ou opérationnels, la projection est de compléter ce travail de
   même que de compléter les recrutements et la formation des personnels concernés

- bien que les études d'appui aux entreprises n'aient concerné que l'ORGM et
   partiellement ENOR, il est à noter que la réorganisation de l'office a été entamée, avec
   des filialisations (pour les forages hydrogéologiques et l'activité minière) ; mais la tâche
   de réorganisation et restructuration est toujours ardue, et demande, comme dans tous
   les domaines et les pays, du temps et des efforts managériaux et parfois des soutiens
   spécifiques. Par ailleurs, L'ENOR a réalisé une action de partenariat, pour l'exploitation
   de l'or dans le Hoggar avec les australiens. De plus, sans l'apport du projet, la société de
   gestion des participations de l'Etat pour les mines ayant connu des réaménagements et
   changements de personnel d'encadrement, il n'a pu être procédé, dans le cadre du projet,
   à l'amélioration des performances des entreprises publiques. Mais les entreprises
   publiques du portefeuille de
- la SGP SOMINES ont lancé plusieurs appels d'offres pour la recherche de partenaires,
   en dehors du projet. Il est à noter, le partenariat de FERPHOS avec Mittal Steel, et la
   privatisation totale de ASMIDAL, pendant que ENAMARBRE , ENOF, et ENASEL sont
   encore à la recherche de partenaires
-  Pour la participation du secteur privé dans les mines, parmi les 2600 dossiers de
   demande de titres miniers qui ont été déclarés recevables, il a été attribué 1980
   nouveaux titres dont 900 pour la prospection et l'exploration, sur les 2027 titres détenus
   par les opérateurs miniers (y compris ceux attribués sous l'égide de l'ancienne loi), 1577
   sont détenus par des
   opérateurs privés, soit 78%, alors qu'en 2000, le secteur privé représentait 60% de
   l'activité. Il est à signaler que des activités minières anciennement fermées au secteur
   privé, lui ont été ouvertes, par la nouvelle loi minière, à savoir les substances minérales
   pour la sidérurgie, les matériaux de construction et autres substances minérales diverses
   telles le plomb, le zinc, l'or, la baryte, etc.
-  L'ORGM, qui était le seul opérateur en Algérie chargé de l'exploration, ne l'est plus car
   des titres miniers d'exploration et de prospection sont attribués aux opérateurs privés tant
   algériens qu'étrangers ; de plus, donc, il ne bénéficie plus de la subvention annuelle de
   l'Etat pour des programmes d'exploration ; il est chargé de réaliser des programmes bien
   définis sous contrat commercial avec les agences minières et/ou des opérateurs privés et
   publics,
-  Les recettes de l'Etat ont été augmentées par les recettes des opérations d'adjudication
   qui s'élèvent à environ 4 milliards de dinars ; ces revenus servent, en partie, à financer
   les budgets de fonctionnement et d'investissement des deux agences minières, le reste
   étant destiné au Trésor public et aux collectivités locales. Ces recettes sont complétées
   par les revenus de la nouvelle fiscalité minière (quote part des taxes superficiaires, frais
   de dossiers administratifs, redevances minières)
-  les explications du nouveau contexte et des règlements ont été menées, mais il reste un
   gros effort à fournir pour cette composante, vers les autres départements ministériels et
   les investisseurs
-  Les actions de formation menées ont été disparates et ont concerné plutôt des
   techniques que des aspects régulation-réglementation et des aspects management du
   secteur miner ; ce type d'actions reste à compléter, notamment par des formations de
   management et bonne gouvernance.

             B) Volet Hydrocarbures :



                                                 37

   -     Promulgation des textes réglementaires nécessaires pour l'application des dispositions
   de la loi relative aux hydrocarbures. Les textes restant concernant notamment des aspects
   organisationnels.




   - Conception et mise en place du cadre juridique, réglementaire et institutionnel régissant les
   investissements dans le secteur des hydrocarbures (loi n°05-07 du 28 avril 2005, relative aux
   hydrocarbures amendée et complétée par l'ordonnance 06-10 du 29 juillet 2005)
   - Mise en place et fonctionnement de l'Agence Nationale pour la Valorisation des Ressources
   en Hydrocarbures (ALNAFT)
   - Mise en place et fonctionnement de l'Autorité de Régulation des Hydrocarbures (ARH)
   - Quelques actions de formation ont été financées par le prêt EMTAL.


                 C) Volet Electricité :

   -    Une partie importante de la législation secondaire (les textes réglementaires d'application
        de la loi relative à l'Electricité et à la Distribution du gaz par canalisations) qui permet la
        mise en oeuvre des principaux mécanismes prévus mar la loi suscitée, est disponible
        au jourdhui (Annexe 3).
   -    Restructuration de Sonelgaz : La réorganisation de la société algérienne de l'électricité et du
        gaz SONELGAZ s'est poursuivie par la création en 2006, sous forme d'entités commerciales
        distinctes avec un statut de sociétés par actions, de l'opérateur du système électrique (OSE)
        pour la gestion du système transport-production de l'électricité et des quatre filiales
        régionales chargées de la distribution de l'électricité et du gaz (SD Alger, SD Centre, SD
        Est et SD Ouest); Cette restructuration avait déjà connu un début d'exécution en janvier
        2004, avec la mise en place des deux gestionnaires des réseaux de transport électricité
        (GRTE) et gaz (GRTG) et la société de production d'électricité (SPE).
         Il est a rappeler, que conformément a la Loi, SONELGAZ,établissement public a
   caractere
         industriel et commercial,opérateur historique,s'est transformé en société par actions en
         mai 2002.
 -    Commission de régulation de l'électricité et du gaz (CREG) : La mise en place de la
      CREG a pris un peu de temps. Cela a nécessité la réalisation d'une étude financée par
      EMTAL pour
      définir l'organisation adéquate lui permettant de mener à bien ses missions et la doter des
      premiers équipements de bureautique. La CREG, dont le comité de direction a été installé le
      24 janvier 2005, a démarré ses activités avec ces acquis. Elle poursuit la mise en oeuvre de
      son organisation en étoffant progressivement ses structures, au fur et à mesure de l'apparition
      de la législation secondaire.

C'est ainsi que dans le cadre de ses missions et attributions la CREG a eu, en particulier :

   · à traiter de demandes de réajustements des tarifs de l'électricité et du gaz, qui ont fait l'objet
        de la décision du comité de direction D/06-05/CD du 30 mai 2005 portant augmentation des
        tarifs et du rapport du 27 mai 2006 ;
   · à élaborer les deux plans indicatifs des besoins en moyens d'approvisionnement d'électricité
        et d'approvisionnement du marché national en gaz (2006-2015) ;

 -    Formation : Parallèlement, des actions de formation à l'étranger ont été engagées, avec
      l'appui du projet EMTAL, pour 12 agents (janvier et juin 2007) au niveau du «Public Utility
      Research Center»-Université de Floride. Ces actions viennent compléter celles engagées
      auprès de l'Ecole de régulation de Florence (FSR) pour 6 autres agents et de l'Institut de
      Dakar (Banque Mondiale) pour 8 cadres.
      D'autre part, des formations spécifiques de cadres sur les outils de planification ont été
      assurées. Il s'agit des formations sur les logiciels de prévisions de la demande d'électricité et



                                                   38

       de la demande gaz et sur l'utilisation de l'outil de planification des moyens de production
       d'électricité « WASPIV ».

-  Ouverture de la production d'électricité : La production d'électricité commercialisée reste
    fortement concentrée au niveau de la filiale production d'électricité du Groupe SONELGAZ qui, à
    fin 2006, détenait 85% de la capacité installée nationale ; le reste étant le fait des producteurs
    indépendants Kahrama Arzew et Sharika Kahraba Skikda (SKS).
    Il est a signaler le projet de centrale CC de 1200 MW de Hadjret Ennous ou la participation de
    l'investissement privé est majoritaire,SNC Lavallin détenant 51%.
    Le developpement des projets a participation privée : kahrama,skikda et hadjet ennous a été
    grandement facilité par les outils et instruments acquis dans le cadre de l'assistance a l'étude du
    projet 2000MW.

5) ENSEIGNEMENTS TIRES DE LA MISE EN OEUVRE DU PROJET
Il est à noter que si le diagnostic de départ pour le projet EMTAL était bien établi, et les objectifs
bien tracés, le planning n'a pu être respecté, non seulement, et évidemment, du fait que le
contexte global de l'investissement (banque, douanes, impôts et autres) n'était pas au même
niveau que le



secteur en matière d'avancement des réformes, mais aussi en raison de certaines
caractéristiques des méthodes de travail de la BIRD ; ce qui est à signaler, notamment, c'est :

    -    Les changements de chefs de projet EMTAL du côté de la BIRD (4 chefs de projets se
         sont succédés) et leur plan de charge, qui a induit un manque de disponibilité de ces
         chefs de projets et experts pour les besoins du client ; ces chefs de projets étaient aussi,
         chacun, chargé de la composante électricité et pris par des missions autres que EMTAL
    -    Dans le cursus de la passation de marché la communication a montré qu'il y avait
         souvent des incompréhensions ; ceci pourrait être dû au manque de présence des
         experts de la BIRD et à la limitation des missions de supervision à des préoccupations
         propres de la BIRD ; à signaler que très peu de ces missions ont pu concerner l'expert
         mines de la
        banque, qui était souvent pris ailleurs dans d'autres pays et ne répondait pas même aux
         courriers qui lui étaient adressés.
    -    La discordance de planning entre les dispositions de la loi minière (période transitoire) et
         la mise en place des institutions pour la prise en charge de leur prérogative
    -    La difficulté de trouver du personnel qualifié pour les nouvelles missions et tâches des
         institutions.
    -    La lourdeur de la procédure de passation de marché de la BIRD doublée, parfois, de
         conflit entre les procédures du pays et celles de la BIRD, avec fort caractère de
         contrainte pour les non objections
    -    La faiblesse de réactivité et de communication de la BIRD ; cependant les deux
         premières années les experts de la BIRD ont joué un peu le rôle de conseil et d'expertise
         (communications sur les TDR pour divers besoins, échanges d'informations sur les
         consultants et les études, etc ...), puis les relations se sont limitées à l'aspect passation
         de marchés (non objections)

En conséquence :

    -    Du fait des diverses pertes de temps, une partie du prêt n'a pas été utilisée bien que le
         pays ait payé les frais d'immobilisation et que certaines études n'aient pas été réalisées
    -    Certaines composantes n'ont pas été réalisées comme il se devait, notamment la
         formation et la diffusion de l'information concernant la réforme, et ceci étant
         apparemment dû à la non programmation par les divers intervenants au projet.




                                                  39

                                         ANNEXE n°1
                               Liste des textes réglementaires

1) Sur les mines :

·   Loi n°01-10 du 04 juillet 2001 portant sur le modèle de la convention minière
·   Décret exécutif n° 05-252 du 19 juillet 2005 ayant pour objet de fixer les modalités
    d'établissement de l'inventaire minéral et le mode de présentation du bilan annuel des
    ressources minérales et des réserves minières.
·   Décret exécutif n°05-253 du 19 juillet 2005 ayant pour objet de fixer les modalités de
    fonctionnement du dépôt légal de l'information géologique.
·   Décret n° 02- 468 du 24 décembre 2002 ayant pour objet de fixer les modalités et les
    conditions d'agrément et d'inscription d'experts en études géologiques et minières
·   Décret n° 02- 66 du 06 février 2002 ayant pour objet de fixer les modalités d'adjudication des
    titres miniers
·   Décret n° 02- 65 du 06 février 2002 ayant pour objet de fixer les modalités et procédures
    d'attribution des titres miniers
·   Décret n° 03- 199 du 03 mai 2003 ayant pour objet de fixer les modèles des cahiers des
    charges des activités minières
·   Décret n° 02- 469 du 24 décembre 2002 ayant pour objet de fixer les conditions de l'activité
    minière de ramassage, de collecte et/ou de récolte
·   Décret n° 02- 470 du 24 décembre 2002 ayant pour objet de fixer les modalités d'application
    des dispositions relatives aux autorisations d'exploitation des carrières et des sablières
·   Arrêté du 30 décembre 2002 ayant pour objet de fixer les listes des substances minérales
·   Arrêté du 26 juillet 2003 ayant pour objet de fixer la méthode de détermination de la quantité
    des substances minérales extraites
·   Décret n° 02-473 du 24 décembre 2002 ayant pour objet de fixer la forme de tenue du
    registre des substances minérales et fossiles exploitées en mer
·   Décret n° 90- 198 du 30 juin 1990 ayant pour objet de fixer la réglementation des
    substances explosives (texte fait bien avant le programme de réforme et hors projet EMTAL)
·   Décret n°99-664 portant réglementation des substances explosives (modifiant et complétant
    certaines dispositions du décret présidentiel n° 90-198)
·   Décret n°03-85 portant modèle de la convention minière
·   Décret n° 03-256 fixant la liste des équipements spécifiques exemptés de la TVA et/ou des
    droits, taxes et redevances de douanes
·   Décret n° 06-257 fixant la liste des équipements spécifiques exemptés de la TVA et/ou des
    droits, taxes et redevances de douanes (modifiant et complétant le décret n° 03-256)
·   Décret n° 03-506 fixant la procédure de transfert, à l'agence nationale de la géologie et du
    contrôle minier, des biens détenus par dotation par l'office national de la recherche
    géologique et minière pour la réalisation des missions de service public
·   Décret n° 04-190 du 10 juillet 2004 ayant pour objet de fixer les modalités d'agrément et de
    souscription au cahier des charges pour l'exercice de l'activité d'importation d'or et d'argent
    ouvrés ou non ouvrés et l'activité de recyclage des métaux précieux (ne fait pas partie du
    code minier, activité purement commerciale mise hors loi minière ; texte élaboré en dehors
    du projet EMTAL)
·   Arrêté du 06 juin 2004 ayant pour objet de fixer les conditions d'exploitation à ciel ouvert par
    dissolution des substances minérales
·   Décret n°04-93 ayant pour objet de fixer le règlement intérieur de l'agence nationale du
    patrimoine minier
·   Décret n°04-94 ayant pour objet de fixer le règlement intérieur de l'agence nationale de la
    géologie et du contrôle minier
·   Décret n°04-154 du 26 Mai 2004 ayant pour objet de fixer le système de rémunération du
    personnel de l'Agence Nationale du patrimoine Minier et de l' Agence de la Géologie et du
    Contrôle
·   Décret n°04-95 du 1 Avril 2004 ayant pour objet de fixer les règles de l'art minier



                                                40

·   Arrêté du 26 juillet 2003 ayant pour objet de fixer les conditions de production du rapport
    annuel de l'activité minière
·   Décret n° 04-104 du 5 avril 2004 ayant pour objet de fixer la création, l'organisation et le
    fonctionnement de l'école des mines d' EL ABED


·   Décret n° 04-150 du 19 mai 2004 ayant pour objet de fixer le statut spécifique de la police
    des mines
·   Arrêté du 19 mai 2004 ayant pour objet de fixer le transport et la circulation des personnes
    et des produits dans les exploitations minières souterraines
·   Arrêté du 19 mai 2004 ayant pour objet de fixer les conditions et les règles techniques
    relatives aux paramètres spécifiques miniers liés à la conduite de l' exploitation à ciel ouvert
·   Arrêté du 19 mai 2004 ayant pour objet de fixer les règles de sécurité relatives aux terrils,
    dépôts de stériles, espaces clos, silos et trémies
·   Arrêté du 19 mai 2004 ayant pour objet de fixer les conditions d'exploitation des machines
    minières
·   Arrêté du 06 juin 2004 ayant pour objet de fixer les règles de la protection contre les
    incendies souterrains
·   Arrêté du 06 juin 2004 portant sur le soutènement
·   Arrêté du 06 juin 2004 relatif à l'aérage
·   Arrêté du 19 mai 2004 portant sur l'exhaure
·   Décret n°03-105 du 5 mars 2003 ayant pour objet de fixer les modalités de fonctionnement
    du compte d'affectation 302-105 intitulé "Fonds du patrimoine public minier "
·   Décret exécutif n°05-135 du 24 avril 2005 modifiant le décret exécutif n°03-105 du 05 mars
    2003 fixant les modalités de fonctionnement du compte d'affectation spéciale n°302-105
    intitulé "Fonds du patrimoine minier"
·   Décret n°02-471 du 24 décembre 2002 ayant pour objet de fixer la répartition des revenus
    de la redevance d'extraction et de la taxe superficiaire, entre le Fonds du patrimoine public
    minier et le Fonds commun des collectivités locales, au profit des communes
·   Arrêté 29 avril 2003 ayant pour objet de fixer les modalités de paiement de tous droits,
    redevances ou pénalités
·   Décret n°02-472 du 24 décembre 2002 ayant pour objet de fixer les critères de réductions
    applicables à la redevance d'extraction

2) Sur les hydrocarbures

   -    Règles de conservation des gisements d'hydrocarbures
   -    Classification et l'inventaire périodique des ressources nationales d'hydrocarbures
   -    Comptage des hydrocarbures extraits au point de mesure
   -    Modalités d'identification et de qualification des personnes candidates à l'exercice des
        activités régies par la loi relative aux hydrocarbures
   -    Modalités d'octroi de subvention suite à une sujétion imposée par l'état.
   -    Modalités et procédures pour la détermination du prix de cession du gaz.
   -    Modalités et procédures pour la détermination du prix de vente des produites pétroliers.
   -    Rémunération du Président et des membres
   -    Statut et classification de Président, membre du CD et Secrétaire Général.
   -    Composition et fonctionnement du conseil consultatif de surveillance.
   -    Normes et standards applicables aux activités régies par la loi relative aux hydrocarbures.
   -    Montants et modalités d'application des amendes et pénalités
   -    Condition de retrait d'une concession de transport
   -    Modalités de fonctionnement de la caisse de péréquation et de compensation des tarifs
        de transport des hydrocarbures et des produits pétroliers
   -    Délimitation et classification du domaine minier en zones et définition des Périmètres de
        Prospection, de Recherche et /ou d'Exploitation
   -    Autorisation de prospection




                                                   41

   -   Procédures de mise à disposition de ALNAFT des données et résultats issus des travaux
       de prospection
   -   Délivrance des titres miniers à ALNAFT
   -   Modalités de calcul et de liquidation des droits de transfert d'intérêts dans un contrat de
       Recherche et/ou d'Exploitation des Hydrocarbures
   -   Procédure d'appel à la concurrence pour la conclusion des contrats de Recherche et/ou
       d'Exploitation des Hydrocarbures
   -   Procédure de sélection et de délimitation des périmètres de rendus, d'exploitation et de
       rétention
   -   Nature des liens de dépendance entre l'acheteur et le vendeur dans le cadre des
       contrats de vente de gaz
   -   Détermination du prix de référence du gaz naturel
   -   Détermination du pourcentage du prix du gaz naturel par rapport au prix du sahara Blend
   -   Base et méthodologie de calcul des quantités de gaz prévisionnelles nécessaires à la
       satisfaction des besoins du marché national



   -   Modalités et procédures de calcul de la taxe relative à l'utilisation, transfert ou cession de
       crédit concernant l'émission de gaz à effet de serre.
   -   Principe du libre accès du tiers, méthodologie du calcul du tarif de transport par
       canalisation par zone, l'organisation de la caisse de transport par canalisation et son
       fonctionnement
   -   Textes réglementaires relatifs aux activités de transport par canalisation
   -   Procédures d'obtention des autorisations pour la construction des ouvrages de raffinage
       et de transformation des hydrocarbures.

3) Sur l'électricité :

   Textes réglementaires disponible aujourd'hui :
   -   L'incitation à la production d'électricité à partir de systèmes de cogénération ou de
       sources d'énergie renouvelables (décret n°04-92 du 25 mars 2004) ;
   -   La régulation des tarifs et la rémunération des activités régulées de transport et de
       distribution de l'électricité et du gaz (décret n°05-182 du 18 mai 2005) ;
   -   L'ouverture de la production à la concurrence, par la fixation de la procédure d'octroi des
       autorisation d'exploiter les installations de production d'électricité, des droits et
       obligations du producteur d'électricité et de la procédure de déclaration des installations
       de production d'électricité (décret n°06-428 et 06-429 du 26 novembre 2006 ; arrêté
       ministériel du 2 avril 2007) ;
   -   L'établissement de règles techniques de conception, d'exploitation et d'entretien des
       réseaux de transport de l'électricité et du gaz (décrets n°06-430 et n°06-431 du 26
       septembre 2006), la fixation des droits et obligations du gestionnaire du transport du gaz
       (décret n°06-432 du 26 septembre 2006) et les autorisations d'exploiter les réseaux de
       transport de l'électricité et du gaz (arrêtés ministériels du 2 avril 2007) ;
   -   L'instauration d'un régime d'accès des tiers aux réseaux (décret n°07-292 du 26
       septembre 2007) ;
   -   La désignation de clients éligibles, pour une ouverture de 30% du marché de l'électricité
       et du marché intérieur du gaz par canalisations.

Textes réglementaires en cours de publication :

   -   définissant les méthodologies et outils d'élaboration des programmes indicatifs des
       besoins en moyens de production d'électricité et d'approvisionnement du marché
       national en gaz ;




                                                  42

 -   organisant le régime de la concession et définissant les règles techniques de
     raccordement et de conduite des systèmes électrique et gaziers ainsi que les conditions
     liées à la fourniture de l'énergie ;
 -   définissant les modalités de fonctionnement de la caisse de l'électricité et du gaz, chargé
     d'assurer l'uniformité des tarifs applicables aux clients captifs ;
 -   introduisant les agents commerciaux ;
 -   mettant en place l'opérateur marché.

 B.       Comments on Bank's ICR

           Observations sur le Rapport d'Achèvement du projet EMTAL élaboré
                                     par le Consultant de la Bird

Il ressort de l'examen du rapport d'achèvement du projet EMTAL, que la BIRD ne fait pas état
des efforts déployés par le MEM dans la mise en oeuvre des réformes dans les délais impartis.
Les observations du Ministère de l'Energie et des Mines sur le rapport d'achèvement se
résument comme suit, selon les paragraphes du texte soumis :

1. Contexte du Projet, Objectifs de Développement et Conception.

    1.5 Composantes originelles :

        d) Cellule de gestion de projet (CGP) :

     · 1.6 Composantes révisées: Toutefois, leur calendrier d'exécution a été modifié du
         fait d'un rythme d'implémentation plus lent (lié aux procédures administratives
         internes et externes) que prévu ; la date de clôture du projet a été prorogée à deux
         occasions d'une année
     · 1.7 Autres changements majeurs : Nous faire parvenir la note citée à ce
         paragraphe.

2. Facteurs clefs affectant la mise en oeuvre et les résultats.

     2.1 Préparation, conception et qualité à l'entrée du projet :
     a)
     · Le projet 2000 MW était ambitieux, mais réaliste puisque l'appel d'offres pour sa
         réalisation avait recueilli cinq (05) offres de groupements de cabinets de renommée
         internationale.
     · Seules des observations, de nature juridique, et des demandes de compléments
         d'informations, sur le contenu technique, ont été formulées par la Banque, sur l'avant
         projet de loi sur l'électricité, soumis par le MEM à l'avis de la BIRD.

       2.2    Mise en oeuvre:

     · en l'absence d'investissement privé et en présence de besoins sociaux de plus en
         plus forts, un financement beaucoup plus abondant par le secteur bancaire Algérien
         est devenu possible,
     · l'autonomie des agences n'a pas été réduite par l'amendement à la loi 05-07du 28
         avril 2005 sur les Hydrocarbures ; en effet, les agences du secteur des hydrocarbures,
         comme les celles des Mines et de l'Electricité, exercent pleinement les missions
         dévolues par les nouvelles lois.
         L'amendement de la loi sur les hydrocarbures, introduit par l'ordonnance 06-10 du 29
         juillet 2006, ne signifie aucunement la remise en cause des réformes engagées dans
         le secteur des hydrocarbures. Il s'agit plutôt d'un recadrage.

       2.3 Suivi et Evaluation : conception, mise en oeuvre et utilisation.

           2.3.2 Mise en oeuvre :



                                                 43

  · b) la nouvelle loi des Hydrocarbures a amélioré l'attractivité des investissements dans
      l'amont pétrolier et notamment le développement des zones par l'amélioration des
      mesures fiscales par exemple l'élargissement de l'assiette fiscale.
      - Nous faire parvenir la note d'évaluation citée dans ce paragraphe.

3. Evaluation des résultats :

  3.1 Pertinence des objectifs, conception et mise en oeuvre
- les objectifs du projet étaient ambitieux mais réalistes puisque l'appel d'offres lancé pour
  la réalisation du projet 2000 MW avait recueilli cinq (05) offres de groupements de
  cabinets renommée internationale.
  · b) ce qui reflète la détermination du gouvernement Algérien d'ouvrir le secteur
  · d) un délai a été fixé pour l'alignement du prix du gaz (à confirmer).
         La restructuration de Sonelgaz a été faite, la loi est claire, il n y a aucune
         ambigüité
   3.2 Atteinte des objectifs de développement : le taux d'atteinte des objectifs de
   développement est satisfaisant dans son ensemble.

     Hydrocarbures
            a) s'agit-il réellement d'un quasi monopole dés lors que l'objectif, de séparer les
            missions publiques et les missions économiques, a été atteint.
            Les missions et les attributions, ainsi que l'autorité sous laquelle les agences
            sont placées, sont précisées dans la loi. Par conséquent les mesures
            institutionnelles consacrent les relations que doivent avoir les agences avec les
            pouvoirs politico-économiques.
            Ceci étant, est ce que le fait d'amender deux articles de la loi, réduit l'autonomie
            des agences, sachant que leurs attributions par rapport à l'objectif de séparation
            n'ont pas changé.
            b) la banque de données Alnaft est en cours d'implémentation et son
            financement est réalisé sur les fonds propres d'Alnaft.

      Electricité
            c)- l'opérateur système a été créé le 1 janvier 2006
               - le décret d'application de la loi sur l'électricité portant désignation des
               clients éligibles, pour une ouverture de 30% du marché de l'électricité a été
               publié.
               - en l'absence d'investissement privé la continuité d'approvisionnement du
                 pays doit être maintenue, Sonelgaz a l'obligation de la satisfaire.
           d) la faisabilité et le financement du projet 2000MW sont en cours de
                négociation avec nos partenaires.

           7) il n'existe pas une réglementation particulière qui donne à Sonelgaz le
              monopole pour le renouvellement de son parc de production.

     Mines
               f) la privatisation de l'ENOR s'est faite en dehors du projet EMTAL
               g) les agences sont en plein développement leur mise en place est
               progressive.

         Les amendements n'impactent en rien les missions des agences, précisées par la
         loi. Par conséquent l'autonomie, au regard des attributions reste entière.
         Il s'agit d'un recadrage que, l'état souverain, a opéré en intégrant l'évolution du
         contexte économique national et international, compte tenu de l'envolée des cours
         des prix des hydrocarbures ; évolution du contexte, qui a rendu le diagnostic de
         départ, fait par la Bird, obsolète.
         En outre le cadrage ne constitue pas un changement de cap ou une remise en
         cause des réformes et donc la vision, les objectifs, la stratégie restent les mêmes.




                                             44

     3.4 Justification de la notation globale du résultat: le résultat global du projet
     est jugé satisfaisant
               a) Il y a une plus grande transparence dans les opérations commerciales à
               travers notamment le recours systématique aux appels d'offres ouverts à la
               concurrence. Au regard du point de départ, ceci constitue un changement
               considérable, dans le cadre de la directive de Passation des Marchés du
               secteur de l'Energie et des Mines élaboré par le secteur en dehors du
               projet.
               b) les conditions de l'émergence d'un marché sont en cours de mises en
               place.
                         les agences spécialisées du secteur ont été mises en place, elles
          sont en cours de développement pour la prise en charge progressive de leurs
          missions.
                         Le projet 2000 MW est réactivé, il est en cours de réalisation


    4. Evaluation du risque pour le résultat de développement :
                     4.2.    Le secteur électrique: tout ce qui a été fait est une étape, la
                     prochaine étape consiste en la mise en place de l'ensemble des
                     mesures réglementaires issues de la loi.
                     4.3.    Le secteur des hydrocarbures: le savoir-faire reconnu, dans
                     les domaines de management et négociation constitue un avantage
                     compétitif et comparatif, qui sur le plan tactique, est déployé, dès lors
                     que la situation financière actuelle le permet, pour mieux accompagner
                     les réformes dont l'impact sur l'économie algérienne ne peut être évalué
                     qu'à moyen et long termes.

    5. Evaluation de la performance de la Banque et de l'Emprunteur

                     5.1.    Performance de la Banque.
                         a) - une instabilité dans la conduite du projet par la BIRD traduite
                         par quatre (04) changements de chefs de projets. Les quatre chefs
                         de projets faisaient eux-mêmes le suivi de la composante Electricité.
                           - Les missions de supervision ne comprenaient pas tous les
                         experts des composantes
                         b) - lors de la préparation du projet, un certain nombre de
                         facteurs critiques, ainsi que les critères d'évaluations du
                         projet pour la définition et la mise en oeuvre de la réforme, ont
                         été établis entre la Banque et le Client
                         des rencontres, des séminaires et des journées d'études ont été
                         organisés par le secteur pour sensibiliser les cadres du secteur sur
                         le programme des réformes.
                         Quant au séminaire cité par la BIRD, le coût proposé pour deux
                         journées et une trentaine de personne était exhorbitant.

         5. 3 Performance conjointe de la Banque et de l'Emprunteur. :
        Les sollicitions d'avis et de conseils vers la BIRD, se sont souvent soldés par un
        manque de réactivité et de disponibilité de la part des experts de la BIRD ce qui a
        conduit à un appauvrissement du dialogue.

        6. Leçons apprises:

        Paragraphe a) :

- Aucun des participants n'a cité comme ligne d'actions nécessaires « la réaffirmation d'un
  soutien politique aux objectifs et finalités de la réforme ».


                                             45

  Le seul point évoqué était « la création d'une nouvelle culture commune à tous les agents
  du secteur »

        Paragraphe b) :

- En l'absence d'investissement privé l'Algérie a été contrainte d'avoir recours au
  financement public et aux entreprises d'état pour le développement du secteur de
  l'énergie.
- A aucun moment les participants ont souligné « le risque que la réforme ne s'essouffle, en
  particulier dans le secteur de l'électricité où le potentiel de progrès est considérable, et
  ont, de nouveau, souligné la nécessité d'un soutien politique clair et fort à la poursuite de
  la réforme »

      Paragraphe c) :

- Dans le cas des mines, ce que nous avons retenu de l'atelier que, les objectifs étaient
  largement atteints.
- Ce paragraphe concernait les ambitions et les objectifs de la réforme, et en aucun
  moment les participants ont parlé de la capacité de l'ambition et de pilotage du projet. Par
  contre la capacité de réalisation des objectifs dans les délais impartis a été évoquée.




                                            46

47

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders




                                    48

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Project Concept Note: July 2000

Project Appraisal Document: February 2, 2001

Implementation Status Reports




                                         49

