I)ocument of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY             M f
Report No. 1956-SU
SUDAN
THIRD NECHANIZED FARMING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
May 1, 1978
Eastern Africa Regional Office
Northern Agriculture Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Sudanese Pound (ESd) = 100 Piastres = 1,000 Milliemes.
US$2.50 1/                  =     ESd 1.000
US$1.00                     =     iSd 0.400
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I hectare (ha)              =     10,000 m   =  2.47 acre (ac)
1 feddan (fd)               =      1.04 ac   =  0.42 ha
I ha                   2                      =  2.38 fd
1 square kilometer (km )                      =  100 ha
1 kilometer (km)                              =  1,000 meters (m)
1 meter (m)     3                             =  100 centimeters (cm)
1 cubic meter (m )                            =  1,000 liters
1 imperial gallon (Ig)                        =  4.545 liters
1 sack (sorghum)                              =  90.9 kg
1 sack (sesame)                               =  76.9 kg
I metric ton (mt)                             =  1,000 kg
I kilogram (kg)                               =  1,000 grams (g)
ABBREVIATIONS
MFC             Mechanized Farming Corporation
MCPS            Mechanized Crop Production Schemes
MFP I           First Mechanized Farming Project (IBRD Loan 556-SU)
MFP II           Second Mechanized Farming Project (IDA Credit 311-SU)
ARC             Agricultural Research Corporation
AHT             Agrar- und Hydrotechnik GmbH
ABS             Agricultural Bank of Sudan
BOS             Bank of Sudan
MAFNR           Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Natural Resources
SOC             Sudan Oilseeds Company
ICB             International Competitive Bidding
GOVERNMENT OF SUDAN
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
1/ The official rate of exchange for the US dollar is LiSd 1 = US$
2.87156. An effective exchange rate of bSd 1 = US$2.50 is applied
to all exchange transactions other than the purchase of proceeds
from exports of cotton to which the exchange rate of hSd 1 = US$
2.87156 continues to apply.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.   THE SECTOR .................................................    1
I.  TH  SUB-SCTOR............................................           4
II. THE SUB-SECTOR ...........  4
A.  Large Scale Mechanized Farming.                          4
B.  Smallholder Mechanized Farming.                          9
III.   THE PROJECT          ...............................................  11
A. Concept .11
B. General Description .12
C. Detailed Features .14
D. Project Costs .23
E.  Procurement and Disbursement .26
F. Accounts and Audit .27
G Environmental Impact .28
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .29
V.   MARKETS, PRICES, FARMERS' BENEFITS AND
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS .32
A. Markets and Prices    .              .32
B. Farmers' Benefits    ..34
C. Financial Analysis - MFC .35
D. Government Cash Flow    .             .36
VI.   ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .36
VII. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATION .39
TABLES
Table 4   -  Government Cash Flow
5   -  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
6   -  "Without Project" 1,500 fd Farm Budget
7   -  "With Project" 1,500 fd Farm Budget
8   -  "Without Project" Village Smallholder Budget
9   -  "With Project" Village Smallholder Budget
10   -  Summary of Incremental Economic Costs
11   -  Summary of Incremental Economic Benefits
This report is based on the findings of a mission which
visited the Sudan in Oct/Nov 1977, comprising T. L. Martin, C. Ameur,
J. C. Collins, D. W. Lister and P. R. du Mee (IDA); and R. Crofts,
R. Hudson, B. Pothecary and M. Simpson (Consultants).
lThis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CHARTS
Chart 1 - MFC Reorganization - Organogram
2 - El Fuda Development Center - Organogram
3  -  Implementation Bar Chart
4  -  Trials Program
MAP
IBRD 13055 - The Project Area
ANNEXES (Unpublished)
Annex  1.   Job Descriptions for New Posts and Consultants' Terms of
Reference
2.   Farm Models and Trials Program
3.   El Fuda Development Center - Scheme Area
4.   Markets, Prices and Taxes
5.   MFC Financial Analysis
6.   Supporting Tables and Charts
7.   Selected Documents and Data Available in thLe Project File



SUDAN
THIRD MECHANIZED FARMING PROJECT
1. THE SECTOR
2
1.01      Sudan, the largest country in Africa, covers about 2.5 million km
Its population is estimated at about 15.9 million, growing at about 2.5% per
year; per capita income for 1976/77 was US$290. Much of the country is un-
occupied or sparsely populated, and for the most part there is no population
pressure on presently developed land. The Sudan has about 85 million fd
of arable land, 240 million fd of grazing land and 60 million fd of forest.
Although land may be underutilized in the traditional system it is rarely
completely unused. The availability of water from the White and Blue Nile
Rivers has enabled the country to develop the largest irrigation system
in tropical Africa. The proximity of the Sudan to markets in the Middle
East places it in a favorable position for agricultural exports, and oil-
producing Arab countries have increasingly come to consider the Sudan as a
primary future source of agricultural products. The northern third of the
country is desert. Annual rainfall increases gradually southward to about
200 mm around Khartoum, 400-800 mm in the Central belt (in which the Project
is located) and up to 1,500 mm in the extreme south.
1.02      The agricultural sector dominates the economy, providing the
means of livelihood for about 80% of the population; it contributes about
40% of GDP, 95% of exports and over 50% of government revenues. Cotton
is the dominant cash and export crop accounting for over 54% of all exports
in 1975/76; followed by groundnuts (30%), sesame (6%) and gum arabic (6%).
The livestock sector, dominated by nomadic practices, remains to a large
extent outside the market economy. Exports of livestock are small, ranging
between 2% and 4% of total exports annually. In the past five years there has
been a large increase in wheat and groundnut production, as well as smaller
increases in the output of sorghum, the main staple crop, and cotton. The
expansion in agricultural production has been largely the result of an in-
crease in the cultivated area under non-cotton crops. Most of the acreage
expansion occurred in the traditional sub-sector and in the privately owned
mechanized farms in the rainfed areas.
1.03      The four main agricultural sub-sectors are irrigated, traditional
rainfed, mechanized rainfed, and livestock. Irrigated agriculture (about
4 million fd) comprises large consolidated schemes such as the Gezira,
Rahad, Kashm el Girba and a number of smaller schemes along the Blue and
White Niles employing gravity, flood and pump techniques. It is undertaken
usually by tenants, but in schemes such as Gezira they are effectively share
croppers with the central management boards making the major crop production
decisions. The historical objective of the major irrigation schemes was
the production of cotton as the only cash crop, but wheat, sorghum and
groundnut production has increased in recent years. This sub-sector
relies heavily on transient part-time labor for weeding and harvesting. The
trend away from cotton and towards the harvesting of grain crops by combine



- 2 -
harvesters has reduced requirements for temporary labor at harvest time, but
any slack has more than been compensated by increasing demands for seasonal
labor in the rainfed mechanized sub-sector (para 2.20).
1.04      Traditional rainfed farming (about 7 million fd) is the poorest
of the sub-sectors. It involves predominantly shifting cultivation of sub-
sistence crops, supplemented by sesame, groundnuts and sorglhum using hand
tools rather than farm machinery. Crop yields tend to be low because of
poor husbandry and uncertain rainfall. The typical traditional farmer works
2 to 5 fd, generally close to the village where he lives, using his male
relatives to assist him; he seldom employs outside help. Most of them
have not registered their farms and therefore have no legal right to them.
1.05      The Sudan has an estimated livestock population of 14 million cattle,
13 million sheep, 11 million goats and 3 million camels. The herds are owned
largely by nomadic herdsmen. The expansion of modern livestock production
has been slow. Estimated annual marketed offtakes are 5% foDr cattle, 15% for
sheep, 20% for goats and 4% for camels.
1.06      A number of recent studies have attempted to quantify the growth
prospects of the Sudan and its needs in the medium and long run. All stress
that the performance of the economy will depend on the level of external
capital inflows, on the country's ability to generate increased domestic
savings and on adapting its administrative and technical services to higher
levels of growth and investments. The Six Year Development Plan (1977-83)
emphasizes increased agricultural productivity, modernization of the tradi-
tional sector, rural development, employment opportunities, improvement of
project preparation and implementation capabilities, and seLfsufficiency in
basic commodities. The investment required to achieve the P?lan's objectives
is estimated at bSd 2.6 billion (US$6.5 billion) over the 6 years, of which
fiSd 900 million (US$2.3 billion) is for agriculture. It is estimated that
this level of investment would produce a growth rate of 6.5% per annum in the
sector.
1.07      Over the last two decades, the Bank Group has financed a number
of projects in the sector: a loan of US$15.5 million in 1960 for the
Managil Irrigation Project; a loan of US$9.5 million and a credit of US$
13 million in 1961 for the Roseires dam. Ongoing projects include a credit
of US$62 million for the Rahad Irrigation Project, which will eventually
extend to 300,000 feddan for mechanized intensive cotton and groundnut
cultivation, and the relocation of 80,000 people. The irrigation works for
the first stage of development (116,000 fd) were inauguratecd in December 1977,
about 1 year behind schedule; a credit of US$10.7 million for Southern Region
Rehabilitation (1974) including crop experimentation and trials, agricul-
tural credit, extension and dairy and livestock development;, a credit of
US$17 million for agricultural development in the Western Savannah area of
South Darfur Province involving a settlement program with the dual purpose
of opening up presently blocked stockroutes and increasing c:rop production.
After some initial staffing and procurement problems, implementation of the
Southern Region Rehabilitation Project is now making better progress; the
Western Savannah project is still in the early stages of implementation.



- 3 -
1.08      As to farm mechanization, in 1968 an IBRD Loan of US$5 million was
signed for the first Mechanized Farming Project (MFP I) whose main objective
was to establish 140 farms of 1,000 fd on the rainfed clay plains at Sim Sim,
south of Gedaref, in Kasala province, at a total estimated cost of US$8 million.
The Project was completed in July 1971, 1 year ahead of schedule, at a cost of
about US$7 million, including IBRD disbursements of US$3.9 million. The
Mechanized Farming Corporation (MFC) was created in 1968 primarily to manage
this Project, including land clearing, allocation of farms, supervision of
farm credit - mainly for tractors and farm machinery - and to provide farms
with technical support and such joint services as combine harvesting.  A
Second Mechanized Farming Project (MFP II - IDA Credit 311 SU - US$11.25
million) became effective in April 1973 and is also managed by MFC. The
project is developing 420,000 fd through the establishment of 280 farms for
the mechanized cultivation of sorghum, sesame and other crops in the Umm
Seinat and Habila areas. The project includes scheme planning, land clearing,
road construction, the provision of domestic water from hafirs, credit for
on-farm investment (mainly tractors and implements), technical services and
expanded research into me-hanized rainfed agriculture, feasibility studies for
further project development and the expansion of the Farm Machinery Training
Center at Tozi.
1.09      In 1968 the Bank made a loan of $5 million to Sudan for a first
Mechanized Farming Project (MFP I) whose main objective was to establish
140 large farms extending to 140,000 fd on the clay plains of eastern Sudan,
for mechanized farming under rainfed conditions. The principal crops were
to be cotton, sorghum and sesame. An audit report on the project concluded
that given the objectives of the project, it had mixed, but generally satis-
factory results. It generated considerable production surpluses; the area
opened up was increased to 215,000 fd; the project mobilized private capital
for the farming sector and generated both permanent and seasonal employment.
Additionally, the project fostered the creation of the Mechanized Farming
Corporation (MFC), which now has a vital role to play in regulating and
encouraging mechanized dryland farming. The project did not, however, make
much progress in resolving the technical problems or evolve a permanently
sustainable farming system with adequate returns to the farmers. Cotton
dropped out of the rotation, due to the low level of prices, and fallows were
neglected.
1.10      Although MFP II is unlikely to be completed until the end of 1979,
all undisbursed funds from the credit have been earmarked.  Land clearing is
almost complete and 244 farms are now in production but land use planning was
neglected and some 36 farms cannot be farmed because of excessive waterlogging
from accumulated rainwater run-off.  The roads and hafirs development program
is behind schedule because of difficulties in obtaining spare parts for the
construction equipment. The crops consist almost entirely of sorghum and
sesame and about 20% of the sorghum is of combinable varieties; crop yields
are averaging less than the appraisal forecasts. Since 1976 there have been
frequent changes in MFC's senior staff which together with the continuous
shortage of trained manpower have disrupted management capability.



- 4 -
1.11      A livestock marketing project has recently been negotiated.  Projects
under preparation include a Pump Scheme (irrigation) Rehabilitation project,
an Agricultural Research project, and a Southern Region Crop and Livestock
project as a follow-up of the Rehabilitation project (para 1.07).
II. THE RAINFED MECHANIZED FARMING SUB-SECTCR
Description
2.01      The sub-sector comprises the rainfed farming econcomy of the central
clay plains which, because of their soils characteristics, are extremely
difficult to work by hand and which are therefore farmed using tractors and
agricultural machinery. The sub-sector comprises five main groups of farmers:
(a) Private farmers (tenants) who have been granted 25i year
leases to a 1,000 or 1,500 fd farm. The total number of
farms is about 3,000, comprising some 3.5 million fd, of
which some 560,000 fd have been supported by IDA schemes.
Some tenant farmers operate several farms, using nominees;
(b) Private farmers (no leases) who have appropriated large
areas of unoccupied land, and cleared them, and farm
them without leases, estimated to aggregate some 1.5 mil-
lion fd. These are known as undemarcated areas;
(c) Companies or cooperatives who have been granted special
concessions. Most of these schemes are under preparation
and information about them is unreliable, however, che
acreage committed is believed to be in excess of 2 mil-
lion fd.
(d) State Farms operated by MFC and covering about 350,000 fd;
(e) Smallholder schemes of which only the 70,000 fd Nuba
Mountain Agricultural Production Scheme in S. Kordofan
is significant.
A. Large Scale Mechanized Farming
Private Farms
2.02      A feature of the sub-sector has been the rapid and virtually uncon-
trolled growth of private farms through the spontaneous appropriation and
development of unoccupied land - (b) above. The subsequent expansion of
leased areas - (a) above - has also been rapid but with low development



-5-
standards. Farms are planned by geometric sub-division of the land without
regard to acceptable agricultural principles such as the observance of con-
tour layout. Infrastructural development has been minimal and agricultural
research poorly directed and not coordinated with field trials; the extension
service has problems of staffing and funding. Lease agreements contain
good-husbandry covenants but these are ill defined and are not enforced. This
background, coupled with the pattern of droughts and excess rainfall, has led
farmers to adopt a simple exploitive farming system which seeks to achieve the
maximum acreages of sorghum and sesame with the minimum outlay.
2.03      Since credit was not available for clearing the land of bush and
trees (except on Bank supported schemes) the main qualification for most
farmers to acquire land was the possession of sufficient development capital
and this has meant that the majority of farmers are merchants or have other
business interests. This, coupled with the fact that the simple farming
system requires the farmer's presence on his scheme for only a few weeks in
the year, permits the tenants (decision makers) to live in towns, in some
cases far from their land. Overseers known as Wakeels (often poor relations)
reside on the schemes. Absenteeism should not, however, be seen as a serious
constraint to development at the present low levels of inputs and production.
The farmers are mostly well educated, have good business sense and are poten-
tially responsive to rational development proposals based on sound technical
and economic considerations. Furthermore, in the main mechanized farming
areas they are usually organized in local farmers associations, each a con-
stituent part of the active Sudan Farmers Association, whose objectives are
to bring farmers together to exchange experiences, encourage the cross
fertilization of ideas, and represent farming interests at all levels. Farmers
Associations are potentially most useful contacts for the extension of improved
agricultural practices.
Importance in the Economy
2.04      Despite the low level of technology used, private farmers in the
sub-sector make an important contribution to the national economy. In 1976,
when about 3.3 million fd of some 5.0 million fd of rainfed mechanized
farms was under crops, production amounted to about 920,000 mt of sorghum,
50,000 mt of sesame, and 5,000 mt of cotton with a total value of about
bSd 50 million. The sorghum and sesame represent 50% and 40% respectively
of the nation's total production of these crops. The sub-sector has also been
the means of channelling substantial private savings into agricultural dev-
elopment and for directing available private entrepreneurial skills towards
farming; it has also created some permanent and a large number of seasonal
jobs.
Impact on Traditional Land Usage
2.05      The growth of the sub-sector has had both :dverse and beneficial
effects on the local people. The adverse effects centre around the loss of



- 6 -
land use rights, particularly transhumant grazing along migration routes, but
also more permanently used village pastures and some cultivation areas.  Tree
and bush clearing has also removed sources of firewood, honey and gum arabic
tapping. The benefits include employment opportunities and the availability
of tractors and machinery for hire.
Institutions in the Sub-Sector
2.06      The whole sector comes under the supervision and control of the
Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Natural Resources (MAFNR), which carries out
Government policy. Most of the activities in the sub-sector, however, are
delegated to MFC (para 2.08). There are significant gaps in the Ministry's
supervision and control, and one of these is agricultural credit. Except for
credit for Bank supported schemes in respect of land clearing and agricultural
machinery advanced to farmers through MFC, the major source of investment
credits and crop loans is the Agricultural Bank of Sudan (ABS) and, the second
most important source is the costly "sheil" system, whereby farmers obtain
credit from traders at high interest against their crops at low prices.
Distribution of Agricultural Machinery
2.07      There are an estimated 10,000 tractors in the Sudan, about 90% of
which have been imported through international competitive bidding (ICB) by
parastatals such as the Gezira Board, the Rahad Corporation, MFC and ABS.
Manufacturers' agents of agricultural machinery only received small commis-
sions from these imports and do not feel obligated to provide parts and
service except for the units supplied through them and on which they earn
commissions of up to 35%. Since the parastatals provide scant service and are
usually out of stock of the most needed parts, many of Sudan's tractors are
frequently unserviceable. Because of rigorous field tests by the MAFNR's
engineering department, the importation of tractors and agricultural machinery
into the Sudan is restricted to relatively few makes, the predominant four
being Massey Ferguson (Canada - France - UK), Nuffield (UK), Ford (US-UK), and
John Deere (US - Germany), the latter hitherto supplying exclusively through
ICB to parastatals.
MFC's Role
2.08      MFC, which was creat.ed in 1968 (para. 1.08) to implement MFP 1, has
since been made responsible for a wide range of administrative and supervisory
duties in the sector, such as the allocation of land, agricultural extension
and rent collection, as well as the development of new areas and the operation
of five state farms totalling some 350,000 fd.  MFC's organization and head
office staffing, which are discussed in Chapter IV, are no longer adequate for
the proper execution of such a wide range of duties, and the iefficiency of all
its operations has suffered. For example, the state farms, which could
probably be operated more economically and efficiently by private farmers, are
generally unprofitable; the extension service which has not been developed on
a sound technological base, is largely ignored by farmers; sound land use
planning standards have not been applied to new development areas and rent



- 7 -
collections are well in arrears. MFC clearly has a key role to play in the
development and the provision of services in the sub-sector, but its role now
requires to be more clearly defined so that it can be restructured accordingly.
Constraints
2.09      The sub-sector's contribution to the national economy will eventu-
ally decline in spite of the continued increase in acreage brought into
production each year unless solutions are found to major problems affecting
sustained production. The problems are fundamentally agronomic, but are
compounded by logistical constraints. Furthermore any agronomic solution will
be dependent upon farmers changing their farming system.
2.10      Agronomy.  The mechanized crop production system currently in
general use is based on a wheel tractor of about 75 HP and a wide level disc
with seeder attachment. A first discing is carried out after sufficient rain
has fallen to germinate weed seeds and to soften the soil, this is usually
towards the end of June. The second discing is carried out shortly afterwards
and the crop is sown at the same time using the seeder attachment. This
simple technique results in an uneven, shallow seed bed of poor tilth causing
poor and uneven germination and shallow root growth. No fertilizers are used.
No pre-emergent herbicides are used but some farmers are now using fungicide
seed-dressings. Hand weeding is practiced. Although several varieties of
acceptable combinable higher yielding varieties of sorghum seed have recently
been made available, many farmers continue to grow the lower yielding tradi-
tional varieties because of the shortages of improved seeds.
2.11      The present technological and equipment shortages give mechanized
farmers little choice in the final land utilization achieved, and the rainfall
pattern exerts the most significant influence on crop type and planting date.
As sesame is planted first, excessive wet weather early in the season will
restrict the acreage sown to sorghum later and increase the area left in the
grass fallow state. When rainfall is light, the area committed to late sown
sorghum is higher even though it will have a very low yield potential. There-
fore, on a year to year basis, variations in land use, especially the area
left as fallow, are substantial and early planting, which is desirable,
is difficult to achieve.
2.12      The farming pattern which results from these factors, is that when
new land is opened up, good crop yields are obtained for two or three years
but then start declining until a low plateau of yields is reached by the
7th or 8th year. These low yields give unattractive financial returns to
the farmer who, after a time lag, generally abandons his farm and, if remain-
ing in the industry, cultivates other land.
2.13      Soil Fertility:  The soils are basically good, they are deep, with
good infiltration rates when dry and good moisture holding characteristics
but because the crops - particularly sorghum which has high nutrient require-
ments - are shallow rooting, the fertility of the soil used rapidly declines.



-8-
Although the nutrient characteristics of these soils are not fully understood,
work in the Gezira indicates that the supply of total phosphorus should be
sufficient for sustained cropping at financially attractive levels but con-
firms that uptake will largely depend on root depth. While responses to trial
applications of phosphorus have varied from poor to excellent depending on
rainfall, no real estimate of the actual position as to total and available
phosphorus is evident. Responses to applied nitrogen in trials have also
shown wide variations with rainfall and further trials are necessary before a
fertilizer policy can be developed for farmers.
2.14      Research - Extension.  Since 1952 research into various aspects of
mechanized rainfed crop production has been carried out at Tozi (40 miles
west of Abu Naama), Gabub near Gedaref, and Abu Naama. This research is cur-
rently the joint responsibility of the Agricultural Research Corporation (ARC)
and MFC (para. 4.06). Good progress has been made with breeding improved
sorghum varieties and about six good high yielding strains suitable for mecha-
nized harvesting are available and others are currently being tested. Pro-
mising research is also being conducted by ARC in sorghum hybrids.  Three year
variety trials programs ending in 1974 gave sorghum grain yields ranging from
1.1 to 1.3 metric tons/feddan without fertilizer for the main varieties now
available to farmers. The trials were conducted in three typical mechanized
farming areas.
2.15      The trials program (1959-63) carried out at Gabub 1/ also tested
other aspects of rainland agronomy. Of particular interest were trials to
evaluate the effects of cultivation methods on sorghum yield which showed
that cultivation by off-set disc coupled with seeding by a row crop planter
gave a 41% increase in crop yield over the use of a wide level disc seeder
for both operations. Similar trials for sesame indicated that the use of row
crop planters gave a 17% increase in yield over planting with a wide level
disc seeder. The program also included sesame variety trials giving mean
yields of 0.29 - 0.43 metric tons/feddan without fertilizer.
2.16      Although some useful research has been carried out its continuity
has not always been maintained and because there has not been a close liaison
with MFC, many of the sub-sector's research requirements have been ignored,
such as the use of herbicides for weed control and the development of suitable
legumes. This lack of liaison has also left MFC's extension staff poorly
informed and therefore without a sound technical base from which to build
satisfactory working relations with farmers.
2.17      Roads.  The system is totally inadequate.  Only a few areas have
all weather access from the nearest major town and all farm access is by
unsurfaced unshaped tracks which are difficult to use during the wet cropping
season. This precludes effective farm management and the timely supply of
inputs and services.
1/  Z. G. Tyson (unpublished).



- 9 -
2.18      Spare Parts.  Since the services provided by machinery dealers
depend on their small share of tractor imports (para. 2.07), there is now a
severe shortage of spare parts. Many machines are lying idle, and thousands
of hours are being lost through breakdowns, especially because worn parts are
not being replaced.
2.19      Fuel Supplies:  In recent years there have been shortages for three
main reasons: firstly, the rapidly escalating foreign exchange cost of
imported refined products; secondly, the inability of the Port Sudan Refinery
to meet the demand for gas oil; and thirdly, the chronic difficulties of
timely and equitable distribution. A further problem affecting farmers' costs
is the loss through leakage because they have to take their supplies in four
gallon cans. On the other hand, bulk distribution has, in the past, led
to the contamination of fuel.
2.20      Labor:  The availability of labor for seasonal work is a serious
problem. Current peak demands in the sub-sector are about 250,000 men for
weeding and harvesting and piece rates have risen sharply in the last few
years, reflecting the limited supply. The use of combinable sorghum varieties
would reduce the demand. Many of the seasonal laborers come long distances
from Ethiopia and Southern Sudan.
Farmer Response
2.21      The only major change to the large scale mechanized rainfed farming
system on the clay plains for many years has been the elimination of cotton
growing because it became unprofitable. Otherwise, there has been a reduction
trend in the sesame acreage reflecting labor shortages and a recent increase
in the proportion of combinable sorghum varieties partly for the same reason.
Crop rotations with fallows have not been introduced but much land in fact
remains uncultivated each year. This somewhat "static" state of affairs is
primarily due to the lack of financially attractive alternative operations
and not necessarily to any potential lack of farmers' response. The accept-
ance of higher yielding combinable sorghum varieties is indicative that
farmers are in fact ready to adopt innovations provided it can be clearly
demonstrated that they are in the farmers' interest.
B. Smallholder Mechanized Farming
2.22      This section only deals with two groups of smallholders:
(a) Village Smallholders. Defined as those who live in villages in
the vicinity of the large scale mechanized farms and also
cultivate heavy cracking clay soils; and
(b) Western Savannah Smallholders who are people of mainly pastoral
origin who have become sedentary cultivators in the Western
Savannah belt.



- 10 -
Village Smallholders
2.23      The problems experienced in the large scale commercial mechanized
farms are even more evident in the nearby traditional smallholder areas
around long established villages. Although these smallholders have only been
using machinery for a few years - hired from the large farmers - their yields
are falling to very low levels, added to which growing land pressure results
in shorter fallow periods. Increased demand for labor created by the inten-
sification of the rotation on the Gezira scheme and the implementation in
1977/78 of the new Rahad project has caused a sharp increase in labor costs
making the economic position very precarious for the smaller less efficient
farmers.
2.24      The farming systems followed in these villages are remarkably similar
in most respects. Sorghum and sesame together make up more than 95% of the
total cropped area with small plots of maize, lubia 1/, okra and early planted
sorghum being grown in the immediate vicinity of the houses.
2.25      Farmers are generally aware of the need to practice a crop rotation
but their practices are determined more by necessity than desirability. Land
is usually rested when the yields fall below an acceptable level, but exhausted
land is sometimes cropped without being weeded which results in minimal yields
and severe weed build up. The advent of many large scale farmers in the
vicinity of the villages has resulted in a large number of tractors being
available for hire work, but tractors often arrive too late to meet the
optimum planting dates, again resulting in reduced yields.
2.26      Most farmers experience a severe cash flow problem around the time
of weeding and many are forced to seek employment to pay for the cost of a
second weeding (when done), harvesting and threshing. This is especially so
in the case of sesame harvesting because of the critically short harvest
period due to grain shattering.
Western Savannah Smallholders
2.27      In the past, Government gave priority to the development of the
eastern and central regions through irrigation and rainfed mechanized farming
schemes with consequent neglect of the west which contains much of the coun-
try's under-utilized agricultural resources. As part of a recent commitment
to rectify this, Government commissioned consultants - Agrar- und Hydrotechnik
GmbH (AHT) - to prepare development proposals based on ultimate mechanized
crop and integrated livestock production for the south western part of S.
Kordofan Province. This area was specifically chosen as being typical of
many other undeveloped areas of sandy and sandy clay soils. The AHT report
was appraised by the Bank early in 1977 and the project proposal subsequently
reviewed by the Oct/Nov. 1977 mission. Modified proposals called the "El Fuda
Development Center" are included as a component of the Project proposed in
this report (para 3.07 (f)).
1/   Dolichos lablab.



- 11 -
2.28      The western part of S. Kordofan is predominantly a pastoral area
used mainly by about 20,000 transhumant families who pass through on their
twice yearly migration - northwards in June/July and southward in Oct/Nov.
Although the people consider themselves primarily as pastoralists, about 90%
have to a greater or lesser extent incorporated crop production into their
traditional economy and about 1,000 families are now permanent sedentary
cultivators who use simple traditional hand tools to practice shifting agri-
culture on the easier worked "Qoz" sandy soils which comprise about 36% of the
area. The other main soil type covering about 41% of the area and called
"Baroya" is a sandy clay which is harder to cultivate by hand but suitable for
mechanized crop production.
2.29      The main crops are sorghum, millet, groundnuts, and sesame, which
are grown on 14, 46, 20 and 20 percent of the cultivated area, respectively.
Average yields for the 1975 season were 230-300 kg/fd for sorghum, 180-200 kg/
fd for millet, 250-300 kg/fd for groundnuts, and 100-200 kg/fd for sesame.
III. THE PROJECT CONCEPT AND COMPOSITION
A. Concept
3.01      It is difficult to allocate priorities for development within the
mechanized rainfed sub-sector. On the one hand, the nation's economy would
benefit greatly from increased production from large scale farming on the
cracking clay soils and on the other it is equally important to bring the
benefits of farm mechanization to smallholders.  In neither case, however,
have sound farming systems been introduced and their development must there-
fore be the first objective. In the case of extensive farming this is urgent
because the present exploitive system results in steadily declining producti-
vity. As for smallholders the trend away from pastoralism towards settled
agriculture makes it important to develop sound crop production techniques -
particularly for the more fragile soils of the west; if this is not done the
inevitable spontaneous spread of uncontrolled mechanization will damage the
environment.
3.02      Thus the Project would develop two concurrent programs designed to
meet the above objectives, one-for large scale farmers and the other for
smallholder development.
Large Scale Farming
3.03      In order to raise and sustain productivity from the large scale
farming areas, the Project proposes a package of complementary actions
designed to lead to the intensification of the farming system ultimately
to the point where soil fertility can be maintained economically through
the use of organic and artificial fertilizers. The package would comprise
the demonstration on farmers' land of more efficient machinery that would



- 12 -
facilitate early planting, better seed placement and timely weeding; such
types of machinery are available and in use abroad in similar conditions to
the Sudan. The provision of foreign exchange for the importation of spare
parts and the liberalization of the distribution system for these in the
private sector would step up tractor use efficiency resulting in more timely
operations and cost savings. The provision of a better road network which
would enable farmers, extension workers and farm inputs and produce to move
more freely and cheaply. The package would also include an integrated project
related research and trials program which would focus narrowly on promising
innovations such as inter-row cultivation, mechanized sesame harvesting,
mechanized crop handling, the use of herbicides, pesticides, artificial
fertilizer, the use of legumes for nitrogen fixation, crop diversification
particularly into deeper rooting varieties, and the integration of livestock
into the farming system.
3.04      The extent to which large scale farmers would adopt innovations re-
commended by the Project would depend on how financially attractive they would
be to them. Thus the extension program would be based on the sound analysis of
operations and the presentation of facts supported by on-farm demonstration.
Since many of the farmers are good business men open to rational proposals a
good response would be expected. The alternative of trying to enforce good
husbandry rules - if necessary by disciplinary methods - would not be feasible
because the rules would be extremely difficult to define and defend.
Smallholder Development
3.05      Two separate schemes would be developed.  One would primarily
comprise trials to develop mechanized crop production systems at two levels
suitable for the non-cracking clay and sandy loam soils typical of the western
areas of S. Kordofan. The first level would comprise a model centrally
managed extensive farming system suitable for replication and use by organized
groups of farmers, selected locally, and the other would develop a system of
machinery use for single family smallholdings where only simple mechanized
land preparation is required.
3.06      The other scheme would be a small pilot project with the long range
objective of establishing machinery units at villages in the cracking clay
areas near the large scale farms. The units would ultimately be owned and
operated by the village community so that they could cultivate their small
fields at optimum times and lower cost than when they hire Erom the large
scale farmers. Villages in the Gedaref area would be selected.
B. General Description
3.07      The Project would, over four years, develop a comprehensive program
to increase agricultural production in the sub-sector (Map IBRD 13055). It
would comprise two main parts with components as follows:



- 13 -
Large Scale Farming
(a) Extension and Demonstration. A strengthened extension
service would demonstrate improved agricultural tech-
niques to the 2,000 (approx.) farmers in the Gedaref
and Habila areas (2.7 million fd) using tractors and
machinery purchased by the Project (paras 3.09-3.10).
(b) Adaptive trials and related research for the progres-
sive introduction of new techniques (para 3.14).
(c) Road construction of about 150 km gravel road and
460 km of earth tracks to facilitate access by farmers
and extension staff and the supply of farm inputs in
the Gedaref and Habila areas (para 3.17).
(d) Spare Parts. Foreign exchange would be provided to
improve the supply of spare parts for agricultural
tractors and machinery in the sub-sector (para. 3.22).
(e) MFC Headquarters. Funds would be provided for MFC to
employ additional staff so that it could be restructured
and properly staffed to carry out its present duties
more efficiently, as well as those proposed by the
Project. Furthermore, this component would enable MFC
to initiate future development programs at a later
date (para 3.25).
Smallholder Development
(f) El Fuda Development Center. A development center would be
established on 2,500 fd near El Fuda on which trials would
be carried out to develop mechanized crop production sys-
tems. The scheme would also develop a simple agricultural
extension program and veterinary service for the immediate
benefit of about21,000 farming families and 10,000 nomads
who use 2,300 km around El Fuda (para 3.29).
(g)  Pilot Village Smallholder Scheme.  Funds would be provided
to establish a tractor and machinery unit with basic sup-
porting services at each of four villages in the Gedaref
area for hire to smallholders for crop production. MFC
would manage the scheme initially but a major objective
would be to have each unit ultimately owned and managed
by the village community (para 3.48).



- 14 -
C. Detailed Features
3.08      Extension and Demonstration.  The existing MFC extension service
operates at a ratio of one extension worker for every forty farmers which is
a more than adequate cover, but the quality and experience of the extension
workers is insufficient. They are also out of touch with the research on
mechanized rainfed farming done by ARC and other bodies, and lack suitable
transport.
3.09      The Project would provide funds for a senior extension specialist
stationed at MFC headquarters in Khartoum to head up the service which would
then provide technical guidance to the Chief Regional Extension Officers in
Gedaref and Habila. These, in turn, would operate field programs through
their extension staffs who would be reorganized on the basis of one extension
worker per eighty farmers. The Project would also provide funds for the
purchase of specialized vehicles for muddy conditions as well as for staff
housing and vehicle operating expenses.
3.10      The main task of the reorganized extension service would be to
establish - starting in year 2 - about fifty 280 fd plots (40 in Gedaref
and 10 in Habila) on farmers' fields to demonstrate a relatively simple
improved farming system using tractors and implements, purchased with Project
funds, which are more suitable than the machinery currently in use. As there
are about 2,000 farmers in the two areas (1,600 in Gedaref and 400 in Habila),
one demonstration plot would be established for every forty farmers and each
extension agent would thus have two such plots in his area. The Project would
provide funds for MFC to purchase ten sets of machinery as listed in para
3.11; eight would be located in the Gedaref area and two in Habila.
3.11      The farming system would comprise the use of a 95 HP wheel tractor,
heavy duty trailed off-set tandem disc of effective width 2 m, a tine cult-
ivator drill of effective width 4 m and cover harrows (peg-tooth). The
rotation would be sesame, sorghum, sorghum, bare fallow; only combinable
sorghum varieties would be used. The cultivation regime would require the
land to lie in its natural state after the second sorghum crop until it can be
cultivated with the off-set disc early in the June-August rains and again at
the end of the rainy season. The cultivator drill would be used once for land
preparation and again for seeding when the cover harrows would also be trailed.
As soon as possible after each harvest the land would receive a deep cultiva-
tion with the tine cultivator.
3.12      The main advantages of this package are that the early (post harvest)
cultivation permits early planting which aids weed control, and the tine cult-
ivator/cover harrow combination makes a better seed bed than the wide level
disc harrows can, thus encouraging even germination and better root growth.
The fallow cultivation ensures moisture retention for the following season,
weed seeding is prevented and the nitrogen level builds up. Furthermore,
the row planting simplifies thinning and weeding. The new technology could
create problems in years when the post harvest cultivation is followed by



- 15 -
heavy early rains resulting in more serious waterlogging than would have
occurred if the land had been left under stubbles. However, under these
conditions the probability of obtaining satisfactory crops is minimal under
either cultivation regime.
3.13      The three year demonstration program is expected to show farmers
clearly improved yields and better weed control, and it is expected that some
farmers would purchase the type of machinery demonstrated and adopt the
package for their whole farming operations (para. 5.01). The longer term
beneficial effects on soil fertility would be studied in the Project's trials
program (para. 3.14).
3.14      Trials and Research.  The Project would provide for the development
of a trials program by MFC on the Sim Sim and Habila State Farms. The funds
would be used for the purchase of additional farm machinery and equipment,
vehicles, water supplies and operating costs. The objective of the program
would be to develop and test improved farming techniques which would be
introduced progressively to the sub-sector. The program has been specifically
designed round a series of farm models denominated A, B and C. Model A, which
would be introduced by the Project, is described in para 3.11. The main
technological changes proposed in models B and C, which require further trials
and research, are the introduction of legumes, mechanized interrow cultivation
and the use of herbicides and pesticides, artificial fertilizers, intensive
cropping, combine harvesting of sesame and bulk handling of all harvested
grain. An outline of the trials program is given in Chart 4.
3.15      In addition  to supporting the field trials at Sim Sim and Habila,
the Project would provide for ARC to carry out a research program into
specific Project related problems such as the control of the serious weed
striga (Striga hermonthica. Benth); crop diversification including soya-
bean and other legumes, sunflower and fodder crops; the integration of
livestock; and soil nutrient studies in respect of specific crop produc-
tion trials.
3.16      An assurance was obtained at negotiations that MFC would submit pro-
posals for the ensuing twelve months trials program annually to the Association
on or before December 31 for comment. This proposal would also include
details of the proposed use by ARC of the research funds (US$500,000).
3.17      Roads.  MFC has road construction equipment which it operates under
the technical guidance of the Roads and Bridges Corporation to construct roads
in the Gedaref, Habila and Damazine areas using MFP II, Kuwait Fund and
Government funds.  MFC expects to have used up the funds allocated under MFP
II by the end of calendar year 1979.
3.18      The Project would provide funds to continue the construction of farm
access roads in the Gedaref and Habila areas. This would be complementary to
Government's ongoing programs for the development of national roads giving
access from regional centers to scheme areas.



- 16 -
3.19      The component is based on a model of the Umm Seinat/Abu Sabira/
Sarab Said scheme areas comprising some 628,000 fd containing 215 farms, a
forest reserve and undeveloped land. The model, which assumed that each farm
would be serviced by at least a raised earth track, showed that 231 km of
track would typically be required for 215 farms. The tracks would be con-
structed to minimum dry-weather standards of approximately 5 m width, raised
30 - 40 cm at the formation centerline and cambered at about 1 in 20 slope.
Where possible these would follow contours, but in practice many would be
sited along farm boundaries. Drifts or pipe culverts would be installed as
required to improve wet weather access. The cost would be hSd 500 per
km.
3.20      The model also assumed that the farm access tracks would feed into
all weather gravel roads, connected to the national access roads at the scheme
area's boundary. On this assumption, 74 km of gravel road would typically be
required per 215 farms. The gravel roads would be 6-7 m wide, raised 30 - 40
cm at the formation centerline, cambered at about 1 in 25 slope and surfaced
with gravel to a width of 4 m and a depth of about 15 cm. Drainage structures
would consist of concrete pipe culverts with head-walls and drainage channels
or drifts constructed to a single lane (4 m) width. These main feeder roads
would follow the contour where possible and would cost an estimated hSd 12,000
per km. (Construction costs include depreciation and contingencies).
3.21      As suitable conditions for road making only apply for 7 - 8 months
of the year and MFC's equipment would also be used on non-Project construction
and maintenance work (land clearing, roads and hafirs), the balance of machinery
hours available to the Project would only be sufficient for the construction
of two models. The program would be implemented in years 2 and 3. It is
estimated that US$400,000 of the total cost would be used for the purchase of
replacement or supplementary machinery.
3.22      Spare Parts.  Funds would be made available to the Bank of Sudan
(BOS) for disbursement over a three year period to selected manufacturers'
agents for the purchase and importation of spare parts for tractors and wide
level disc seeders, the predominant agricultural machinery in the sub-sector.
Import quotas controlling the use of the funds would be al]Located by MFC to
these agents against evidence of the numbers of 70 - 80 horsepower tractors
and wide level disc seeders imported from 1969 - 77. The foreign exchange
would be released against documentation (para 4.12) and the spare parts would
be sold to dealers and farmers for cash. The use of the ftnds would be
restricted to incremental imports over existing levels (para 4.13).
3.23      In order to establish the level at which spare parts imports would
make a significant impact on the market, an estimate of the current value of
the tractor and implement park in use in mechanized rainfed farming has been
made on the assumption that some 3.5 million fd are cropped each year.
This would require about 3,500 tractors and wide level disc combinations
assuming 1,000 fd of cultivation and planting per tractor per annum. At



- 17 -
present day costs of US$9,000 c.i.f. per tractor and US$5,000 c.i.f. per disc
plough, these 3,500 combinations represent an investment of US$49.0 million.
Therefore, a funding of US$5.0 million for spare parts would represent an
investment of approximately 10 percent by value at 1977 prices of the current
rainfed machinery park.
3.24      Although it would not be possible to guarantee that 100% of the
spare parts imported under the Project would reach farmers in the Project
area, MFC would only allocate foreign exchange to importers who have supplied
farm machinery to the large-scale mechanized rainfed farming areas, and who
have satisfactory distribution outlets in these areas. Distribution of spare
parts through MFC workshops (para 4.11), which serve large parts of the
Project area, would also help ensure that they reach farmers in the Project
area. Moreover, since the spare parts imported under the Project would be
incremental to the ongoing supply, the availability of spare parts in the
sub-sector as a whole is certain to increase.
3.25      MFC Headquarters.  The proposed Large Scale Farming program would
require MFC to assume responsibilities in fields in which it has had little or
no previous experience such as adaptive trials, on-farm demonstrations, and
smallholder development. Furthermore, MFC already has responsibilities for
which it is not adequately structured and staffed to perform efficiently such
as training, land use planning, data collection and analysis, scheme planning
and financial control. Under the Project it is proposed to fi2ance an expan-
sion in MFC's senior staffing, the construction of about 500 m of additional
office space, vehicles and their running costs, and travel expenses.
3.26      Ten new posts would be established.  Since it may not be possible to
recruit suitable personnel locally for four of these - notably the Financial
Adviser, Civil Engineer, Senior Agronomist and Crop Mechanization Expert -
US$62,500 per year per post are included in the Project costs for four years
to permit the employment, subject to prior approval by IDA, of internationally
recruited staff. Suitable assurances were obtained at negotiations (para
7.01(c)). During this period they would train their own replacements. Funds
for locally recruited staff would include a Director of Finance, Director of
Agriculture, Training Officer, Senior Agricultural Extension Officer, Senior
Livestock Specialist and an Agricultural Economist.
3.27      Appointments to the two key posts of Director of Finance and
Director of Agriculture would be subject to prior approval by IDA and their
recruitment would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit.
Suitable assurances were obtained at negotiations (para 7.02(a)).
3.28      Consultancy.  The proposals for strengthening MFC's Headquarters
(paras 3.25 - 3.27) together with the reorganization of its structure out-
lined in paras 4.02 - 4.04, would enable MFC to carry out its present duties
and the Project. It will still be necessary for Government to carry out a
study on the redefinition of MFC's role and responsibilities for the future
(para 2.08) and the Project would assist these activities by providing
US$250,000 for two consultancies:



- 18 -
(a) The first, for which terms of reference were agreed at negotiations
(para 7.02(b)) would be for financial consultants to review MFC's accounting
system and help improve its efficiency so that the necessary financial data
on MFC's operations can be provided for analysis and the preparation of fi-
nancial plans in support of any new role proposed. Since this review is
urgently required (paras 3.69 and 3.70), it was agreed at negotiations that
the appointment of financial consultants would be made as soon as possible and
would be a condition of effectiveness (para 7.02(b)). A balance of funds
(about US$80,000) from IDA Credit 311-SU would also be used to assist this
consultancy.
(b) The second, for which terms of reference would be agreed nearer the
time, would be for management consultants to assist Government with the study
on the redefinition of MFC's role. This study would specifically deal with:
(i) the extent to which MFC's activities may be changed;
(ii) the consequent requirement of staff, funds and
facilities;
(iii) the fees and charges which MFC would be able to clharge
farmers for its services, and
(iv) its relations with other institutions in the Sudan.
The study would be carried out with the assistance of the consultants not later
than December 31, 1980, and the recommendations emerging from it would be
submitted to the Association and thereafter implemented as agreed. Suitable
assurances were obtained at negotiations (para 7.01(a)).
El Fuda Development Center
3.29      A Development Center comprising offices, stores, machinery maint-
enance and repair facilities, staff quarters, essential services and about
2,500 fd of agricultural land would be established near El Fuda on which
the Scheme would operate agronomy trials (para 3.33) and mixed farming trials
(para 3.39), and provide agricultural extension (para 3.44), and veterinary
services (para 3.46) to farmers in the area. In order to attract and retain
staff in such a remote area, a school, health center, police post and shop
would also be constructed. The site, which would be on land already surveyed
by AHT would be selected by MFC and allocated to it by Government, and it
would be a condition of effectiveness that Government had made this alloca-
tion (para 7.02 (c)). The land would cover a representative cross-section
of the Baroya and Qoz type soils which predominate in the area and in order
to achieve this it may be necessary to have a 1,000 fd central unit with two
or three outstations a few miles away.
3.30      Funds would be provided for the purchase of heavy construction
equipment for road making and land clearing, a selection of agricultural



- 19 -
tractors and implements for the trials programs, and service vehicles. These
would include a D 7 type crawler tractor fitted with a bulldozer blade, ripper
and stick rake, motorized grader, heavy roller, 10 wheel tractors, ploughs,
cultivators, planters, harvesters, trailers, water tankers, portable saw mill,
11 four wheel drive utility vehicles, three lorries and eight motorcycles.
Because of the scheme's remote situation, a well-equipped maintenance and
repair workshop would be established with a large stock of spare parts.
3.31      Land Clearing.  The Project would provide about hSd 7 per fd for
hand labor to clear about 2,000 fd at the rate of 1,000 fd per year. This
reflects a task of 6 laborer days per fd. Rooting would be carried out with
the specially equipped D 7 type crawler tractor.
3.32      Road Construction and Maintenance.  The Project would construct
about 50 km of new access tracks from El Fuda to the 2,500 fd trials area
(including on-farm tracks) and improve the main access road from Babanusa
to El Fuda. The tracks would be about 6 m wide, raised a minimum of 30 cm
at the formation centerline with an approximate 1 in 20 camber sloping
outwards to ground level. Mitre drains would be used to drain surface water
away from the road.  Drainage structures would be box culverts (made from
round logs) sited to improve wet weather access. The tracks would be laid
on the contour where possible, and would be raised when crossing depressions
liable to flooding.  Much of the Babanusa/El Fuda road has recently been re-
constructed to serve a nearby oil rig, but sections near El Fuda and between
Babanusa and El Muglad require widening, reshaping and draining; this work
would be carried out by improving the relatively worst areas first.
3.33      Agronomy Trials.  An Agronomy Trials Unit would be established to
develop programs to study and evaluate three main aspects of development in
the Project area.
(a) resource management,
(b) crop production, and
(c) mixed farming rotations.
The Unit would also be used to produce basic land use plans for the development
of the Center comprising soil classification and contour maps, infrastructure
layout, soil conservation and drainage guidelines, forest conservation and
controlled clearing programs.
3.34      The resource management program would give priority to defining
suitable conservation measures which could be incorporated in future
development plans. These would include the identification of useful tree
species, selective clearing methods to protect these and water courses, and to
provide wind breaks; soil erosion control through contour farming, the use of
crop residues and the restriction of harmful cultural practices - particularly
those involving the misuse of mechanization.



- 20 -
3.35      The Unit's crop production program would include jstudies of present
practices in the areas and costed trials to identify improved techniques which
could be demonstrated to farmers and adopted by them. The unit would cooperate
closely with the Ghazala Gawazat Crops Unit of the IDA assisted Western
Savannah Development Project which is undertaking a comprehensive program to
evaluate a wide range of crops potentially suited to the climate and Qoz soils
of the adjacent S. Darfur area. It is expected that the crops and cropping
rotations which are successful there would also be suitable for the Qoz soils
of the El Fuda area and some of them would also be successful in the Baroya
soils. It would also co-operate closely with the ARC station at Kadugli.
3.36      The program would undertake trials to:
(a) confirm the suitability of varieties and cropping practices
developed by the Ghazala Gawazal Crops Unit for traditional
cultivation in the El Fuda area.
(b) investigate the use of modern farming practices for crop
production on the Baroya soils with the objective of
developing a mechanized farming system suited to the area.
These investigations would comprise:
(i)  Land preparation - time of ploughing; ploughing depth;
sub-soiling; seedbed preparation; ploughing methods,
i.e. mould-board, disc, chisel and blade.
(ii)  Planting and weeding - seed placement, row spacing, plant
population, planting and weeding times, weediing techniques.
(iii)  Other Inputs - fertilizer response, herbicides, pesticides.
3.37      Besides the main crops now grown in the area - millet, groundnuts,
sesame and sorghum - the trials would particularly evaluate sunflower, maize,
safflower, soybean, kerkady (Hibiscus sabderiffa) and leguminous fodder crops.
Crop rotation studies would particularly examine the role of: nitrogen fixing
legumes and deep rooted crops to exploit phosphate reserves in the deep part
of the soil profile. The integration of livestock into the farming system
would be beneficial both by improving soil productivity and by making profit-
able use of leys in the rotation as well as crop residues. Each trial would
be restricted to the minimum acreage compatible with mechanized cultivation,
and the need to get realistic cost data. This would be between 5 and 100 fd
depending upon the number of treatments included.
3.38      Approximately 1,000 fd would be allocated for the Unit's trials and
the program would be managed by a Senior Agronomist assisted, by an Agronomist,
a Farm Manager, 2 clerks and about 25 laborers.
3.39      Mixed Farming Trials.  The two main objectives of this program would
be to develop a model centrally managed extensive farming system suitable for
replication and use by organized groups of farmers, and identify machinery
types and operations which could beneficially be used on single family small-
holdings where only simple mechanized land preparation is required.



- 21 -
3.40      In order to achieve these objectives, two 400 fd trials farms (Farm
A and Farm B) would be developed on which to study organizational problems and
management training; agronomic practices; machinery suitability and use; live-
stock management within a mixed farming system; production parameters; and
soil conservation measures. Observations would be evaluated for financial
viability, efficiency, simplicity and effect on resource conservation.
3.41      Farm A would develop a four year legume-based rotation where grain
production is of prime importance compared with the associated livestock
element. Farm B would also develop a four year rotation but with more emphasis
on legumes and livestock production.  The rotations would be started in the
Project's second year.
3.42      Funds would be provided for MFC to buy a breeding herd of some 50
cows with followers and a flock of 50 ewes with followers.  These would be
divided into two mixed herds, one for each farm, and grazed on the farm during
the year.  In the wet season they would graze the forage legume and in the dry
would also graze the crop residues supplemented with hay, if necessary, and
minerals.  Stocking rates would be adjusted in the light of experience gained
during the rotation trials. Large scale mechanized farming techniques would
be applied throughout the farming cycle.
3.43      The Unit would be managed by a Senior Agronomist assisted by an
Animal Husbandry Officer with experience of nomadic semi-arid area livestock
production and a Farm Mechanization Officer or Agronomist with interests and
experience in Farm Mechanization. The Unit would also need two Farm Super-
visors, two clerks and about 20 permanently employed laborers (including
herdsmen).
3.44      Agricultural Extension Unit.  In order to disseminate the improved
crop production techniques developed by the Scheme's trials programs, the
Project would establish a small Extension Unit at El Fuda whose long term aims
would be to train and advise farmers in the use of tractors and implements
either as supplementary operations, i.e. for land preparation only, or as a
part of a group farming system using fully mechanized operations to develop
and farm extensive acreages. Although these techniques would take a few years
to develop before they should be introduced to farmers, the Extension Service
should be started early in the Project's life in order to introduce new crop
varieties and improved farming practices coming out of the Western Savannah
and Agricultural Research Project's research program and to obtain information
on farmers' needs which could be considered in the design of trials programs.
3.45      The Unit would be managed by a Senior Extension Officer who would
live in the Center and three Extension Assistants (1 per 300 sedentary farming
families approximately), who would also live in the center initially but may
move out to more strategic sites later. Detailed work programs would be
prepared and implemented where possible through progressive farmers.
3.46      Veterinary Unit.  The Project would establish a small Veterinary
Unit comprising a Veterinary Officer, Veterinary Assistant and clerk who would



- 22 -
operate from a dispensary constructed and equipped by the Project at the
Development Center. The Unit would be equipped with a Land Rover type vehicle,
a four wheel drive lorry, veterinary and camping equipment.
3.47      The Unit would be responsible to the Scheme Manager and receive
technical direction from the District Veterinary Officer. Its main duties
would be to gain the confidence of pastoralists in the area and ensure their
participation and cooperation in future proposals arising from the Project to
develop mechanized mixed farms. It would offer veterinary supplies for sale
to pastoralists and advise on their use; and cooperate in District animal
health and vaccination programs.  In conjunction with the Project's Senior
Livestock Specialist (para 3.26) the Unit would collect data on local animal
husbandry practices and production parameters for use in development planning.
Pilot Village Smallholder Scheme
3.48      Four villages would be selected in the Gedaref area by MFC in con-
sultation with the Regional Authorities. Each would receive a tractor unit
comprising the machinery listed in para. 3.11, and a 500 gallon fuel storage
tank. The Project would also provide funds for two supervisors each equipped
with a tractor and trailer for use as transport and reserve in case of major
breakdown of a village tractor.
3.49      Under the overall direction of a Scheme Manager stationed in
Gedaref, the machinery units would be hired out to members of the village
communities for the cultivation of their smallholdings. Farmers would be
encouraged to cultivate twice instead of once and to continue using non-
combinable sorghum varieties.
3.50      The Project provides for 100 farmers with 15 fd holdings per
village, and in view of the organizational problems which would have to be
overcome, the following rate of adoption is forecast - 50% in year 2, 75%
in year 3, and 100% (1,500 fd) in year 4.
3.51      The major problems to be overcome would be managerial, i.e. the
collection of hiring fees, ensuring adequate and timely fuel supplies, prompt
maintenance and repairs, and the efficient programming of the work. These
would be made harder to resolve because the main organizational objective of
the pilot scheme would be to pioneer effective arrangements for the maximum
participation by the village community in the scheme's management. The
development of a suitable organization at village level would be a most
important part of the Scheme Manager's duties.
3.52      Since cash payments in advance for tractor hire are already accepted,
these would continue and no related credit program is proposed for operating
costs. The incremental cash outlay would be about bSd 93 per farm, for which
incremental working capital is provided. After the first year, the farmer
would have a positive cash flow from which to meet the incremental cost.
Credit would be required when a unit is transferred to a village community,
and suitable credit arrangements would be made as the scheme develops and the
organizational pattern becomes clearer.



- 23 -
3.53      In principle, under the scheme, each village unit would recover the
full operating costs of its unit by charging farmers an appropriate hourly
rate for tractor hire. These costs would include the Supervisor but not the
MFC Scheme Manager and his expenses, since these would be regarded as develop-
ment costs. The Project would also provide working capital (bSd 24,000) for
MFC to pay operating costs prior to their recovery - particularly for fuel
supplies which have to be delivered to the villages before the onset of the
rains.
3.54      The progress and results of the scheme would be monitored and
analyzed by MFC's Planning and Evaluation Department.
D.  Project Costs
Costs
3.55      Total Project cost is estimated at US$26.4 million, of which about
US$16.0 million, or 61% would represent foreign exchange requirements, as
shown in Table 1.



- 24 -
Table 1
Project Costs
Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Exchange
-------LSd '000 ------   -------US$ '000------   ---Z----
1. Large Scale Farming
(a) Extension, Demons-
tration & Trials          570      479    1,049   1,425   1,197    2,622        46
(b) Research (ARC)            100      100       200      250     250       500      50
(c) Roads                     548   1,277    1,825   1,370   3,192    4,562          70
(d) Spare Parts                -    2,000    2,000       -      5,000    5,000    100
(e) MFC Headquarters 1/       424      515       939   1,060   1,288    2,348        55
2. Smallholder Development
(a) El Fuda Center          1,284   1,063    2,347   3,210   2,658    5,868          45
(b) Pilot Schemes              66       60       126      165     150       315      49
Base line total 2/          2,992   5,494    8,486   7,480  13,735   21,215          65
Physical Contin-
gency                        290      339       629      725     848    1,573       54
Price Contingency             862      580    1,442   2,155   1,450    3,605         40
4,144   6,413   10,557  10,360  16,033   26,393         61
3.56      Except for items 1 (b) and (d), which are fixed amounts, a physical
contingency allowance of 10% has been provided and price escalation has been
estimated as follows:
1978   1979   1980   1981
___________  _% -----------
Imported goods                   7.0   6.5    6.0    6.0
Civil Works                     10.5   9.25   7.5    7.5 3/
Local goods and Services        13.0  11.0    8.0    8.0
1/   Includes bSd 100,000 (US$250,000) for Consultancy.
2/   Base line costs are estimated as of March 1978.
3/   Civil works are calculated to incorporate about 50% of imported components
and 50% of local costs, including import duties and taxes.



- 25 -
3.57      Physical and price contingencies combined represent 33% of base
costs, excluding fixed amounts items 1 (b) and (d). Included in the above
costs are import taxes and duties estimated at US$5.0 million. In addition,
duties on spares are estimated at about US$1.1 million thus providing Govern-
ment with part of the funds with which to meet its share of project costs.
(The US$1.1 million duties on spares are not included in the Project costs
(Table 1) since the basis of the US$5.0 million provided for spare parts is
c & f costs.)
Financing
3.58      The foreign exchange portion of the Project costs (US$16.0 million)
would be financed entirely by IDA. Government would contribute US$5.4 million
and the US$5.0 million it would receive from duties and taxes resulting from
the Project.
US$ Million         %
IDA                         16.0            61        75
Government                   5.4            20        25
Sub-total              21.4            8i       100
Taxes & Duties               5.0            19
Total                  26.4            100
3.59      The proposed IDA credit of US$16.0 million would be on standard
terms to Government. US$11.0 million (i.e. excluding the US$5.0 million for
spare parts) would be the subject of a Subsidiary Agreement between Government
and MFC. Since MFC's future role may require a revision of its present
financial relationship with Government the US$11.0 million would be made
available to MFC in the form of a loan which for the time being would be
irredeemable and interest free. However, it is contemplated that in the next
2 or 3 years, MFC's future would have been established and its financial
relationships worked out. At that time, the terms applying to the funds under
this credit would be reviewed. The Subsidiary Agreement, which would reflect
this, would be a condition of effectiveness (para 7.02 (d)).
3.60      The spare parts facility would be made available through the Bank of
Sudan for the c & f cost of spares imported by manufacturers' agents over and
above their normal importations.



- 26 -
E. Procurement and Disbursement
Procurement
3.61      Procurement of vehicles, tractors, machinery, equipment and asso-
ciated spare parts (US$2.6 million) in orders over US$75,000 would be subject
to international competitive bidding (ICB) according to IDA guidelines. Orders
would be bulked to tne maximum extent possible. Contracts of US$75,000 or
less and up to US$500,000 in aggregate would be awarded under MFC's procedures
which are acceptable to the Association. Local supplies of equipment and
materials would qualify for 15% domestic preference.
3.62      US$5 million would be made available so that established manufac-
turers' agents could obtain spare parts for specific types of tractors and
equipment imported between 1968 and 1977. Over 80% of the agricultural
machinery for which the spares will be needed was acquired through ICB. Since
there are four major tractor agencies in Khartoum and several smaller ones, an
element of competition already exists.
3.63      Because the building construction program would be in remote areas
unsuitable for ICB or local tender, it would be carried out by MFC force
account (total cost about US$3.0 million). The road construction program is
also too dispersed to attract ICB but in order to encourage the formation and
development of local contracting companies it would be broken down and put out
to domestic tenders. If no satisfactory tenders are received, it would be
carried out by force account. Boreholes would be constructed by the Rural
Water Corporation of the Ministry of Agriculture using their own machinery.
3.64      For goods to be purchased by ICB, MFC would submit general procure-
ment notices to the Bank for insertion in the UN publication "Development
Forum"; an appropriate assurance was obtained at negotiations.
3.65      Assurances were obtained from Government at negotiations that
the above procedures will be followed and that import litenses and foreign
exchange will be made available promptly as required.
Disbursement
3.66      The proceeds of the Credit, which would be applied only to the
foreign exchange portion of Project costs, would be disbursed over about
four years on the following basis:



- 27 -
US$ Million
(a)  Civil works                                                4.6
(i)   40% of total expenditures on buildings and
roads
(ii)  100% of foreign expenditure on directly
imported building materials and equipment
(b)  100% of foreign expenditures on vehicles, tractors,
machinery equipment and associated spare parts             1.4
(c)  100% of foreign expenditures on agricultural
machinery spare parts                                      5.0
(d)  100% of total expenditures on internationally
recruited staff and consultants                            1.1
(e)  60% of local expenditures on operating costs
including ARC research but not including salaries          1.5
(f)  60% of total expenditures on borehole construction
and equipment                                              0.2
(g)  an unallocated amount representing contingencies
on the above categories and transferable to them as
required                                                   2.2
16.0
3.67      Disbursements would be fully documented apart from those items under
category (a) (i) and (e) above which would be made against statements of
expenditure certified by MFC's Director of Finance and Managing Director, the
documentation for which would not be submitted for review, but would be re-
tained by MFC and held available for inspection by the Association during
the course of Project supervision. The strengthening of MFC's Construction
and Engineering Department by the Project (para 4.04), would ensure that MFC
has the necessary capability. A schedule of disbursements is given in
Table 5.
F. Accounts and Audit
3.68      Under the Credit Agreement for MFP II (IDA Credit 311-SU), MFC is
required to have its accounts, as well as those of the Project schemes,
audited by independent accountants. Messrs. Abdel Latif, Eltayeb & Co. were
appointed and have completed the audit and translation of MFC's annual ac-
counts up to and including 1975/76. MFC's financial year runs from July 1 to
June 30.
3.69      Since the accounts are in arrears, it has not been possible to
analyse them fully. However, it is apparent that financial control is



- 28 -
weak. There is no feed back to farm and scheme managers, and there are
probably no cash reserves for the purchase of replacement machinery. Analysis
is made harder by the fact that separate accounts are kept for each of MFC's
field stations - state farms, IDA supported schemes, Regional Offices - and
these are not consolidated in MFC's head office accounts.
3.70      MFP II (Credit 311-SU) provided US$80,000 for outside accountants
to reorganize MFC's accounts and bring them up-to-date. Subsequently IDA
agreed to allow the newly appointed Director of Accounts, a qualified account-
ant, to undertake this but he had too much day to day work and did not have
the time to complete this task as well. As a result, MFC is still in need of
assistance.
3.71      The financial consultants provided by the Project to assist with the
study on the redifinition of MFC's role (para 3.28(a)) would review MFC's
accounting system and help to improve its efficiency. The consultant's terms
of reference were agreed at negotiations (para 7.02(b)).
3.72      Assurances were obtained at negotiations that MFC would consoli-
date its financial statements in future starting with its accounts for the
year ending June 30, 1979, and that it would also keep separate accounts for
the Project. Assurances were also obtained at negotiations that MFC would
have these statements and accounts audited by independent accountants accept-
able to IDA and would submit certified copies in English annually to the
Association not later than six months after the end of the Einancial year.
The Auditors would be specifically required to verify, in the case of force
account work and operating costs under the Project - paras :3.06 (a) (i) and
(e) - that the work had been performed and payment made.
3.73      The Bank of Sudan would keep separate accounts of disbursements and
receipts in respect of the spare parts facility and would supply copies of
these accounts to IDA quarterly, within one month of the end of each Calendar
quarter. These accounts would be audited annually by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA and submitted to IDA not later than six month after the end
of the financial year. A suitable assurance was obtained at negotiations
(para 7.01(g)).
G. Environmental Impact
3.74      By encouraging large-scale mechanized rainfed farmers to properly
fallow one-quarter of their land each year, the Project would help conserve
soil fertility which has been depleted as a result of virtually continuous
mono-cropping of sorghum on the same land year after year. It would also try
to seek to introduce new crops such as soybeans which, if aclopted on a large
scale, would improve soil fertility. The use of herbi-ides and insecticides
would initially be for trial purposes only, and their impact: would be evaluated.
In the El Fuda area, the agronomy trials unit to be created under the Project
would have as one of its main tasks the identification of measures to conserve
existing forest, groundwater, soil and pasture resources.



- 29 -
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
General
4.01      With the exception of the spare parts component which would be
administered by the Bank of Sudan (para 4.09), the Project would be imple-
mented by MFC under the overall direction of its Managing Director. However,
the Corporation would require re-organization and strengthening so that it
could do this with minimal need to call upon other institutions for assistance.
Re-organization
4.02      The re-organization measures proposed below take into account not
only the weaknesses that have been apparent in MFC's present operations but
also the new tasks that the co-ordinated development of rainfed mechanized
farming would impose on the Corporation in the future. These would include
further development and extension of adaptive field trials and mechanized
smallholder schemes; greater participation in credit schemes, and the devel-
opment of new areas including land use planning, settlement and the provision
of technical and supervisory services. Details of the re-organization were
agreed at negotiations (para 7.02(d)).
4.03      The main features of the re-organization (Chart 1) would be the
establishment of a Financial Adviser's post, a reduction in the number of units
reporting directly to the Managing DirecLor from fifteen to five, the amalgama-
tion of the ex,ting Finance and Personnel administrations into a new Finance
Department, and the establishment of a new Agricultural Department under a
Director of Agriculture who would direct the Regional Offices - which in turn
manage all the development schemes. The Agricultural Department would include
a small technical group provided by the Project comprising a mechanized farming
expert, agricultural extension specialist, livestock officer and agronomist.
Because of the great distance and poor communications between MFC's head office
and its field operations, MFC manages its affairs through semi-autonomous
Regional Offices and Scheme Managers. This decentralization is acceptable
under the circumstances but it has the weakness that Regional Managers cannot
provide all the detailed technical direction the field officers require.
Rather than attempt to establish each regional office with a corps of techni-
cal staff, the Project proposes to provide strong technical direction centrally.
Thus the members of   e technical group would be responsible to the Director
of Agriculture for providing specialist advisory services for MFC's operations
and in particular to its field staff. They would also liaise closely with
other technical institutions involved in agricultural development.
4.04      Other important features would be the establishment of a new Con-
struction and Engineering Department (absorbing MFC's existing Engineering
Administration) to be responsible for planning, execution and maintenance of
MFC's road and buildings development programs, a new Training Department and a
new Legal Office. Also, the Planning and Evaluation Department would be
re-organized to include four new sections covering surveys and studies, land
use planning, scheme preparation, and monitoring, statistics and evaluation.



- 30 -
Management
4.05      The roads construction component of the Project would be designed
and laid out by the new Construction and Engineering Department. The work
would be carried out by MFC's road construction unit as at present, and
technical supervision would continue to be provided by the Roads and Bridges
Corporation until the new Department is well established.
4.06      The Trials and Farm Demonstrations components introduce new activi-
ties which MFC would carry out using its existing field staff under the
direction of the Regional Managers. The necessary technical direction would
be provided by the technical group's agronomist who would maintain a close
liaison with ARC and other interested research institutions. The two corpora-
tions have recently agreed to a common policy which defines their respective
responsibilities whereby ARC will implement (inter alia) a basic research
program to meet MFC's needs, and MFC will provide the link through applied
trials, demonstrations and extension staff between ARC and mechanized farmers
in the rainfed sub-sector. The applied trials implemented by MFC would be
restricted as far as possible to fully research new technologies.
4.07      The successful implementation of the extension component would
require the restructuring and re-orienting of the existing field staff (para
3.09) which would be planned and carried out under the technical direction
of the Senior Agricultural Extension Officer (para 3.26).
4.08      The Project's two Smallholder Schemes would require the establish-
ment of two special divisions each under a Scheme Manger responsible to
the Director of Agriculture. Both these schemes would rely on Headquarters
staff for technical and administrative support. The organization of the El
Fuda Development Center's field staff is shown in Chart 2.
Spare Parts
4.09      MFC would identify, with the assistance of manufacturers' agents,
the types of spares to be imported, these would be for 4-wheel tractors of
about 75 HP and wide level disc seeders and would not include items common
to other machinery such as tyres and batteries.
4.10      To ensure that the IDA financed spare parts would be incremental,
BOS would establish the base -level of imports of the above type as being
their average annual foreign exchange cost for the years 1975 through 1977.
The base level would be increased annually by 10% from 1977 to allow for
price inflation until the funds (para 3.66)(d)) are fully disbursed.
4.11      MFC with the assistance of manufacturers' agents and the Agricul-
tural Bank of Sudan, would identify the numbers, makes and types of tractors
and wide level disc seeders operated in the Project Area and would use this
information to allocate the use of project funds for this component equitably
between eligible importers. Allocations would only be made to importers who
have arrangements, satisfactory to MFC, for the distribution of the spare
parts to the main rainfed agricultural areas. Distribution through MFC would
be an acceptable channel for part of the area.



- 31 -
4.12      Importers with allocations would apply for import licences in the
normal manner except that their applications would have to be endorsed by
MFC certifying that the spare parts required are of the type identified in
para 4.09. Having received licences they would pay the equivalent amount of
the invoices in Sudanese pounds to BOS. Invoices for non-incremental spare
parts would be paid to suppliers by BOS in the usual way. It is expected
that most of the incremental spare parts would be purchased by the direct
payment of Project funds to suppliers (para 3.22). Manufacturers' agents
have adequate access to short term bridging finance. BOS would continue to
make adequate foreign exchange available (without recourse to the use of
Project funds) to maintain the importation of spare parts identified in para
4.09 at or above the base level (para 4.10) until completion of the Project.
4.13      BOS would submit quarterly reports to IDA indicating the amounts
of foreign exchange made available from sources other than Project funds.
In the light of these reports, IDA would monitor the use of Project funds
and in the event that they were found not to have been used incrementally,
the procedures would be reviewed with Government.
4.14      Suitable assurances were obtained from Government during negotia-
tions that the procedures outlined in paras 4.09 - 4.13 would be followed
(para 7.01 (b)).
Pilot Village Smallholder Scheme
4.15      An important objective of this pilot scheme would be to identify
and develop a suitable system by which a village community could operate
a tractor unit for the benefit of its members. However, certain principles
are clear such as the importance of complete cost recovery, the reasonably
equitable allocation of opportunity to use the unit, the establishment of
good maintenance and repair services, the establishment of a depreciation
fund and good accounting. MFC would involve the local village councils in
the management of the scheme as much as possible and the village community
would be expected to provide a driver, clerk and a small building or room
for part time use as an office and store. The rate to be charged per hour
would be determined annually and would include depreciation, driver's and
clerk's wages. The costs of the MFC manager would be charged to the farmers
for the four month season plus his transport costs.
4.16      The collection of tractor hire charges would be made by the clerk
of the village council. He would also assist the MFC supervisor in allocat-
ing work programs to the tractor driver to minimize idle time when moving
between plots. The MFC supervisor would be responsible for overall manage-
ment and record keeping. MFC would establish a Tractor Hire Service Fund
from which the payment of fuel, oils, drivers' wages and repair costs would be
made and to which hire charge payments would be credited.



- 32 -
Training
4.17      In order to reorient MFC's approach to training it will be necessary
for the Training Department to examine in detail the skills required in each
specific job within the organization and to ascertain to what extent these
skills are present in the majority of staff engaged in each such job. When
such a survey has been undertaken it will be possible to identify key tasks
where lack of specific skills is a major constraint to the overall efficient
operation.
Staffing
4.18      MFC already has large numbers of qualified staff working in the
field - some in extremely remote areas such a Umm Agag - so there should
be no special difficulties in getting the new field posts suitably staffed
with local personnel. There may, however, be problems over recruitment of
suitably qualified and experienced Sudanese professional staff at certain
higher levels since these are being attracted to other countries by higher
salaries and better prospects. Accordingly it was agreed at negotiations
that four posts (para 3.26) would be filled by international recruitment
(para 7.01 (c)).
4.19      Since the staff who would fill the incremental posts funded by
the Project would only be able to carry out their duties effectively if MFC
reorganizes its structure, an assurance was obtained from MFC at negotia-
tions that they would implement the re-organization as soon as possible
but not later than Dec. 31, 1979 (para 7.01 (d)).
Completion Report
4.20      Assurances were obtained at negotiations that MFC's Planning and
Evaluation Department would promptly after completion of the project but
no later than six months after the credit closing date, prepare a completion
report on the execution of the Project, its costs and benef'its, and its
major accomplishments.
V. MARKETS, PRICES, FARMERS' BENEFITS AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Markets and Prices
5.01      Additional project output at full development, largely from the
demonstration plots and to a lesser extent from the smallholder components,
would amount to an estimated 3,000 mt of sorghum and 600 mt of sesame.
These quantities are not only small in absolute terms, but also represent



- 33 -
less than 1 percent of current (1976-77) and projected (1982/83) Sudanese
production. However, if the improved technology to be demonstrated on
mechanized rainfed farms were adopted by even a relatively small number
of farmers, considerably larger production increases could be expected.
For example, if 15% of the approximately 2,000 farmers in the Gedaref and
Habila areas aaopted the improved technology over a three year period, an
additional 80,000 mt of sorghum and 16,000 mt of sesame per year, represent-
ing increases of 4.0 and 6.6 percent respectively in current production, would
result.
5.02      Sorghum in the Sudan is of two main types:  traditional, higher-
priced varieties and combinable, lower-priced varieties. The main reason
for the price differential is that the traditional varieties are preferred
for human consumption, both in the Sudan and neighboring Arab countries,
while the combinab4e varieties are largely exported as animal feed, competing
mainly with corn on world markets. Sudan has been a small but growing ex-
porter of sorghum in recent years, supplying both traditional varieties to
neighboring Arab states and combinable varieties to Western European countries.
Under these conditions, the small amounts of sorghum to be produced by the
project, consisting largely of combinable varieties from the demonstration
plots but also some traditional varieties from the smallholder components, are
expected to be exported. Saudi Arabia and other nearby Arab countries where
the development of livestock industries and population growth are projected
to increase demand for coarse grains, would be the main markets. Market
prospects for sesame, of which Sudan is a major producer, accounting for 13%
of world output in recent years, are also favorable with prices expected to
rise after 1980.
5.03      Sorghum marketing in the Sudan is almost entirely in the hands of
private merchants. Sesame marketing is different in that although merchants
also purchase the crop from producers, the Sudan Oilseeds Company (SOC), which
has a monopoly on sesame exports, establishes minimum prices for their buying
operations, as well as maximum prices for the seed which merchants deliver to
the Company. Merchants are also the traditional source of pre-harvest credit
to producers under the "sheil" system. Where such credit has been extended,
the low prices offered to producers after harvest may conceal what constitutes
very high interest rates.
5.04      Local market prices for sorghum and to a lesser extent sesame are
subject to wide fluctuations in the Sudan, and in the absence of reliable
local market price series, the prices which farmers would receive for combin-
able varieties of sorghum and for sesame (Table 2) have been estimated on
an export parity basis from IBRD projected prices. Traditional varieties
of sorghum have been valued at the average price over the last two years



- 34 -
Table 2
Prices Used In The Financial Analysis
(in 1978 constant bSd per mt Gedaref Market)
Project Year                 Sorghum                    Sesame
1                       25.52                      82.55
2                       27.19                      76.63
3                       27.19                      80.76
4                       27.19                      84.89
5                       27.19                      89.02
6                       27.19                      93.15
7                       26.93                      97.27
B.  Farmers' Benefits
5.05      Large-scale mechanized rainfed farming is presently a "low input-
low output" operation in which farmers exploit the land for a few years until
yields make farming unprofitable. The land is then abandoned. The model
farmer (Table 6) will have invested bSd 17,800 in 1973 (farm year 1, Project
year minus 6) in his farm and incurred operating costs of about bSd 15,000 in
1974, falling to bSd 7,200 in 1980 (farm year 8, Project year 2). He will
have cultivated 700 fd sorghum and 250 fd sesame each year, with the balance
of his land uncleared and unused. By 1980, his yields will have dropped from
a peak of 0.727 mt (8 sacks) of sorghum and 0.231 mt (3 sacks) of sesame per
fd to a sustained level of 0.182 mt (2 sacks) and 0.077 mt (1 sack) respective-
ly giving a negative cash "flow" of about bSd 2,200. At this point, farmers
typically do one of two things: either they go out of business or, if they
have sufficient capital, they move onto new land where they can obtain higher
yields. Special circumstances such as higher rainfall may delay their deci-
sion.   Many farmers are also merchants with outside income and storage
facilities that enable them to take advantage of seasonal price fluctuations.
But sooner or later, declining yields make farming unprofitable.
5.06      If, however, the model farmer were to adopt in 1980 the improved
technology to be demonstrated. under the Project (Table 7), he would have to
clear the remainder of his farm (500 fd at bSd 9/fd), trade in his 75 hp
tractor for a new 95 hp tractor and purchase a heavy duty offset tandem
disc harrow plough and a tine cultivator drill with cover harrows at a total
net cost of iSd 17,700. He would then cultivate 720 fd sorghum and 360 fd
sesame in a rotation with a 360 fd fallow. After an initial period of
increased yields from the new land brought under crops, it is projected that
yields would stabilize at 0.545 mt (6 sacks) of sorghum and 0.200 mt (2.6
sacks) of sesame per fd compared to 1.1 to 1.3 mt of sorghum and 0.3 to 0.4 mt
of sesame per fd obtained in trials (paras 2.14 and 2.15).



- 35 -
5.07      The effect of this package on the model farmer's cash flow is
that it becomes positive from 1981 (farm year 9, Project year 3) onward,
yielding an average net income of LSd 875 per year over 10 years, and a
financial rate of return of 12% over the same period. The fifty farmers
participating in the demonstration component would achieve these returns on
their 280 fd plots. Though modest by themselves, these returns would be
attractive to farmers since they would enable them to continue farming on land
they know and have developed at considerable cost, instead of abandoning their
land and going out of business or investing heavily in new land. Moreover,
adoption of the proposed package would be followed in the near future by more
profitable innovations, if these can be proven technically and financially
viable by the Project's trials program.
5.08      Little is known about the costs and returns of smallholders in the
El Fuda area, but modest increases in yields of the order of 20% can be ex-
pected from the Project's extension efforts at little additional cost to the
farmer.
5.09      The situation of the small-scale farmers in the Gedaref
area is presently one of low returns, due primarily to low yields (0.111 mt
or 1.22 sacks per fd of sorghum and 0.095 mt or 1.24 sacks per fd of sesame)
and high weed infestation. Net returns from sorghum average bSd 3.40/per fd,
while those from sesame are-only LSd 2.10 per fd (Table 8). The main reason
for the low yields is late planting caused by the unavailability of tractors.
The high degree of weed infestation results primarily from the practice of a
single cultivation/sowing, also due to the unavailability of tractors. Through
the tractor hire units to be introduced under the Project, it is estimated
these farmers' yields would increase to 0.273 (3 sacks) per fd of sorghum
and 0.200 mt (2.6 sacks) per fd of sesame, resulting in returns of bSd 9.20
and LSd 4.19 per fd, respectively (Table 9). Net income from a 15 fd farm
consisting of 10 feddans sorghum and 5 fd sesame would thus rise from the
present level of LSd 44.50 to LSd 112.95.
C. Financial Analysis - MFC
5.10      Although MFC derives some revenue from its State Farm operations
and its share of land rents, it is not financially viable as a commercial
organization. It is incurring operating losses and experiencing cash flow
*        problems, even without providing for interest on most of the institutional
funds onlent and funds provided directly to it by Government, which total
about LSd 8.4 million. The State Farms have been making increasing losses
and the services that MFC provides for development scheme farmers are not
self-financing, with the consequence that MFC's overall operating deficit
in 1975/76 was about LSd 1.2 million, after writing off only 1.5% of LSd
2.4 million deferred development expenditure. At June 30, 1976, about LSd
2.8 million of the funds provided by GOS had been lost, and MFC had a net
overdraft of LSd 110,000.



- 36 -
5.11      MFC is presently in a transitional stage and no financial analysis
of its future can be made until Government has completed the study on the
redefinition of its role and responsibilities for which the Project is pro-
viding for consultancy assistance (para 3.28). An important feature of the
study would be to determine to what extent MFC should be made self-financing
in terms of its expenditures on development and services in the Project area.
D. Government Cash Flow
5.12      Government would finance US$4.3 million or 16% of the total Project
cost, in addition to contributing import taxes and duties totalling US$6.1
million. After the disbursement period, it would have to cover the debt
service payments to IDA. No operating costs are included after year 4 since
these would only pertain to the Pilot Village Smallholder Scheme and be
negligible. Since the inflow from indirect taxation on the incremental
production directly attributable to the Project's investmentL is also small,
Government would end up with a cash flow deficit from the Project amounting
to about US$1.0 million by the end of the Project's life in year 15.
5.13      However, if the improved technology to be demonstrated on mechanized
rainfed farms were adopted by even a relatively small number of farmers, con-
siderably larger export tax revenues would accrue to the central Government.
For example, if 15% of the approximately 2,000 farmers in the Gedaref and
Habila areas adopted the improved technology, an additional US$1.5 million per
annum in export tax revenue would be collected at full development. This
would result in a cumulative surplus of about US$17.0 million in year 15.
5.14      MFC currently makes no charges to cover the service it provides
to farmers and its revenue is confined to its share of land rents collected
from farmers in the demarcated areas (para 2.01 (a)) and any profits it makes
from the State Farms. The Project would not increase these revenues. Al-
though a detailed appraisal of MFC's finances has not been possible (para
3.69) it is probable that MFC's current revenue is insufficient for it to
assume responsibility for servicing and repaying the proposed IDA credit.
MFC's future role and financial arrangements would be reviewed before
December 31, 1980 (para 3.71) with the assistance of consultants to be
financed under the proposed credit.
.
VI. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Economic Rates of Return
6.01      The economic rate of return is estimated to be 25% for the Large
Scale Farming component (base cost is US$12.7 million, plus its share of MFC
Headquarters, US$1.3 million, totalling US$14.0 million, of which US$10.3
million has been included) and 26% for the Pilot Village Smallholder component
(base cost US$0.3 million, plus its share of MFC Headquarters, US$0.1 million,
totalling US$0.4 million).



- 37 -
The Project rate of return, representing the average rate of return on these
components (base cost US$13.0 million, plus their share of MFC Headquarters,
US$1.4 million totalling US$14.4 million, of which US$10.7 million, represent-
ing 51% of project base costs has been included) is estimated to be 25%. In
calculating the rate of return on the Large Scale Farming component, the
Trials, DemonsLration, Extension and Research sub-components representing 17%
of project base cost including their share of MFC Headquarters, were excluded
because their benefits cannot be quantified with any accuracy. The rate of
return for the Large Scale Farming component thus reflects that of the roads
sub-component, estimated at 9% on the basis of vehicle operating cost savings
only, and that of the spare parts sub-component, estimated at 44% on the basis
of production savings (27,000 mt of sorghum and 4,000 mt of sesame in 1983).
Similarly, no rate of return was calculated on the experimental El Fuda
Development Center which represents 32% of project base costs including its
share of MFC Headquarters, although its extension activities are justified on
the grounds that a modest 20% increase in yields by 60% of the farmers in the
area over a three-year period would produce a rate of return in the range of
the opportunity cost of capital.
Assumptions
6.02      The main assumptions used in the economic analysis were:
(a) Project Life - The economic life of the Project is
assumed to be fifteen years on the grounds that the
last Project road would be completed at the end of
year 3, and would last twelve years.
(b) Costs (Table 10) - Economic costs are in March 1978
constant terms and are net of transfer payments.
They include all incremental capital and operating
costs at both the Project and farm levels, except
those of the components excluded from the economic
analysis. A 10% physical contingency has been in-
cluded. MFC support costs have been allocated 33%
to the Roads and Spare Parts components and 2% to the
Pilot Village Smallholder component, representing the
share of these components in relevant project base
costs. Labor has been costed at market wages.
(c) Benefits (Table 11) - Economic benefits, also in
March 1978 constant terms and net of transfer pay-
ments, have been calculated incrementally for each
of the Project's components and sub-components,
except those excluded from the economic analysis,
on the basis of a "without Project" situation and
aggregated to obtain the Project benefit stream.
For the spare parts component, the "without Project"
situation is based on tractors going out of service
with a resulting drop in production. For the roads
component, the "without Project" situation assumes



- 38 -
higher vehicle operating costs. In the case of the Pilot
Village Smallholder component, existing yields have been
used to determine "without Project" production.
(d)  Prices - Economic prices for the main crops to be
produced under the Project, sorghum and sesame (Table
3), of which Sudan is presently an exporter, have
been calculated on an export parity basis from IBRD
projected prices. The Gedaref market has been chosen
as the place for valuing project output, because it
would be the main producing center under the Project,
and because the sorghum and sesame produced as a result
of the Project in other areas would release for export
quantities of these crops presently moved from Gedaref
to meet deficits in other parts of the country.
Table 3
Prices Used in the Economic Analysis
(in 1978 constant LSd per mt Gedaref market)
Project Year                 Sorghum                    Sesame
1                       38.71                     137.62
2                       41.13                     128.39
3                       41.13                     134.89
4                       41.13                     141.39
5                       41.13                     147.89
6                       41.13                     154.39
7+                      40.75                     160.67
(e)  Foreign Exchange.  This has been valued at ISd 1 =
US$2.00 (as opposed to the prevailing exchange rate
of bSd 1 = US$2.50) to reflect the scarcity value of
foreign exchange.
Risk and Sensitivity Analysis
6.03      The main risk facing the Project is that the experimental components
would fail to produce viable farming systems. Assuming that the project is
successful in this regard, there is also the risk that farmers would not
adopt the new systems in adequate numbers. However, since the experimental
components, and the costs and benefits of eventual adoption by farmers,
have been excluded from the economic analysis, the risks related to them
have not been quantified. With regard to the components included in the
economic analysis, the main risk is a delay in the provision of spare parts
to farmers. Even a few weeks' slippage in their arrival could cause farmers



- 39 -
to miss the critical crop sowing period, thereby delaying most or all of the
expected benefits until the following year. Assuming the first year's benefits
are delayed by one year, the rate of return of the spare parts component would
fall from 44 to 42% and that of the Project, from 25 to 24%.
Benefits
6.04      The Project's main quantifiable benefit would be increased production
of sorghum and sesame for export. Based on projected Port Sudan export prices
for these crops and the foreign exchange component of operating costs, the
Project would generate net foreign exchange earnings of about US$450,000 at
full development. Additional employment would be small and largely confined
to the development period. The economic effects of increased foreign exchange
earnings and employment creation have been included in the rate of return
calculations. The Project would also increase the incomes of smallholders in
the Gedaref area by over 150%, though they would still be below the absolute
poverty level of US$65 per capita.
6.05      Additional non-quantifiable benefits would be the expected estab-
lishment of viable agricultural systems in the rainfed mechanized farming
sector which would in time reverse the declining yield trends and, improved
access to basic human and animal services for an estimated 1,000 farming
families and 10,000 nomads in the El Fuda area.
VII. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations agreement was reached on the following principal
points:
(a) Government would carry out and complete a study on the rede-
finition of MFC's role and responsibilities not later than
December 31, 1980, and the recommendations emerging from the
study would be submitted to IDA and thereafter implemented as
agreed (para 3.28(b)).
(b) She procedures outlined in paras 4.09 through 4.13 would be
followed thus ensuring that spare parts imported with Project
funds would be incremental to the present level of such imports
and would be made available primarily to farmers in the Project
area.
(c) The appointment of the Financial Adviser, Civil Engineer,
Senior Agronomist and Crop Mechanization Expert would be made,
subject to prior approval by IDA (para 3.26), by international
recruitment (para 4.18).
(d)  That MFC would re-organize its structure a soon as possible but
not later than December 31, 1979 (paras 4.02 and 4.19).



- 40 -
7.02      Conditions of effectiveness of the credit are:
(a)  The appointment, subject to their prior approval by IDA, of
the Director of Finance and Director of Agriculture (para
3.27).
(b)  The appointment of financial consultants with qualifications,
experience and terms of reference acceptable to the Associa-
tion (para 3.28).
(c)  The allocation of about 2,500 fd of land by Government to
MFC for the Development Center near El Fuda (para 3.29).
(d)  The signing of a Subsidiary Agreement between Government
and MFC satisfactory to IDA (para 3.59).
7.03      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA credit
of US$16.0 million on standard terms.



SUDAN
THIRD MECHANIZED FARMING
Government Cash Flow
(US$ '000)
Total
1         2          3          4         5       6-10        11-15        1-15
Inflow
IDA Credit 1/                    3,100     4,700      4,900      2,800       500       -          -           16,000
Import taxes &  duties 2/        1,182     1,792      1,868      1,067       191       -          -            6,100
Indirect taxes 3/                  -           80         77        80        70      255        87              649
Total cash inflow 4/          4,282     6,572      6,845      3,947       761      255        87           22,749
Outflow
Onlent to MFC                    6,884      6,437     5,593      2,479        -        -          -           21,393
IDA Debt Service                    12         40         76       106       118      600    1,400             2,352
6,896     6,477      5,669      2,585       118      600    1,400            23,745
Net Cash Flow
Surplus (deficit)               (2,614)        95     1,176      1,362       643    (345)  (1,313)                -
Cumulative Cash Flow
Surplus (deficit)               (2,614)   (2,519)   (1,343)         19       662      317      (996)            (996)
1/  Phased as  i the reimbursement schedule (Table 5).
2/ Includes US$1.0 million paid by importers of spare parts (para 3.57).
3/ Taxes on incremental exports and income tax on farmers' incremental incomes.
4/ The above table shows only the Central Government's cash flow in relation to the
Project. Sales taxes up to about 12% of the value of production (totalling some
US$3.5 million over years 1-15) would be collected by local Governments from the
incremental output.                                                                                                3
H



-42-                        Table 5
SUDAN
THIRD MECHANIZED FARMING PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements of IDA Credit
(us$ '000)
Quarter                                Cumulative        Cumulative
IDA FY    Ending                Disbursement      Disbursements         %
1979      December  1978 1/          -
March     1979             -                  -              -
June      1979          1,000               1,000            6
1980      September 1979           1,000              2,000            13
December  1979          1,100               3,100           19
March     1980          1,100               4,200           26
June      1980          1,200               5,400           34
1981      September 1980           1,200              6,600           41
December  1980           1,200              7,800           49
March     1981           1,300              9,100           57
June      1981          1,300              10,400           65
1982      September 1981           1,300             11,700           73
December  1981          1,000              12,700           79
March     1982           1,000             13,700           86
June      1982             700             14,400           90
1983      September 1982             600             15,000           94
December  1982             500             15,500           97
March     1983 2/          500             16,000          100
1/   Expected credit effectiveness September 30, 1978.
2/   Expected completion.



- 43 -
SUDAN                                              Table 6
THIRD MECHANIZED FARMING PROJECT
"Without Proiect" Budget for 1,500 Feddan Farm Consisting of 700 Feddans Sorghum, 250 Feddans Sesame,
500 Feddans Fallow. 50 Feddans Roads and Waste
(In 1978 Constant LSd)
FARM YEAR        1      2       3      4       5       6      7       8-
PROJECT YEAR    -6      -5      -4     -3      -2      -I     1      2
CALENDAR YEAR  1973   1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980
COSTS
INVEST1ENT COSTS
Land Clearance (1000 Feddans @ LSd 9/Feddarn)                    gooo
Grass Huts (10 @ LSd 20 Each)                                     200
Hafir (600 si   @ LSd 1/ms )                                      600
75 hp Tractor                                                    5200
4m Wide-Level Disc  nd Seeder                                    2800
SUB-TOTAL      17800
OPERATING COSTS
Tractor and Disc
License and Insurance                                            43
Fuel (1000 g N LSd 0.575/g)                                     575
Oil (36 g @ LSd 1.75/g)                                          63
Grease (2 Kegs N LSd 14/Keg)                                     28
SUB-TOTAL        709    709    709    709    709    709    709    709
Repairs  nd Replacements                                        175    220    740    220   1100    650    550    520
LAND BENT                                                            75      75     75      75     75      75      75     75
STAFF
Wakeel (12 mo.5 LSd 30/mo)                                      360
Drivers  ' for 9 mos. + I for   M Mos. @
LSd 5/mo. )                                                  300
Greasers (2 for 3 mos. each @ LSd 10/mo.)                        60
Food and Water                                                  150
SUB-TOTAL        870    870    870    870    870    870    870  870
SEEDS
Sorghum (700 Feddans @ 3 Sacks/100 Feddans
= 21 Sacks @ LSd 3/Sack                                          63
Sesame (250 Feddans @ 2.16 Sacks per 100
Feddans = 5.4 Sacks @ LSd 9/Sack                                 49
SUB-TOTAL        112    112    112    112    112    112    112    112
LABOR FOR WEEDING
Sorghum (700 Feddans @ LSd 1.60/Feddan for
Dne Weeding                                            1120
Sesame (250 Feddans @ LSd 1.60/Feddan for
Ist Weeding + LSd 1.20/Feddan for
Second Weeding                                          700
SUB-TOTAL       1820   1820   1820   1820   1820   1820   1820   1820
HARVESTING AND THRESHING
Sorghum (ISd 0.80/Sack)                                          3360   4480   3640   2800   2240   1680   1400   1120
Sesame  (LSd 3.50/Sack)                                          2188   2625   2188   2188   1750   1313    875    875
SUB-TOTAL       5548   7105   5828   4988   3990   2993   2275   1995
Sacks & Strings, Transport, Loading & Unloading (ESd 0.65/Sack)3136   4128   3364   2681   2145   1609   1300   1073
TOTAL COSTS                                                         30245  15039  13518  11475  10821   8838   7711   7174
BENEFITS
YIELDS (Sacks/Feddan)
Sorghum                                                             6       8     6.5      5      4       3       2.5    2
Sesame                                                              2.5    3      2.5      2.5    2       1.5    1       1
PRODUCTION (Sacks)
Sorghum                                                          4200   5600   4550   3500   2800   2100   1750   1400
Sesame                                                            625    750    625    625    500    375    250    250
TOTAL      4825   6350   5175   4125   3300   2475   2000   1650
PRICES (Per Sack)
Sorghum                                                            2.25   3.17   2.60    2.43   1.84   2.01   2.32   2.47
Sesame                                                             7.55  12.99   9.46    9.42   8.74   8.og   6.35   5.89
SALES RECEIPTS
Sorghum                                                          9450  17752  11830   8505   5152   4221   4060   3458
Sesame                                                           4719   9743   5913   5887   4370   3034   1588   1473
TOTAL BEIIEFITS                                                     14169  27495  17743  14392   9522   7255   5648   4931
NET BENEFITS                                                 (16076) 12456   4225   2917  (1299) (1583) (2063) (2243)
1/ Land abandoned.



SUDAN
THIRD MECHANIZED FAMING PROJECT
"With Project" Budget for 1.500 Sedden Farm. ConsiotinR of 720 Feddana Sorghum, 360 Feddans Sesame, 360 FSddens Fallow and 60 Feddans Roads and Waste
(In 1978 Constant ISA)
FARM YEAR        1      2      3       4       5      6      7       B      9       10     11      12     13      14      15     16      17
PROJECT YEA3    -6      -5     -4      -3     -2      -1     1       2      3       4      5       6      7       8      9       10     11
CAEHDA3R YEAR  1973   1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989
COSTS
INVESTMENT COSTS
- Land Clearance (1,000 Feddans @ LSd 9/Feddan)                  9000
- Land Clearance (500 Feddans @ LSd 9/Feddan)                                                                        4500
- Grass Huts (10 e LSd 20 Ra.ch)                                  200
- Hafir (600 m3 e LSd l/m3)                                      600
- Additional 600 m3  Mafir                                                                                            600
- 75 hp Tractor                                                  5200
- 95 hp Tractor (LSd 6,500) Less Resale Value
of 75 hp Tractor (Ltd 1,000) in Year 8,
5500
- 4 a Wide-Level Disc And Seedbox                               2800
- Heavy Duty Offset Tandem Discs, Effective
Width 2 a (LSd 2900) Less Resale Value of
4 a Wide Level Disc and Seedbox (LSd 500),
24oo
- Cultivating Seeder Tyne Type, Effective Width
4 m, With Cover Harrows (tad 4700)
4700                                                  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _
SUB-TOTAL      17800                                                7700
OPERATING COSTS
Tractor and Disc
- License and Insurance                                         43      43    43       43     43    43      43       43     43    43      43      43     43      43       43    43      43
- Foel (Years 1-7, 1000 g @ LSd 0.575/g;
Years 8 on 2774 g @ LSd 0.575/g)                       575    575   575      575    575   575    575    1595   1595  1595   1595   1595   1595   1595    1595  1595   1595
- Oil (Years 1-7, 36 g LSd 1.75/g;
Years 8 on, 54 g @ LSd 1.75 g)                           63      63    63       63     63    63      63       94     94    94      94      94     94      94      94    94      94
- Grease (2 Kegs @ LSd 14/Keg)                                  28      28    28       28     28    28      28       28     28    28      28      28     28      28       28    28      28
SUB-TOTAL        709    709   709      709    709   709    709    1760   1760   1760  1760   1760   1760   1760    1760  1760   1760
REPAIRS AND REPLACRENTS                                             175    220   740      220   1100   650    550       410    945   1260  1125    895    410    945    1260  1125    895
LAND REST                                                            75     75    75       75      75    75      75      75     75      75    75      75      75     75       75    75      75
STAFF
- Wakeel (Years 1-7, 12 mos. @ LSd 30/an.;
Years 8 on, 12 aoa.S LSd 35/au.)                       360    360   360       360    360   360    360      420    420    420   420    420    420    420         420   420    420
- Drivers (Years 1-7, 1 for 9 mos, + 1 for
3 mos. @ LSd 25/no.;
Year 8 on, 1 for 9 mos. + 1 for
9 moe. @ LSd 30/mo.)                                   300    300   300      300    300   300    300       540    540    540   54o    540    540    540         540   540    540
- Greasers (Years 1-7, 2 for 3 mao. each @
LSd 10/mo.;
Year 8 on, 2 for 9 mos. each @
tad 12/mo.)                                             6o     60    6o        60     60    6o      6o     216    216    216   216    2i6        16    216      216   216    216
- Food and Water                                                  150    150   150      150    150   150    150       200    200    200   200    200    200    200         200   200    200
SUB-TOTAL        870    870   870      870    870   870    870    1376   1376   1376  1376   1376   1376   1376    1376  1376   1376
SEEDS
- Sorghum (Years 1-7, 700 Feddans @ 3 Sacks/
100 Feddans = 21 Sacks @ tad 3/Sack;
Year 8 on, 15 Sacksa  LSd 3/Sack                       63    63      63       63     63    63      63      45      45      45    45      45     45      45       45    45      45
- Sesame (Years 1-7, 250 Feddans @ 2.16 Socks/
100 Feddans = 5.4 Sacks a tad 9/Sack;
Year 8 on, 4 Sacks @ LSd 9/Sack)                       49    49      49       49     49    49      49       36     36      36    36      36      36     36       36    36      36
SUB-TOTAL        112   112    112      112    112   112    112        81      81     81    81      81 d     1      81      81    81       8
o                                                                          5                                                            A



SUDAN
THIRD MEChANIZED FAkMING PROJECr
'With Project" Budget for 1,500 Feddan Farms, Consisting of 720 Feddans Sorghum, 360 Feddans Sesame., 360 reddaes Fa.low and 60 Feddams Roads and Waste
(In 1978 Constant TBSd)
FARM YEAR       1      2       3      4      5      6      7      8       9      10     11     12      13     14     15     16      17
PROJECTYkAR    -6    -5       -4    -3    -2    -1         1      2      3       4      5      6      7       8      9      10     11
CALENDAR YEAR  1973   1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   198O   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989
WEEDING
- Sorghum (Yeor 1-7, 700 Fedduas @ LSdl.60/
Feddan;Year 8 tn, 720 Feddans 6
LSd 1.20/Feddan for 1st Weeding and
720 Feddans @ LSd 1.20/Feddan for
and Weeding                                               1120   1120   1120   1120   112C   1120   1120   1728   1728   1728   1728   1728   1728   1728   1728   1728   1728
- Sesame (Year 1-7, 250 Feddans  LSd i1.60/
Feddan for lot Weeding; and LSd 1.20/
Feddan for 2nd Weeding;
Year 8 on, 180 FeddanE @ LSd 1.60/
Feddan                                                     700    700    700    700    700    700    700    288    28B    288    288    288    288    288    288    288    288
SUB-TOTAL      1820   1820   1820   1820   1820   1820   1820   2016   2016   2016   2016   2016   2016   2016   2016   2016   2016
HARVESTING AND THRESHING
- Sorghum (Years 1 - 7, Lgd 0.30/Sack;
Year 8 on, All Combined @
LSd 0.50/Sack                                      3360   4480   3640   2800   2240   1680   1400   2927   2751   2556   2160   2160   2160   2160   2160   2160   2160
- Sesame(LSd 3.50/Sack)                                       2188   2625   2188   2188   175C   1313    875   4032   3654   3654   3276   3276   3276   3276   3276   3276   3276
SUB-TOTAL      5548   7105   5828   4988   3990   2993   2275   6959   6405   6210   5436   5436   5436   5436   5436   5436   5436 e.
SACKS AN7D STRINGS, TRANSPORT, LOADING
AND UNLOADINIG (LSd 0,65/Sack)                                3136   4128   3364   2681   2145   1609   1300   4554   4254   4001   3416   34116   3416   3416   3416   3416   3416
TOTAL COSTS                                                      30245  15039  13518  11475  10821   8838   7711  34931  16912  16779  15285  15055  14570  15105  15420 15285  15055
BENEFITS
YIELDS (Sacks/Feddan)
Sorghum                                                          6      8     6.5      5      4      3     2.5    8.13   7.64   7.1    6.0    6.o    6.0    6.o    6.o    6.o    6.o
Sesame                                                           2.5    3     2.5     2.5    2       1.5   1      3,2    2.9    2.9    2.6    2.6    2.6    2.6    2.6    2.6    2.6
PRODUCTION (Sacks)
Sorghum                                                       4200   5600   4550   3500   2800   2100   1750   5854   5501   5112   4320   4320   4320   4320   4320   4320   4320
Sesame                                                         625    750    625    625    500    375    250   1152   10144   1044    936    936    936    936    936    936    936
SUB-TOTAL      40525   6350   5175   4125   3300   2475   2000   7006   6545   6156   5256   5256   5256   5256   5256   5256   5256
PRICES (per Sack)
Sorghum                                                          2.25   3.17  2.60    2.43   1.84   2,01  2.32   2.47   2.47   2.47   2.47   2.47   2.45   2.45   2.45   2.45   2.45
Sesame                                                           7.55  12.99  9.46    9.42   8.74   8.o9  6.35   5.89   6.21   6.53   6.85   7.17   7.48   7.48   7.48   7.48   7.48
SAIES RECEIPTS
Sorghum                                                       9450  17752  11830   8505   5152   4221   4060  14159  13587  12627  10670  10670  105814 10584  10584  10584  10584
Sesame                                                        4719   9743   5913   5887   4370   3034   1588   6785   6483   6817   6412   6711   7001   7001   7001   7001   7001
TOTAL BENEFITS                                                   14169  27495  17743  14392   9522   7255   5648  21244  20070  19444  17082  17381  17585   17585 17585  17585  17585
NET BENEFITS                                                    (16076) 12456   4225   2917  (1299) (1583) (2063)(13687)  3158   2665   1797   2326   3015    2480  2165, 2300   2530
Financial Rate of Return = 127, over 10 Years.



Table 8
SUDAN
THIRD MECHANIZED FARMING PROJECT
"Without Project" Budget for 15 fd Pilot Village Smallholder Farm
(In 1978 Constant LSd)
Sorghum per        10 Feddans          Sesame per         5 Feddans            Total
Feddan           Sorghum              Feddan              Sesame             Farm
Cost of Production
Seed                         0.21               2.10                0.20               1.00                 3.10
First Cultivation            1.20              12.00                1.20               6.00                18.00
Second Cultivation           -
Sowing                       -                  -                   0.10               0.50                 0.50         1
Weeding                      1.10              11.00                1.10               5.50                16.50         X
Harvesting and Threshing   0.98                 9.80                4.34              21.70                31.50
Sacks                        0.43               4.30                0.43               2.15                 6.45
Transport                    -                  -                   0.56               2.80                 2.80
Total                     3.92              39.20                7.93              39.65                78.85
Gross Return
Yield (Sacks per feddan)   1.22                12.20                1.24               6.20
Prices (per sack)            6.00               6.00                8.09               8.09                 _
Gross Returns             7.32              73.20              10.03               50.15               123.35
Net Return                      3.40              34.00                2.10              10.50                44.50
00



Table 9
SUDAN
THIRD MECHANIZED FARMING PROJECT
"With Project" Budget for 15 fd Pilot Village Smallholder Farm
(In 1978 Constant LSd)
Sorghum per        10 Feddans         Sesame per         5 Feddans           Total
Feddan           Sorghum              Feddan            Sesame             Farm
Costs)of Production
Seed                        0.06               0.60               0.10               0.50                 1.10
First Cultivation           2.23              22.30               2.23              11.15                33.45
Second Cultivation          2.23              22.30               2.23              11.15                33.45
Sowing                      -                  -                  -                    
Weeding                     0.83               8.30               1.10                5.50               13.80
Harvesting and Threshing   2.40               24.00               9.10              45.50                69.50
Sacks                       1.05              10.50               0.91               4.55                15.05
Transport                   -                  -                  1.17               5.85                 5.85
Total                    8.80              88.00              16.84              84.20               172.20
Gross Return
Yield (Sacks per fd)        3.0                30                 2.6               13.0
Prices (per Sack)           6.0                 6.00              8.09                8.09                 _
Gross Returns           18.00              180.00             21.03             105.15               285.15
Net Return                     9.20               92.00              4.19              20.95               112.95
m



Table 10
SUDAN
THIRD MECHANIZED FARMING PROJECT
Summary of Incremental Economic Costs
(In 1978 Constant LSd)
Project Years          1            2            3            4            5             6            7             8           9-15
Incremental Project Costs
Large Scale Farming
Roads                     -            1,046,867   1,067,917   35,785          35,785        35,785      35,785         35,785      35,785
Spare Parts               1,000,000   1,000,000       500,000   -             -              -           -             -
Sub-Total          1,000,000   2,046,867   1,567,917   35,785           35,785        35,785      35,785         35,785      35,785
Smallholder Pilot Village       28,208       36,881         6,996    6,996         2,235         2,235       2,235          7,435       2,235
MFC Support, allocated to:
Roads (33 %)                 83,780       84,795       68,486   69,546        41,167         41,167      41,167         41,167      41,167
Smallholder Pilot
Village (2 %)              5,077        5,139        4,151    4,215         2,495          2,495       2,495         2,495        2,495
Incremental Farmers' Costs
Smallholder Pilot Village
Seed                      -                  (360)        (540)    (720)         (720)         (720)       (720)          (720)       (720)
First Cultivation         -                2,178        3,267    4,356          4,356         4,356       4,356          4,356       4,356
Second  Cultivation       -                4,668        7,002    9,336          9,336         9,336       9,336          9,336       9,336
Sowing                    _                   (90)        (135)    (180)         (180)         (180)       (180)          (180)       (180)
Weeding                   -                  (486)        (729)    (972)         (972)         (972)        (972)         (972)       (972)
Harvesting and Threshing-                  6,840       10,260   13,680        13,680         13,680      13,680         13,680      13,680
Sacks                     -                1,432        2,148    2,864         2,864          2,864       2,864          2,864       2,864      H
Transport to market       -                  498           747       996          996           996         996            996         996
a
Sub-Total          -               14,680        22,020   29,360        29,360        29,360      29.360         29,360      29,360
Total Incremental Economic    1,117,065   2,188,362   1,669,570  145,902            111,042       111,042    111,042         116,242    111,042
Costs



Table 11
SUDAN
THIRD MECHANIZED FARMING PROJECT
Summary of Incremental Economic Benefits
(In 1978 Constant LSd)
Project Years  1            2            3            4            5            6           7             8             9 - 15
Large Scale Farming
Roads                 -           -            200,344      400,688      400,688       400,688    400,688        400,688      400,688
Spare Parts           -           323,200      984,600   2,165,800   1,691,000        686,400    -               -            -
Sub-Total        -           323,200   1,184,944   2,566,488   2,091,688   1,087,088    400,688            400,688       400,688
Smallholder Pilot Village-             26,750        41,147       56, 222      57,583      58,943       59,963        59,963       59.963
TOTAL            -           349,950   1,226,091   2,622,710   2,149,271   1,146,031    460,651             460,651      460,651






SUDAN                                                                                                                                                                                                          Chart 1
MECHANIZED FARMING CORPORATION
REORGANIZATION
Depout,aea_e  _.....
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.... .....:I|.......   Dcu mtpn|Z r
B Bue zeb W    Pffnn;n5a   *   |  .................... ..................... 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...                                                                                                                                                                           ..  ...  ..  ...      . ...   ..  ...   ..  ..
DeEf                                                                                                                                                                                                                                f     ments    |    F    4TCe    |   EV@lu   loD   {  w  Tr  p or s { O n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rSction | , Crop Mechani mtb Expef D~~~~iapMeti,dilt   ape,i
.aa ...     ....                                                                                                                                                           ...............                                                                                                                                                                                  .     A-rclo  swninOfcrr
................    .. ...... 1.7                      ........l ....... I. ., =... l,I...                                                       ...                       ..... ......                                                                    .....-...I........                                                                                                .. ......... 
E4edons~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L   Bek                                                                                                                                                               .                                        ehsia                        oti
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ *ilts   *                                                                                                                                                                                                                         tatti
teastea       Coseae                        |ts:t                  lti,eldrsce                     Peeer|                                                                                                                                                                           RRinnelnwr
|  M.oer                       Pa f i krte                  fn e         |      .       F  b         ' ,  Me neEe  .;;;1; ;ld;  ;   n;                                                                                                                 |          MA     e As1epelsT                                                                                                  Mns.    teFr
..............em          l l.   .............                                                                                          .............                                                                                                   ..... | ..... l....._
tDes sin,                  B,, seitet                    tobe                        Fieled     b     V     ~~                                                               An naptina~ Field Ti vi doli                                                      MamS, Aaedi State Fet                                                                                               MatesState...........
=/ NF V t eiadefiileddeiaiec,ei,sieii   it.....t.dei......
flae U  etm , A E           Stte F,,              ,      El Fade                    Sea.ihf,ide, -






'r            x
SUDAN
THIRD MECHANIZED FARMING PROJECT
EL FUDA DEVELOPMENT CENTER
ORGANIZATION
SCHEME MANAGEMENT
I Schme Mang.r 
1 Se.M.r Clerk
ACCOUNTS       lEVALUATION
1A-mmunan ik                          1 AqJnc. E-iwmsn
I A-m.tCWk                             1 C .k
DEVELOPMENT  MACHINERY                                  AGRONOMY               MIXED FARFMING               EXETERINARY
TRIALS                   TRIALS                   SRVICE                    SERVICE
1Sr. Agr-inos
1 Civrk E.g.-rf                                                                                                                IS, Ago- . n1 F     Mn. Off.
1Agonin                 1 Lstnstk Off.          3  ....                        Offic.r
2 O..-                                   Cl.,k                                           IF- Mamp,              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 F-r  Mangers                   AsiM.ta
2 W.wh-                                                                                                                      20                        20 Lbo,e,2
ROADS                  CLEARING                 BUILDINGS                WORKSHOPS             MACHINEHY POOL                 STORES
Foreman         ~~1 FommanSpmo,                                  1 Sr. Mahanic              1 S.Clerk
1 Foreman                1 Foreman              4 s.pnrcirg              2 Mecanics                25 Driers                   2 St.ts
I0 Laborers              20 Lbo                     Laborers              3 Tredere                  4 Engine                     Clerks
Note
1i/ = mch.sgnf h1 .c ...on                                                                                                                                                                                                                 World 3ank-18718



Chart 3
SUDAN
THIRD MECHANIZED FARMING PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
PROJECT YEARS
Pre-Projct             1                  2                  3                 4
Effective
Legal
Land Allocation - El Fuda
MFC Staff Reorganization                                                                                                                  V
Key Staff and Financial Consultants
Recruitment
Appointment
Procurement
Initial Vehicle Purchases:
Documentation                                       _
Approvals                                            m
Advertising                                            m
Delivery                                                  _
Main Machinery Purchases:
Documentation
Approvals                                            m
Intemational Advertising
Delivery
Road Making
Tendering
Large Scale Farming
El Fuda
Buildings and Services (El Fuda)
Borehole Development
Design
Brick Making and Timber Sawing
Purchase Materials
Construction                                                    m            -
Large Scale Farming
Trials:
Design                                                  _                                                                              a
Implement                                                      -
Demonstration:
El Fuda Trials:
Land Clearing
Design
Implement                                                                             _
Spare Parts
Purchases
World Bank - 18719



Proposals for a Five-Year Research Program
at Sim-Sim and Habila State-Farms
1977/78                 1978/79                 1979/80                 1980/81                 1981/82
Soil Preparation          Deep ploughing          Deep ploughing           Deep ploughing                -
(every 3 years)         (every 3 years)         (every 3 years)
Drainage                Drainage
Sowing                     Timing                  Timing                  Timing
Precision planters    Precision planters    Depth of Planting
Depth of planting
Weeding                          -                 Mechanization           Mechanization
Herbicides              Herbicides              Herbicides
1/
Rotation-
Sorghum                 Sorghum                 Sorghum                 Sorghum                 Sorghum
Sesame                  Sesame                  Sesame                  Sesame                  Sesame
Fallow                  Fallow                  Legume                  Legume                   Legume
Ley                     Ley                     Ley
Crop diversification       Field trials            Field trials            New crops               New crops               New crops
New Varieties              Sorghum                 Sorghum                 Sorghum                 Sorghum                  Sorghum            0
Sesame                  Sesame                  Sesame                  Sesame
Cotton                  Cotton                  Cotton                   Cotton
Soya beans              Soya beans              Soya beans               Soya beans
Use of Fertilizer
Field Trials            Field Trials            Field Trials             Field Trials
Mechanization              Soil preparation        Soil preparation        Soil preparation        Soil preparation         Soil preparation
equiptment              equipment               equipment               equipment                equipment
Sesame Harvesting      Weeding                  Weeding
Fallowir.g                                         Fallowing               Fallowing               Fallowing
Management              Management              Management
1/ Of the crops indicated. Sequence to be determined.
_                                                                                                         '1.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c



- 51 -
Notes to Chart 4
Soil Preparation
The wide level disc has been the main soil preparation implement for
years. Land has thus been prepared in the same manner and at the same limited
depth for too long a period.  Other means of soil preparation must now be
investigated and tested. There is a need to break the hard pan that exists
in most areas, and improve the on-field drainage by better ploughing. The
testing of new equipment should be undertaken in close collaboration with
the Agricultural Engineering Administration which is responsible for the
introduction of new agricultural equipment in the Sudan.
Sowing
The use of precision planters would be tested for improving the
seeding rate, depth of planting, and to study the effects of row planting
on weed control.
Weeding
Weeding is generating growing concern because the monocropping
type of agriculture has dramatically increased the weed population, and
labor is more expensive and less numerous. Furthermore, a specific semi-
parasitic weed (striga) is weakening sorghum crops and decreasing yields.
The program would study mechanized weeding techniques and the use of herbi-
cides for pre-emergent and direct applications.
Rotation
The following five course rotation would be studied: - sorghum,
sorghum, sesame, legume and a lay. Within this pattern, the trials program
would investigate the suitable crops in conjunction with ARC to optimize
the proposed rotation.
Crop Diversification
Work on crop diversification would be closely related to the rota-
tion already defined in broad lines. Sim Sim and Habila would be used by ARC
to carry out field trials on potentially suitable crops such as legumes,
fodder crops and oil se,eds.
New Varieties
Apart from sorghum and sesame for which considerable work has been
carried out, research in addition would have to focus on obtaining new high
yielding and well adapted varieties for the crops envisaged in the rotation.
This sequence should only be introduced at a later stage once crops are
well defined.



- 52 -
Use of Fertilizers
The continuous depletion of soil fertility makes it imperative to
investigate fertilizer response, especially phosphoric acid (P 205), and
evaluate its economic viability. Trials could be initiated during the 1979/
80 season. Other chemical elements would also be studied and tried. Since
main chemical elements are always inter-related only simplified trials should
be carried out to confirm general results if any from the ARC research program.
Mechanization
Although MFC has gained experience in the use of farm machinery
equipment, the corporation is not always aware of technological progress
occuring elsewhere. A closer cooperation is necessary with the Agricultural
Engineering Administration currently responsible for the testing and recom-
mending of all new equipment entering the Sudan. A program aiming at the
utilization of new equipment to solve MFC requirements would be initiated
and would cover a wide range of cultivation operations including land prepa-
ration, sowing, weeding and harvesting. Also private firms should be involved
in carrying out experiments and demonstrations free of charge.
Fallowing
This is mostly related to management since the various technical
aspects of fallowing are well known. Trials should concentrate on evaluating
the physical and economic benefits generated from a fallow.






I'll 139~
at'\aSUDAN                                                                                                       ~~haFt~
" .,THIRD MECH.ANIZED FARMING  PROJECT                                    ~tar                              E       AIA          /40
ArasaseaedfamUArlQB Th1li.D-ar ratd ..reas br art  llottd                                          )          aeKA S 'A LA
Area 1e-eo-c f-os 1968 tolOY4  :::I   ssrd-rd daes[rcseral                                                 WOd M5d-O~
*00                                                                     ,      .
r' Aresrdrtra                       R.,--   1-ylo                          NORTHERN           EdH D.e 
A,..,raspaa.-eaeaecruad      ..--Pa1rebarae                                 KORDOFAN                                    ')laaata
'4
I  21I                                                    _
CHAD;I
ufue  a                                     H~OTHEN  ARPFOR                            SUHR            KODO N
7                                                                                                                                                                                                    tar~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T
7  Cpa~~~~~~~~~~lAtfA  rae ~~~~~~~                                                                   ~PE   NL
-J  <a~~~~~aaBHR<La-



