FILE  COPY                              Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.P-2273a-SU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
FOR A
THIRD MECHANIZED FARMING PROJECT
May 3, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1977       February 1978
Currency Unit         =       Sudanese Pounds ([S)       IS
US$1                          E [S 0.400                  LS 0.400
ES 1                  =       US$2.50                     US$2.50
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
2
1 hectare (ha)                      -        1,000 m  = 2.47 acres
1 meter (m)                         =        3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)       2            =        0.62 miles (mi)
I square kilometer (km )                     0.386 square miles (sq mi)
1 kilogram (kg)                     =        2.2 pounds (lbs)
1 metric ton (ton)                  =        2,205 pounds (lbs) or 1,000 kg
1 feddan                            =        1.038 acres (ac)
1 milliard                          e        1,000 million (US I billion)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
MFC    -  Mechanized Farming Corporation
MFPI   -  First Mechanized Farming Project (IBRD Loan 556)
MFPII  -  Second Mechanized Farming Project (IDA Credit 311)
ARC    -  Agricultural Research Corporation
ILO    -  International Labor Organization
CG     -  Consultative Group
UNESCO - United Nations Education, Scientific and
Cultural Organization
WHO    -  World Health Organization
AAAID  - Arab Authority for Agricultural Investment
and Development
GOVERNMENT OF SUDAN
FISCAL YEAR I/
July 1 - June 30
1/   Years given in this report refer to the 12 months ending June 30
in the year mentioned.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
(i)
SUDAN
THIRD MECHANIZED FARMING PROJECT
Credit and Prolect Summary
Borrower:      The Democratic Republic of the Sudan
Beneficiary:   The Mechanized Farming Corporation (MFC)
Amount:        US$16.0 million equivalent.  US$11 million would be passed
on to MFC as an interest free irredeemable loan. The terms
of this loan would be reviewed within two years when MFC's
financial relationship with the Government is revised. US$5
million would be administered by the Bank of Sudan on behalf
of the Government of Sudan.
Terms:         Standard
Project        The project would have two principal objectives:  first,
Description:  assistance designed to help existing farmers to become more
productive and, second, support for two programs intended
to devise mechanized farming systems for use by smallholders.
Over a four year period, the project would support improve-
ments and expansion in MFC's extension activities, a program
of adaptive trials and related research, an access road build-
ing program, importation of spare parts for the mechanized
dryland farmers, and a limited reorganization and strengthen-
ing of MFC's headquarters. The project would also support a
smallholder development and trials unit at el Fuda in Southern
Kordofan and a pilot village smallholder mechanization program
in eastern Sudan. Items to be financed under the project would
include vehicles; agricultural machinery; spare parts for agri-
cultural machinery; buildings and road construction; interna-
tionally recruited staff and a proportion of operating costs
for some of the components. The project would be executed by
MFC and the Bank of Sudan with the assistance of the Agricul-
tural Research Corporation for the research program.
Benefits       The principal quantifiable benefits would be increased produc-
and Risks:    tion of sorghum and sesame for export.  More significantly in
the long run, the project would also help to devise a sustain-
able and more permanent farming system on the mechanized dry-
land farms. The principal risk to achieving the quantifiable
benefits is that the availability of the spare parts could be
delayed. The principal risks to the unquantifiable benefits of
the project are the experimental nature of the trials program;
the attendant uncertainty of the results; and the speed of
adoption of new technology by farmers.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(ii)
Cost and Financing:
US$ million
Local       Foreign      Total
A.  Large Scale Mechanized Farming
a)   Extension, Demonstration & Trials  1.4             1.2          2.6
b)   Research                              0.2          0.3          0.5
c)   Roads                                 1.4          3.2          4.6
d)   Spare Parts                            -           5.0          5.0
e)   MFC Headquarters                      1.0          1.3          2.3
B.   Smallholder Development
a)   el Fuda                               3.2          2.7          5.9
b)   Pilot Schemes                         0.2          0.1          0.3
C.   Contingencies
Physical                                 0.7          0.9          1.6
Price                                    2.2          1.4          3.6
Total                                     10.3         16.1         26.4
Of which, taxes & duties                        5.0           -           5.0
Total, net of taxes                        5.3         16.1         21.4
The IDA credit of $16.0 million would finance the foreign exchange
costs, amounting to 75% of the total project cost, net of taxes and duties.
The local cost component would be financed by the government.
Estimated
Disbursements:
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ Million to June 30)
1979    1980    1981   1982    1983
1.0     4.4      5.0     4.0      1.6
Cumulative                      1.0     5.4    10.4    14.4    16.0
Rate of Return:        25% calculated on 51% of the base project cost.
Appraisal Report:      Report No. 1956-SU
Dated: May 1, 1978



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
FOR A THIRD MECHANIZED FARMING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Democratic Republic of the Sudan, for the equivalent
of US$16 million on standard IDA terms, to help finance a Third Mechanized
Farming Project. $11 million of the credit would be relent to the Mechanized
Farming Corporation as an irredeemable interest free loan, under a subsidiary
agreement which would contain provision for renegotiation of these on-lending
terms no later than June 30, 1981. US$5 million would be administered
by the Bank of Sudan an behalf of the Government.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The Economic Memorandum distributed to the Board in September 1976
(Report No. 1273a-SU) provides an assessment of the economic situation and
prospects of the Sudan. Prior to that, Bank staff had participated in the
ILO Comprehensive Employment Strategy Mission in 1975 and played a major
role in both the conception and execution of the mission's work. Whilst the
mission was an employment strategy mission, its focus, as with previous ILO
missions, was on the overall problem of income creation for low-income earners
in the context of a more rapidly growing economy. The mission's report is
comparable to a Bank basic economic report and its analysis and conclusions
are the basis both for our developing dialogue on economic policy issues with
the Government and for the development of our program of operations. The
report has been influential in stimulating discussion of development policy
issues in the country. A special government working group reviewed the report
and prepared a substantive and lengthy evaluation of its analysis and conclu-
sions. The report also provided a major input into the preparation of the
Six Year Plan for 1977-83. An updating economic mission will be visiting
Sudan later in May 1978. Social and economic data on Sudan are attached as
Annex I.
3.        Sudan, with an area of 2.5 million square kilometers, is the largest
country in Africa. It has a population of about 15.9 million. Much of the
country is unoccupied or very sparsely populated, and in contrast to many
developing countries, there is little population pressure on presently dev-
eloped land. Although a large part of the country consists of desert or
semi-desert, the Sudan nevertheless has great untapped potential for agri-
cultural development. Estimates indicate that about one-third (85 million
hectares) of the total land area is suitable for crop or pastoral production,
and only a small fraction of this land is under intensive use. In addition,
1/   Parts I, II, paras 24-33 of Part III and Annex I of this report are
almost identical to those contained in the President's Report dated
March 2, 1978 for the Livestock Marketing Project.



2-
the White Nile and the Blue Nile provide an abundance of water which has
enabled the country to develop the largest irrigation system in tropical
Africa. The Sudan has increased its use of the Nile water to two thirds of
that allocated to it under the Nile Waters Agreement with Egypt, but there
remains room for considerable further expansion in irrigation. The proximity
of Sudan to markets in the Middle East and Europe places it in a good position
for agricultural exports, and oil-producing Arab countries have increasingly
come to consider Sudan as a primary future source of agricultural products.
4.        In spite of the large potential for development, the Sudan is still
a poor country and is classified by the U.N. as a least developed country.
The most recent estimate of per capita GNP of $290 (1976) is based upon esti-
mates of national accounts of questionable reliability and appears to exag-
gerate the standards of living of the people of Sudan and the state of
development of its economy. Certainly, there are large areas of the country
where most of the people have very low incomes. The economy is still heavily
dependent on exports of cotton, which is the major commodity produced on
irrigated land, and also exports of gum arabic, sesame and groundnuts.   Its
considerable grazing resources have hardly been tapped. The manufacturing
sector is relatively small and, apart from the processing of some agricultural
commodities, it is limited to the production of consumer goods and building
materials. There have been some exports of chrome ore and further development
of these deposits is taking place. The public sector has long been important
in the Sudanese economy. It embraces all modern irrigation facilities, the
railways and virtually all power and water supply. With the nationaliza-
tion measures of 1970/71, a significant proportion of industry, commerce and
finance was also transferred to the public sector. Although some industrial
enterprises have been returned to the private sector, about half of the GDP
is still generated within the public sector.
5.        While the basic physical and human potential of Sudan is consider-
able, its economic performance has been disappointing. During the sixties
and early seventies, the economy grew by little more than the rate of growth
of the population. This was primarily due to the depressed level of invest-
ment, both public and private. While the Government was successful in
achieving a high growth rate of revenue, the rise in recurrent expenditure
absorbed most of it, and development expenditure decreased. The growth of
current expenditure was caused by increasing security expenditures, the
policy of hiring all post secondary school graduates and converting casual
labor on public projects into permanent government employees and rapidly
increasing transfers to local government. Further, savings generated by
public corporations also declined because of inefficiency and rigid pricing
policies. Public sector deficits were increasingly financed through ex-
cessive credit expansion. Prices rose steadily, and the external position
was under pressure owing to the rapid growth of imports and a stagnation of
export volume.
6.        The period since 1973 contrasts sharply with the preceding decade in
many important respects. First, there has been a sharp increase in investment,
especially in the public sector, with expenditures directed at the priority



-3-
sectors--transportation and other infrastructure, agriculture and agricultural
processing industries. Second, there has been a serious concern with develop-
mental issues reflected most prominently in widespread discussion at the
political and technocratic level of the problems of economic growth in the
Sudan since the ILO issued its report in 1975. Furthermore, the Government
has shown a willingness to discuss its economic problems openly. Not only is
this reflected in the continuous and serious dialogue on these problems in
which the Bank has been engaged with the Government over the past two years
but it has been most strongly reflected in the very frank report which the
Government prepared for the Consultative Group meeting in November 1976. This
report and the Bank's own critical evaluation of Sudanese development perform-
ance and prospects were freely discussed by the Government with delegations to
the CG meeting. In January 1977, the Government organized an informal meeting
of representatives of national and international financial institutions,
chaired by President Nimeiry and attended by all the economic ministers at
which a frank presentation of the developmental issues was encouraged. Whilst
all this increased interest in developmental issues does not substitute for
action, it is a necessary precondition for action and certainly represents a
marked change from the situation existing a few years ago.
7.        This concern over developmental issues is being institutionalized
through the development of a more effective planning machinery, with the
assistance of a UNDP planning project of which the Bank is the executing
agency. The Six-Year Plan covering the period 1977-83 launched in July 1977
is the most immediate and important outcome of this effort. A comprehensive
education sector review conducted with Bank and UNESCO assistance has also
been completed, and an exercise to develop a primary health care program has
been completed with the help of WHO.
Recent Economic Developments and Issues
8.        Over the five year period ended June 1975, it is estimated that
GDP in real terms grew at an average annual rate of 4.5 percent--a growth
rate consistent with growth trends in the agricultural sector, which accounts
for 40 percent of national income, and the spurt in development expenditures
in other key sectors of the economy. Public investment, which increased
from US$75 million in 1973 to about US$300 million per annum in the years
1975-77, has been concentrated on the highest priorities. Sugar imports
should be eliminated by 1979 and sugar will be available for export by 1980,
reaching an estimated volume of 0.5 million tons in 1987. Textile and sacking
imports will be much reduced by 1979. Medium staple cotton, groundnuts and
some other commodities will be available for export in larger quantities, an
oil pipeline has recently been commissioned, and both road and rail capacity
are rising, helping to ease the transport bottleneck. All the data on private
investment are poor, but it seems certain that private investment has expanded
rapidly also.
9.        While the increased rate of investment on the part of the public
sector, which is bringing about significant structural changes in the econ-
omy, is in sharp contrast with the relative stagnation of the late sixties



-4-
and early seventies, in most other respects, the standard of economic manage-
ment needs improvement. In particular the budgetary situation is a matter of
concern. Despite a good record in revenue raising, which is reflected in a
revenue/GDP ratio currently about 20%, the public sector continues to be a net
dis-saver. As a consequence, public investment has had to be financed entirely
through domestic and foreign borrowing. The resulting credit expansion has
been an important contributory factor to domestic price increases averaging
over 20% per annum in the last three years.
10.       Externally, the increased pace of public investment coincided with
the higher rates of international inflation, which began in 1973, and the
recession in industrialized countries, which adversely affected export earn-
ings. The volume of cotton exports in 1975 was 45% below the average of the
preceding three years. A number of domestic factors, including an unfavorable
cost-price structure, also contributed to this decline. As a result, the
foreign exchange constraint to growth and the budgetary difficulties were
exacerbated. A major consequence of these developments was a resort to
foreign borrowing to finance development expenditures and to support the
balance of payments. From an average of $50 million per annum in 1971-73
gross disbursements of foreign loans rose to $450 million in 1974, and in the
last three years have been of the order of $300 million, annually. Excluding
1974 when the severity of the terms of borrowing reduced the grant element of
loan commitments by about half, Sudan has managed to borrow on relatively
concessionary terms, reflected in average terms of 4% interest rate, 24 years
maturity and 6 years grace in the period 1970-75. Nevertheless, the sharply
increased borrowing in the last few years, a significant proportion of which
was in the form of quick-disbursing cash loans, has resulted in a quadrupling
of external public debt between 1972 and 1975 and has imposed a heavy debt
servicing burden on the country (see para. 14). Furthermore, the Central Bank
has repeatedly had to borrow abroad in order to finance the increasing overall
deficit. As a result, Sudan's net international reserve position moved from
net liabilities of less than $45 million at the end of December 1970 to $525
million in March 1977.
11.       Confronted with these problems, the Government of Sudan took a number
of measures. So far as internal fiscal management is concerned, consumer
subsidies have been sharply reduced, defense expenditure was restrained and
railway and utility tariffs increased. Tax measures introduced in the 1977
budget are estimated to have added about 10 percent to Government revenue.
In 1977, these measures were supplemented by additional measures designed to
increase tariffs and other indirect taxes on luxury consumer goods, while
reducing those on essential consumer goods. The net effect of these measures
is a small increase in revenues. In any case, with the Government already
absorbing about 20 percent of GDP in the form of current receipts, it would be
unrealistic in the short run to expect any significant increase in the level
of taxation, and essential improvement in Government savings and reduction
in credit expansion will have to come from holding the growth of recurrent
expenditures below the growth of revenue. In a significant move in October
1977, the Minister of Finance ordered a 10% cut in recurrent expenditure of
Government ministries.



12.       So far as the current budget is concerned, an improvement is re-
quired in financial control mechanisms to ensure that actual expenditures
do not exceed appropriated amounts. Additionally, budgetary transfers from
the central to provincial and, through them to local governments need to be
placed on a basis which is permanently sustainable. So far as the capital
budget is concerned there is a danger of over-commitment with too many proj-
ects being started and their completion delayed. In this connection, the
recurrent expenditure implication of public investment outlays needs serious
consideration.
13.       On the revenue side, the main objective of reform  in the tax system
should be to make it development-oriented. This requires a reduction in the
reliance on foreign trade taxes, development of broad-based consumption taxes
and extension of direct taxes, especially to capture the growth in the modern
agricultural sector. Another important aspect of resource mobilization is
the role of parastatals. While the public sector in Sudan dominates all non-
traditional economic activities, public enterprises have failed to generate
adequate surpluses to finance development expenditures, akld their operational
deficits have become a drain on the Government budget. The Government is
carrying out a comprehensive review of the operations and performance of
parastatal organizations. Bank staff have been assisting in the review.
14.       Finally, the recent build up of external public debt and the for-
eign liabilities of the banking system underscore the need for improved debt
management and a further strengthening of the external debt control machinery.
In particular, in view of the rapidly rising debt service burden, which
reached 24 percent in 1977 and was projected to peak at about 31 percent in
1978, and in order that the debt service ratio falls to more manageable levels
in the early 1980's, it is essential for Government to borrow on concessionary
terms and to restrict borrowing to that required for priority investments. In
addition to factors described above (para. 10) which were responsible for the
build up of external public debt, the debt management problem in Sudan is also
one of knowledge - the multiplicity of agencies in the Government dealing with
some aspects of data collection or debt management makes it difficult to
obtain a comprehensive and accurate picture of Sudan's external debt trans-
actions. New procedures to ensure better debt management were introduced by
a decree issued in February 1976 which confined the authority to contract
foreign loans to the Ministry of Finance, Planning and National Economy.
The Bank in July 1976 presented the Sudanese Government with an analysis of
Sudan's debt data and made recommendations for the centralization and analysis
of such data. Further discussions on this question are planned for May 1978.
Short- and Long-Term Prospects
15.       The preceding discussion shows the Sudanese economy to be in a
transitional situation from a slowly growing economy, heavily dependent
on the fortunes of a single crop (cotton) and hindered by physical bottle-
necks, especially in transportation, to a more rapidly growing economy
with more diversified production and exports. The process of change is
hindered by serious deficiencies in the policy framework and is accompanied



- 6 -
by serious financial problems. While the budgetary and balance of payments
problems facing the economy are acute and deeply rooted, it is nevertheless
imperative for the Government to take steps to improve parastatal efficiency,
encourage public sector savings, and maintain more effective balance of pay-
ments and debt management policies. The IMF is currently having discussions
with the Government on the short-run economic problems.
16.       The medium- to long-run objectives of the Sudanese Government, as
expressed in the Six-Year Plan, whose implementation began on July 1, 1977,
include a rapid increase in the growth of GDP (7.5% per annum in 1977-83),
and emphasis on redressing regional inequalities in incomes. During the plan
period, development strategy will continue to emphasize agriculture as the
leading sector, but its structural interdependence with other sectors, par-
ticularly manufacturing will be stressed through agricultural processing, the
production of basic agricultural inputs and implements, and the promotion
of small scale and cottage industry. Considerable investment will also go
into further reduction and removal of critical bottlenecks in physical and
institutional infrastructure.
17.       Because of the balance of payments and budgetary difficulties, the
growth prospects of Sudan depend significantly on foreign capital inflows
and on policies to encourage private investment. Indeed, one of the crucial
assumptions underlying the Government's plan is the expectation of large in-
flows of loan and equity capital. The realization of this expectation, in
turn, will depend significantly on the role played by the oil-rich Arab coun-
tries. In the last few years the Arab countries have emerged as the largest
source of capital assistance to Sudan. On a disbursement basis, Arab aid
(excluding a $200 million Euro-dollar loan guaranteed by Saudi Arabia) in-
creased from $33 million in 1972 to a peak of $220 million in 1974. Whilst
a large proportion of these disbursements has been for balance of payments
support, Arab assistance has been vital in such key projects as the Rahad
Irrigation Project, the oil-pipeline, the airport at Port Sudan, a number of
highway projects, sugar schemes and a microwave project. For the future, of
much potential significance is the ten-year Basic Agricultural Development
Program for the Sudan, prepared by the Arab Fund for Social and Economic
Development. Over the next six years (1977-83) a First Phase Investment Plan,
which forms the core of Sudan's Six-Year Development Plan and consists of some
61 projects selected from the basic program, is expected to be implemented at
a total cost of about $2 billion. To help implement the agricultural program,
twelve Arab Governments on November 1, 1976 signed an agreement establishing
an autonomous body, the Arab Authority for Agricultural Investment and Devel-
opment (AAAID). The authorized capital for AAAID has been established at
US$510 million, of which 75 percent has been subscribed. The Authority is
limited to a debt/equity ratio of 2:1. An appointment has recently been made
to the post of President of AAAID.
18.       To support the directly productive investment envisaged by the
Arab Fund's program, large amounts of concessionary loans and grants will
be needed to finance infrastructural projects. Official bilateral and multi-
lateral agencies, including Arab agencies, are expected to contribute to



- 7 -
the program. Several donor agencies which have lent to Sudan in the past are
expanding their programs and others are starting programs in Sudan for the
first time. Local cost financing is justified in certain cases for projects
with a high local cost component and which are designed primarily to benefit
the poor. These are likely to be located primarily in Southern and Western
Sudan, the least developed areas of the country.
19.       In summary, after a number of years of low and fluctuating rates
of savings and investments, momentum has been injected into Sudan's economic
development by a considerable expansion in domestic investment during the last
three years. However, Sudan faces severe balance of payments and domestic
resource mobilization problems in the short run. Whilst these are familiar
problems in several developing countries, they are especially acute in the
Sudan. The country's medium-term prospects, however, look particularly
bright. These opportunities derive not only from the availability of foreign
capital, but also from the basic agronomic and human potential of the country.
However, basic policy decisions, some of which have been outlined in the
preceding pages, will have to be made if these prospects are to be realized.
The Government has shown its willingness in recent months to discuss openly
the economic problems facing the country, and it is our hope that it will
follow this up with policy measures to address them. For the immediate
future, the Bank can assist the Sudan to maintain the momentum of develop-
ment by helping channel resources into the priority sectors in our project
work, by extending technical assistance to improve project identification,
preparation and implementation capacity, and by continuing the dialogue on
policy issues.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE SUDAN
20.       Since the Sudan's independence in 1956, the Bank Group has helped
to finance various development projects with commitments totalling $424.1
million. Emphasis in our past lending has been in the agriculture and trans-
portation sectors, with particular emphasis on railways and irrigation. More
recently, lending has been more diversified and has included projects for
power development, education, highways, domestic aviation and ports, various
forms of agriculture, livestock marketing, industrial financing and for tech-
nical assistance. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA
credits and IFC investments as of March 31, 1978 and notes on the execution
of ongoing projects. The Bank/IDA share of debt service is 10% and of debt
outstanding is 11% (1976). We estimate the Bank/IDA share of debt service
will fall to about 5% in 1985, when the Bank/IDA share of debt outstanding
would be about 12%.
21.       Physical progress in implementing Bank group operations in the
Sudan varies, but in general is quite good. Most projects have experienced
difficulty in getting key materials such as cement, motor fuels and timber,
of which there is a nationwide shortage. Most projects have also experienced
delays in delivery of equipment and supplies due to transportation deficien-
cies. But, with the exception of the First Education Project, whose imple-
mentation difficulties have been compounded by very weak management, these



- 8 -
difficulties have been manageable. The Rahad Irrigation Project, which
earlier experienced numerous difficulties, is being constructed with deter-
mination, and phase 1 was inaugurated in December 1977 by President Nimeiry.
Although physical progress under the Third Railway Project is satisfactory,
progress in achieving operational improvement on the railways have been
disappointing. Disbursements on IDA credits to Sudan are running at a rate
of about $35 million per annum.
22.       In view of the improved availability of funds for investment in
Sudan, the Bank Group can render a useful service by assisting with the
identification and preparation of a relatively large number of projects,
and by actively associating bilateral and other multilateral sources with
the financing of these projects. The Technical Assistance credit approved
by the Board in February 1976 is designed to assist in this way. The pro-
gress of this project is good and several preparation studies have been
authorized under this credit. The Consultative Group last met in November
1976, and the various agencies represented indicated levels of lending to
Sudan which will make a significant contribution to maintaining the level
of investment. The timing of the next consultative group meeting is under
discussion.
23.       The Bank Group's lending strategy in Sudan will continue to empha-
size agriculture and infrastructure investments. Within agriculture we
expect to continue with a two-pronged strategy of investment to realize
existing production potential in the modern sector, while laying the founda-
tions for future production increases in the traditional agriculture sector.
We are assisting the Government in preparing projects in irrigation and
agricultural research. The Second Education Project now under implementation
emphasizes training in the rural areas, and a third education project is under
appraisal. Lack of transport facilities continues to hamper movement of goods
within the country and to the outside world. A second highway project is
under appraisal, and included in most agriculture projects is a feeder road
component. A ports project was recently approved by the Board, and a fourth
railway project was approved in June 1977. With the two credits to the
Industrial Bank of Sudan, the Bank Group is supporting private investment in
the growing industrial sector. Other projects under consideration include
power and water supply and agricultural credit.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
The Current Significance of Agriculture
24.       Agriculture contributes about 40% of Sudan's gross domestic product,
over 95% of export receipts, about 75% of employment; about 90% of the raw
materials for the industrial sector, and a substantial proportion of govern-
ment revenues. The crucial nature of the sector to Sudan's development and
the perceived potential of the sector has called for careful and continuing
analysis. The last Bank analysis of the sector (apart from a significant
contribution to the ILO Report - see below) was contained in Volume III of the



- 9 -
Economic Report on the Sudan, dated June 9, 1972 (AE-27)). Since then
analysis of the sector has continued in the Government's own agencies; in
the Country Perspective Study carried out by FAO in 1973, which explored
alternative agricultural development strategies up to 1985 or 1990; in the
study of the investment requirements of the sector carried out by the Arab
Fund for Economic and Social Development; and in the 1975 ILO Comprehen-
sive Employment Strategy Mission. The Bank has recently carried out an
agricultural sector review. This report was discussed with the Government
in April 1978 and will be released in mid-1978.
The Resource Base
25.       Of the total area of the Sudan (250 million hectares) about one-
third is suitable for crop and pastoral farming. At present most of this
area is used, largely in an unsystematic fashion as range lands. Approxi-
mately 9 million hectares are cultivated and of this area about 1.7 million
hectares irrigated. Approximately 35 million hectares is potentially arable.
The use of Nile waters is governed by the 1959 Nile Waters Agreement between
Sudan and Egypt, under which Sudan is entitled to use 18.5 milliard m  meas-
ured at Aswan (about 20.5 milliard m  measured at Sennar).  Current con-
sumption is about two-thirds of Sudan's entitlement. Current and planned
investment will raise Sudan's consumption towards its entitlement, and
Sudan and Egypt jointly are starting conservation works aimed at reducing
losses of Nile Water due to evaporation and seepage. The size and location
of the country, extending from the dry tropical zone into the equatorial
zone, mean that a great variety of agricultural produce can be grown in the
country, from cereals, cotton and oil seeds of the dry tropical regions to
tea, coffee, rice and other equatorial produce in the south. Large areas
of the Savannah belt are suitable for rearing cattle and sheep.
Current Pattern of Production
26.       There are three main types of agriculture in the Sudan.  Irrigated
agriculture is limited mainly to the area between and either side of the
White and Blue Niles upstream of their confluence, and to some smaller areas
irrigated by the Main Nile, Atbara and other rivers. Current expansion of
irrigated agriculture is almost entirely in this area, the irrigated areas
produce nearly all of the long staple and medium staple cotton grown in the
Sudan, and also produce groundnuts, sugarcane, wheat and other grains, pulses
fruit and vegetables. The Bank was involved, in the past, in some of the
major expansions in irrigated agriculture in the 1960s and in the building
of the Roseires dam which is providing water for further expansion. Rainfed
agriculture has been developed mainly in the region lying on each side of
the Blue Nile, towards the Ethiopian frontier and in Southern Kordofan.
Much of this agriculture is mechanized, due to the nature of the soils and
the very large areas involved. The principal crops here are sorghum, short
staple cotton and sesame. In the center and west of the country and in the
whole of the southern region subsistence agriculture is dominant; the major
staple crops being millet and sorghum in the savannah and sorghum, maize and



- 10 -
cassava in the South. Although traditional farming and stock-rearing techni-
ques prevail, the sector nevertheless contributes significantly to exports of
groundnuts, gum arabic and livestock. However, marketing and transportation
difficulties limit the return to the livestock producer, and there are large
disparities between the earnings of those engaged in traditional agricultural
and livestock production and the earnings of the owners and tenants of mechan-
ized and irrigated farms. This in turn means that there are large regional
differences in income levels, although these are ameliorated somewhat by
seasonal employment in the modern sector schemes.
27.       In the eight years 1967-75, the area under cotton was stable.  In
1976 the area declined about 10% as part of a conscious decision to diversify
agricultural production. In the same period, the area under several other
crops has increased significantly--sorghum/millet by 47%, groundnuts by 140%,
sesame by 82% and wheat by 170%. These acreage expansions are largely re-
sponsible for the increase in production, yields having stagnated. Diversifi-
cation away from cotton is expected to continue, with sugar emerging as a very
important crop. As mentioned above, Sudan's exports are almost entirely of
agricultural produce and livestock. Cotton has normally accounted for about
60% of total exports, oil seeds 17%, oil cake 6%, livestock products 7% and
gum arabic about 8%. However, imports of agricultural produce such as wheat
and sugar have also been significant, amounting to about 18% of total imports
by 1970, rising to more than 25% by 1974. During the period of very high
prices of sugar and wheat, imports of these products imposed a severe strain
on Sudan's balance of payments and domestic finances. In the light of the
potential for further agricultural production and of the problems caused by
imports of agricultural produce, Sudan is giving high priority to the expan-
sion of agricultural exports and the achievement of self-sufficiency in
presently imported agricultural commodities.
Organization
28.       Commercial farming in the Sudan is carried out largely under the
authority of state corporations--the Gezira Board, the Rahad Corporation,
the Public Agricultural Production Corporation in the field of irrigated
agriculture and the Mechanized Farming Corporation in the field of dryland
farming. The Cotton Public Corporation, Oil Seeds Company and the Gum Arabic
Company provide particular services to the cotton, oil seeds and gum arabic
producers, and the Agricultural Bank of Sudan provides credit to a relatively
small number of farmers. The irrigation corporations exercise very close
control over farming carried out in the areas under their supervision,
prescribing the rotation system, the crops to be grown and the planting times;
providing credit and specialized services such as crop-spraying, and having in
some cases monopoly purchasing power over the crops produced. Another group
of corporations controls both domestic and foreign trade in many agricultural
and livestock products, applying state pricing policies. Subsistence agricul-
ture and livestock rearing operate more independently but nevertheless they
are much influenced by the policies, including prices, set by the state-owned
or licensed corporations. In 1976, legislation was introduced to encourage
Sudanese and foreign private sector investment in agriculture. A number of
such investments have already been undertaken, which will introduce a new
influence into the agriculture sector.



- 11 -
29.       Ministerial supervision is exercised through two ministries, the
Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Natural Resources and the Ministry of
Irrigation and Hydroelectric Power. The Ministry of Agriculture provides a
large range of services to the agriculture and livestock sectors and is well
staffed in certain fields. In other fields, such as extension or range
management, the institutions and manpower are inadequate. The Ministry
of Irrigation and Hydroelectric Power is, on the whole, well staffed and
competent, with much experience in the construction and operation of large
scale irrigation schemes.
Sectoral Problems
30.       The great potential for agricultural expansion poses difficult
questions of choice both for existing production and in regard to new in-
vestment. For example, development of new irrigated areas means a high level
of investment, a higher output per hectare and considerable employment genera-
tion. Improvement of existing irrigated agriculture requires less investment
and can bring a high rate of return, but, without reduced tenancy sizes, will
increase incomes already quite high by Sudanese standards and generate rela-
tively little employment. Mechanized dryland farming also requires less
capital investment than irrigated agriculture, and provides less employment
but also mobilizes private capital for agricultural development. All three
types of agricultural development can yield large foreign exchange earnings
and savings. Development of subsistence agriculture and livestock may con-
tribute less to exports in the short term, but can do much for the incomes
of the poorest people in Sudan. (It is worth noting, that about one third of
Sudan's groundnut and nearly all of the gum arabic and livestock exports are
generated in the traditional sector.) Given the vast areas of land remaining
to be brought into more productive use, and the nature of some of the soils,
a high level of mechanization may well be justified. But a way has to be
found to ensure that the poorer people benefit from the resulting higher pro-
ductivity. The degree of mechanization will also partly depend on the avail-
ability of seasonal labor, on which modern agriculture currently depends
heavily. Labor is remarkably mobile in Sudan, but upgrading of agriculture
in the poorer parts of the country could have the effect of reducing the
willingness of labor to make the long journey to obtain seasonal employment.
A further problem concerns the incentive system in the sector. The current
incentive system does not favor agricultural exports, while the institutional
relationship between the irrigation corporations and tenants is not always
conducive to higher yields, nor does it encourage responsiveness to market
demand.
31.       Large complementary investment will be required in transportation,
storage, credit, marketing facilities and research to meet the needs of the
planned expansion in agricultural production. Currently, agricultural re-
search is concentrated principally on irrigated agriculture, especially
cotton production. Investment in research concerned with rainfed agricul-
ture urgently requires expansion and the Bank Group has recently appraised
an agriculture research project. Output of high-level agriculture staff
from existing and planned agriculture training establishments is expected
to be adequate, but a large training requirement remains at the lower levels.



- 12 -
Investment Objectives
32.       Current public investment is directed, firstly, at the expansion of
wheat and sugar production to remove the necessity for imports and to generate
exports; secondly, at the expansion of medium staple cotton and groundnut
production in the Rahad project; and thirdly, at expansion of mechanized dry-
land farming to produce sorghum and sesame. Private investment in mechanized
farming and in the production of groundnuts in the traditional sector is also
expected to expand rapidly. In the South progress in the rehabilitation of
agriculture is reasonable with assistance from an IDA financed and other
projects. The current focus of livestock development is on marketing, export
quality improvements, production research and disease control generally. In
considering how to realize its agricultural potential, Sudan has to find the
right balance between a range of priorities and development alternatives,
which sometimes conflict. To provide the foreign exchange for its investment
program in all sectors and to service its debt, high priority will be given to
agricultural production and processing for the export market. This type of
investment is likely to absorb the bulk of the available resources. To assist
in the mobilization of funds, the Government expects, and will encourage,
an increasing role for the private sector--in self-contained modern sector
schemes, in the mechanized farming schemes for which the public sector would
provide the essential infrastructure and services, and for the tenants on the
irrigation schemes, who would be encouraged through an improved system of
incentives. To help redress the regional disparities in incomes, the Govern-
ment will also give priority to the development of subsistence agriculture.
However, this form of investment is unlikely initially to absorb a large pro-
portion of the available funds, due to the many constraints which can only
be overcome slowly. Some modern sector schemes will be located in the West
and South, which would also help to reduce regional income disparities.
33.       Of particular importance to the future development of agriculture
in Sudan will be the Arab Authority for Agricultural Investment and Develop-
ment, a financing agency which has been established to help implement the
development proposals made by the Arab Fund for Social and Economic Develop-
ment. The principal objective will be production for export to the Arab
World, but the program recognizes the need for balanced development among
the regions (para. 17).
Mechanized Rainfed Farming
34.       Mechanized dryland farming in Sudan, which started in 1944, has
grown with remarkable rapidity and now extends to approximately 7 million
feddans, of which about 3.5 millions are officially demarcated and leased to
farmers and the balance developed unofficially. In any one year, about 4.5
feddans are cultivated. The soils being cultivated are for the most part the
deep, cracking clays characteristic of much of eastern and central Sudan.
These soils are virtually unusable without mechanized cultivation. Crops
grown have been principally cotton, sorghum and sesame.  The contribution to
national production, especially of the latter two crops has been very impor-
tant, 50% and 40% of the national total respectively. The emphasis has been on



- 13 -
extensive farming, with very little investment in infrastructure or services.
Until recently, undeveloped land was available and it was possible for
farmers to move to new land as yields fell, rather than devise a permanently
sustainable farming system. So long as the area cultivated remained rela-
tively small and the investment limited this was acceptable. However, with
the area involved now large by any standard, with increasing investment in
infrastructure and services to farmers, and in view of the ambitious plans for
further rapid expansion of the area cultivated, it is now essential for Sudan
to evolve systems of farming for these clay soils which are permanently
sustainable under rainfed conditions.
35.       In 1968 the Bank made a loan of $5 million to Sudan for a first
mechanized farming project (MFPI) whose main objective was to establish 140
large farms extending to 140,000 feddans on the clay plains of eastern Sudan,
for mechanized farming under rainfed conditions. The principal crops were to
be cotton, sorghum and sesame. The Bank's audit report on the project con-
cluded that given the objectives of the project, it had mixed, but generally
satisfactory results. It generated considerable production surpluses; the
area opened up was increased to 215,000 feddans; the project mobilized pri-
vate capital for the farming sector and generated both permanent and seasonal
employment. Additionally, the project fostered the creation of the Mechanized
Farming Corporation (MFC), which now has a vital role to play in regulating
and encouraging mechanized dryland farming. The project did not, however,
make much progress in resolving the technical problems or evolve a perma-
nently sustainable farming system with adequate returns to the farmers.
Cotton dropped out of the rotation, due to the low level of prices, and
fallows were neglected. The 1972/73 crop was poor and the 1974/75 crop
exceptionally poor, with a severe effect on farmers' cash flows.
36.       In 1972, IDA made a credit of $11.3 million for a second mechanized
farming project (MFPII). This project, whose main aim was to establish 280
large farms extending to 420,000 feddans on the clay plains of eastern and
central Sudan, was to produce principally sorghum and sesame. This project
is making satisfactory progress, although implementation of some components
is behind schedule and water logging has occurred on some farms due to neglect
of land use planning. It gave greater emphasis to the research needs of
mechanized dryland farming, in particular to devising a sustainable farming
system. Substantial progress has been made in producing sorghum varieties
which can be harvested mechanically, and in mechanized harvesting of sesame,
but the program was delayed in starting and further support for these pro-
grams is required. MFC's management has suffered from high turnover since
1976.
PART IV - PROJECT
Background, Description and Purpose
37.       A report entitled "Sudan Third Mechanized Farming Project Staff
Appraisal Report" (No. 1956-SU, dated May 1, 1978) is being distributed to the



- 14 -
Executive Directors separately. The second IDA-financed mechanized farming
project financed a feasibility study for further large scale mechanized
farming in Southern Kordofan and Bahr el Ghazal. The Bank's appraisal of
this project proposal in the first half of 1977 and the prospect of rapid
opening up of large new areas to mechanized farming, with foreign private
capital, caused the Bank to give heightened emphasis to the need to devise
acceptable and sustainable farming techniques for the large and valuable
Sudanese resource represented by the clay soils and the more sandy soils in
Western Sudan. With a view to understanding the needs better, a mission
visited Sudan in October 1977 to review the total needs of the sub-sector
and the proposed project has emerged from the findings of that mission. The
project was negotiated in April 1978; the Government delegation was led by
the Managing Director of MFC and included representatives of the Ministry of
National Planning and the Bank of Sudan. The project is designed to assist
farmers to improve returns on their investment in mechanized farms by improv-
ing road access and the availability of spare parts, by giving a concerted
thrust to the dissemination of available technology, which is not now getting
to the farmers, and by continued support for and emphasis on the research and
trials program. The project would also begin a mechanized farming trials
program in an area of Southern Kordofan typical of the more sandy soils of
the West and support pilot projects for mechanized dryland farming by small-
holders on the cracking clays in Eastern Sudan. An Agricultural Research
project, proposed for financing separately by IDA, would materially assist
in the development of improved rainfed farming technology for use in Western
Sudan.
38.       This project would not however, meet all the current investment
needs of the sub-sector. In particular, it became clear during appraisal
that, although MFC provides equipment servicing for demarcated areas, the
farm machinery service and spare parts situation is generally inadequate,
due to lack of incentives to manufacturers, dealers, and agents and to short-
age of foreign exchange. This raises questions concerning the role of the
private sector in providing these services. Further, MFC has responsibility
for large scale production on state farms, the rationale for which is not
clear. Recommendations on this matter are being made in the Bank's agricul-
tural sector review (para 24 above). In addition, the needs for credit and
for further infrastructure development are considerable. However, meeting
these additional needs will pose several complex institutional and policy
issues which will take some time to resolve. The Government will be studying
these questions with a view to redefining MFC's role and financial objec-
tives.  This study will be completed by December 31, 1980 and the Government
will discuss the study and its plans for implementing the recommendations
with the Association (Section 3.07 of the Credit Agreement). Meanwhile, in
order to meet immediate needs for road improvements, improved extension
services and spare parts, and to reinforce the work already started to develop
a sustainable farming system, the current investment proposals should not be
postponed.
Project Description
39.       The proposed project would have several components, broadly grouped
into two categories aimed respectively at large scale mechanized farmers and



- 15 -
at smallholder development. Under the first category, two components are
designed to give greater thrust to the on-going research programs and to
ensure that the available technology is rapidly made available to the farmers.
Using agricultural machinery which is not yet widely used in Sudan, MFC's
extension agents would establish about fifty 280 feddan plots on farmers'
fields (40 in the east and 10 in central Sudan) to demonstrate a relatively
simple improved farming system based on research results already available.
This demonstration is expected to speed adoption of the new techniques. At
the same time the trials and research components would finance further applied
research into the introduction of legumes into the rotation, mechanized inter-
row cultivation, the use of herbicides, pesticides and artificial fertilizers,
intensive cropping, combine harvesting of sesame and bulk handling of all
harvested grain. Research programs relevant to mechanized dryland farming
and carried out by the Agricultural Research Corporation would also receive
support. The trials and research program would be submitted for review by
the Association annually (Section 2.05 of the Project Agreement). A third
component would consist of the building of 150 kilometres of gravel roads
and 460 kilometres of raised earth tracks to facilitate access by farmers
and extension staff and the supply of farm inputs. A fourth component would
finance the import of spare parts for existing farm machinery. Such spare
parts are in very short supply, mainly due to foreign exchange restrictions.
These spare parts would be incremental to the average level of spare parts
imported in the last three years and would bring into productive use much
otherwise idle machinery. A fifth component would strengthen the Mechanized
Farming Corporation, which has a key role to play in regulating and support-
ing the expansion of mechanized dryland farming in Sudan. Although MFC is
performing valuable services and has shown a capacity for operating in remote
and difficult conditions, there are important ways in which its role requires
reexamination and in which its organization requires some strengthening.
40.       Smallholder development would consist of two components.  The first
would be the establishment at el Fuda in Southern Kordofan of a development
centre to operate agronomy and mixed farming trials and demonstrations and
provide extension and veterinary services to farmers in the area. The trials
would aim to devise two farming systems based on available technology, one for
adoption principally by smallholders, and the other for extensive farms for
groups of smallholders. The results of these trials would largely determine
the future development strategy for the expansion of mechanized dryland farm-
ing to large areas of lighter soils in the West, which up to now have been
farmed by traditional methods. The second component would consist of pilot
village smallholder mechanization schemes at four villages in eastern Sudan.
If successful, similar mechanization schemes could be introduced among small-
holders elsewhere in the clay plains.
Cost Estimate and Financing
41.       The total cost of the project, including taxes and duties amounting
to $5.0 million, is estimated at $26.4 million. Physical and price contin-
gencies amount to $5.2 million. IDA would finance the foreign exchange costs
amounting to $16 million (75% of total cost net of taxes). The local costs
would be met by the Government. Except for the $5 million allocated for spare



- 16 -
parts, the IDA credit would be passed on to MFC in the form of an interest
free irredeemable loan. The financial relationship between MFC and the Sudan
Government is expected to be revised within the next two years and the terms
of this loan would be reconsidered at that time. The subsidiary agreement
would reflect this (see para. 50 below). Signature of a subsidiary agreement
between the Government and MFC, satisfactory to the Association, would be an
additional condition of effectiveness of the IDA credit (Section 5.01 (a) of
the Credit Agreement). The $5 million for spare parts would be administered
by the Bank of Sudan under special procedures (see para. 43 below).
Procurement and Disbursement
42.       Procurement of vehicles, farm machinery and other equipment costing
$2.6 million, and in orders of over $75,000, would be procured under inter-
national competitive bidding (ICB). Contracts of $75,000 or less and up to
$500,000 in the aggregate would be awarded under MFC's procedures, which are
acceptable to the Association. Local suppliers of equipment and materials
procured under ICB would qualify for 15% domestic preference. Because the
building program costing about $3.0 million would be in remote areas, un-
attractive to building contractors, construction would be carried out by
MFC using force account methods. Similarly, the road construction works,
costing about $6.2 million, are too dispersed to attract international con-
tractors. Recent experience also indicates that bids from the domestic con-
tracting industry would be unlikely. Although provision will be made for
local competitive bidding for the roads, if no satisfactory bids are received
MFC would carry out the road building program by force account. Boreholes
would be sunk and equipped under contract with the Rural Water Corporation.
43.       The spare parts, costing $5.0 million, would be purchased by manu-
facturer's agents in Sudan. Much of the machinery for which the spare parts
are required was acquired by international competitive tenders. The proce-
dures for authorizing the imports and ensuring that they are incremental are
described in the Annex to Schedule 1 of the Credit Agreement. On the basis
of proportions of the market held by various makes of specified equipment
(75 horse power tractors and wide-level disc seeders), the $5 million would
be allocated among qualifying importers who, for access to the IDA funds,
would have to have satisfactory distribution outlets in the mechanized farm-
ing areas. Import licenses applied for by importers would require MFC en-
dorsement to the effect that the spare parts to be imported are of the speci-
fied type. On receipt of their licenses, importers would pay the Bank of
Sudan the local currency equivalent of the spare parts to be financed by IDA.
The Bank of Sudan would send the Association quarterly certificates of for-
eign exchange made available for imports of the specified spare parts out
of its own resources. To ensure that the spare parts financed by IDA are
incremental to those which would be available anyway, these Bank of Sudan
allocations would be monitored by the Association against a base level of
imports, representing the annual average of such imports in 1975, 1976 and
1977, increased by 10% annually to allow for price inflation.



- 17 -
44.       Disbursement of the IDA credit would take place over four and a
half years. Disbursement for the components to be implemented by MFC by
force account (buildings and possibly roads), would be made against state-
ments of expenditure certified by MFC's Financial Controller and Managing
Director. IDA would disburse 40% of local expenditure or 100% of foreign
expenditure on civil works ($4.6 million); 100% of foreign expenditure on
vehicles, tractors, machinery and equipment ($1.4 million), spare parts for
agricultural machinery ($5.0 million) and consultants services ($1.1 mil-
lion); and 60% of the operating costs and borehole construction ($1.7 mil-
lion).
Accounts and Audit
45.       Under MFPII, MFC is required to have its accounts audited by inde-
pendent auditors. At the time of the approval of MFPII, it was agreed that
MFC would employ an outside accountant to reorganize MFC's accounts and to
bring them up-to-date. Subsequently, the Association agreed that this task
be carried out by MFC's new Financial Director. In view of his pressing day
to day responsibilities this has proved to be beyond his capacity, despite
the appointment of several qualified accountants by MFC, and the audited 1975
and 1976 accounts were only recently received. Additionally, the account-
ing and financial control system provides no operational support to farm and
scheme managers, and since the accounts are not consolidated at MFC head-
quarters, financial control by MFC's management is deficient.
46.       Under the proposed project MFC will appoint an internationally re-
cruited financial adviser and financial consultants, acceptable to IDA, to
review MFC s accounting system and help improve its efficiency (Section 5.01
(c) of the Credit Agreement and 4.01 (b) and (c) of the Project Agreement).
MFC and the Bank of Sudan would keep separate accounts for the project items
and would submit audited accounts within 6 months of the end of each fiscal
year.
Organization, Management and Staff
47.       With the exception of the spare parts component, which would be
administered by the Bank of Sudan, (see para 43 above), the project would be
implemented by the Mechanized Farming Corporation. However, in order to
take care of weaknesses which have become apparent in MFC's present organi-
zation, a reorganization and strengthening of the corporation would take
place. Operations would be grouped under a director of agriculture who
would direct the regional offices and all the development schemes. The
agriculture department would include a small technical group, funded by the
project, to provide technical direction for MFC. The financial departments
would be strengthened and the planning and evaluation department would have
new sections to deal with surveys and studies, land use planning and other
planning and evaluation functions. The study referred to at paragraph 38
above could lead to further strengthening of the organization in the future,
but the immediate steps being taken are consistent with the likely evolution
of MFC in the future.



- 18 -
48.       MFC and the Agricultural Research Corporation (ARC) have recently
agreed to a common policy which defines their respective responsibilities,
whereby ARC will implement a basic research program to meet MFC's needs,
and MFC will provide the link between the ARC and the farmers in the rainfed
mechanized farms, through applied trials, demonstrations and extension staff.
This is a distinct improvement on the situation hitherto, which has lacked a
clear-cut division of responsibility.
49.       MFC has a considerable cadre of qualified staff and in general
appears to be able to attract sufficient staff to execute the project. How-
ever, it is possible that it will be difficult to fill a few senior posts
and for this reason provision has been made for international recruitment for
four posts. Appointments made by international recruitment would be subject
to IDA approval. Appointments of directors of agriculture and finance would
be a condition of effectiveness (Section 5.01 (c) of the Credit Agreement).
Financial Objectives, Cost Recovery and Government Cash Flow
50.       The Mechanized Farming Corporation suffers from ambiguity in its
financial objectives. Originally established as a service organization,
receiving its financial resources from the Government by annual budgetary
appropriation, at the time MFPII was approved (1972) it was moving in the
direction of financial autonomy and funds were made available on loan terms,
although certain services provided by MFC were still to be provided by bud-
getary appropriation. This ambiguity requires resolution, but this will
necessitate reconsideration of MFC's functions and policies (para. 38 above)
in regard to the state farms for which it is responsible (which currently are
not profitable); in regard to the services for which it should charge full
costs and those which should be covered by the Government's budget; and in
regard to its role in the provision of credit. It is also necessary to
reconsider MFC's role in the provision of services which could be provided
by the private sector, such as machinery repair and servicing facilities,
fuel supplies and marketing. During negotiations assurances were received
from the Government and MFC that MFC's financial objectives would be clari-
fied by December 31, 1980 and that the terms of financing made available to
MFC would be reassessed in accordance with those objectives (Sections 3.01
(c) and 3.07 of the Credit Agreement).
51.       Cost recovery for the proposed project would be limited.  The spare
parts would be sold for cash and certain other services would be paid for,
such as the operating costs of trials held on farmers land, veterinary
services at el Fuda, and tractor hire on smallholder pilot schemes. Other
components, such as research, access roads and their maintenance and the
development centre at el Fuda are not susceptible to direct cost recovery.
The accumulated Government cash flow deficit would be about $1 million by year
15. However, the picture would be very different if the already available
improved technology to be demonstrated is adopted by farmers. For example, if
only 15% of the 2,000 mechanized farmers in the Gedaref and Habila areas adopt
the improved technology, export tax revenues on the incremental production
would yield a cumulative cash flow surplus of $17 million in year 15.



- 19 -
Markets, Prices and Farm Budgets
52.       Additional production directly attributable to the project would
be small, amounting to about 3,000 tons of sorghum and 600 tons of sesame
per annum at full development. Since the incremental production would be
of export quality, for crops of which Sudan produces a surplus, prices used
are based on Port Sudan export prices.
53.       Much detailed work has been carried out recently to assess the
financial returns to farmers from mechanized dryland farming. Returns on
dryland farming in the savannah zone are always likely to vary due to the
variability of rainfall and other climatic conditions. However, the recent
analyses point to a deteriorating position for farmers, a consequence partly
of market prices, which are relatively unattractive, but principally of the
absence of a farming system which can sustain production at acceptable yields
and of physical constraints facing farmers. The technological innovations
to be demonstrated under the project would by themselves, improve financial
returns to farmers. Other measures to improve the export competitiveness of
Sudan's principal export crops, such as reduced export taxes, would increase
these returns further, but are not critical.
Benefits, Justification and Risks
54.       As emphasized above, the principal purpose of the proposed proj-
ect, which is to some extent experimental, would be to develop at the earliest
time a farming system which is permanently sustainable in dryland farming
conditions. Since the response of farmers to technological innovation of
this kind cannot be predicted, the principal benefit can not be quantified
precisely. However, for illustrative purposes, the effect of adoption of the
simple technological package, to be promoted on the fifty trial plots, by only
15% of the approximately 2,000 mechanized farmers in the Gedaref and
Habila areas, would result in production increases equivalent to 4% and 7% of
current national production of sorghum and sesame respectively.
55.       The principal quantifiable benefits would be increased production
of sorghum and sesame for export, valued at full development at about $0.5
million per annum in 1978 constant prices. The economic return is expected
to be satisfactory overall. The return on the large scale farming component
(US$10.3 million) which includes the spare parts, would be 25%; for the
pilot smallholder component (US$0.4 million) 26%; and for the two components
together, which account for 51% of base cost, would be 25%. The trials,
demonstration and research components, representing 17% of base cost, were
excluded from the rate of return calculation because their benefits cannot be
quantified with accuracy. Similarly, no rate of return was calculated on the
el Fuda smallholder component, representing 32% of base costs, due to its
experimental nature.
56.       The principal project risks relate to the uncertainty of the results
of the trials, demonstration and research program and the rate of adoption
by farmers of new technology. The principal risk that the quantified benefits
would not be achieved is the possibility that spare parts will not reach



- 20 -
farmers early enough for the critical crops sowing period. A year's delay in
the first year returns to the spare parts component would reduce the return on
this component from 44% to 42%, and that of the project from 25% to 24%.
During the negotiations, the Government, MFC and the Bank of Sudan agreed that
the procedures required to permit the imports would be handled quickly accord-
ing to an agreed program. This will receive special attention by Bank staff
during implementation.
57.       In preparing the project, consideration has been given to delaying
the proposed investment until improvements could be brought about in the system
of credit, machinery services and other infrastructural needs of mechanized
dryland farming; and until the role of the MFC in regard, for example, to the
state farms could be clarified. In view of the urgent need to press ahead
with the research, demonstration and trials as early as possible and to
relieve some immediate constraints to increased production, such as inadequate
road access and spare parts supply, it was concluded that it would be better
to proceed now with essential investment. The necessary further studies,
preparation and policy decisions will take place in the first two years of
project implementation. These are expected to lead to further investment
proposals in due course.
58.       The direct beneficiaries of the project would be of two kinds--the
large scale mechanized farmers and smallholders who would have farms of about
15 feddans after mechanization. The vital role of dryland mechanized farming
in Sudan's economy and the dilemmas facing policy makers have been referred
to above (paras. 30, 32 and 34). It is essential in the national interest
that the technology employed by mechanized farmers evolves and that greater
productivity is achieved. It is also essential on distributional grounds
that ways be found to make mechanized farming techniques, suitable to the
clay soils, available to smallholders. The proposed project would make a
contribution to attaining both objectives and strikes a good balance between
these, in some ways conflicting, objectives.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
59.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Democratic
Republic of the Sudan and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between
the Association and the MFC and the Report of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Items of particular
interest to the Association are indicated at Annex III.
60.       Additional conditions of effectiveness of the credit would be the
allocation of land for the el Fuda component of the project, signature of the
subsidiary agreement, and appointment of the directors of agriculture and
finance and the financial consultants (Section 5.01 of the Credit Agreement).
61.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 21 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
62.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Washington, D. C.
May 3, 1978






-23-                                                 ANNEX I
Page 1 of 4 pages
TA6LE 3A
SUDAN              - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (OUN                                                                     REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL     2505.8                                      MOST RECENT                        EGYPT         MOROCCo**
AG1PIC.    315.0                      1oGO       1971)  ESTIMATE          KENYAEYT                       OCc*
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                    130.0*   160.0*    290.0*/&            140.0*    170.0*       290.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)          11.2       14.0      15.9 /a            11.2        33.3        14.8
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                       4.0       6.0        .0/a             19.0        33.0       33.0
PER SO. KM. AGRICULTLRAL LAND       37.0      46.0       51.0/a            113.0      1172.0       74.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU. AV)        50.7       48.9      47.8               49.0        42.1        49.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE l/THOU.AV)         24.7       20.2      17.5               17.0        17.0 "1.5
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)      159.0         ,,     132.0                 ,        116.0
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YIS)      41.1      45.1       48.6               4911        49.9       50.4
GROSS REPbOOUCTION RATE               3. 1.4              3.4                3.4         3.0        3.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE                                      23)
TOTAL                                2.3        2.2**     2.2*               3.1         2.6        24
URBAN                                 *-        5.5       2.2                6.3         3.6        4.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)          6.6       11.8       4.6                9.9        42.1        32.2
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                      47        4S.0       4S  0              48.4        44.0       45.4
15 TO 64 YEARS                      51o071   52.0        52.0               48.0        52.0       51.1
65 YEARS AND OVER                    2.0        3.0       3.0                3.8         4.0        2.5
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                      1./a    0.9       0.9                1.1         0.9         1.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              t.5:       I.5j1       .*               1.1/a       1.7
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)          ..         ..        ..               66.1       486.0      6f.1
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)             ..        ,.         ..                ..          ..         3.0
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)        3700.0    4500.0        .,             11000/b   9300-0/a *b
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE C%)        66.0       60.0        **               90  7       53 .b
UNEMPLOYED (X OF LABOR FORCE)            ..        ..         ,.                 ,.        3.
INCOME DISTRIUTIDN
J OF PRIVATE INCOME RECOD BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS           20..                                    20.                     20. 0'
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS           s0.o:  C    49.2/b      ,52 a                          .       4j::o79
LOWEST  20S OF HOUSEHOLDS            5.0 C     5.17F       ..                3.97         .T. 4.OTa
LOWEST  49% OF HOUSEHOLDS           13. w      4   - l.b   I. t1.1:                       ..       12.07;
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSNIP
X OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS             ..        ..         ..
% OWNED BY  tIALLEST 10% OWNERS          ..        ..         ..
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           27820.0/- 14200.0  10880.0               7130.0/d   i910.o/C  12650.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       3030.07id 1740.0   1360.0/b             1470.071T  1S40. 0          ,
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED          950.0=3  93D.O/C   9060.0               770.-0      460.0       6ts.0/b
PER CAPtTA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (X OF REQUIREMENTS)        81.0      72.0       88.0               98.0        106.0      102.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)             55.0       63.0      60.4               71.0        66.0        64.0
-Of WHICH ANI-MAL AND PULSE         ..       24.0,d   23.0                29.0        16.0        14.0/C
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4             ..         ..         ..                1.9
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                      25.0       33.0      40.0               64.0        69.0        52.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                     3.0        7.0      11.0                 9.0       33.0        13.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)            12.0       12.0      12.0               13.0        12.0        12.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(X OF SECONDARY)                     3.0        1.4/8     3.0 /C             2.0        18.0         2.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)                 ..       15.0         .                30.0         ..        21.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOll (URBAN)               ..        2.5 d       ....
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (%)                       *-       36.0/t.f   * 
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                  ..       26.0 /d,f f
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRIe-'TY (%)                    ..        ..         ..                 ..
CONSUMPTION
r--________-
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)          1.0        ..       8b.0/d             48.0       132.0       60.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)           1.0       2.0        0.0                9.0         4.0       15.0
ELECTRICITY (IKWH/YR PER CAP)           6.0         ..      2U.0               68.0      226.0       126.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)               0.1       0.2        0.2                0.5         1.0        0.2
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



-24-A M t
Uloess Othorole  noted, data for 1960 refet to any year between 1959 sod 196. for 1970 b.tcaeen 1968 an4 1970, nod for Most Recent  stlatcre between
197 3=ad 1 975.
116  per capits, data ore based on the Wor-ld Beak Atl  awcmehodology (1914-76 beeio).
*0Due to emigration popusLaton  grovtht rate ia love? then the tace of natural. icn -*as.
Morocco has been selected as an objective country because of certain siailarit.as (size of population. 1ack of population pr"oaure, importeAce of
.sgiculture, member of Arab world. sod ccoss to OPIC assisatnce) . and bas rasaa.ed a stage of development to which the Sudan nLight aspire in the
medium teres.
S-InAs        1960     /a  1962;    /b  Ratio of popunlation under 15 end 65 sod Over to  -otol 1.~or forte;                 /c  1963, Omdurman urban;         Id  tncluding
eeeisetnt nurses;    /a  Governo.nt hospital establishaiots.
1970    /a  Ratio of population under 1  sand 65 and over to total labor f.rc.;    lb  1967-68;                    /c  iovernment hospital estsbllahbtents;
/4  1364-66;    /L.  l.ginning  1970. the duration of general s.coodara noucatlon  -ae reduced from  8 to 6 years;                    If  Utban
only.
M'OST UECDW  ESTIMTE:    /a  1976;    lb  Including nidvives and assistant n.re...;                   /c  Begiaiog 1970. the duration of $szmCal
saoodar, .ducatlau wae redaced from a to 8 years;    /d  1972.
XLNYA         1970    /a  Latin of popnsaclov, under 13 .04l 65 and over to labor force oAS  15-39 yours;                 lb  Labor force ase 15-59 years;    Li  Urban
only; /d Registered, not all practicing La the cOuntty.
ICY?T         1970    /a.  1966:    jb  Relates to 12 to 86 ymrar  of sgo;            /c  gegiacrors. not all practicing io the country.
MIC9CCCO      1970    /a  Conausptios sapendicure of households;             lb  Government hospital *etsbli.hamcsr only;    L,  1964-66.
920, February 22. 1979
L*nd Are. (thou he21                                                                           Popul.tion set nurtin   pTrs     - Populacton diridad by ncmber of pr.otici.g
T.cel   T oni surfac. ar.a crpoiag tend  nar  mid isand .aces.                                    sale.  fowls gSaduate .noes,  rrsia.d"  r "..roifi.dl mares, aed
Uori.  X- Ma rocast sscmts.aa  of egrilca,rol .rAs used tnaprarily Or pron.-                     oiiayp.reon-I wth tralang e o   aele
nonly for orops, peeturee, narkt  k itchas g.rdesa or to lie foll-,                         P.ouovi-to   "re  bosott  bed - POpulatlon divided by .-b.r Of bo.pita1 beds
-*aIlebl. in pubi  sod privet. geaer-I .od speci.ltoed hoepitet end
IPor  'Poi" '0$;-5f Per oapita -At Iatoc se current market price.,                             r-habilirtAton centers; senludas ..oreig homes  nd .aCstbLohmwnt  for
cocldb,y:    ooe"rsden -thed as world Bank AcIes (1973-75 besta);                         custdial and preveeci- e"i..
1960; 1970 sod 1975 data.                                                                     Per -anit. au.pol of .alories  ft Of req.irM.eTv) - Computed from energy
qui-oLsot Of oct food sPpplies eveil.ble ia c3utry per tapites pot day;
Porutatioo sod vital orsti.tAia                                                                   -vil.bla eupplics comprise 4oma.tic podowtios, Iport. lass  exports, .nd
Pcoein(nid-,ser nillian)   As of July firnt:  if not  -eloble, eeres.                       charoes in stock: net suppLiso asatlda ca1mel fsad. seeda  q-atltla  -.ed
of rvo and-year estimatst; I;o60, 1970 s.d 1973 dat.                                            i. food prace.alag and loesse  in diatrib.ciouf req.irecar    were estimated
b-y lAO bas4on physxiologicel needs f or seonel activity end health .onid-
Povuscio, dos I, -  ar nuar Is  - m1d-yssr population par eqoar kilomter                 oring "' iromtail temperewre, body weishe, oge and see dinCtrb,tism  Of
(0bstrs)of tts   re.populatto., and elboolg 101 for  ~ose  at housoehold level.
Pooultion  anslt - ne eou   ka h  of cantq, lend - Computed as above for                 Pe  eieeno,o   rti   !!rsom se  daT) - Proteai  senieC of peef capite
.snlcolturel land only.                                                 na~~~~~~`4:C"'U1t upply  f food par day  et sopp'Ly of fd Os deflan  Am ebem; rtqoir.-
nerafr  l  cameries established by USnDA  esonmIc Reseech Seor~ia.
Viral etoriotlce                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~provide"for a mislm  lessm llse of 80 grense of total procefa per day, sd
ttwo brthrot   mr 00"uasnd  an.20o   - Aeal live birth$oepa  tbes,sacd of                     20 xgcm  of salnmi cd Pate protein, af ohich 10 gramsheold he entmel
mid-year population; tee-yer crithestic everoge  endiag in 1960 and 1970.                       protsin; rhos.  tedards arm tossr them  those Of 73 grew of touta  protein
And 0 iv--yeer  -vr.s. olng  in 1973 for moset rtentR  stiCet.                                  eand 23 grew of emimeI proemin cc  n oeaS. far the werl, propeeed by TAO
C~t.a death rots  a  thoucend. oeveres  - Omoal deetba per thmmased of aid-year                   in the Third World food Survey.
pplaion; ta-yar critchecic everagee eadig in 1960 and 1970 end five-                         Per -Pita oretcia supply from toiml -and poles - prcsta .."ITy of feed
year ...erage ending in 1975 for  ect Cannot secfaet.                                           derived from e.nisle end pulsee in griw per day.
bnfenc sortelt,t rMe (/thau   - AMonel deaRl  of infeet  urde  one year of  S.                  Veath rate C/thou) 5jes 1-4 - Amual deaths per tsuaemd Ls age strop 1Sa
"vr thousmnd lIve htrthe.                                                                       yea.", to children L. this age gr"u; suggeted  a .s  indicator of
life  aatsra  birth ferVn   - Average eresbov of ye.re of life reaicing at                        e.iatritien.
bit;ooiyfire-year  -avngae ending is 1960, 1970 and 1973 for deoslop-
log countries.                                                                                dcro
Gross Coproduction racn  - Average mmbr of live daughtrer  a -Nmr ,ill beer                     Tdua Gdznollgnot r:stio   iner school - Enrollones  of .11 Ages a. per-
1her normal roproductive period if she espariemnse Present ege-epecific                       ontn.g  Of poinery acole.p itioo; imilodee abildrn egd 8-Il ye.sr
feti'lity  ret.; usually five-near &,mrsgso ending in 1980, 1970 aed 1975                       butr adjoatd for different length. of primary education: for nonmcria. .ith
for derelpiag  Ousarries.                                                                       univeresi ed,caciom, eorollmut say enamed 1001 state sinm pupils so  bela.
?opuLotimo sr-chs rto M5) -tocsl -Compouned w.ssl Srooth rot"s of mid-year                         n above the Official cohoal age.
population for 1950-60, t960-70 and 1970-79.                                                  Adlutotd -Mrolloen  ratio - oscndary sghool   Compnd as shave; ceenmdary
?-oI.Cigtln roerch rei  (7.1  urb:a - Conputed like grosth rate of total                          adonation requiree at aeseR  fotar Ye.mn of sprvdpriony inatruetien;
p.p.l.cton; dil fern  daiitins of urba  ormes eay affect cnorarbi1iey of                        provides geeral,  emotsional m or  acher crednieg inetroatione for pupils
data among Countries.                                                                           of 12 to 17 Tsars Of oge; oonrareondees oourses  rer  gaserolY sCelodad.
Urban poooulsttc (% of total) - tacio of urben to total Population; different                   Teer. of sohooloa2 ervdd(fitad  seod laenlal - Tteal yean  of
dafincitone of urbee areas may effect amarsbiLlIty of dec. sawg acmotriaa.                      asheol1ag;  at scney level,  noetanL innstrction may be particlly or
u.s structars oercant) - Obldree (0-14     (1-60 year.),mpletely aseluded.
Aff:odl ~ ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ ~ yer),secm              gae        4Vo4CLOtio                               11roUeet C% Of ... Md4r,l ;eVe%CationL ieositraism  la  lodeL
A,,nd:raird,Zk (6   sr         vr   e  eosae    tmd-erpplto.chaicaL, industrieL er ooher p-ra n  +hih operten indapeedeetl  Or 
bo  aarao    ,It. -Rtoo  papatlacom umd.r 15 and 69 sod over to these                        d.psromet   Of ...ned-ry ieactitoioea.
of ag .Oiitfnoh8.                                                                          dtltrayrt  CI)%  - Litarc  oduIts febls to read and -rit.) as Pe_
tronnic aeoo  VTo ratio  - Retia of population underT 13 and 83 sod owr to                    noearg   f  oa  adltpoPuletio  aged 15 Years mAdoor
tie labor forte Jn age group of 15-66 year..
OfoIyaoan          cerr    notiethu bLrh  mre Csuietive Oceber ofacapor 
of barb-nonroi dmos.  rder  uspice of etlone  fmil  plaoio.g  rogro   Porooa"' IrroomIC  oro-  ) A- Aerageumberrf perone p"           mn"  s onopiedd
sine inA-ptios,                                                                               ceonventional duslieaI   r.  ra;delig   mld   o-emen
Tral, io0ioo-  aere -a oferned omia-I - Percoancgee of merrcd   am Of                        structures and ueatopied part..
child-hearing og  (13-6  ya)Asauebirth-centrl doesies to all eanrtd                           Occupied duell..t without piped Meter (15  - Occupied aonventionl  oeli
aie  is on0  age gCOOP.                                                                         in Irben cod ru.l erea  .thout ineids or outeida piped vatr fettlities
myl.yasnc  ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~  erergeo llocPied dwellingc.
tooLovosot                                                          asosse to slecr~~~~~~~~~~I rlir Ct l  of all dwellngs) - Cwenvetionat Av-iliag  with
TtIC  ab     rfote fthoamid) -  cononcslly active Pereow, Locluding srmd                          elec_trc.ityI  living quarter. s percent of oct51 dlltga[g  in urban cod
_A nduap taY4d but eablnlding howeei~se  studens, eta.; definLtione                       rural area.
in osiosooenttri.Toarnot  Imprcble.                                                           Ruals d-ellng. Connctad to electricity  C%) - Computed en  mabi for rural
Labor force i.s .rlotr         )      gIcuturL labor force (in fatniog, frenmtry.                   ligeol
bhotin  ted fisbing) as percentage of ntota  labr faren.                                         -1ngOOY
UVIMPIooed C. of IsbOr farce) - Lhonployod are oua-IIy defined as penom   who                   C.-osactio
or  61   06wlling to U tab  5(s, out of e job on . given, da.7  Coaeled  -Ct          Isio,2rreo a             ,hat 0 .) - AIll typestef reasar  for raie b-eado"ta
ofaJo.   mid .aablng ver  for 5 aPseiflad mfinimu  perIod oat -aeading - onIageea  publi  pe   honeed of population; euesuaa.oliamosand r=-eesn
Week; may mot becomp'arch   herseen coutri.s des to different d.fleitL-a                        in touscri. mAd Lc y-ear wham registration af radio sets mme in effect;
of oemployed And s-mirosf dates, e.g., espla7int off ice antaistlcs, nampl.                     date fee reo"ct year. ay net be conpe,ablae          . j meet countrion abolished
suvye   ompulsory uesmployment Insurance.                                                  LicnesLog.
Tttn diat1tibutio   - Percentage Of Privet. iscene (both in cash aU4 bind)                      peacaa er Cfn thouss eanc -   mseabsLegerar   basesia  mnete alts. se
-eosved by, richest 57, rihsbec 201, poorest 207., mid poorest 407. of house-                   vehicles.a
holds.                                                                                        tlactri.tir (bob/r pr co        wioeta    fidsra,tnri
Ivn*nhip - pom"tage. of                                ~~~~~Public -and Prirea electricity i. kloesmet hour  per basitn, genserely
tistrbotln ofitadowneohin    ?erentaea o  bon  ownd by v-elrbiat 107.                beead on prodution data, vith-et el11a.m.n    o far  es  in grida buat c11-
ndorat11of land -oean.                                                                 log for  mports and -1,0te Of  Leletriaity.
Saeoin Cnr LaIr cee) - Per capits  mainl ceagseesptienIakilograms
9ealth en       .rti                       iied  byurrltofbrotn                                   ea Tinated "fIrom doatlc production plus net imports sf mmmepriet.
phYaioiaoa qualfied from  a eadicaL ochol at uni-rity  lave.



A
-25-                               ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1975                                         ANNUAL RATE OF GROWrH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.       %                         1970-75            1965 -70           1972
GNP at Market Prices          3,708.4       100.0                        4.5
Gross Domestic Investment       663.0        17.9                       11.4
Grosa National Saving           265.0         7.1                        4.9
Current Account Balance       -417.0         11.2
Exports of Goods, NFS          436.5         11.8
Imports of Goods, NFS          790.0         21.3
OUTPIJT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRDDUCTIVITY IN 1975
Value Adddl/                  Labor Force/                    V. A. Per Worker
US$ Nln.      a                  mN1.        %U   
Agriculture                   1,297.7      41.3                  ..
Induatry                        298.5       9.5
Services                      1,545.9      49.2                  ..
Unallocated
Total/Aveeage
3,11       100                     ..                              ..0--      100.0
GOV!RNNENIT FDU3ICE
General Government                              Central Goverument  _
Mln.)  I Zf, G(US$  Ml.n.)                         %  fGP!.
L1r 7      -   19 7        196 -7                  l974/5  FY 1975 F_L__7_ _
Current Receipts                                   *-                                720.6       19.1          23.3
Current Expenditure                                                                  728.6       19.3          22.4
Current Surplus                       ..           ..           ..                    -8.0        0.2           0.9
Capital ExpenditureasV                                                               267.3         7.1          4.3
Ecternal Assistano  (net)                                                            285.7         7.6          1.1
MONEY, CflMIT and PRICES                 FY1970       FY1971       FY1972       FYL973      FY1974       FYl975   FY1976
M3lllion      outstanding end periodT 7
Money and Quasi doney                      123.1        130.6       146.2        190.9        245.2       292.4    368.2
Bank credit to Public Sector                90.1        112.2       139.6       152.6         196.5       329.4    431.5
Bank Credit to Private Sector               60.5         73.1        70.5        92.8         120.3       155.2    216.5
(Percentagps or Index Numbers)
Money and Ouasi Money as % of GDP           21.1         20.8        18.7        21.9          22.2        20.1
General Price Index (1970 - 100)4/         106.7        108.2       120.9       141.6         178.6       221.4    225.1
Arnual percentage changes ins
Oeneral Price Index                                       1.4        11.7        17.1          26.1        24.0      1.6
Bank credit to Public Sector                43.9         24.5        24.4         9.3          28.8        67.6     31.0
Bank credit to Private Sector              -1.0          20.8        -3.6        31.6          29.6       29.0      39.5
NOTEt  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
1/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation. "Unallocatad5 consists
mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
2/ At market prices
3/ Expenditures from Development Budget (includes some capital expenditures by other public entities).
b/ Refers to low salaried cost of living index.
(Less than Lsd 500 per annum).                    not available
not applicable
EACPXB
February 22, 1978



-26 -                                                         ASX4 I
26                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Page 4 of 4
B3irN 0P?  MWS, PlDXAL ASSNII               Al DMT
I(aalnts in mislhm   of U.S. do,llar  at currwct prices
Avg. Annual
l9/ ul    1974           t          sEet1mAted                                 Pro3ected                           Growth   late
19'3  1974     1975          176            1977         1978         197          1986         1985         1973-1980
SUII6P  BLIANCE OF PAD0TS
Szports (incl. NMS                      447.5        394.4        436.5         581.7          615.6        703.9        819.7        936.1       1848.7             9.6%
Th1port3c plc)                         _,399.0      603.4        790.0         867.7          976.9       1113.8       1261.6        1424.5       2587.2           17.2.
-=7          - --r _jr                 --7            1 =         -ZrT-          -4-41.8      -45          -738.5
Laterst (net)                         .12.5        -20.6        -30.2         -57.4          -70.3        -82.0        -94.0       -106.9       -195.7            30.8%
Ocher Factor Payments                  -17.9        -21.0        -27.6         -15.0           -20.0        -20.0        -25.0        -25.0        -25.0            4.3%
' _rect I'nvestent  ncome                -8.2         -8.0        -12.1         -20.0          -20.0        -22.0        -Z2.0        -22.0        -25.0            13.17.
Workers' Remittance                       -            -            -            30.0           34.1         38.7         43.9         49.9         94.5
Cuarrent Transfers (net)                  6.2          0.4          6.1          12.0           12.0         12.0         12,      .0     ,. 20.0                   11.7%
Balance on  Carrentf       t             16.1       -257.7       -417.0        -336.4         -425.5       -483.1       -526.9       477 5
Private Direct 1nvee~~~~~~~nt        4.9         10 ~~0        30.0            34.3         39.2         44.8         51.2         99.9           34.1%
official Capital                         IOnta  10.0  25.1         10.0          30.0           60.0         84.0          70.0         70.0         88.0           27.57%
Public 9U,IT Loans
aisblm,siLnts                          68.8        314.2        160.3         332.9          402.5        458.6        505.6        544.4        729.5            29.5%
-Repaymonts                            -39.8       -37.9        -.52.I.        -64.2         -114.7       .142.4       -139.1       -135.4       -101.2            15.3%
Net Diabormennts                       =7*n           7ET         108.2                         7~ 7         Try         366.         409.0        !6 r-            411.17.
Other 9U,L Inane
Dinbwc ants                                    -           -                                  -                   ---                  --
-Repayments 
let Disbursemlents
Capital Trnaactione 0.s.i.              -32.6         -8.9        225.8          50.0           52.5         55.1         57.9          60.6         77.6
Change in Net Reservee  (--increase)  -22.5          -39.7         63.0         -42.3           -9.1        -11.0        -12.3        -13.6         -24.2
5IRAT AND1 LA' -M-1rS                                                                            DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE             1973      1974      1975          1976
0fficial Granta & 3rarit-7k              34.0         35.0          -            30.0          Public Debt Out. & Disbursed   377i    723.0    941.7              1T59.5
Public MLT loans                                                                                 Interest on Public Debt         14.8      20.6      40.8           55.4
mED                                      ,            -            ,           20.0           Repayments on Public Debt        39.8     37.9       52.1           64.1
ML                                     46.0         35.0         60.0          13.0           Total Public Debt Service        54.6     79.1       92.9          119o5
Other                                    _-                        - _                         Other Debt Service (net)                    -         -              -
Ottor MfultlAteral                       -          81.0         26.0          80.0            Total Debt Service (net)        54.6      79.1      92.9          119.5
Gosarsments                            68.0        170.0        L50.0          91.0
Suppliars                              50.0         54.0         63.0            -           Burden on Export Earnings (h)
FneMCial Inititutine4                  49.0        352.0         61.0
Bonds                                                                                         Public Debt Service              12.2      22.0      21.3           20.5
Public Loans n.e.l.                                                                           Total Debt Service                 -         -         -              -
Total Public MMLT mes                     Io                   2    6         9      Z          . TDS+Direct Invest. Inc.        14.0      25.7      24.1           24.0
Act4al Debt Outsteand    on Dec. 31. 1975                     Average Team   of Public Debt
3ZIMIL DM                          Mabaod Onld                   percot
5R-.0                                                          *7.9                              Int. as % Prior Year DO&D        4.5       5.4       5.6            5.9
MA                                    33.8                       3.6                             Amort. as % Prior Year DOtD  12.1         10.1       7.2            6.8
Other rtltilateral                    51.3                        5.5
Sover,menta                          394.2                      41.9                           I8RD Debt Outt. & Disbursed
SWppliara                             81.0                       8.6                             " as 7. Public Debt o&P          19.6     11.2       7.8             5.6
Financial Instituztios               307.3                      32.7                             " as % Public Debt Service    20.7         19.8     12.6             9.4
Sonds
Pmblic Debts n...i                      -                                                      IDA Debt Out. & Disbursed
Total Ptblic IUT Debt Tt yt.                                                                     " as % Public Debt 0&D            7.8      2.5       3.4             5.0
as % Public Debt 0&D           0.5       0.5       0.3            0.3
3thier M1LT Debts
Short-tw'm Debt (disb. only)
not applicable                                      *a  etaff "tints
not available                                        - nil or n1gliible
...  not available seperately                            --  le   than half the
but incuded in total                                    sa et  nit shown                                                                              EACFI
February 22, 1978



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS - SUDAN
(as of March 31, 1978)
Amount (US$ Million)
(Net of cancellation)
Credit No.      Year   Borrower   Purpose                   Bank   IDA 1/  Undisbursed
Six Loans and one Credit fully disbursed:                  127.2   12.4
Credit 122       1968   Sudan       Education I                      8.5       1.4
Credit 311       1972   Sudan       Mechanized Farming II           11.3       5.9
Credit 331       1972   Sudan       Highway I                        7.0       1.0
Credit 364       1973   Sudan       Rahad Irrigation                42.0       5.8
Credit 364-2    1975   Sudan        Rahad (Supplement)              20.0      20.0
Credit 447       1973   Sudan       Industrial Bank of Sudan I       4.0       0.2
Credit 457       1974   Sudan       Railways III                    24.0       7.1
Credit 476       1974   Sudan       Agricultural Rehabilita-
tion Project                   10.7 2/    5.5
Credit 547       1975   Sudan       Education II                    10.0       9.5
Credit 564       1975   Sudan       Power II                        23.0       8.5
Credit 589       1975   Sudan       Industrial Bank of Sudan II    7.0         4.2
Credit 614       1976   Sudan       Technical Assistance             4.0       3.6
Credit 643       1976   Sudan)                                       9.0       9.0
Loan 1287T       1976   Sudan)      Domestic Aviation       20.0    -         20.0
Credit 718 3/   1977   Sudan        Savannah Development            17.0      17.0
Credit 727 3/   1977   Sudan)                                        8.0       8.0
Loan 1467T 3/   1977   Sudan)       Railway IV              12.0    -         12.0
Total                                                  159.2  217.9      138.7
of which repaid                                       69.1    4.0
Total now outstanding                                   90.1  213.9
Amount sold                     5.8
of which repaid              5.8                        -
90.1  213.9
Total Undisbursed                                       32.0  106.7      138.7
1/   Prior to exchange adjustments.
2/   Includes grant participation of $5.35 million, of which $2.8 million
is undisbursed.
3/   Not yet effective.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of March 31, 1978) 1/
Fiscal                                       Type of    (Amount in US$ Million)
Year               Obligor                  Business    Loan   Equity  Total
1964 and
1972      Khartoum Spinning & Weaving Co. Textiles    1.87   0.34    2.21
1976      Cotton Textile Mills                            8.71   1.27    9.98
1977      Seleit Livestock                               11.16   1.48   12.64
Total gross commitments                   21.74   3.10   24.84
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                      4.74   0.07    4.81
Total commitments now held by IFC         17.00   3.03   20.03
Total undisbursed                         13.38   1.59   14.97
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 2/
The Bank and IDA have so far made eight loans and seventeen credits
to the Sudan. Disbursements are either in progress or about to commence for
the following projects.
Credit No. 122    First Education Project; US$8.5 million Credit of June 24,
1968; Effective Date: January 4, 1969; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978
Major elements of the project are about 48 months behind schedule.
Delays were caused by belated appointment of consultant architects, diffi-
culties in establishing project implementation procedures, weaknesses in
management, excessively high quotations received for construction items
necessitating re-tendering of certain project components, difficulties in
1/   This total excludes US$6.9 million loan and US$1.5 million equity invest-
ment for the Gezira Managil Textile Company Ltd, (Gematex) approved by
the Executive Directors on March 21, 1978.
2/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
obtaining deliveries of materials, and late arrival of technical assistance
personnel. Work is now proceeding more satisfactorily although supply short-
ages continue to interrupt construction. Recently changes were made in
project management. Cost overruns have been met by reducing the scope of
the project. We are continuing to monitor the project closely with a view
to ensuring that the project is completed by the current closing date.
Credit No. 547   Second Education Project; US$10.0 Million Credit of
May 1975; Effective Date: September 30, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project will help meet priority education needs, principally
in Southern Sudan. It provides among other things for development of a new
type of school, the Integrated Rural Education Center for schooling in the
rural context. Good progress has been made on the design work and in site
selection and the education sector survey supported under the project has been
completed. Tendering is now under way and costs for some components are prov-
ing to be high. Implementation of the construction program as expected is
proving to be difficult due to the widely scattered locations, but various
expedients are being tried, and prospects now are more promising.
Credit No. 311   Second Mechanized Farming Project; US$11.25 Million Credit
of June 12, 1972; Effective Date: April 24, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
The first mechanized farming project (Loan 556-SU) to establish
about 140 farms of 1,000 feddans each (1 feddan = 1,038 acres) was completed
in July 1971, one year ahead of schedule and with substantial savings.
Encouraged by this success, the area of the original project was extended by
75,000 feddans and a second mechanized farming project covering a further
420,000 feddans was approved for which Credit 311-SU was signed on June 12,
1972. Implementation is going well, after some initial delays. Land clear-
ing and area under production are ahead of schedule and cooperation of other
agencies involved in the project, especially agricultural research, road con-
struction and water supplies has greatly improved, although progress on road
improvements and, in particular, construction of a training center are still
behind schedule. Feasibility studies for further expansion of mechanized
farming have been completed. Disbursements are proceeding steadily. A recent
appraisal of the Mechanized Farming Corporation has revealed some weaknesses
which are being addressed in the context of a third project.
Credit No. 364   Rahad Irrigation Project; US$62 Million Credit of March 20,
and            1973 and June 30, 1975; Effective Dates:  August 29, 1973
364a            and November 17, 1975; Closing Date:  June 30, 1980
The project will irrigate an area of about 300,000 acres which are
now sparsely populated semi-desert on the East Bank of the Rahad River. It
will use water pumped from the Blue Nile and will include the construction
of irrigation supply, distribution and drainage works, the provision of



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
agricultural processing equipment, storage facilities, and the settlement of
about 14,000 tenant families (about 70,000 people) with all the necessary in-
frastructure and supporting services. The Kuwait Fund and USAID participated
in the initial financing of this project by providing a loan of US$11 million
each. Significant cost increases, stemming from various causes, occurred
and an increase in the IDA credit of $20 million to $62 million was approved
by the Executive Directors on June 26, 1975. The remaining increase of $81.5
million in the foreign exchange cost is being financed by the Kuwait Fund
($39 million), the Saudi Fund for Development ($28 million) and the Arab Fund
($14.5 million). The Government will meet the increased local cost of the
project, totalling $80 million. Although work got off to a slow start in
1974, there was good progress in earth-moving, design work and procurement
of equipment in 1975. Since October 1975 implementation has been proceeding
energetically and the settlement and agricultural programs are proceeding on
the revised schedule. Diversion of the first water occurred in July 1977 to
irrigate 60,000 feddans, slightly behind schedule. The first phase of the
project was inaugurated in December 1977.
Credit No. 476   Southern Region Agricultural Rehabilitation Project;
US$10.7 Million Credit of June 5, 1974; Effective Date:
September 6, 1974; Closing Date: December.31, 1979
The project, which forms part of a larger rehabilitation program,
aims at intensifying food production by (i) providing improved seed to
farmers, (ii) expanding extension services, (iii) establishing a center for
nutrition research, and (iv) improving animal health and livestock production
through a program of vaccination, marketing and research. The project also
aims at rehabilitating the cotton and coffee growing industry, and estab-
lishing the nucleus of a small-farmer dairy industry. Research, credit
and technical assistance, including staff for a Project Development Unit
in the Ministry of Agriculture to implement the project, are also included.
Provision of staff housing and recruitment of staff took some time, but
has now been completed and good progress is now being made. Seed trials
and seed multiplication and cotton planting are under way, although the
cotton program received a setback when the responsible agency proved unable
to buy the cotton crop. Coffee planting is ahead of schedule. The asso-
ciated cattle vaccination campaign, financed largely by the Federal Republic
of Germany, is under way, but the dairy and livestock marketing components
have encountered problems. A project review mission took place in March
1977 and agreement has been reached on a few modifications to reflect the
difficulties encountered and in view of the fact that the Region is now
moving beyond the rehabilitation stage. Disbursements are expected to be
completed shortly behind schedule. The Government of Norway has taken a
participation in this credit amounting to US$5.35 million.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
Credit No. 718   Savannah Development Project; US$17.0 Million Credit
approved on May 31, 1977; not yet effective;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project, financed by IDA and the Saudi Fund, will finance a
comprehensive agricultural development program in South Darfur Province,
including crop and livestock development, improved water maintenance, project
related agricultural research and creation of a Western Savannah Development
Corporation (WSDC). Effectiveness has been delayed by a legal dispute within
the Sudan Government, regarding the type of legislation required to establish
the WSDC. The legislation is now before the National Assembly.
Credit No. 331   Highway Project; US$7.0 Million Credit of September 29,
1972; Effective Date: December 29, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978
The project comprises assistance to the Roads and Bridges Corpora-
tion in improving its organization, in preparing a highway betterment and
maintenance program and purchases of related equipment, spares and materials.
Also included were feasibility studies of about 500 km of roads followed by
detailed engineering of about 350 km and technical assistance to the Ministry
of Transport in transport planning and training of RBPC staff. The project
is approaching completion, except for the technical assistance component.
To provide time for execution of this component, the closing date has been
extended. Detailed engineering for 550 km of roads shown to be feasible in
the feasibility studies has been completed. Financing for these roads is
under consideration by IDA and other financial institutions.
Credit No. 457   Third Railway Project; US$24 Million Credit of
January 31, 1974; Effective Date: July 29, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
The project is intended to help improve the Railways' operational
standards and maintain the capacity needed to meet expanding demand on the
trunk routes. It also recognizes the need to develop complimentary trans-
port modes and includes components to assist river transport, port develop-
ment and civil aviation. Supply of the equipment financed under the credit
is approaching completion and disbursements are now expected to be rapid.
Loan No. 1467T   Fourth Railways Project; US$12 Million Loan of July 8, 1977
and           and US$8 Million Credit of July 8, 1977; not yet effective;
Credit No. 727   Closing Date:  December 31, 1982.
The project comprises Sudan Railways' investment requirements during
the first three years (1977/78-1979/80) of the Government's Six-Year Develop-
ment Plan. It includes new workshops, sleeper and rail renewal, completion
of a radio communications network, purchase of 10 locomotives and 400 wagons
and locomotive spare parts, completion of a training school and technical
assistance. Preparation of specifications and bidding documents is now in
progress. Financing to be provided by the Kuwait Fund, Arab Fund, Abu Dhabi



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Fund, and the European Development Fund is a condition of effectiveness and,
apart from the FED grant, has been confirmed.
Loan No. 1287T   Domestic Aviation Project; US$20 Million Loan of July 9,
and             1976 and US$9 Million Credit of July 9, 1976;
Credit No. 643   Effective Date:  January 11, 1977; Closing Date:
September 30, 1981
The project consists of final design and construction of two new
airports and upgrading of two existing airports, complete with terminal and
other facilities; navigational and communication equipment; and certain tech-
nical services.  Design work has been completed and tendering is about to
begin. Tendering was delayed by different procurement regulations of the
financing agencies (IBRD, IDA, FED and Saudi Fund). A problem has been
encountered in introducing new accounting procedures, but we expect to over-
come this.
Credit No. 447    First Industrial Bank of Sudan Project:  US$4 Million Credit
of December 14, 1973; Effective Date: March 15, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
The project was designed to help the Industrial Bank of Sudan to
function more effectively in financing industrial development in the private
and public sectors in the Sudan. The Credit was expected to meet IBS' re-
quirements of foreign exchange for the two-year period through 1975, but
business expanded rapidly and the Association had already approved subproj-
ects exceeding US$3.8 million by early 1975. Disbursements are expected to
be completed in mid-1978. A second credit to IBS was approved by the Board
in November 1975.
Credit No. 589   Second Industrial Bank of Sudan Project; US$7.0 Million
Credit of November 11, 1975; Effective Date: April 14,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project will continue IDA's support for this development fi-
nance company, and will provide foreign exchange for small and medium sized
industries. Together with foreign exchange made available by the Kuwait
Fund and the Government of Germany, the credit is expected to meet the for-
eign exchange needs of the Industrial Bank up to late 1978. A third credit
is under appraisal at the present time.
Credit No. 546   Second Power Project; US$23.0 Million Credit of June 25,
1975; Effective Date: October 29, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
The project consists of the fourth unit of the Roseires hydro-
electric station, 20 MW of diesetrgenerator capacity, transmission and dis-
tribution lines and a variety of managerial and technical studies and ser-
vices. Implementation of the generation and transmission features of the



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 7
project is proceeding satisfactorily, though behind schedule. Contracts
have been awarded for all the main components and these indicate that
there is likely to be a 25% cost overrun. The Government is seeking addi-
tional foreign exchange to meet these costs. A new management structure
is showing some promise on the financial side, and good progress has been
made in improving the financial operations. Progress on the operational
side has not been satisfactory and this matter has been taken up at a high
level. The various studies financed under the project are either in prog-
ress or nearing completion.
Credit No. 614   Technical Assistance Project; US$4.0 Million Credit of
April 7, 1976; Effective Date: October 4, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project, financed by IDA and the Kuwait Fund, will finance
preparation studies of high priority projects, to facilitate Sudan's public
investment. The Project Preparation unit has been established and in its
first three meetings, the Project Review Committee authorized eight studies
for financing under the project. Progress achieved has been good.



- 34 -
ANNEX III
SUDAN
THIRD MECHANIZED FARMING PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: 3 years
(b) Preparation by: Consultants (Agrar und Hydrotechnic);
MFC and Bank Staff
(c) Initial discussion with Bank: June 1974
(d) First Bank Mission: June 1974
(e) Appraisal Mission Departure: February 1977
(f) Subsector Review Mission: October 1977
(g) Negotiations: April 1978
(h) Planned date of effectiveness: October 1978
II.   Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
III.   Special Conditions
Under the Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement, the Government
and MFC would, within two years, review the role and objectives, including
financial objectives and functions of MFC and issue a new policy statement and
regulations embodying those policies for MFC (paras. 38 and 50).
Additional conditions of effectiveness of the Credit Agreement would
be signature of a subsidiary loan agreement between Government and MFC, for
the on-lending of funds to MFC, containing terms satisfactory to the Associa-
tion; allocation of land and appointment of the directors of agriculture and
finance and financial consultants (paras. 41, 46, 49 and 60).
Under the Project Agreement, MFC and ARC would submit proposals for
the research and trials program annually to the Association as a condition of
disbursement of the IDA funds allocated for each year's program (para. 39
above).
Under the Credit Agreement, the Bank of Sudan would issue quarterly
certificates indicating allocation of foreign exchange for spare parts of the
type required (para. 43).



13RD 130
SUDAN                                                                                                                            Khash- doa.
THIRD MECHANIZED  FARMING  PROJECT                                                                 ElGete4 Ei L e  GAZIRA                                             0       -
Areas developed here 194011 1968    | 1. -,! , Derprcated        ht rt ated b               /                                                    A (  -   
Areas de11eped fr   1968401974      D---errarcoted -dlied ar d f                                              Irsurable
~Areseedee-        ert          IjiAreaerp--ed lerAsaera.6 atr-tdr but   --eerd brr                                   Wd .d
400                                                                    Areas std- e    rt llttee U-demartated  ealletted areasI,_ -1.ttd
Areos under studyR ys                                                         NO
Areas p -0004d ; or t udy         R.eers                                     KORDOFAN
1-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PPl f. -d                                                                        b .. ,..,                                                                                        > Ne sg- .
NORTHFERN  DARE/JR                                               ZI     rsetcaesfrsA                         4~rebudre                                                                                               aashi
sous   I=               Ae                    SOIJTHERN         DARE/JR                        Mgd            SOUTHERN          KORDOFAN            \                      ;     ))         /1 .x                                  t;; f    g              f 
$ LN-  \/        |      ---1  x  9/PEER  NILE /              NiL
fbSugltoeoA1F    '                            OUT BAHR  EL GHARFU  S--\-' -EN*KO
0446 0 Dr ~~   ~   t-r'4~  .r.rr.rO,rr.,l,.rrerrreer                                                                                                                    ..~



