CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 804 SU
Development Credit Agreement
(Third Mechanized Farming Project)
between
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 13, 1978


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 804 SU
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 13, 1978, between THE DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association.)
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by the Mechanized
Farming Corporation (hereinafter called MFC) with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to MFC part of the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter
provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
MFC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and MFC of even date herewith, as the same may be


﻿-2-
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to
the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement;
(b) "Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and MFC pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and
such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Agreement;
(c) "ARC" means the Agricultural Research Corporation, a
public corporation of the Borrower;
(d) "BOS" means the Bank of Sudan; and
(e) "Project Area" means the mechanized rainfed farming area
of the central clay plains of Sudan.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to sixteen million dollars ($16,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for
Parts A, B and C of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions set
forth or referred to in Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1984 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿-3-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each
January 1 and July 1 commencing July 1, 1988, and ending January 1,
2028 each installment to and including the installment payable
on January 1, 1998, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Managing Director of MFC and such other
person or persons as he shall designate in writing are designated
as representatives of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01.(a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause MFC to perform in accordance
with the provisions of the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary
Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall take
and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable MFC to perform such obligations, and shall
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make available to MFC out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit, the equivalent of $11,000,000, or such other
amount as shall be allocated from time to time to Parts A, B and C
of the Project.


﻿-4-
(c) The amount referred to in the preceding paragraph
(b) shall be so made available to MFC upon the conclusion of a
Subsidiary Agreement, satisfactory to the Association, between the
Borrower and MFC pursuant to which: (i) MFC shall be exempted from
the payment of interest on, and the repayment of the principal of,
said amount until the redefinition of its reiponsibilities shall
have been completed pursuant to Section 3.07 of this Agreement;
and (ii) upon the completion of such redefinition, but not
later than June 30, 1981, or such later date as may be agreed
between the Borrower and the Association, the Borrower shall
decide, in consultation with the Association, whether MFC should
be required to repay the principal amount so made available to it,
the period over which such repayment is to be made, and the rate
of interest, if any, to be charged on such amount. Such decision
shall be generally based on: (A) the extent to which such redefi-
nition would allow MFC to operate on a commercial basis; (B)
a realistic forecast of MFC's incomes and expenditures; and (C)
the requirements of continuing and expanding MFC's services.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause Part D of the
Project to be carried out, with the assistance of BOS and MFC,
with due diligence and in conformity with appropriate financial,
administrative and agricultural practices and shall provide
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
(b) For the purpose of procuring the spare parts provided
under Part D of the Project, the Borrower shall make available to
BOS out of the proceeds of the Credit, the equivalent of
$5,000,000, or such other amount as shall be allocated from time
to time to Part D of the Project. Disbursement on account of spare
parts purchased under Part D of the Project shall be made pursuant
to the procedures specified in the Annex to Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause BOS (i) to main-
tain a separate account for Part D of the Project, adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations, resources and expenditures in
respect of Part D of the Project, and (ii) to provide the
Association every three-month period, within one month after the
end of each such period, with a statement on withdrawal from
and receipts by such account during such period.
(b) The Borrower shall cause BOS to (i) have the separate
account referred to in the preceding paragraph for each fiscal


﻿-5-
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the end of each
such year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other infor-
mation concerning said account and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause MFC, in allocating
to importers the proceeds of the Credit, which are allocated to
Part D of the Project, to follow the procedures specified in the
Annex to Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 3.05. Until the completion of the Project, the
Borrower shall continue to make annually available to importers
such amount in foreign exchange as shall be required to maintain
the import of spare parts for agricultural machinery at the base
level referred to in the Annex to Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 3.06. For the purpose of carrying out Part B of
the Project, the Borrower shall allocate to MFC about 2,500 feddan
of land situated at such locations as shall be required for the
implementation of agricultural trials, the prompt construction of
buildings and the installation of all other facilities under Part
B of the Project.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall carry out and complete, with
the assistance of consultants and not later than December 31,
1980, or such later date as may be agreed between the Borrower and
the Association, a study on the redefinition of MFC's responsi-
bilities; such study shall, in particular, deal with: (i) the
extent to which MFC's activities may be changed; (ii) the require-
ments in terms of staff, funds and facilities for the efficient
performance of MFC's activities; (iii) the levels of fees and
charges at which MFC would be able to charge farmers for its
services, without reducing its benefits to the agricultural sector
in Sudan; and (iv) MFC's relations with the other agricultural
agencies, institutions and corporations in Sudan. The recommenda-
tions emerging from such study shall be submitted to the Associa-
tion, a-id the Borrower shall thereafter introduce such changes in
MFC's orga-iization and responsibilities as shall be agreed with
the Association.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) MFC shall have failed to perform any covenant, agreement
or obligation of MFC under the Project Agreement;
(b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that MFC will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement;
(c) MFC's Establishment Order shall have been amended, sus-
pended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as to mate-
rially and adversely affect the ability of MFC to carry out the
covenants, agreements and obligations set forth in the Project
Agreement;
(d) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of MFC or for the suspension of its operations; and
(e) MFC shall have become unable to pay its debts as the,
mature or any action or proceeding shall have been taken by MFC or
by others whereby any of its assets shall or may be distributed
among its creditors.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower and MFC; and
(b) any of the events specified in paragraphs (c), ('d) or
(e) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit


﻿-7-
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Borrower and MFC have concluded the Subsidiary
Agreement providing for the arrangements specified under Section
3.01 (b) and (c) of this Agreement;
(b) the Borrower has allocated to MFC the land referred to
under Section 3.06 of this Agreement; and
(c) MFC has employed the director of finance and the
director of agriculture referred to under Section 2.03 and the
financial consultant referred to under Section 4.01 (c) of
the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by MFC, and is legally
binding upon MFC in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date November 13, 1978, is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. The provisions of Section 4.02 of this Agree-
ment shall cease and determine on the date on which the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date fifteen
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the
earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Ministry of National Planning of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of National Planning
P.O. Box 2092
Khartoum
Sudan


﻿-8-
Cable address:                      Telex:
EIMAR                              324
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
By /s/ Sayed Omer Salih Eissa
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Andre R. Gue
Acting Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works                   4,600,000
(a) buildings                                  40%
and roads
(b) directly im-                              100% of for-
ported build-                             eign expendi-
ing materials                             tures
and equipment
(2) Vehicles, trac-               1,400,000        100% of for-
tors, machinery                               eign expendi-
and equipment,                                 tures
and associated
spare parts
(3) Spare parts for               5,000,000        100% of for-
agricultural                                  eign axpendi-
machinery under                                tures
Part D of the
Project
(4) Consultants'                 1,100,000         100%
services and
salaries of
internationally
recruited staff
(5) Operating Costs              1,500,000         60% of local
(including re-                                expenditures
search cost but
excluding salaries)


﻿- 10 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(6) Borehole equipment             200,000         60%
and construction
(7) Unallocated                  2,200,000
TOTAL        16,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Disbursement under Category (3) of paragraph 1 above shall
be made only to meet the incremental cost of such kinds of
imported spare parts for 70-80 HP wheel tractors and wide level
disc seeders as shall be agreed with the Association. To ensure
the foregoing, the procedures specified in the Annex to this
Schedule shall be followed.
4.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.


﻿- 11 -
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
6.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other
expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
7.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under
the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower,
cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reason-
able opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 12 -
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 1
Procedures for Disbursement under Category (3)
The following procedures shall be followed in order to: (i)
identify the kinds of spare parts to be financed under Category
(3) of the table shown in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement (hereinafter called Category (3)); (ii) procure such
spare parts; and (iii) allow for periodical reviews by the
Association to ensure that such spare parts shall be procured over
a period of not more than three years from the Effective Date and
shall be so procured for such amounts of foreign exchange as shall
be in excess of the base level of import of such spare parts as
such level is hereinbelow determined.
1.   MFC shall indentify, with the assistance of importers, the
types of spare parts to be financed under Cagetory (3). In
general, such spare parts shall be those required for wheel
tractors of about 75 horse power and wide-level disc seeders. The
list of spare parts so identified shall be promptly provided to
the Association for its agreement.
2.   The Borrower shall establish the import base level of such
spare parts, in terms of foreign exchange cost, which shall
represent the annual average of such import for the years 1975,
1976 and 1977. The base level shall be increased annually, and
until full disbursement under Category (3), by the rate of 10% in
order to allow for price inflation.
3.   The Borrower shall promptly inform the Association, through
BOS, of the base level as established under paragraph 2 hereof.
4.   MFC, with the assistance of the Agricultural Bank of Sudan
and the importers, shall identify the numbers, makes and types of
tractors and wide-level disc seeders operated in the Project area.
In light of 3uch identification, MFC shall allocate the proceeds
of the Credit allocated under Category (3) among eligible importers.
The Association shall be promptly informed of such allocation.
5.   In making the allocation referred to under paragraph 4 above,
MFC shall require that importers have satisfactory distribution
outlets in the Project area. MFC, if necessary, may act as a
distributor in some parts of such area.
6.   Importers granted allocations under paragraph 4 above shall
apply for import licenses through the normal channels; however, it


﻿- 13 -
shall be required that MFC endorse applications for such licenses
in order to certify that the spare parts for which licenses are
sought, are of the types identified under paragraph 1 above.
7.   BOS shall provide the Association quarterly and until dis-
bursement under Category (3) is completed, with a certificate
indicating the amount of foreign exchange made available by BOS
in the last three-month period from sources other than the pro-
ceeds of the Credit for the import of spare parts of the kinds
identified under paragraph 1 above.
8.   The cost of spare parts imported by importers granted allo-
cations under paragraph 4 above may be disbursed under Category
(3). However, the Association shall undertake a review, from the
date on which this Agreement shall have become effective until
disbursement under Category (3) shall have been completed, in
order to determine, in light of the information contained in the
quarterly certificates referred to under Paragraph 7 above,
whether and to what extent disbursement under Category (3) has
been. made during the preceding year in order to meet expenditures
in excess of the base level referred to under paragraph 2 above.
In light of such determination, the Association shall, if neces-
sary, exchange views with the Borrower on action to be taken in
order to ensure that the amount allocated under Category (3) shall
be used to finance spare parts imported, during the period of
Project implementation, in excess of the base level referred to
under paragraph 2 above.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following:
Part A:   Strengthening of MFC's services, facilities and
equipment
1.   Extension and demonstration
(a) Reorganization   of MFC's extension   services
through the employment of a senior exten-
sion specialist for MFC's headquarters in
Khartoum, and the operation of field extension
programs, under the guidance of such special-
ist, through the regional extension officers
of MFC to demonstrate improved farming systems
to the farmers; and
(b) The provision of agricultural equipment neces-
sary for the carrying out of the extension
programs referred to under (1) above.
2.   Trials and research
(a) The provision of farm machinery and equipment
required for the expansion of the trial
programs currently implemented by MFC on the
Sim Sim and Habila state farms; and
(b) the carrying out of agricultural research pro-
grams, in cooperation between MFC and ARC, on
matters, including but not limited to, weed
control, crop diversification and soil
nutrients.
3.   Roads
The construction of about 150 km of gravel road and
about 460 km of earth tracks in the Gedaref and
Habila areas.
4.   MFC's Headquarters
Strengthening of MFC's headquarte-s through office
buildings, recruitment of additional staff, and the
provision of vehicles and office equipment.


﻿- 15 -
Part B:   El-Fuda Development Center
Works under this Part comprise:
1.   The construction of a headquarters building con-
sisting of offices, stores, staff quarters, and
machinery maintenance and repair facilities.
2.   The construction of about 50 km of roads from El-
Fuda to the trial area (referred to under 4 of
this Part), and the provision of heavy road con-
struction equipment.
3.   The provision of funds and agricultural equipment
for land clearance.
4.   The establishment of an agronomy trials unit to
study and evaluate the main aspects of development
in the Project area, namely, resource management,
crop production and mixed farming rotation.
5.   The establishment of an extension unit responsible
for the dissemination of crop production tech-
niques, developed through the agronomy unit
referred to under 4 above, to farmers in the
Project area.
6.   The establishment of a veterinary unit responsible
for contacting pastoralists in the Project area in
order to secure their cooperation in the develop-
ment of the mechanization of mixed farms.
Part C:   Pilot Village Smallholder Scheme
Under this Part, MFC shall select four villages in
the Gedaref area. Except as otherwise agreed between the
Association and MFC, each of such villages shall be pro-
vided with a wheel tractor of about 95 HP, a heavy duty
trailed offset tandem disc, a tine-type cultivator
drill, a set of cover harrows, a set of tools, fast
moving spares and a fuel tank. The purpose of establish-
ing such pilot village schemes is to induce, through
efficient management and increased production, larger
participation by village communities in the management
of such schemes. Two agriculturists stationed at Gedaref


﻿- 16 -
shall supervise the operation of such schemes, including
the hiring of tractors and seeders to farmers and the
collection of fees due thereon.
Part D:   Spare Parts
The provision of spare parts, of the types specified in
the Annex to Schedule 1 to this Agreement, to owners of
tractors and wide level disc seeders in the Project
area.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1983.


