CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 804 SU
Project Agreement
(Third Mechanized Farming Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
THE MECHANIZED FARMING CORPORATION
Dated July 13, 1978


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 804 SU
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 13, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL DEVEL-
OPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and THE
MECHANIZED FARMING CORPORATION (hereinafter called MFC).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Democratic Republic of the Sudan (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to sixteen million dollars ($16,000,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that MFC agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Association as are hereinafter set forth;
and
WHEREAS MFC, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. MFC shall carry out Parts A, B and C of the
Project described in Sclhedule 2 to the Development Credit Agree-
ment with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, agricultural and engineer-
ing practices.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works under Parts A, B


﻿-2-
and C of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule
to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) In order to improve its organization,
management and operational procedures, MFC shall employ the
following specialists: (i) a director of finance; (ii) a director
of agriculture; (iii) a civil engineer; (iv) a crop mechanization
expert; (v) a senior agronomist, (vi) a senior agricultural
extension officer; (vii) a senior livestock specialist; (viii) an
agricultural economist; and (ix) a training officer. Persons
nominated for employment under (i) through (v) of this paragraph
shall be so employed after the Association shall have approved
their qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment; for this purpose, MFC shall provi-e the Association
with the necessary information about the persons so nominated
for employment, and the Association shall promptly inform MFC of
its approval, or disapproval and the reasons thereof, of such
employment.
(b) In order to enable the specialists referred to in
the preceding paragraph (a) to function efficiently, MFC shall
make, not later than December 31, 1979, such changes in its
organization as shall be agreed with the Association.
Section 2.04. For the implementation of Part A.1 of the
Project, MFC shall: (i) assign to the senior agricultural exten-
sion officer, to be employed under the preceding Section 2.03,
the responsibility of providing technical guidance to MFC's
extension officers in Gedaref and Habila; (ii) provide suitable
equipment and facilities for its extension staff; and (iii)
establish, during the second year of Project implementation,
demonstration sites on private farms in Gedaref and Habila areas
in numbers adequate to provide an effective demonstration to such
--reas on improved farming techniques.
Section 2.05. MFC shall submit to the Association for its
comments and review, annually and not later than December 31
of each year during the period of Project implementation, the
trial and research programs to be carried out under Part A.2 of
the Project during the next following year, including the annual
financial plan for the part of such programs to be carried out in
cooperation with ARC, and shall make such modifications in such
program and plan as the Association shall reasonably request.


﻿-3-
Section 2.06. MFC shall: (a) construct the roads provided
under Parts A.3 and B.2 and the buildings provided under Parts A.4
and B.1, of the Project in accordance with appropriate design
standards; and (b) adequately maintain such roads and buildings
and promptly make any necessary repairs thereof, all in accordance
with sound engineering practices.
Section 2.07. MFC shall ensure that the El-Fuda Development
Center to be established under Part B of the Project, will at
all times be appropriately equipped and staffed with competent
personnel in adequate numbers.
Section 2.08. (a) MFC undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the
Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition, transporta-
tion and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by MFC to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, MFC
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.09. (a) MFC shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) MFC: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record
the progress of the Project (including its cost and the benefits
to be derived therefrom) and to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it by
the Borrower, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project;
(ii) shall, without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph
(c) of this Section, enable the Association's representatives to
visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of such proceeds and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Association all such information as the Association shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, the expenditures of the
proceeds of the Credit so made available to it and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.


﻿-4-
(c) MFC shall enable the Association's representatives
to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of MFC and any relevant records and
documents.
Section 2.10. (a) MFC shall at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of
the Credit.
(b) MFC shall promptly inform the Association of any condi-
tion which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress
of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit,
or the performance by MFC of its obligations under this Agreement.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Associa-
tion and MFC, MFC shall prepare and furnish to the Association
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation
of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be
derived from it, the performance by the Association and MFC
of their respective obligations under this Agreement and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of MFC
Section 3.01. (a) MFC shall at all times continue to manage
its affairs, plan its future expansion and carry on its opera-
tions, all in accordance with appropriate agricultural, engineer-
ing, administrative and financial practices, under the supervision
of experienced and competent management.
(b) MFC shall at all times operate and maintain its equip-
ment, machinery and property and promptly make all necessary
repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with appropriate
engineering and financial practices.
Section 3.02. In order to increase the efficiency of its
operations, MFC shall: (i) take appropriate steps towards the
decentralization of its management; (ii) reorganize its existing


﻿-5-
finance and personnel units into one department to be headed by
the director of finance referred to in Section 2.03 (a) of this
Agreement; (iii) establish a new agriculture department to be
headed by the director of agriculture referred to in Section 2.03
(a) of this Agreement, and assign to such department the responsi-
bility of supervising MFC's regional offices; (iv) replace its
engineering unit by a new construction and engineering department
to be responsible for the planning, construction and maintenance
of MFC's roads and buildings; (v) establish a new training depart-
ment; and (vi) reorganize its planning and evaluation department
so as to include four new units for surveys and studies, land use
planning, smallholder scheme preparation and monitoring, and
statistics and evaluation.
Section 3.03. MFC shall take out and maintain with responsi-
ble 4nsurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) MFC shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition,
including separate accounts to record its activities under the
Project.
(b) MFC shall employ, not later than December 31, 1978, a
financial adviser to its management, whose qualifications, experi-
ence and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory
to the Association.
(c) In order to improve its accounting system, MFC shall
employ a financial consultant with such qualifications and expe-
rience and under such terms and conditions as shall be acceptable
to the Association.
Section 4.02. (a) MFC shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in


﻿-6-
any case not later than six months after the end of each such
year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and ('B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Associa-
tion such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of MFC and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
(b) MFC shall consolidate its financial statements as of
the fiscal year 197B/1979.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of MFC thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date twenty years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
MFC of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between


﻿-7-
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For MFC:
Mechanized Farming Corporation
P.O. Box 2482
Khartoum, Sudan
Cable address:
MECFARM
Khartoum
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of MFC may be taken or executed by the
Managing Director of MFC or such other person or persons as
he shall designate in writing, and MFC shall furnish to the
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authen-
ticated specimen signature o each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agrekment may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.


﻿IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Andre R. Gue
Acting Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
THE MECHANIZED FARMING CORPORATION
By Is/ Sayed Omer Salih Eissa
Authorized Representative


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts to be awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, MFC shall prepare and forward to the
Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later than
60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of the
first tender documents relating thereto, a general procurement
notice, in such form and detail and containing such information as
the Association shall reasonably request; the Association will
arrange for the publication of such notice in order to provide
timely notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to
bid for the goods in question. MFC shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
remain to be procured on the basis of international competitive
biddiag.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works under the Project for the construction of build-
ings may be carried out by force account, mainly through the
Cov.cruction and Engineering Department of MFC and the Rural Water
Corporation of the Borrower, or under contracts negotiated under
arrangements acceptable to the Association.
2.   Civil works under the Project for the construction of roads
may be carried out under contracts awarded under local competitive
bidding or, when no satisfactory bids are received under such
bidding, pursuant to the procedures provided under paragraph 1
above.
3.   Contracts for the purchase of goods estimated to cost not
more than the equivalent of $75,000 per contract and $500,000 in


﻿- 10 -
the aggregate, may be awarded in accordance with applicable
procedures of MFC acceptable to the Association.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods except those to be procured under Part B.3
above: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the
c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the ex-factory
price for domestically manufactured goods; (ii) customs duties and
other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and similar taxes,
if any, on domestically supplied goods, shall be excluded; and
(iii) the cost to the purchaser of inland freight and other
expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of
their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Sudan may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of . bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that
will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Sudan if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of MFC and the Association that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Sudan equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Sudan.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on


﻿- 11 -
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
(c) above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C
bids shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid
from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C w;iich as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is
the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts
1.   With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $75,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, MFC shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, MFC shall,
before a final decision on the award is made, inform the Associa-
tion of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the
contract and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, and such other information as
the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall,


﻿- 12 -
if it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform MFC and
state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, MFC shall furnish to the Association, promptly after
its execution and prior to tlie submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform MFC and
state the reasons for such determination.


