Document of
The World Bank                               FILECOPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3534-1
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT OF SDR 36. 9 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
FOR A STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROJECT
April 26, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization. i



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       =     CFA franc (CFAF)
US$1.00                   CFAF 355 1/
CFAF 1 million            US$2,817
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACP countries      - African, Caribbean and Pacific Countries
BCEAO              - Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
CEAO               - Communaute Economique de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
CEET               - Compagnie d'En.ergie Electrique du Togo
CIMAO              - Societe des Ciments de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
ECOWAS             - Economic Community of West African States
EEC                - European Economic Community
IMF                - International Monetary Fund
iVRD               - Ministry of Rural Development
OPAT               - Office des Produits Agricoles du Togo
OTP                - Office Togolais des Phosphates
RNET               - Regie Nationale des Eaux du Togo
SALINTO            - Societe des Salins du Togo
SISE               - State Secretariat for Industry and State Enterprises
SOTEXMA            - Societe Togolalse d'Exploitation de Materiel
SOTOMA             - Societe Togolalse de Marbrerie et de Materiaux
STH                - Societe Togolaise d'Hydrocarbures
TOGOROUTE          - Societe Nationale de Transports Routiers "TOGOROUTE"
TOGOTEX            - Societe Togolaise de Textile
FISCAL YEAR
January 1    -    December 31
1/   The CFA franc (CFAF) is tied to the French franc (FF) in the ratio
of FF 1 to CFAF 50.  The French franc is currently floating.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
CREDIT SUMMARY
Borrower:          Republic of Togo
Amount:            SDR 36.9 million (US$40 million equivalent)
Terms:             Standard IDA
Credit
Description:       The credit would support the Government's program of
structural adjustment as outlined in the Economic Policy
Statement of the Government to the Association. The reforms
envisaged by the program are designed to strengthen the
balance of payments and to restructure the economy in a more
productive direction with higher growth through: a) accele-
rated rural development, largely food crops for local con-
sumption and export; b) rehabilitation of state enterprises
in association with the private sector; c) exploitation of a
comparative advantage in mining by processing phosphate rock
into phosphoric acid; d) promotion of industrial development
through private investment in small- and medium-scale light
manufacturing; and e) improvements in public investment
planning and execution. The credit would finance imports of
raw materials, intermediate goods, capital equipment and
spare parts. Counterpart funds would be used for
development-related expenditures and reduction of arrears.
Estimated
Disbursement:      The credit would be disbursed in two tranches, $25 million
immediately after effectiveness, and the remaining $15 mil-
lion after a performance review to take place late in 1983.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF TOGO
FOR A STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Devel-
opment Credit to the Republic of Togo for SDR 36.9 million (US$40 million
equivalent) to support a Structural Adjustment Program. The Credit would be
on standard IDA terms.
PART I - STRUCTURE AND DEVELOPMENT OF THE TOGOLESE ECONOMY
2.       An economic report entitled: "Togo: Country Economic Memorandum"
(3416-TO) was circulated to the Executive Directors in January 1982. Its
assessment of Togo's economic prospects, updated by recent Bank missions, is
reflected in the following paragraphs. Bank missions to prepare and appraise
the proposed credit visited Togo in December 1981, and in February, March,
May, November and December 1982. This report incorporates their findings. On
March 4, 1983, the IMF Board approved a Stand-By Arrangement with Togo. The
Arrangement provides for drawings up to SDR 21.4 million (US$23.3 million
equivalent) between March 1983 and March 1984. Annex I provides basic country
data and data on recent economic developments and prospects through 1990.
Introduction
3.       Togo is a small country (56,000 km2) with a population of about 2.6
million and a per capita GNP of about US$340 (1981). Phosphate mining has
been the principal source of foreign exchange earnings, accounting for nearly
40 percent of export revenues in most recent years, and receipts from phos-
phates normally represent about 30 percent of Government revenues. Political
stability has prevailed since 1967, when a military Government came to
power. General Eyadema remains President, but cabinet ministers are now all
civilians. Togo's external policy favors regional and international coope-
ration. Togo is a member of CEAO, Conseil de l'Entente, ECOWAS, and is a
signatory country of the Lome convention between the EEC and ACP countries.
Membership in the West African Monetary Union ensures a prudent credit policy
and currency convertibility. 1/
1/   The exchange rate of the CFAF is fixed with the French franc at a
rate of 50 to 1.



-2-
The 1960-74 Period
4.       During the fourteen yeaars following independence, Togo experienced
rapid growth, with real GDP growing at an average annual rate of 7 percent.
The Government's economic policies were cautiously conservative, relatively
efficient, and stable. Low, non-discriminatory tariffs, a legacy of Togo's
earlier status as a UN trustee territory, were maintained and buttressed the
Government's open door trading policy. The Government pursued frugal fiscal
policies and financial equilibria were maintained.  This atmosphere encouraged
private initiative and Togolese traders, many of them women, displayed consi-
derable dynamism.  Total investmen-t rose from 10 percent of GDP in 1960 to 16
perce,nt of GDP in 1974. Private investment tended to favor commerce and real
estate, and with few exceptions (such as the phosphate mine) very little was
channeled into industry. Public investment during this period was directed
primarily toward the development of road ard port infrastructure.
5.       The rapid economic growth resulted in a significant change in the
structure of the economy. Between 1960 and 1974, the share of commerce in GDP
climbed from 11 to 21 percent, and the share of mining increased from 3 percent
to 21 percent, while agriculture declined from 55 percent to 25 percent.
Commerce thrived not only because of historical factors ard Government policy,
but also because of Togo's corridor-shaped position between Ghana and Benin
and from the Bight of Benin in the south to Upper Volta in the north. In
addition, economic policies in Ghana led to the smuggling of cocoa and coffee
from Ghana to Togo. These factors, along with the development of roads and
the completion of the large, modern deep-water port at Lome in 1968, helped to
consolidate Togo's role as a regional trading center. As a result, commercial
activity expanded at an average annual rate of about 12 percent. The other
pillar of growth during this period was mining. A large, efficient, export-
oriented phosphate mine, a joint venture with foreign private partners, began
producing in 1961. Production grew at an average annual rate of 17 percent
and reached 2.6 million tons of phosphate rock by 1974.
6.       Throughout this period, farming methods remained traditional and
yields low. Farmers nevertheless responded to rising demand, especially with
respect to foodarops, which were marketed by private traders, and Togo main-
tained self-sufficiency in food-crops except in severe drought years. The
experience with export crops was less positive. These were (and still are)
marketed by a Government agency which has tended to keep producer prices
relatively low in order to maximize Government revenues. Prices were never-
theless more favorable than those prevailing in Ghana at the time.  Exports of
cocoa and coffee rose sharply through 1970, as Togolese production increased
and large quantitites of cocoa from Ghana transitted through Togo.  By 1970,
nearly half of Togo's cocoa exports originated in Ghana.  But Togolese pro-
duction of cocoa and coffee declined during the latter part of the period for
a variety of reasons including: institutional weaknesses, relatively low
producer prices, the short planning horizons of both absentee landowners and
landless migrant rural workers, and a decline in yields because of aging
trees. As a result, by 1974 volumes of coffee and cocoa exports were no
higher than those of the late 1960s.  The potential of agriculture thus re-
mained in part untapped, and whereas the sector had grown at a promising and
healthy average annual rate of 5 percent during 1960-67, during 1968-74 the
annual growth rate averaged only 2.4 percent.



7.       During the early years of the 1960-74 period, agriculture was not a
high priority of development policy, but by the late sixties, the Government
was aware of its relative neglect of agriculture and the overemphasis on
infrastructure. Thereafter, the Government officially assigned first priority
to rural development, but, in practice, experienced great difficulties in
identifying and preparing viable projects in agriculture. Public investment
continued to be concentrated on infrastructure, because projects in this
sector were both easier to prepare and easier to finance on concessionary
terms. By 1974 Togo therefore had relatively well-developed infrastructure,
but a rural sector that was not able to benefit fully from the facilities
available. In addition to the new port, the road network was greatly extended
and a road maintenance capacity built up.  More roads meant less railroad
traffic but, for political reasons, the Government refused to cut back on rail
services. Consequently, the government-owned railroad company required annual
operating subsidies and became a burden on the budget. Other state enter-
prises, which were few in number and concentrated in utilities, were generally
able to pay their way. A few state-owned hotels were built and, through
arrangements with European tour operators, a small but growing number of
tourists were attracted.
8.       Throughout the 1960-74 period, the economy became more and more
export-oriented. By 1974 exports were equivalent to 41 percent of GDP,
compared to 25 percent in 1967. Exports had however become less diversified,
because in 1974 phosphate rock accounted for 76 percent of the total. The
once considerable importance of export crops in the balance of payments had
greatly diminished. Exports of manufactures were insignificant, because the
few industries that had been created, often with foreign capital and manage-
ment, were generally on a modest scale and directed toward meeting demand from
the small local market. Togo thus continued to be an important regional
trading center, but without much of an industrial base.
9.       Cautious fiscal policies were pursued during this period, and both
external and internal financial equilibria were maintained. In 1973, the
current account deficit was about 1.5 percent of GNP and official development
aid amounted to 7.5 percent. The public sector payroll was kept under con-
trol, because both recruitment and wage increases were modest. The Government
was successful in mobilizing external aid on concessionary terms from a wide
variety of donors which helped finance much of the increased investment. The
disbursed external public debt was only 9 percent of GDP in 1974, and debt
service was negligible. But behind this surface of financial rectitude, eco-
nomic problems were stirring.  Growth was tapering off and sectoral imbalances
were becoming conspicuous. The Government was impatient with what it saw to
lp       be the economy's failure to take off and the unwillingness of the private
sector to expand beyond commerce into industry. Uneasiness about the lin-
gering backwardness of the rural sector was intensifying but remedial policies
were not adopted.
10.      Then portentous events occurred which greatly changed the course of
the Togolese economy. In early 1974, in a climate of growing political pres-
sures, the Government nationalized the phosphate company (Office Togolais des
Phosphates, OTP). The foreign partners were satisfactorily compensated
afterwards and many expatriate managers and technicians stayed on to work in



- 4 -
the newly nationalized company. At first, the timing of the nationalization
appeared to have been very fortunate for Togo. The world market price of
phosphate rock had remained around $14/ton since the early 1960s, but in 1974
prices rose above $60/ton as phosphate producers, led by Morocco, succeeded
temporarily in exercising an OPEC-Like influence on the world market.  The
value of Togolese phosphate exports increased to CFAF 34.5 billion in 1974
from CFAF 6.3 billion the previous year.
The 1975-78 Period
11.      The boom in phosphate prices led to an increase in Government revenue
from phosphates from CFAF 3.5 billion in 1974 to CFAF 12.1 billion in 1975.
As a result, total government revernue nearly doubled in 1975. Not knowing
immediately what to do with such a large windfall, the Treasury accumulated
large external deposits in 1975. With its confidence greatly boosted by this
financial surplus, the Government decided to change radically its development
policies. A new and prosperous Togo was to be created on the basis of abun-
dant phosphate revenue. Economic takeoff was to be achieved quickly and
"modern" sectors created with corresponding speed.  Euphoria dominated govern-
ment thinking. The Government's self-confidence and optimism was also
bolstered by successes in the political arena. Togo's political influence, or
more precisely, the President's personal influence, had greatly increased in
the region when Togo assumed the role of intermediary between Nigeria and
Francophone West Africa. Togo also maintained close relationships with
another powerful African country, Zaire. Internally the Government felt fully
in control as a result of its policy of balancing traditionally rival pro-
vinces. For all these reasons, the Government believed it had a unique
opportunity to break the bonds of under-development once and for all.
12.      Instead of promoting growth and development through limited govern-
ment intervention in the economy with primary reliance on private initiative,
a policy the Government had found wanting, the new development policy assigned
primacy to direct state intervention in most sectors.  The Government had
decided to become the first investor in all modern sectors. State capitalism
was the order of the day. This represented a sudden, radical break with past
policy and with Togo's established role as a regional trading center sustained
by private commerce. In addition, implementation of the new policy was not
based on careful analysis and preparation. The results were disastrous.
13.      The Government adopted an ambitious development plan for 1976-80.
Total plan investment was to be CFA1F 251 billion, with most of the financing
to be provided through budgetary savings. Priority was assigned to agricul-
ture and infrastructure, with industry in third place. In aggregate terms,
the initial implementation of the p:Lan appeared to be a success. Gross fixed
investment rose from 28 percent of GDP in 1975 to 46 percent of GDP in 1978.
The expansionary strategy adopted by the Government might have been successful
had the financing of investment been sustainable and viable projects imple-
mented. Neither was the case.
14.      The phosphate boom was spectacular but short-lived.  By late 1975
world market prices of phosphate rock were falling sharply, and they continued



to fall in 1976 before levelling off at around $30/ton, twice the nominal pre-
boom price. At the same time, slack demand led to a 55 percent decline in
export volume in 1975. As a result, export receipts from phosphate rock fell
by 25 percent, with a corresponding reduction in government phosphate revenue
in 1976. Believing that the drop in price was only temporary, the Government
resorted to heavy external borrowing to fill the financial gap caused by
rapidly rising investment. The increase in external borrowing was accompanied
by a hardening of terms, as the proportion of concessionary aid decreased
while the proportion of suppliers' credits increased. By the end of 1978,
disbursed external public debt had risen to US$624 million, or 65 percent of
GDP, with nearly half of all disbursements having taken place in 1978. Debt
service obligations amounted to 34 percent of merchandise exports.
15.      The rapid increase in the external debt need not have caused insur-
mountable problems, had the projects that were financed by borrowing generated
the funds with which to repay the debt, but they did not. Project selection
was poor, and implementation was often accompanied by delays and cost over-
runs. In fact, the 1976-80 Development Plan quickly ceased to be a guiding
instrument for public investment: the availability of foreign financing and
the salesmanship of promoters became the decisive criteria for project selec-
tion. Foreign funds were not available with equal ease for all sectors. It
turned out to be particularly difficult to attract foreign funds to agricul-
ture and actual investments fell far below targets in spite of an increase in
multilateral and bilateral assistance, including IDA credits. Increased pro-
ducer prices and improved extension services led to modest increases in export
volumes of cocoa and coffee, while the start of replanting schemes was
expected to have an impact on production a few years later. Financing for
industrial and infrastructure projects, including tourism, was on the contrary
abundant and investment in these sectors far exceeded targets. Particularly
in industry and tourism, several large projects, such as a steel mill, an oil
refinery and two luxury hotels, were realized on the basis of flimsy feasi-
bility studies. The Togolese industrial landscape became dotted with state
enterprises which in most cases incurred operating losses and were totally
unable to service their foreign debt. Ghana and the Ivory Coast had joined
Togo as shareholders of the promising clinker industry, CIMAO, located in
Togo, but this venture also experienced technical and financial difficulties.
16.      Apart from a passing boom in construction, the impact on growth of
the large increase in investment was negligible, because of the poor perfor-
mance of most state enterprises.  Real GDP increased at an average annual rate
of 4.3 percent, but this average hides wide swings from one year to another,
as the pace of economic activity became much more prone to variations than it
had been in the past.  In agriculture, growth averaged only 1.7 percent.  1976
and 1977 were poor crop years and for the first time in several years food
shortages became a real threat. The 1978 crop was, however, very good.
Mining declined steeply in 1975 as exports of phosphate rock slumped, but
growth in this sector subsequently recovered when exports gradually increased
again. Growth in commerce slowed down due to uncertainties about government
policy and because of slower growth in the region as a whole. The openness of
the economy remained about the same.



- 6 -
17.      The change in government policy during the 1975-78 period is vividly
illustrated in a deteriorating fiscal performance. Fiscal discipline became
lax after 1974, and the overall Treasury deficit (excluding operating losses
of state enterprises and semi-autonomous public agencies) rose from CFAF 2.2
billion in 1974 to CFAF 9.1 billion in 1978 (Table 1).  Budget revenue rose
considerably, because when phosphate prices fell, coffee and cocoa prices
rose. Current expenditure also rose quickly because of salary increases (20
percent in 1975, 15 percent in 1977), and an increase in government employment
from 23,000 in 1975 to 38,000 in 1978. Furthermore, in addition to increased
investment expenditures, a good part of which were "extra-budgetary" due to
faltering budget control, the Treasury had to assume practically all of the
debt service of the loss-making state enterprises. This soon became too great
a burden. First, maintenance and the provision of counterpart funds to pro-
jects financed from abroad were curtailed. This greatly impeded the execution
of projects supported inter alia by the Bank. Second, and ultimately with
more deleterious consequences, the Treasury began to accumulate arrears on
debt service. By the end of 1978, arrears amounted to CFAF 9.3 billion (equi-
valent to 17 percent of budget revenue). The financial situation had become
critical, and Togo was forced to reconsider seriously its economic policies.
18.      It is against this background that the Togolese Government began
discussions with the IMF in 1979 and later with the Bank regarding programs of
financial rehabilitation and structural adjustment that the two institutions
might support financially. It was hoped that these programs would reverse the
deterioration of the economic and financial situation and at the same time
restructure the Togolese economy on the basis of a better analysis of compa-
rative advantages, especially with respect to new opportunities in agriculture
and industry.
PART II - THE GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAM FOR REHABILITATION
AND STRUCTURAL ADJIJSTMENT
19.      The Togolese Government was initially rather slow to realize the
scope of the financial and economic problems that had arisen. The awareness
of the need for remedial policies was in the beginning correspondingly narrow
and superficial. The Government's first reaction was to take decisive mea-
sures in some areas (notably with respect to curtailing the rapid rise in
current expenditure), while at the same time maintaining a lax stance in other
areas (such as public investment and management of state enterprises). The
slowness with which the Government began to deal with the serious problems
confronting the economy was exacerbated by a conspicuous shortage of skilled
and experienced staff in the ministries of finance and plan. This shortage
explains the frequent lack of basic economic and financial data, which led to
the adoption of unrealistic plans and the poor execution of even the most
soundly conceived projects. Because of the lack of an adequate data base,
macroeconomic management has been conducted in an ad hoc fashion. Emerging
problems have come to the attention of the Government with substantial delays,
thereby necessitating more far-reaching remedial policies. Nevertheless, the
Government is now fully aware of the need for sweeping new policies and is
committed to the implementation of such policies.



- 7-
A. The process of rehabilitation
20.      This process began in 1979 and was pursued with varying degrees of
success until 1982. It was characterized by a heavy emphasis on financial
issues, especially the problem of arrears on the external debt. The remedial
policies considered were primarily of a budgetary nature and tended to deal
more with symptoms (arrears) than with underlying causes (indiscriminate
borrowing on onerous terms for poor projects). During this stage, the
Togolese Government dealt primarily with the IMF. The policy dialogue with
the Bank got off to a slower start.
21.      By the end of 1978 it had become clear that Togo was not able to meet
its debt service obligations without major rescheduling. Between 1978 and
1979, debt service obligations would have ri-sen from CFAF 19 billion to CFAF
22 billion in the absence of rescheduling, yet even in 1978 Togo was able to
pay only about 60 percent of debt service due. To prepare the ground for a
rescheduling with the members of the Paris Club, to which 70 percent of dis-
bursed debt at end 1978 and 90 percent of the arrears were owed, Togo nego-
tiated a stand-by arrangement in the upper credit tranches with the IMF for
1979 and 1980.
Table 1: Summary Indicators of Treasury Operation, 1974 and 1978
(In billions of CFAF francs and percent)
1974    1978    Average annual
rate of charge,
percent
Revenue                                         17.4    53.5         32.4
Current expenditure                            -19.1   -34.2         15.7
Capital expenditure                             -3.3   -12.3         38.9
Extrabudgetary expenditure and other
operations (net)                               2.9   -16.1          __
Overall Treasury Surplus/Deficit                -2.2    -9.1         42.6
Memorandum items (in percent of GDP)
Revenue                                         12.9    26.6
Current expenditure                            -14.2   -17.0
Capital expenditure                             -2.4    -6.1
Extrabudgetary expenditure and other
operations (net)                               2.1    -8.0
Overall Treasury Surplus/Deficit                -1.6    -4.5
Source: Data provided by the Direction du Tresor.



22.      Using the stand-by arrangement with the IMF as evidence that it was
implementing corrective financial policies, Togo succeeded in negotiating a
debt rescheduling agreement with the Paris Club and a large part of debt
service charges due in 1979 and 1980 was rescheduled. Although the terms of
the debt rescheduling appear generous, Togo's debt service obligations in 1979
and 1980 were equal to one quarter of government revenues. The need for debt
rescheduling in 1981 and beyond was; to be reviewed at a later date, and was
considered to depend on the volatile market for phosphate rock.  The stand-by
and the Paris Club rescheduling paved the way for a debt rescheduling agree-
ment with most private creditor banks in March 1980.  Remaining debt service
was CFAF 13 billion in 1979 (32 percent of government revenue, 28 percent of
exports), and CFAF 19 billion in 1980 (24 percent of government revenue, 26
percent of exports). In the case of Togo, Government revenue, rather than
exports, is a more relevant indicator of debt service capacity, because nearly
all debt service is paid by the Treasury, while membership in the West African
Monetary Union helps to ensure the convertibility of the CFA franc. The
budget, and not the balance of payments, is thus the binding constraint on
debt service.
25.      Financial performance improved in 1979-80, despite a continuing rise
in arrears. Actual debt service payments on the external public debt rose
from CFAF 8 billion in 1979 to CFAF 13 billion in 1980, equivalent to 6 per-
cent of GDP. The Government realized this increase through an array of fiscal
measures, but without adopting a consistent set of sustainable policies. Cur-
rent expenditures were constrained and revenues were boosted by various tax
measures and increases in public utility rates. The Government was able to
pressure OTP to raise its budget contribution to an unprecedented level in
1980, but as a result OTP incurred large, costly bank overdrafts and had dif-
ficulty meeting its own debt service payments. OTP was consequently unable to
make a significant contribution to the budget in 1981.
24.      Capital expenditure remained a weak link in fiscal policy.  So great
was the investment momentum that had built up since 1975, through projects
under way and debt committed though not yet disbursed, that public investment
continued to rise in 1979 and declined only slightly in 1980. Lax budgetary
management could not be tightened quickly, and extra-budgetary expenditures
continued, although at a lower level than earlier.
25.      The improvement in financial performance was accompanied by a major
slow-down in economic activity.  In 1979, GDP declined by about 4 percent, and
increased by only about 1 percent in 1980. The cresting of the investment
boom led to a recession in construction. Some of the slack in the secondary
sector was picked up by the inauguration of the large CIMAO clinker plant in
early 1980,  Agricultural activity stagnated due to unfavorable weather condi-
tions and the freezing of producer prices as the Government attempted to raise
more revenue from the rural sector to meet debt service obligations.  Exports
declined in 1979, because of lower cocoa exports but more than recovered in
1980 following an unforeseen increase in the world market price of phosphate
rock.
26.      Despite the improvement in the world market price of phosphate rock
in 1980, by the end of that year it was clear that Togo needed additional debt



- 9 -
rescheduling for 1981 and beyond. Without debt rescheduling, debt service
obligations would have risen to CFAF 46 billion in 1981, equivalent to 69 per-
cent of government revenue. A second stand-by arrangement was consequently
negotiated with the IMF for 1981-82. The accompanying financial program
covered only 1981, but a 1982 follow-up program was to be agreed upon in late
1981.
27.      With its negotiating position buttressed by the stand-by, in February
1981, the Togolese Government approached the Paris Club for a second round of
debt rescheduling. Once again a comprehensive debt rescheduling was nego-
tiated for 1981-82, although the provisions for 1982 would apply only if Togo
by then had an agreement in force in the upper credit tranches with the IMF.
The eventual need for debt rescheduling in 1983 and afterwards was to be
reviewed early in 1983. The debt rescheduling granted for 1981 reduced debt
service due in 1981 by 54 percent to CFAF 22 billion, still equivalent to 32
percent of government revenue.
28.      The results expected from the 1981 financial program with the IMF did
not materialize. A slackening phosphate market caused a 22 percent drop in
the volume of phosphate rock exports. In addition, OTP was burdened with
expensive bank overdrafts at the beginning of 1981 as a result of the extra-
ordinary contributions to the Government budget in 1980. OTP's new director
gave priority to reducing overdrafts rather than maintaining a substantial
budget contribution at the expense of the financial health of the company.
Rather than contributing CFAF 13.5 billion to the budget as anticipated, OTP
contributed only CFAF 5 billion. Primarily because of this large revenue
shortfall, arrears on the external debt rose by CFAF 11 billion to CFAF 20
billion. The program with the IMF had stipulated a reduction in arrears of
CFAF 5 billion. The widening divergence between the program requirements and
actual performance during the course of 1981 meant the demise of the IMF
program.
29.      The assessment of Togo's apparently poor performance under the IMF
1981 program should be tempered by a recognition that the program may have
been too narrowly focused. Had OTP been integrated into government financial
accounts, a reduction in domestic bank overdrafts would have been equivalent
to a reduction in arrears, and the performance of total public sector finances
would have appeared to be better than indicated under the program. In this
regard, it should be noted that OTP is the mainstay of Togo's export earnings
and is Togo's most dynamic industry. The company's management is currently
investigating the feasibility of a large phosphoric acid plant which would
result in higher value added and a diversification of exports. This project
could have far-reaching benefits for the economy of Togo. For these reasons,
the financial health of OTP is a high priority. It was therefore justifiable
for OTP's management to assign priority to the restoration of the company's
financial soundness. But the problem which this caused revealed a serious
weakness in the management of the economy. Because of a lack of coordination,
different parts of the public sector were pulling in opposite directions and
working at cross-purposes. This had serious consequences for the public
sector as a whole, for after the 1981 stand-by was abandoned, Togo's credi-
bility with the IMF sank to a new low.



- 10 -
30.      In December 1981 and June 1982, IMF missions went to Togo to nego-
tiate a new stand-by arrangement, but the negotiations failed on both
occasions. The gap between what the IMF considered necessary and what the
Government considered feasible was too wide to be bridged.  Nevertheless, some
narrowing of the policy gap took place on the second occasionr Subsequently,
following a third IMF mission to Togo in October-November 1982, agreement was
reached on a 13-month financial stabilization program for 1983. This program,
which was approved by the Executive Board of the IMF on March 4, 1983, aims to
reduce external arrears by CFAF 10 billion (US$29.4 million).  Current expen-
diture for 1983 would be reduced by- about 10 percent, including an estimated 5
percent reduction in personnel costs.  The program would be supported by a 13-
month stand-by arrangement for up to SDR 21.4 million (US$23.3 million equiva-
lent). Purchases after March 1983 will be contingent on debt rescheduling
with public and private creditors, as well as an in-depth review of the pro-
gram to be completed by mid-June 1983.
31.      In December 1982, the Head of State convened the National Council of
the country's only political party (the Rassemblement du Peuple Togolais) and
delivered a major policy speech.  In very frank terms, the Head of State made
a critical review of recent financial and economic developments.  He did not
spare his own Goverrment from implied sweeping criticism, and announced that
henceforth an austere policy was required to resolve the crisis in public
finances and to rekindle growth. The most tangible manifestation of the
strong determination to rectify the deteriorating situation was the introduc-
tion, at considerable political risk, of a 5 percent national solidarity tax
on all public and private sector salaries effective January 1, 1983, in
conformity with the financial stabilization program negotiated with the IMF.
With inflation continuing at an annuaal rate of around 10 percent, in real
terms the salary cut will be substantial in 1983, yet little political opposi-
tion or social unrest accompanied the announcement of the salary reduction.
There seems to have been a consensus that temporary sacrifices were warranted.
32.      In addition, the closure of six unviable state enterprises was an-
nounced.  With immediate effect, there would be no more subsidies to state
enterprises.  All remaininig state enterprises were instructed to prepare
recovery program showing whether, and if so, how they can become profitable.
In cases where this objective cannot be realized, the enterprises will be
closed or sold to the private sector.  To cut back on the frequently bloated
wage bill of state enterprises, salaries will be reduced by aligning them with
the salary structure of the civil service.  These far-reaching measures
represent the first serious attempt to resolve the entrenched problems of the
state enterprise sector. Implementing these measures will require perse-
verance and a clear sense of purpose.
33.      The absence of an agreement on a stand-by arrangement between the
Government and the IMF left the application of the Paris Club rescheduling
arrangements for 1982 in abeyance.  Total external debt service obligations in
1982 amounted to CFAF 49 billion, equivalent to 63 percent of government
revenue (table 2). Since only CFAF 2 billion were rescheduled in 1982 and
actual debt service payments increased only marginally to CFAF 12 billion from
CFAF 11 billion in 1981, arrears rose precipitously by CFAF 38 billion to CFAF
58 billion at the end of 1982. The debt situation is thus critical. The



- 11 -
success of both the financial program with the IMF and the structural adjust-
ment program with the Bank depends on substantial debt rescheduling.  Both
institutions are advising the Government as regards a desirable time profile
of debt service, i.e., one that would not completely frustrate economic
development. Arrangements for debt rescheduling with public creditors were
agreed through the Paris Club in April, 1983. Debt rescheduling with private
creditors is expected to be negotiated shortly. Agreement with both public
and private lenders on the rescheduling of the Borrower's medium- and long-
term debt would be a condition of credit effectiveness (Section 5.01 of
Development Credit Agreement). Nevertheless, even after major debt
rescheduling, IMF drawings and some counterpart funds under the structural
adjustment credit will have to be used to service the debt, because projected
actual debt service payments would still amount to nearly half of government
revenue.
Table 2: Summary Debt Data, 1978-83
(In billions of CFA francs)
1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983 1/
Debt due before rescheduling   18.7      22.3    46.1    46.4    49.3    52.6
Rescheduling                      --     -9.6  -27.1   -24.9    -2.1   -23.9
Debt due after rescheduling    18.7      12.7    19.0    21.5    47.2    28.7
Change in arrears (increase -) -7.1      -4.8    -6.3   -10.5   -35.7    10.0
Debt actually paid              11.6      7.9    12.7    11.0    11.5    38.7
Memorandum items (in percent
of government revenue)
Debt due before rescheduling   31.6      38.3    58.1    69.4    63.1    63.8
Debt due after rescheduling    31.6      21.8    24.0    32.1    60.4    34.8
Debt actually paid              19.6     13.6    16.0    16.5    14.7    47.0
Source: IMF
1/ Projection.
34.      The economy continued to stagnate in 1981 and 1982 as mining con-
tracted and the Government reduced investment in an effort to cope with the
deteriorating budgetary situation. Exports declined in 1981 and 1982, as
exports from the oil refinery, which had begun to operate in 1978, reached a
peak in 1980 but declined thereafter. Refinery operations were discontinued
in early 1981 after large losses had been incurred. The small size of the
refinery, which precluded economies of scale, and the inability of the
Togolese market to absorb its production caused this venture to turn into a
costly failure.



- 12 -
35.      The mixed experience of the economy during the 1979-82 period re-
vealed the limitations of fragmented government policies that were narrowly
focused on financial issues. Little attention was paid to basic economic and
management issues which often were the root causes of the serious financial
problems that arose. The Government was slow to realize the need for more
comprehensive and far-reaching financial stabilization and economic adjustment
measures to be applied consistently over several years. Eventually the
reality of the deteriorating economic and financial situation could no longer
be ignored. Having tried but failed to turn the situation around by isolated
financial measures, the Government now realizes that a very different approach
is required. Its commitment to this new approach was demonstrated in December
1982 when the Government announced stringent economic reforms and austerity
measures (para 31). It is in this spirit that the Government has embarked on
the program of structural adjustment.
B. The process of structural adjustment
36.      In order to overcome its pressing financial problems, and at the same
time lay the foundation for resumed growth and development on a more produc-
tive and thereby sustainable basis, the Government has finally become convin-
ced of the need for an approach of comprehensive and mutually reinforcing
policies. Financial stabilization over the short- and medium-term, through
the implementation of the IMF program (summarized in paragraph 30 above) will
provide the framework within which an economic program of structural adjust-
ment can be prepared and launched. Financial stabilization will also free
policy-makers from the need to deal on a daily basis with financial crises, so
that their attention can be directed toward careful planning and the formula-
tion of macroeconomic policy. Financial stabilization will require some real
sacrifices in the short run and will test the Government's capacity to imple-
ment corrective policies, the positive results of which will only gradually
become obvious. Yet so grave is the financial crisis that a lasting solution
will inevitably require a painful reckoning and correction of past mistakes.
The real challenge for the Government will be to reach a delicate balance
between the urgent need for financial stabilization and the vital need for
economic development. Financial discipline should not be allowed to stifle
development as was, to some extent, the case before 1974.
37.      To rekindle growth and development under such difficult circumstances
requires much more than a mere tampering with past policies. What is called
for is a radical reorientation of policy to deal with the new and serious
challenges confronting the Togolese economy. The ultimate objective is to
achieve and sustain a higher level of economic activity, with concomitant
development repercussions, consistent with the constraints imposed by the
balance of payments. Higher growth together with a viable balance of payments
can be achieved only through policies that render the economy more productive
and less vulnerable to external shocks. This requires adapting to new
external conditions and opportunities while exploiting present and potential
comparative advantages.
38.      In the case of Togo, structural changes that will strengthen the
balance of payments and accelerate development can be envisaged in at least



- 13 -
three sectors, where there remains a significant untapped development poten-
tial. These sectors are mining, agriculture and industry. In mining the most
conspicuous example is the phosphoric acid project. Unless government econo-
mic and financial management are improved, this project will be greatly
delayed or indefinitely postponed. With structural adjustment, the project
implementation should start in 1985; plant construction should be completed by
1987 and full capacity utilization attained by 1990. The project is very
large in relation to the economy (total cost nearly half annual GDP) and would
make a very significant contribution to exports and government revenue. In
the agricultural sector, production could be increased through more competi-
tive price and marketing policies. Rural development could be enhanced
through the formulation of a coherent strategy and more careful coordination
of projects and support services. A food crop development strategy aimed at
eventually penetrating regional markets, especially Nigeria, would not only
increase export revenues but would contribute to higher incomes throughout the
rural areas of Togo. In industry, the rehabilitation of selected state enter-
prises would increase value added, occasionally add to exports, and relieve
the Government of a major financial burden. Joint ventures with foreign
partners should be sought, and small and medium size private enterprises
should be encouraged. These measures should be designed to increase the cur-
rently modest share of industry in GDP and to expand Togo's role from that of
a regional trading center to that of a regional manufacturing center for light
industries. The actions necessary to implement these structural changes are
listed in Annex III. In order to carry out successfully such a fundamental
reorientation of policies, the Government acknowledges that a major improve-
ment in planning capacity and economic management is indispensable. The
second IDA-supported Technical Assistance Project is scheduled to play a major
role in this respect.
39.      The deficiencies in planning and public investment policies since
1975, which led to the creation of a series of unviable state enterprises,
have made it clear that there is an urgent need to improve (a) project selec-
tion and implementation, and (b) financial planning, so as to ensure a better
balance between project yields and debt service. But the problem goes much
further than this. The real issue is what role the state should assume in the
development of the economy. The state has intervened in the economy since the
mid 1970s, both directly (state enterprises) and indirectly (price and mar-
keting regulations). Recognizing that this intervention has not fostered
growth and has greatly undermined public sector finances, the Government is
now ready to pursue a more balanced and pragmatic policy regarding the res-
pective roles of the public and private sectors. The envisaged retrenchment
of the public enterprise sector will be combined with an attempt to stimulate
private sector activities.
40.      Given Togo's long and permeable frontiers, and the deeply ingrained
trading mentality in large (and articulate) sections of the population, a
policy of extensive price and marketing regulations would be futile if not
counterproductive. Private traders and entrepreneurs are in general highly
competitive and dynamic in Togo. Their contribution is of vital importance if
the economy is to secure higher growth on a more productive basis by tapping
actual and potential comparative advantages.



- 14 -
41.      The Government's memorandum on development policies and a covering
letter (Annex IV) set forth the structural adjustment program, the two main
objectives of which are to reinforce the competitiveness of traditional acti-
vities, and to exploit new areas of comparative advantage that the economy
should be able to develop. The formier were adversely affected by the distor-
tions that resulted from the expansionary policies pursued in 1975-78 and the
subsequent austerity policies. The latter have so far not been thoroughly
explored because of a lack of attention to structural issues in recent years.
42.      To reach its enunciated structural adjustment objectives, government
action will focus on three distinct, but closely interrelated areas, namely:
(i) consolidation of public sector interventions;
(ii) reactivation of traditional activities; and
(iii) promotion of new areas of comparative advantage.
Consolidation of public sector interventions
43.      This aspect of the program complements the IMF financial stabiliza-
tion program in scope and duration. The general direction of the measures to
be taken is to pursue a selective investment policy within constrained finan-
cial resources and to restructure and retrench the state enterprise sector,
through closures when necessary, in order to set the stage for a subsequent
modest expansion on a more solid foundation. As part of the improved macro-
economic management, an Investment Plan will be prepared for 1984 and 1985.
This plan should emphasize highly productive and quick-yielding projects
financed on concessionary terms. The weeding out of unviable state enter-
prises will be accompanied by the rehabilitation of those found to be viable
after a reasonable amount of redesigning and additional investment (see paras
52-60 below).
44.      The deepening financial crisis forced the Government to cut public
investment (including state enterprises) from CFAF 67 billion in 1980 to CFAF
35 billion in 1981, with a further reduction to CFAF 32 billion in 1982 (i.e.
from about 31 percent of GDP in 1980 to about 12 percent in 1982). Most of
the investment implemented under this restricted program was for the comple-
tion of ongoing projects. Foreign financing, 90 percent of which was on
concessionary terms, comprised about 75 percent of total investment expen-
dituires. Nevertheless, because of government difficulties in providing its
contribution to projects financed largely from abroad, the execution of
several of these projects had to be delayed. Projects that were exclusively
financed from the Government's investment budget (i.e. without foreign financ-
ing) were cut back severely.  All new investments are being financed by grants
and concessionary loans.
45.      Due to its preoccupation with more pressing day-to-day issues, the
Government effectively abandoned investment planning in 1980. A 1981 -85
Development Plan was issued in 1980 and projected total public investment
during the five-year period at a minimum of CFAF 250 billion and at a maximum
of CFAF 350 billion. An overly ambitious program, it was soon de facto
abandoned. A 1981-82 Interim Investmnent Plan was less unrealistic, but
nonetheless never became operative because of a shortage of funds.



- 15 -
46.      Realizing that under the present strains, it can no longer continue a
haphazard approach to investment planning, the Government has decided that it
needs a systematic, high yielding plan for 1984 and 1985. This plan should be
consistent with financial and physical realities but ensure that acceptable
growth and development are maintained. The Investment Program for 1983 is
essentially a consolidation program, consisting of the continuation of a small
number of high-priority projects financed largely from external sources on
concessionary terms. The IDA-supported Technical Assistance Projects are
designed to facilitate the preparation of a sound pluri-annual investment
plan.  A Senior Economic Advisor has the main responsibility of providing the
Government with sound macroeconomic policy advice to ensure, inter alia, that
the two-year 1984-85 Plan fits into a realistic and coherent macroeconomic
framework. This has never been done before in Togo. The Second Technical
Assistance Project provides for an Investment Programmer who will assist the
Minister of Plan to coordinate the financing of projects on sustainable
terms. This task will require the development of a consolidated picture of
public investment financing to replace the hitherto fragmented system of
financial recording under which total financing of each project, not to men-
tion the grand total of public investment, is rarely known. Finally, the
First Technical Assistance Project provides a Senior Project Advisor who plays
a leading role in project identification, preparation, selection and evalua-
tion. The experts work with a team of Togolese counterparts for each of whom
a training program will be set up and monitored. It is this manpower nucleus
that will assume primary responsibility for the preparation of the 1984-85
Plan.
47.      The financial constraints over the next three years mean that the
1984-85 Plan will have to be very selective.  In practice, it should be
limited to:
a)   completion of projects under way;
b)   replacement investments and other minor investments required to
maintain or reach an optimal level of operation for existing physical
assets; and
c)   a few new projects financed almost entirely by concessionary aid.
Apart from focusing on productive projects, the sectoral allocation of plan
investment will favor rural development.  Expansion of mining production and
exports, in line with comparative advantages, will be a second priority. To
ensure optimal use of existing facilities, the upkeep of existing infrastruc-
ture, but with no significant additions apart from the ongoing expansion of
the port of Lome, will be a third priority. Whereas rehabilitation of
selected existing state enterprises will be an important component of the
Plan, no new state enterprises are foreseen, with the exception of a large
phosphoric acid plant to be realized with foreign partners, and for which
construction could begin toward the end of the plan period (see paras 79 and
80 below). State intervention will be strictly limited in those sectors where



- 16 -
there is a possibility of private investment.  Despite the severity of finan-
cial constraints during the next two years, investment iL training and social
services should not be neglected. Balanced development between all regions of
Ehe country and all strata of the population remains an important goal.
48.      Strict economic efficiency criteria will be applied in project selec-
tion. In general, all new projects exceeding CFAF 300 million will require
feasibility studies based on detailed technical studies and realistic cost
estimates.  Projects will normally not be selected unless they show an eco-
nomic rate of return equal to or higher than 10 percent.  Regarding projects
which because of their nature are not amenable to the calculation of economic
rates of return, the selection criterion will be cost-efficiency.
49.      The Ministry of Plan will allocate the necessary manpower to the pre-
paration of the 1984-85 Plan so that a draft plan will be ready for review by
the Bank before the end of 1983. in carrying out the review, the Bank will
ensure that the investments foreseen for 1984, and the financing thereof, will
be consistent with Togo's financial commitments toward the IMF. Once the plan
has been reviewed by the Bank, an 'IMF program consistent with planned invest-
ment for 1984 adopted, and a debt rescheduling with the Paris Club negotiated
for 1984, the Government intends to organize a donors' meeting to present the
Plan and to solicit and orient official external aid i.n line with its objec-
tives and priorities.
50.      Once the 1984-85 Plan is adopted, a rigorous system for the implemen-
tation and monitoring of public investment will be set up to avoid the large
discrepancies which arose in the past between plan projections and realiza-
tions.  Starting with 1983, the following procedures will be established and
respected:
a)   by September 30 of each year, projections of expenditures for
the next two years will be made for each on-going project, with
particular attention paid to the realism of cost estimates, any
cost overruns, and the StELtUS of project financing;
b)   by November 30 of each year, each ministry and agency will
prepare statements of their investment needs for new projects
for each of the next two years, and the Ministry of Plan will
complete the aggregation and selection of projects (both on-
going and new) for the next two years;
c)   reports on project execution, expenditures committed and funds
disbursed will be prepared. quarterly, and meetings of the
relevant ministries and financial department will be held
quarterly to monitor macroeconomic indicators covering all
areas of public finance.
These procedures imply -the adoption. of detailed two-year rolling plans.



- 17 -
51.      To broaden the Government's monitoring of economic and financial
events beyond public investment, a system of macroeconomic indicators is being
created with which the Government will be much better equipped to take prompt
remedial action when necessary. The Investment Programmer under the Second
Technical Assistance Project, in collaboration with a fiscal expert provided
by the IMF, will play a leading role in the implementation of the system of
macroeconomic indicators. Reporting of data for all indicators in the system
will be quarterly, but more readily available data will be reported monthly.
The system is scheduled to be operational by April 1983 and will provide both
the Bank and the IMF with valuable up-to-date information on economic and
financial trends. Monitoring of the respective Bank-Fund programs will be
correspondingly facilitated.
Reform of state enterprises
52.      The Government is convinced that drastic remedial actions are needed
to prevent state enterprises from remaining a serious drain on the economy.
The large losses incurred by state enterprises as a group have already forced
the Treasury to assume virtually all of their debt service, with devastating
consequences for public sector finance. So far, budgetary subsidies have not
been used extensively to cover operating cash losses. These have instead been
financed primarily through regularly rolled over bank credit and through the
accumulation of arrears toward local suppliers, especially utilities. Bank
credit has thus been diverted to unproductive uses, while the liquidity
position of otherwise healthy companies has been seriously undermined. Their
demand for bank credit has consequently increased. In addition, the state
enterprises have not made appropriate allowances for depreciation and are in
no position to finance their rising need for replacement investment. Under
these circumstances, it is not surprising that most state enterprises are
perpetually short of cash. As they cover only a portion of their actual costs
and are consuming their assets, they have become a serious drain on public
sector finances. The large sums of public funds invested in state enterprises
have unfortunately in the aggregate yielded a negative rate of return.
53.      At the request of the Government, a Bank mission visited Togo in
April 1981 to examine a representative sample of state enterprises. The
report of the mission was presented to the Government in September 1981 and
was discussed in depth in various ministries during the following months. The
report was frank. In view of the lack of funds to subsidize loss-making state
enterprises, quite apart from any desirability of so doing, the report recom-
mended that, unless compelling political and social considerations dictated
otherwise, state enterprises that were not able to generate a positive opera-
ting cash flow (i.e. excluding financial charges and depreciation) should be
closed down as soon as possible.
54.      While not disputing the logic of the report, the Government was
nevertheless initially reluctant to face up to the conclusions. Since then,
follow-up work by specialized consultants reinforced the findings of the
initial study, and the financial situation has worsened. The Government now
recognizes that time is running out and that radical measures are required.
Consequently, in December 1983 the Government decided to close six state
enterprises. To soften the blow, closures will be phased over time. The



- 18 -
state enterprises not included in the sample will be examined and sector-wide
performance criteria will be elaborated and applied. Potentially viable
enterprises will be identified and restructured. This work has already
started with the assistance of consultants financed under the First Technical
Assistance Project.
55.      The following state enterprises, which have no chance of developing a
positive cash flow (excluding debt service) were or will be closed down or
liquidated by the dates indicated (closure taken to mean discontinuation of
production and dismissal of 90 percent of the staff):
(i)  SALINTO (salt production through desalinization) was closed in
December 1982.
(ii)  SOTEXMA (agriculture and earthmoving equipment) was closed in
December 1982.
(iii) TOGOFRUIT (cashew nut factory) was closed in December 1982.
(iv)  CNPPME (small and medium enterprise promotion) was closed in December
1982.
(v)  Compagnie du Benin (processing of tubers) was clcsed in December
1982.
(vi)  RMTU (urban transportation) was closed in December 1982.
(vii)  TOGOROUTE (trucking) will be taken over by a private company by
June 30, 1983.
(viii)  STH (oil refinery) will not be reopened; consultants will examine the
best way of transforming the refinery into a storage depot for im-
ported refined products; the consultants' recommendations will be
reviewed with the Bank by August 31, 1983; and implementation of the
measures decided upon will begin by December 31, 1983.
56.      The steel mill (SNS) is a marginal case.  Further consultant studies
are required to determine whether i-t would be worthwile to save SNS.  The re-
commendations of the consultants wiLl be reviewed with the Bank and a final
decision taken by August 31, 1983.
57.      A decision on the future of the TOGOTEX textile mill will be made in
consultation with the Bank by May 31, 1983 on the basis of a consultants'
study financed under the First T'echnical Assistance Project.  The marble and
brick company (SOTOMA) will also be redesigned and re-equipped to process
local marble deposits, which a consultant's study has confirmed exist in
sufficient quantity and quality.  SOTOMA's ceramic tile production, which had
no future, has been closed.  A study of the brick department will be completed
by July 31, 1983, and a decision on its future will be taken in agreement with
the Bank by September 30, 1983.



- 19 -
58.      Lome suffers from an excess capacity in luxury hotels.  This has led
to unprofitable competition among the state-owned hotels which are managed by
different foreign hotel companies. To deal with this problem, the Government
has decided to revise its hotel policy. The prestigious Hotel du Deux Fevrier
is not financially viable in the medium-term and there is no attractive alter-
native use for the building. The hotel will continue operations, with the
inevitable cash losses covered by an explicit government subsidy rather than
as hitherto by an accumulation of arrears. To coordinate government policy, a
holding company was recently created to prevent price wars (which benefitted
customers but not the state), and to orient each hotel toward its most appro-
priate market segment. The holding company will introduce a common system of
accounts and supervise the activities of hotel management companies. Such
supervision is currently very limited. There are signs of increased private
interest in the hotel sector in response to the new policy, which augurs well
for an increase in business and beach tourism. Lome has already become a
significant convention center.
59.      Under the IDA-supported Second Technical Assistance Project correc-
tive policies will be introduced beyond the sample of state enterprises
already examined. Performance criteria, by which to guide future policy with
respect to state enterprises in a coherent fashion, will be elaborated.
Analytical accounting will be introduced. Rehabilitation programs will be
introduced, first on a small.test scale during 1983, and then for a larger
number of relevant state enterprises starting with 1984. Analytical, forward-
looking studies will be undertaken of all important state enterprises to
diagnose problems and map future actions in light of the performance criteria.
Expatriate experts provided under the Technical Assistance Project together
with their Togolese counterparts will be responsible for most of this work.
60.      To facilitate the monitoring of their performance, the Government
will prepare a sector-wide annual report on state enterprises. This report
will be based on financial audits of all enterprises with an annual turnover
of more than CFAF 200 million. These audits should be completed within six
months after the end of each year (i.e. by June 31). Given their importance
in the economy, special management studies will be conducted of RNET (water
supply) by December 1983, of OPAT (marketing of export crops) by June 1983,
and of CEET (electricity supply) by June 1983. These studies will define
restructuring and expansion plans for these enterprises.
Reactivation of traditional activities
61.      To rekindle growth and development under adverse financial condi-
tions, more is needed than a consolidation of public sector interventions.
Initially this will be primarily an exercise in preventing further waste
rather than directly generating additional resources. In the long term, the
impetus for growth and development will have to be generated by new activi-
ties. The growth potential of traditional products, such as food crops,
export crops and phosphate rock, is limited, but given the inevitable lags in
developing new activities, and the need to prevent an even longer and deeper
recession, the reactivation of traditional activities is of crucial importance
in the short- to medium-term.



- 20 -
62.      Until now, the Government has pursued a very conservative price
policy with respect to export crops. The main reason was the relative ease
with which it was possible to attract cocoa from Ghana. The Government relied
on extension services, bonuses for replanting, and subsidized inputs, instead
of competitive producer prices to promote production. The fall in the export
prices of coffee and cocoa from their peaks in the late 1970s has caused pro-
blems for Togo. Export revenue from these two products is no longer as
important as it used to be, nor is their contribution to public revenues.
Because inflation is rapidly eroding farm incomes, the policy of keeping
producer prices comparatively low could have very adverse long-term effects on
production and exports. The Government has realized that it is in its own
long-term interest to pay the producers an adequate price for their export
crops, while making up for the possible short-term revenue shortfall by
increasing tax revenue elsewhere in the economy.
63.      Nevertheless, because of the vagaries of the world market, and the
difficult financial situation, the Government cannot go too far in raising
producer prices. If world market prices were to drop subsequently and prices
had to be lowered it would undermine farmer confidence and become a disin-
centive for increased production. Nevertheless, because of the substantial
margin between producer prices and export prices, there remains some scope for
increasing producer prices. In addition, while export prices for coffee and
cocoa have stagnated recently in dollar terms, in CFA francs they have
risen. (This is due to the substantial depreciation of the CFA franc since
1981.) Increases in producer prices should be accompanied by a reduction and
ultimate elimination of subsidies on inputs. Most farmers have become con-
vinced of the value of these inputs in raising yields, and a gradual removal
of input subsidies would not provoke a return to traditional low-yielding
production methods. Under these circumstances, the policy with respect to
producer prices for crops should consist of a gradual increase in producer
prices in parallel with a gradual reduction in input subsidies.  The Govern-
ment has already begun to implement such a policy. Fertilizer subsidies were
cut by one half in 1981 and several producer prices were increased for the
1981/82 crop year, notably (all prices in CFA francs per kilo): cocoa from
220 to 225, coffee from 200 to 215, cotton from 60 to 65 and palm nuts from 10
to 12. The prices of cocoa and coffee were further increased to 235 for the
1982/83 season, and the price of cotton was increased to 75 for the 1983/84
season. Furthermore, the Government has agreed to phase out subsidies on
fertilizers for cotton and food crops over a five-year period beginning in
1983.
64.      However, the Government has not formulated a medium-term producer
price policy in light of such conflicting objectives as maximizing government
revenues versus maximizing farmer income, and short-run versus long-run objec-
tives. In 1982, the Government agreed to set up a price analysis and moni-
toring unit in OPAT. The unit became operational in February 1983 with
assistance from consultants financed under the First Technical Assistance
Project. By the end of June 1983, the price analysis and monitoring unit will
complete an in-depth study of the structure of agricultural prices and sub-
sidies, farmer production costs, public sector expenses for marketing, pro-
cessing, etc., and world market price prospects. A comprehensive medium-term
price policy will subsequently be elaborated and applied on the basis of the



- 21 -
conclusions and recommendations of the study. Particular attention will be
paid to cotton, for which production and exports have risen sharply since
1978, and which, unlike cocoa and coffee, provides a cash income to a large
number of farmers.
65.      In the past, rural development projects and support services have not
been carefully planned or coordinated.  Two ministries and a multitude of
agencies, with unclear delimitations of authority, are involved in rural
development. There are numerous area-specific rural development projects cur-
rently underway, financed by different donors and involving several different
approaches to development. Many have their own support services. As a
result, rural development is fragmented and may suffer from duplication and
inefficiency in some areas. Applied agricultural research hinges on indivi-
dual projects with research components. The scope and longevity of the re-
search is correspondingly limited and coordination with other projects poor.
There is moreover a pressing need to evaluate the long-term prospects for
traditional crops, such as coffee and cocoa, and to lay the basis for expan-
sion into more promising crops, such as cotton, and into agro-industries which
could enable Togo to reap greater benefits from its export crops.
66.      The Government is cognizant of these shortcomings and needs and will
use the Second Technical Assistance Project for remedial action.  A rural
development planning unit was set up in March 1983 within the Ministry of
Rural Development.  Staffed by a resident expert and local counterparts and
supplemented by short-term consultants, this unit will undertake a study of
the rural sector including (a) a review of the recent evolution of the sector,
the potential for and constraints on develoment, (b) an evaluation of the
institutional and policy environment, (c) an evaluation and comparison of on-
going and recently completed projects, and (d) an investigation of project
support services (such as training, extension and research) to determine how
they could be coordinated and combined. On the basis of its findings, the
study group will make recommendations for strategy formulation and aid coor-
dination. The final report on this study will be completed by December 15,
1983. After review of the report and consultation with the Bank, the Mini-
stries of Rural Development, Rural Works and Plan will formulate a rural
development strategy. The planning unit will then participate in the imple-
mentation of the agreed strategy through project selection and monitoring.
This unit will be an indispensable instrument for realizing the priority to be
assigned to rural development in the 1984-85 Investment Plan. In addition, a
unit to coordinate applied agricultural research was created in March 1983.
Staffed by one resident expert, counterparts, and if need be by short-term
consultants, this unit will coordinate the research elements attached to
various projects and improve the flow of knowledge from international agencies
engaged in research of relevance to Togolese agriculture.
67.      OTP is an efficiently managed enterprise and makes major contribu-
tions to export proceeds and public sector finances. In 1981 and 1982, a
slackening in the world market for phosphates led to a low capacity utili-
zation, but short-sighted financial imperatives have also occasionally ham-
pered smooth operations. This was the case in late 1980 when excessive funds
were drained from the company. In order for OTP to operate optimally under
the present less than favorable world market conditions, OTP must retain



- 22 -
enough funds for its own present and future operations before being called
upon to contribute to government finances. Since the financial surplus of OTP
is constrained by a poor market, while the Government has a pressing need for
revenue, the financial surplus of OTP should be transferred directly and
openly to the budget, rather than as hitherto being partly siphoned off on the
way for vaguely indeterminate uses. Export compensation contracts have been
used in the past for two different reasons: first as a source of financing of
extra-budgetary expenditure, and second as a marketing device in slumping
markets. The first reason is controversial and not consistent with sound
financial management.
68.      In recognition of the preceding considerations, the Government has
decided to straighten out its financial relations with OTP along the following
lines (as a first step toward the ultimate o-bjective of making OTP subject to
export and profit taxes):
(i) starting June 1, 1983, all export receipts from phosphate rock will
be deposited into a general sales account;
(ii) the general sales account will be used first to meet OTP's operating
needs, second to pay an obligatory contribution to the budget and
third (the rest) to constilute a residual account;
(iii) the funds accruing to the residual account (a function of actual
export performance) will be split between OTP's self-financing
reserve and a variable budgetary contributions;
(iv) as of February 1, 1983, export compensation contracts to finance
extra-budgetary expenditure were discontinued; contracts needed for
maarketing purposes will be used only as a last resort and will be
clearly identified in the accounts of OTP or the Treasury.
The system implies that all of OTP's contributions to the state will be
channeled through the budget.
Promotion of new areas of comparative advantage
69.      In light of the structural imbalances which have accumulated over a
long time, it is clear that a consolidation of public interventions and a
reactivation of traditional activities, while indispensable to overcome the
current recession and financial crisis, will not provide a sufficient basis
for sustained rapid growth consistent with a viable balance of payments. In
order to create a dynamic economy in the medium and long term, a reorientation
of development and investment policy will be needed. This reorientation
should consist of the elimination of uneconomic activities (such as many
existing state enterprises) and the implementation of a highly selective
investment strategy aimed at developing or encouraging new economic activities
for which the country has, or can develop, a comparative advantage. The
Government should limit its investment to those sectors where there is no
chance for private investment and should create incentives for private
investment in productive activities.



- 23 -
70.      Togo has an open economy.  Geography and tribal links dictate that
this will remain the case. The domestic market is small. For all these
reasons, the Togolese economy cannot escape being highly dependent on the
outside world. In the past, Togo was quite successful in establishing itself
as a regional trading center. While regional trade retains a growth poten-
tial, it is by now a well established activity which cannot be counted on to
provide a major forward thrust for the economy. For this, new or hardly
developed activities are needed. Since Togo is far too small to compete
internationally in a broad range of activities, it is rather a question of
identifying a few specialized activities with the highest potential and
concentrating on these.
71.      Fortunately several such activities could be developed over the
medium-term, provided government policy is adapted to make the most of the
country's considerable human and natural resources, which so far have been far
from fully utilized. The most obvious are food crop production and market-
ing. Demand for food crops is large and rising in Nigeria (with a population
nearly 40 times that of Togo). Food crop production has kept pace with popu-
lation growth in Togo, despite the predominance of traditional cultivation
methods and low yields. Higher yields would result in a substantial market-
able surplus, which would be an excellent means for widely disseminating
higher incomes throughout the rural sector. Another opportunity would be the
production of phosphoric acid using low-grade phosphate deposits which are
unsuitable for rock exports. The evolving cost pattern in the world phosphate
industry has come to favor strongly the processing of rock into acid or fer-
tilizer at the mine site. Further opportunities include the tapping of na-
tional energy resources to reduce the heavy burden of energy imports on the
balance of payments, and the development of indigenous small- and medium-scale
private manufacturing industries by encouraging the more dynamic and innova-
tive traders to develop their backward linkages and become full-fledged
entrepreneurs.
72.      The Government realizes that a considerable growth potential remains
untapped in the rural sector and would like to see an increase in the market-
able surplus of food crops. Until now, only about 20 percent of food crop
production is marketed in a normal year, and during drought years the marketed
surplus becomes insignificant. Another concern is the large seasonal fluctua-
tion in food crop prices in urban areas, which arises because of the great
difficulties of storing most food crops (especially cereals) for any length of
time in Togo's humid climate.  Immediately after the harvest, food crop prices
practically collapse. They then rise, first slowly, then rapidly to a peak
before the next harvest. There is some staggering of the crop season between
various parts of the country, and some substitutability between crops not har-
vested at the same time, but there remains a fundamental problem of uneven
supply and concomitant wide price fluctuations between the seasons.
73.      The Government's initial approach to this problem was (a) to ban
exports of food crops; (b) to impose price controls on major food crops at the
retail level in urban areas; and (c) to enhance the role of the state-owned
grain trading agency TOGOGRAIN. The main concern of the Government was to
ensure that prices of food crops did not rise beyond the means of modest wage
earners such as lower-grade civil servants during the pre-harvest season.



- 24 -
Price controls and increased state trading in cereals were impulsive and
short-sighted policies, which did nothing to increase the supply of food crops
and could become a disincentive for increased production.  The ban on exports
might conceivably increase local supplies temporarily, but could also become a
disincentive for production. Nevertheless, the Government's overriding objec-
tive was to try to regulate market forces to secure steady supplies of food
crops at affordable prices to meet urban demand before any exports could be
envisaged.
74.      TOGOGRAIN was created in the early 1970s, but assumed a significant
role only after the imposition of the export ban in August 1981. A special
"solidarity fund" was established to collect from the population (more or less
on a voluntary basis) funds to finance grain purchases by TOGOGRAIN. In prin-
ciple TOGOGRAIN is to promote production through a high producer price and to
support consumption through a low selling price.  De facto, the latter objec-
tive has become predominant. During -the 1982 pre-harvest season cereals were
sold at a price substantially below cost, and even at a price below the ceil-
ing fixed for private traders. These have strongly protested about the ceil-
ing prices, despite the Government's affirmation that the prices take account
of all costs, including a reasonable markup.
75.      The Government has acknowledged that this kind of interventionist
policy was exceptional and will not be repeated.  TOGOGRAIN will consequently
not sell below cost again.  In addition, TOGOGRAIN will only be a complement
to, and not a substitute for generally more efficient private traders, and the
volume of its stocks will not exceed 15,000 tons between now and 1985.  This
will leave the predominant share of grain trade in private hands. Depending
on the availability of funds, a decentralized network of small and simp'le
storage facilities, possibly rented to farmer cooperatives and private tra-
ders, could be envisaged as a means of reducing transport costs. Before the
end of June 1983, the Government will discuss with the Bank the efficiency of
TOGOGRAIN and how best to use the limited funds that can be allocated to
TOGOGRAIN.
76.      The Government recognizes that the only lasting solution to season-
ally high prices for food crops in urban areas is a sustained increase in
supply.  Furthermore, the export markets are too promising, and the balance of
payments too weak, to ignore the opportunity to export. In any case, since
smuggling cannot be prevented, it is far better to export openly and offi-
cially.  In this way, the Government could raise some tax revenue from this
activity, which should be very profitable given the large margin between food
crop prices in Nigeria and Togo. Before the end of June each year, the
Government in consultation with IDA will review progress realized toward
increasing supplies of food crops first to urban areas and subsequently for
exports and will examine whatever additional measures might be necessary to
accelerate this process.
77.      In addition to reducing Government regulation of food crop marketing
and leaving more room for price incentives to stimulate production, various
measures will be taken to boost food crop production within the context of
rural development projects, which will be the priority of the 1984-85 Invest-
ment Plan. The IDA-supported Second Rural Development Project will be a major



- 25 -
instrument to this end. The project covers all of Togo, except the small
cocoa/coffee growing area and the agriculturally less promising coastal
area. The project is targeted to food crops and cotton. It will provide for
production and multiplication of cotbon and food crop seeds and improved
extension services for training in cultivation techniques. The project will
furthermore provide for fertilizers, pesticides, animal traction, feeder
roads, tube wells and some storage facilities. Input subsidies and agricul-
tural credit are important issues in promoting food crop production and will
be studied by the price analysis and monitoring unit recently created in OPAT.
78.       The increased emphasis on the development of food crops is expected
to greatly improve Togo's food balance. With population growing at an annual
rate of 2.5 percent and food crop production projected to grow at an annual
average of 3.9 percent between 1983 and 1990 under the new policy direction,
the surplus available for exports, after satisfying urban demand, should
increase considerably whereas imports should register less of an increase.
Between 1981 and 1990 the volume of food exports is projected to increase
twentyfold (albeit from a very low base) while the volume of food imports
(including beverages) is projected to increase by 40 percent. Togo would
still be a modest net importer of foodstuffs, because of the limited substitu-
tability between local production and most imports (for instance wheat and
alcoholic beverages).
79.      The construction of a phosphoric acid plant offers the most dramatic
opportunity for diversifying exports and restructuring the economy. In order
to reap the necessary economies of scale, the plant would have to be large -
with an annual capacity of around 300,000 tons of acid. Together with related
infrastructure, the whole project would cost between US$500-600 million at
current prices if realized in the mid-1980s. This amount corresponds to about
half of annual GDP. This means that even if the project is realized over a
bhree-year period, the investment would be huge in relation to the economy.
Assuming the project is completed by 1987-88 and full capacity utilization
reached by 1990, exports of phosphoric acid would account for 24 percent of
exports in that year.
80.       Given the high stakes of this project, thorough preparation is re-
quired. Under an IDA Technical Assistance and Engineering Credit, the
Government is currently undertaking a comprehensive feasibility study of the
project. The study is expected to be completed in late-1983. If the results
show that a phosphoric acid plant would be economically viable in Togo, the
Government will contact potential foreign partners. Some self-financing of
the project, albeit on a modest scale, would be provided by OTP under the
financial scheme agreed upon between itself and the Government, but most of
the financing would have to be provided through foreign equity participation
and borrowing. Because of the size and complexity of the project, as well as
the necessity to assure market outlets for a new product, foreign partners are
needed not only for equity contribution, but also for collaboration on
technical, managerial, and commercial matters.
81.       The Government recognizes that the past nationalization of OTP and
subsequent centralization of industrial policy could deter foreign investors
from considering participation in the phosphoric acid plant. At the same



- 26 -
time, the Government realizes that foreign equity partners could provide the
technical and marketing expertise necessary to ensure the success of the
project, and has consequently turned down offers for suppliers' credits and
has decided to take the steps necessary to make the project attractive to
foreign investors. The Government has also requested that the Bank act as
lead financier in preparing a financial package for the project.
82.      At the moment, Togo is heavily dependent on imported energy to meet
demand. All petroleum products are imported in refined form since the closure
of the refinery, and nearly all electricity is imported from the Akosombo dam
in Ghana. Local sources of energy are limited to wood and charcoal, but in-
creasing consumption and inadequate replanting have led to deforestation.
Imports of refined petroleum products accounted for 19 percent of import value
in 1981. Because of sharp retail price increases to reflect higher import
costs, and the current recession, the! volume of imports has declined slightly
since 1979. Increased economic activity would however soon lead to renewed
growth in the volume of imports.
83.      Until recently, the Governmetnt's energy policy was based entirely on
the political motive to reduce dependence on imports from Ghana. To this end,
large thermal plants were installed. But energy policy is now based more on
economic considerations. For example, the Government intends to encourage
energy conservation by keeping retail prices relatively high. By converting
the oil refinery into a storage depot for imported refined products, Togo
could realize substantial savings on the currently excessive freight charges,
but energy would still be a major burden on the balance of payments. Since
electricity imports from Ghana have recently risen sharply in price, Togo is
now examining the possibility of alternative local and regional sources of
supply. These include oil exploration, the Nangbeto hydroelectric dam and
regional interconnection of the electricity network.
84.      Although Togo has a coastline of only 55 kilometers, there is a po-
tential for finding oil in offshore waters. Both Benin (to the east) and
Ghana (to the west) have found commercially viable deposits in their offshore
waters. At the request of the Government, IDA has therefore begun to prepare
an oil exploration cum institution building project. Because of the small
size of the domestic market, and assuming production costs are competitive,
the discovery of even a small oil field could turn Togo into a net oil
exporter and strengthen the balance of payments.
85.      The development of local sources of electricity has made more head-
way. Together with Benin, and with funding under an IDA Technical Assistance
and Engineering Credit, Togo is carrying out a feasibility study of a hydro-
electric dam at Nangbeto on the Mono river which forms part of the border with
Benin. By mid-1983, enough information should be available to determine the
timing, technical characteristics, and economic return of the project. Cru-
c al variables which need to be evaluated are projected growth in electricity
damand, future oil prices, and the cost of alternative sources of electrical
e.ergy.
86.      Because of the reluctance of private traders to move into manufactur-
ing and the failure of most state enterprises in this sector, the non-mining



- 27 -
industrial sector accounts for only a small portion of GDP (7 percent in
1981). After its costly failure with state enterprises, the Government has
become convinced that this sector is better suited for private sector initia-
tives. Despite the small size of the domestic market, which limits the range
of potential manufacturing activities, there is still scope for a gradual
expansion of industry through private initiative. This expansion could encom-
pass both export promotion and import subtitution by making better use of
local labor and other factors of production. To determine how best to promote
such an expansion, consultants financed under the First Technical Assistance
Project have reviewed the small- and medium-scale enterprise sector (SME's).
Further studies include a review of the Investment Code and institutions
dealing with SME's and the need for protection, if any. The scope and
timetable for these studies will be decided in agreement with the Bank.
Before the end of June 1983, the Government-and the Bank will agree on a plan
of action and timetable for the implementation of the recommendations result-
ing from these studies.
Government Program: Macroeconomic Implications
87.      The various elements of the structural adjustment program are cumula-
tive and over time expected to lead to accelerated growth, concentrated among
the more promising sectors of the economy, while at the same time reducing the
resource gap to a level that can be sustained by external grants and borrow-
ing. The two trends will be reconciled by increasing domestic savings and
focusing on productive export-oriented investments.
88.      While the direction of change in macroeconomic aggregates from the
various mutually reinforcing structural adjustment measures should be unambi-
guous, the size of the changes over time is more difficult to determine.
Table 3 shows economic projections with and without a structural adjustment
program. These projections should be interpreted only as general orders of
magnitude and no great importance should be attached to any single specific
number. The projections assume steady trend-like developments, whereas
reality is rather characterized by erratic swings around trend-lines. Im-
portantly, the projections assume (a) a stand-by with the IMF in 1983 (as well
as in 1984-85) under which Togo will actually draw around 75 percent of its
quota (SDR 21.4 million), and (b) debt rescheduling of a large part of
remaining eligible maturities with members of the Paris Club in 1983-85.
Because of the relatively large impact of the phosphoric acid plant, the
feasibility of which has not yet been finally determined, the projections of
the impact of the structural adjustment program are shown both with and
without this project.
89.      During the 1980-85 period, there are only minor differences in the
macroeconomic aggregates with and without a Structural Adjustment Program, the
reason naturally being that the impact of a Structural Adjustment Program will
on3y materialize over time. By contrast, during the 1986-90 period major
divergencies appear with and without a Structural Adjustment Program because
of the gradual and cumulative restructuring of the economy resulting from the
program. During the 1980-85 period, implementation of a Structural Adjustment
Program from 1983 onward would lead to marginally higher growth, savings and
investment. The implementation of the large phosphoric acid plant scheduled



Table 3. Projected Macroperformance
Witn Structural Adjustment                        With Structural Adjustment                      Witnout Structural Adjustment
(including phosphoric acid project)                (excluding phospnoric acid proje3tz
1980       1985       1990        1980-89      1985-90              1990           1985-90                  1985         1990       1980-85       1985-90
Percernt share of GDPl/             Growth Rate2/                f share      Growth rate2/                 snare of GDP /             Growtn rate2/
A.  Gross Domestic Product                             100         100        100             2.3           5.9             100                4.8                  100          tO0             1.9          3.2
Agriculture                                       24.6       27.0       26.6           4.2           5.6              28.1              5.6                   27.2         27.9           4.0           3.7
Mining                                            11.0       12.0        14.0          4.2          12.7              11.6              4.1                   11.4         11.3           2.8           3.0
Irndustry3/                                       15.7       14.0       21.6           --           .4.6              13.9              4.6                   14.0         13.9          -0.3           3.0
Services                                          48.7       47.0       37.8           1.7           4.5              46.5              4.5                   47.3         47.0           1.3           3.0
Consumption                                      83.2        89.2       79.7           3.7           3.6              83.3              3.3                   92.0         89.8           3.9           2.7
Savings                                           16.8       1O.8       20.3          -4.3          20.2              16.'             14.3                    8.0         10.2         -10.8          15.5
Investment                                       33.4        26.2       27.5          -1.2           6.9              26.8               5.2                  20.6         21.7          -6.9           4.3
Resource gap                                     -16.7      -15.5       -7.2            1.8         -9.0             -10.1             -3.7                  -12.6        -11.6          -3.2           1.4
Exports GNFS                               (35-4)      (28.4)    (35.2)         (-0.7)       (10.5)             (30.2)            (6.0)                 (28.4)      (29.5)        (-1.2)         (4.0)
Imports GNFS                              (-52.0)    (-43.9)    (-42.4)         (-0.2)        (5.2)           (-40.3)             (4.5)               (-41.0       (-41.1)        (-2.1)         (3.2)
B.  Memorandum Items
Current account balance (CFA franc billion)            -47.4      -63.1       -56.2                                         -80.3                                   -59.7        -98.3
(% of GDP)                   22.1       17.5         8.8                                          13.3                                    17.5        18.7
Consumption growth rat/ per capita (1) 1.2                                                                  1.1                                0.8                                               1.4           0.2
Ratio of debt service-4  to current
budget revenue (g)                                    25.1       36.7        28.5                                          26.5                                    32.3        29.7
Ratio of debt service4/ to exports (6)                  23.0        28.7       19.2                                          17.4                                    25.8         25.7
1/ Projected years at constant prices.
2/ Percent per annum.
3/ Including handicrafts, constructiont and energy.
4/ Actual debt service, i.e. after rescheduling and chanige in arrears in 1980.



- 29 -
to begin in 1985 would however temporarily lead to a bigger resource gap in
that year. During the 1986-90 period, the results of the program would show
up in significantly higher growth, savings and investment, as well as consump-
tion, while the resource gap would be greatly reduced. The phosphoric acid
plant would make a major contribution to these results, but even without the
plant, the structural adjustment program would have a significant impact on
the economy. Growth would average about 6 percent annually with structural
adjustment and the phosphoric acid plant, about 5 percent with structural
adjustment but without the plant, and only about 3 percent annually without
structural adjustment. The resource gap as a percent of GDP would be about 7
percent with structural adjustment and the plant, 10 percent with structural
adjustment but without the plant, and 12 percent without structural adjust-
ment. Debt service would be less of a burden in 1990 following implementation
of the structural adjustment program. The more rapid growth following struc-
tural adjustment would be concentrated in mining (phosphoric acid), agricul-
ture (food crops) and industry (promotion of small and medium-scale private
enterprises and rehabilitation of existing state enterprises, often with
private foreign partners: textile mills for instance).
PART III - THE BANK'S ROLE - THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Credit History
90.      The Bank began project lending in Togo in the late 1960s and has
granted fifteen credits and two loans so far. Project work developed gra-
dually through the mid-1970s. Since 1975 an average of two projects have been
approved annually, including the CIMAO regional clinker project. In parallel
with greatly stepped up project activity, the scope of the Bank's involvement
broadened to include new sectors such as technical assistance and mining,
while maintaining the priority assigned to rural development and road infra-
structure.
91.      The deteriorating economic and financial situation which prompted
Togo to contact the IMF in late 1978 was also conducive to a deepening policy
dialogue with the Bank. This was initially limited to planning issues, but
subsequently broadened to include state enterprises, agricultural pricing, and
ultimately a broad range of macroeconomic issues. Late i n 1978, the Minister
of Plan requested technical assistance from the Bank to improve planning and
project selection. In 1979 such a credit was approved. During a Bank eco-
nomic mission in October-November 1980, the Government expressed interest in a
Structural Adjustment Credit and Bank assistance in rehabilitating state
enterprises. A Togolese delegation comprising the Ministers of Plan, Finance
and Mining visited Washington in April 1981 to formally present a request for
a Structural Adjustment Credit. A Bank mission to review state enterprises
visited Togo in March-April 1981.
92.      The country economic memorandum and state enterprise report were
transmitted to the Government and discussed in September 1981. Along with the
preparatory work for the Second Rural Development Project, they constituted



- 30 -
the starting point for a more concrete structural adjustment dialogue. A
mission in December 1981 led to a clarification of what could and should be
the contents of a structural adjustm(ent program.
93.      Building on the general mutual understandings reached in December, a
draft Letter of Development Policies was discussed and revised during a mis-
sion in March 1982. In April, after discussions with concerned ministers, the
Minister of Plan cabled the Bank that the Government had approved of the
entire letter. In April-May 1982, December 1982 and January 1983, Bank mis-
sions went to Togo to negotiate fina:L details.
94.      The Bank has gradually become a close partner in a far-reaching and
comprehensive policy dialogue with the Government. Major progress was made
when The Government perceived that the Bank was able to pull together scat-
tered data in a systematic fashion and bring a new perspective and add analy-
tical depth to the issues that were preoccupying it. During the discussions
that followed, the Government became aware of what was necessary and the Bank
of what was feasible.
95.      The First Technical AssistarLce Project has been an invaluable instru-
ment in furthering this dialogue. The Senior Economic Adviser in the Ministry
of Plan (who arrived in late 1979) has made an important contribution in im-
proving project selection. The arrival of a Senior Project Adviser in
September 1982, made it possible for the Economic Adviser to concentrate on
macroeconomic policies, the concepts of which are still not very familiar to
many senior policy makers. The Project Adviser will play a crucial role in
the project selection for the 1984-85 Investment Plan. The consultants' bud-
get under the project has made it possible to prepare specific aspects of the
adjustment program in an expeditious and effective way. The availability of
these funds has increased the Government willingness to tackle a range of
thorny issues, often at the initiative of the Bank.
96.      The Second Technical Assistance Project is explicitly designed to
support the implementation of the Structural Adjustment Program by meeting
critical manpower shortages and training needs. In addition to providing for
resident experts, the project includes a sizable general purpose consultants'
budget. The project provides for a successor to the present Senior Economic
Adviser and an Investment Programmer to coordinate investment with foreign
financing possibilities and macroeconomic considerations. Resident experts
are also being provided to the State Secretariat for Industry and State
Enterprises and the Ministry of Rural Development in support of structural
adjustment policies. All experts will be assigned full-time counterparts
whose training needs and progress will be reviewed regularly. By March 1983,
all the experts provided under the Second Technical Assistance Project had
arrived in Lom6, with the exception of the replacement of the present Senior
Economic Adviser (whose departure date is scheduled for August 1983). The new
Senior Economic Adviser, seconded by iThe Bank under the special program of
technical assistance to IDA-eligible countries, will take up his duties in
July 1983.



- 31 -
97.      Togo's relations with the IMF were described in paragraphs 21-33.
From the beginning in late 1978, the Bank and the Fund have stayed in con-
tact. Since mid-1981, when the stand-by for that year ceased to operate, and
when the pace of the Bank's dialogue quickened with the presentation of the
economic and state enterprise reports, the contacts have become closer and
more frequent. Missions in December 1981 partly overlapped, and a Fund staff
member participated in the Bank's investment review mission in January-
February 1982. Frequent meetings have been held to share data and to discuss
and coordinate policy. The emphasis of the respective programs sought by the
two institutions is not the same, nor is their time-frame, but the Bank's
Structural Adjustment Program and the IMF's financial stabilization program
for 1983 are mutually supportive and geared toward the attainment of the same
broad objectives: viable balance of payments in combination with a higher
level of economic activity. The Fund is relying on the Bank to conduct the
dialogue on investment planning and rehabilitation of state enterprises, while
the Bank has left fiscal and monetary policy and debt management in the domain
of the IMF. Consequently, the role differentiation between the two institu-
tions has been respected and, more importantly, has been mutually supportive.
98.      Final discussions of the Structural Adjustment Program took place in
Washington, February 15-17, 1983. The Togolese delegation was headed by Mr.
Walla, Minister of Plan and Administrative Reform.
Loan Allocation
99.      The proposed credit amount would be $40 million, of which $25 million
would be made available immediately to finance imports of a wide range of raw
materials, intermediate goods, capital goods and spare parts. A further $15
million would be released after second tranche conditions have been met (see
para 102 below). The first tranche of the credit is expected to be disbursed
substantially during the second half of 1983. It is estimated that less than
10 percent of the imports in the eligible categories would be paid for with
the proceeds of the credit (see para 105 below).
100.     The resource gap (goods and non-factor services) would amount to CFA
francs 126 billion during the 1983-85 period with a Structural Adjustment
Credit. The proceeds of the proposed credit would finance 14 percent of the
resource gap; net IMF disbursements an additional 24 percent.  Official grant
aid is projected to cover 37 percent of the resource gap, and net factor
income and current transfers 17 percent. The remainder would be covered by
foreign borrowing.
Monitoring of Policy Actions
101.     The table in Annex III summarizes the actions IDA proposes to monitor
during the supervision of the proposed SAC. Actions which have been taken as
a condition of Board Presentation include:
(i)   agreement on a 1983 stand-by with the IMF;
(ii)   closure of selected state enterprises (SALINTO, SOTEXMA);



- 32 -
(iii)   recruitment of consultants to study SNS and STH;
(iv)   making the agricultural price analysis and monitoring unit
operational;
(v)   agreement on the principles of full cost pricing and a limited role
for TOGOGRAIN;
(vi)   preparation of an Investment Program for 1983.
102.     Disbursement of the second tranche would be contingent upon satisfac-
tory progress on the Structural Adjustment Program, particularly with respect
to the following (Schedule 1, para. 2 and Schedule 3 of Development Credit
Agreement):
(i) initiation of implementation of decisions taken, after consultation
with the Association, with respect to the conversion and/or
liquidation of STH;
(ii)  adoption of an appropriate medium-term producer price policy for
major crops, including specific prices for the 1983/84 crop year;
(iii) adoption of an appropriate marketing policy for food crops; and
(iv)  adoption of an appropriate Investment Plan for 1984 and 1985.
103.     The monitoring program would include a general progress review mis-
sion to Lome in June 1983, and a mission to review progress realized in reha-
bilitating state enterprises and in improving agricultural planning and
policies during the third quarter of 1983. Toward the end of the year, a
mission would review conditions for the release of the second tranche of the
credit, especially the Investment Plan for 1984 and 1985, the successful
implementation of which could serve as a starting point for a second Struc-
tural Adjustment Program.
Disbursement and Procurement
104.     The proposed credit would be disbursed in two tranches, and, if con-
ditions in para 102 are met, is expected to be fully disbursed within twelve
months of effectiveness. The first tranche of $25 million would be available
on credit effectiveness. The second tranche of $15 million would be made
available as soon as Government has satisfied the conditions described in
para 102.
105.     Procurement and disbursement procedures have been designed to faci-
litate rapid drawdown of credit proceeds. The proposed credit would finance
100 percent of the CIF cost of eligible imports, subject to documentary evi-
dence that they had been paid for on or after signing of the credit. Any
imports (except for a few standard exclusions) would be eligible for financ-
ing, but no more than $10 million would be used for petroleum products and no
more than $10 million for foodstuffs (Schedule 1, para 1 of draft Development
Credit Agreement). Imports by public entities exceeding $100,000 would be



- 33 -
through a modified form of international competitive bidding suitable for
structural adjustment lending. Imports by private entities would be in accor-
dance with acceptable commercial practices.
Counterpart Funds
106.     The local counterpart funds generated by the proposed credit would be
deposited in a special account of the Central Bank and would be used exclu-
sively to finance development-related expenditures and to reduce payment
arrears (Section 3.01 of Development Credit Agreement).
PART IV - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TOGO
107.     Bank Group lending to Togo totals fifteen credits amounting to $135.8
million, and two loans totaling $53.0 million. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank Group operations as of March 31, 1983, and notes on the
execution of ongoing projects. IDA lending has financed roads; agriculture
(cocoa, coffee, cotton and food crops); education; technical assistance to the
Ministries of Plan and Rural Development and to the State Secretariat for
Industry and State Enterprises; a regional DFC operation; and feasibility
studies for a phosphate fertilizer project and a regional hydroelectric power
project. The two Bank loans (US$3.5 million to Togo and US$49.5 million to
CIMAO jointly and severally guaranteed by Ghana, Ivory Coast, and Togo) have
provided financing for the CIMAO regional clinker plant.
108.     In the past, project lending has dealt with development needs and
policy issues in particular sectors. However, the overall economic situation
has now deteriorated to the point that sector specific actions are no longer
sufficient. A more comprehensive approach such as that envisaged under the
proposed structural adjustment program is required. Moreover, in a small
country like Togo, where it is not possible to be involved in all sectors,
structural adjustment lending provides an opportunity to influence development
in a broad range of sectors. In those sectors where the Association is
already involved, not only has project lending been consistent with the goals
of the proposed structural adjustment program, but in addition components of
several recent projects have been designed to prepare for and support the
program.
109.     The purpose of the first and second Technical Assistance Projects has
been to help the Government begin to formulate sound investment and public
finance policies (see para 46 above). Through these projects, the Association
initiated a close policy dialogue which has been essential for the preparation
of the proposed structural adjustment program. Medium-term policy level
experts are now being financed in the Ministry of Plan, the Ministry of Rural
Development (MRD) and in the State Secretariat for Industry and State Enter-
prises (SISE), all three of which would play a primary role in the proposed
program. Consultant studies of several state enterprises have been financed
in order to determine whether they are potentially viable, and in the case of
those which are, to identify measures necessary to improve their performance
(see paras 54-60 above). A capacity to conduct further evaluations and to



- 34 -
monitor the performance of state enterprises is being established in the
SISE. A planning unit is being established in MRD. Under its auspices, a
review of all rural development projects will be conducted in order to provide
the basis for the formulation of a rural development strategy (see para 66
above). In addition, a price analysis and monitoring unit and a research
coordinating unit are being created in MRD (see paras 64 and 66 above).
110.     IDA has made five credits for agricultural projects designed to sti-
mulate food crop production and to increase farm incomes through development
of cash crops such as cocoa, coffee and cotton. Under the latest such credit,
for the Second Rural Development Project in Cotton Areas, subsidies will be
phased out and producer prices will be reviewed annually. Since this project
covers most of the country, these measures will provide a good basis for the
more comprehensive review of price and subsidy policies required for struc-
tural adjustment (see paras 63 and 77 above). The project's emphasis on food
crops and on the further development of a promising export- crop promote the
goals of the SAC.
111.     Another recent credit which is of relevance to the goals of the pro-
posed SAC is the Phosphate Engineering and Technical Assistance Credit which
is financing the pre-feasibility studies for a phosphoric acid plant (see para
80). A similar engineering credit provides financing for studies to assess
the viability of the Nangbeto hydroelectric scheme, a joint project with Benin
which could be an alternative to thermal power plants (see para 85).
112.     A water supply project which is in the advanced stages of preparation
would improve water supply in Lomb. The water and sewerage agency RNET, an
important and economically viable state enterprise would be strengthened as a
result of the project. A management study to be conducted under the project
will contribute to the state enterprise component of the SAC (see para 60).
113.     The four credits in the road sector have supported efforts to build
up an efficient maintenance service, upgrade the country's main and more
heavily trafficked roads, and start a comprehensive transport planning and
coordination system, including an ongoing study of how to limit and improve
the operations of the government-owned railroad company. A separate project
for feeder road development provides for improvement works and maintenance
operations. An ongoing education project finances the construction of teacher
training facilities, expansion of existing facilities and fellowships.
114.     Togo's performance with respect to project implementation and disbur-
sement is generally satisfactory. The Government is by now quite familiar
with the Bank's procurement and disbursement procedures. Delays are sometimes
encountered, however, because of the cumbersome administrative regulations
used in Togo to award public contracts. The Government is sensitive to this
problem and is working with the Bank to find appropriate means to simplify the
procedures.



- 35 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENT AND AUTHORITY
115.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Togo
and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are
being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
116.     Features of the Development Credit Agreement of special interest are
listed in Section III of Annex V. A special condition of credit effectiveness
would be agreement on the rescheduling of the Borrower's medium- and long-term
debt with its lenders.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
117.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
April 26, 1983



- 36 -
ANNEX I
Page 1
TABLE 3A
T0G0 - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
TOGO                             REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGCTED AVERA2ES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KhM.)                               ~- M9ST RECENT ESTIMATE) -L
TOTAL             56.0                                   fMOST RECENT            LOW INCOHE             MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      16.2                 1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                     90.0       200.0     410.0                 250.8                  1053.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)         21.6        62.7     111.6                  66.5                   610.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)     1499.0      1956.0   2503.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)    9.8         ].3.1     20.0                  17.8                    28.3
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                          4.7
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                           15.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                    2110
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                          26.8        14.9      43.6                  27.7                    54.7
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       102.3       122.9     150.7                  86.7                   129.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                            44.0        45.3      46.4                 44.8                     46.0
15-64 YRS.                            53.4        52.0      50.9                 52.3                     51.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                      2.6         2.7       2.7                  2.9                      2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 2.2         2.7       2.5                  2.7                      2.8
URBAN                                 5.2         5.6       6.7                  6.2                      5.2
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        50.6        48.2      47.8                 47.3                     47.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        26.8        21.8      18.1                  19.5                    15.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 3.3         3.2       3.2                   3.2                     3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)          ..          ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)       ..          ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)             99.0       102.0      78.0                 88.7                     90.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                      97.1        94.9      91.9/c               90.2                     93.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)             46.0        46.1      48.77                53.1                     54.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          11.5        11.6      12.77/                18.4                    17.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        41.8        23.1      21.1                  26.7                    23.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)       37.2        42.2      47.1                  45.6                    51.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             181.5       134.0     109.0                 129.9                   118.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..        17.0      16.0/d                23.9
URBAN                                  ..          ..      49.71o                54.9
RURAL                                  *-         5.0      io.o7                18.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..         1.0      15.0/d                25.8
URBAN                                  ..         4.0      36.0oT                63.1
RURAL                                  ..         1.0      12.0d7                29.2
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            35756.1     27942.9  18164.1/c              32097.3                 14185.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        5341.2le   4170.6    1735.1i7               3264.6                  2213.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               777.5       649.3/f   676.3/c              1225.0                  1036.4
URBAN                               205.0/e     155.5     243.07c               249.5                   430.8
RURAL                              1032.071    145C.2    1151.07o              1712.1                  3678.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..        lE.6/j
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                  ..         5.8
URBAN                                  ..          ..
RURAL                                  ..          ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                  ..          ..
URBAN                                  ..          ..
RURAL                                  ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                  ..          ..
URBAN                                  ..          ..
RURAL                                  ..          ..



- 37 -
ANNEX I
Page 2
TABLE 3A
TOGO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
TOGO                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV7RAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE )-
MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 44.0         69.0     110.0                  63.2                     83.3
MALE                  63.0        95.0      136.0                  72.7                     96.1
FEMALE               24.0         42.0       85.0                  50.3                     80.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  2.0          7.0      32.0                  10.2                     15.3
MALE                   4.0        11.0       48.0                  13.2                     19.4
FEMALE                 1.0         3.0       15.0                   6.6                     11.3
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)  10.1           9.6       7.6                    7.9                      4.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            59.8         58.5      54.3                  47.4                     38.6
SECONDARY                            ..         25.0      42.0                  26.2                     23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        10.0/e       15.9      18.0/c                34.0                      35.6
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          1.9/L        3.7       6.0/h                 3.0                     31.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.5         20.4     209.8                  34.8                     71.8
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..           ..       0.7                   1.7                     17.9
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST') CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   1.3          6.6       2.9                   2.9                      19.1
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.2/i          ..        1.O/d                1.1                       0.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       687.1        856.8    1024.6
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   39.2         41.3      40.4                  34.1                     36.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              80.0         73.0      67.0                  78.4                      56.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  8.0         11.0      15.0                   9.2                     17.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                45.8         43.8      40.9                   41.4                     37.0
MALE                                 56.8         52.3      49.5                  53.9                      46.9
FEMALE                               35.3         35.6      32.6                  29.1                      27.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.0         1.1        1.2                   1.2                      1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
gSTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..     243.0                  134.3                    507.0
RURAL                                ..           ..     118.0                   82.9                    200.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..     121.0                  96.4                     523.9
RURAL                                 ..          ..     121.0                  60.4                     203.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      42.0                   39.3
RURAL                                 ..          .          ..                  69.0
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1977; /d 1975; /e 1962; /f Government hnspital establishments; /g 1964; /h 1974; /i 1957.
Hay, 1982



- 38 -                                                                                    ANNEX I
MPIJINTISS OF SOCAL [EDICATOS
let lcb.htenh the data tee dawt  fro    ntee   asal  judged rise  -ea  -asitatee a   reliable, it  hb-sId alac he -oe   thee thy  -p ma b   ntr
Inu elIly ewa             ..eb .ne  o f ris  lack of sadadsd dfietitioa and  -ncpt  need by different   -stien  is cle nl be data.  The dat  ae
thi1s...s.. usful to descibe ceder, of eagif-d.  indicat  trends. and chao-geite cetinmJor differetute betwee  conties
The refrene goup   r  (1  it:ae  onrygop of cite sbject  -outry and (2)d acoune.Y groop elitsomewhatihigher antenh  jocos  th,ou tire coutr  grou
oi tbuhjt_    _uutr   (acp .     for      R'Hig  Icc.s    Oil fprtert  gronpohe,. 'Middl  lecom   Not l Air     and Middle  na"  In chosen h-c.u.  o f atrnge
sof-urtlaffl1ioites.  In rho  eeroagroup data the . avrges orepopoin -onnlgrd nrithmeti  manna for each itdlr-co  no  eb-w  only when
_sjcly of the cntiat  ma  group hat dau for thee indicator.  Since the coerge of corimamn  cha indicators depe.o-  - the n-nlishilily of data
nod i  n  rnfr.ouiot rus                ..enr tee,di  ceatg        -nrgee of ...ce  i-icto noher    The.   --8cecge  ore orly u-ei.  ic comparing tevleo
hoas l -cT-uada1    .                                                                          Popuainrtloealtd-ttl'ct,adual-Ppuaio(ctl
Total - focalsurfntc erasco~rieing  lor  attn sod tu and eatera;1979 data.    urhun.an  rua)doddby rbetir  eputo   urhra  hop1,ita                        'Id
fcc crps.. pasruree  sakrad kirchen gardeo  ot to  ie- felice; 1979 d-.st.                    hniinincoer.daInaV                     etuhtmoaprmnnl   tfe
1970,..nd 1980 dart.                                                                            Iedloai asisan.nus,mdwieet.) nitiob  offer  it-pa tact arclth
W-Ild M~~~~k Atl..   b..iulo  sodprucideb a lPimited rege o  medica fPll itiet.-  Po  tsts
tsayCglOTi   i  AIT.-dtul  uamoo  o   onrs  eeg   co                       icl. papssura   epaneidd                                             bysplopaioee  hnia
en   igie   ptolo,oauaigsso   ydo.nularndgecepu   le-ad 1rrl  opiesllclfrtrn                                     fnptl  sab      edclyo  ,..epit
Toa iPp lation. KId- 1ea   (houa-s)-lh  of JlyPi 1; 1960. 1970, nod 19791                            Sfd.df1i
Orhan Pupultioc Irercef uf torah -7Barc o  ucs  to totl pulto;0hseld   oosisasof ai- group of todiniula odo  abelinn_                                         uatr
dteetdfit      tion   ofuhuaes-a   ffc  cmerldyo  darn                                       sd.i. thei  main- seapls.1 ud hore T    oge ootantheicuddI
PopulcionProjctios         hdeagIfuterofyeraco  par6oot-oral0urht, so1rurl -seeOgSout
PoulrioInyer  I   -Curetpoulclcprjeclo  ae                           A-dusigl  e   opeSonI ercc-t i-uhc  nod  or-   occuiedcunencons
coof lif ndpeocorcy n  hfIl..  -urslonf.           cuty a prrlbiil  If pita loose          hcetc thirorric c  (rerco  o -d- -d!fg-si y - ocal, uran   sod            d rr i -
lee, ng     fsl  lIfe, e1970c.        ohi aco7.5yas   Thedp1ro--dCorveh. hc... h                           mldif g  nih   lect - -uty Ithfining  quarte1 as
y-teaf       000cci - prn poi loao ihrr   plnneli...cmlogdbcldioIIob. Iftuol _ro  Pnrradaiaraaetey
ferid cyLccrting by    luum   ln   sod..   patfml     pis ilg perfursa-pe
-do usat.Ti   sohecdol   fy Iotiicfme  dclnenopimar  pcou-ug    oualo;no lyicue  cide    gdbi
of ensecreylnoetitself   occ ly -The sesicoscy 77ultir  lt  nonT~    -             ocuorgien                thh cneslleuct-ion  1 orlioseog qmy eccee  10 perrer
elat nill he coached.                                                                 ca-s:eiy  I  l  If ly f12t  17yeeso  age;li   cornpdee ecen  aegneah
Puico   nai.  eho..rlsdndh-.J ~                    P       ~P_ _
Pe  o.I.-  i-eatiu...oproqsekIoeer(1  hetan   ofil                                      EDUCATIONa   noletIecr   fsooir(-Proca                               tttin
Puy  16,_11   r  1979              ly ducu.y                 dli                         Ppli-cnechtrcuolu -            triar ' und _  1eodr-Poca-  scu tot  er  ildi
hIuacc   oeSrc-h pecnc      cide   1-0-aa-,n-uo-g   (5                                         rinyso   ecnay  nes  iiedh  omeatftarhrii-h
hit years). sd retIred  lbspenra sod cod  a   eee Iae f sfd-esppope-                 cu         .-,,prio inoela.
Croda Parch Bar  (per c iec -sod   - -ho 7so  11cr hrh- per , ....un  of old-ea         renato    esta   litpros;trua    aunrn   er                               n
rp I'tllr 1967.1970. und_190_dacu                                                         mu Oary notclen
poultIn  190  17.anyi aa                                                                             Ifarot   1o gnrl.  puli  peI husnff  ouatic.erldn   n
lrusneacPoducrIo-  kil-oraeutcudoo                    toruucoaooih__ i.ionndrcenr _cuntisado  ersnore                                                    Iurtiosof..dioI
t19iyrocs     19nul 0 fu-pecotrgscdigI196917079                   99.mn dose-e    hoinhd.licensing.1h
all                69earcl-heid-cnoatcae  geProy                                       claio.o  ua.yg.....nrcacsaaIpfu Ifae  assd reri1odial
y P.,---           ..h.is.fu  daor   rmaiyt-eurfggore   et    tiscoioe
loden of food Production rer Canto (1969-7 -14l Y- lde0f  e  capita acou          Cinema  uocd attedance per dCr d.d per Year- Bae  on-he oiha  o
ofi-na  anrgf       rdcrpie-ngo;16-5  1970, nod 1930 data.70                               Total... gahr Pure (e: he..sods  ... tecsrll   cIn   esn,  old
ye 1O96h0ilhi 19ppl f-d copis9     omsI8pnac0            Importslets                   co  cosprhin;196.17   nd10   aa
qC_di Drh~ fes -uned In  foo  prerouog  ad lunhsen- fth d.s.r.hdlIf  Inquir-                   gdi.Ral.ru      (perrt h.-dLhrfrel  fAllog tyecr,hutn   an-d
hocpnhoid level;  19610,  197  od97da.                         1960,d070  od 100 ldto.                                               h.     I      I    I.       I
one supl R       od  e   ay    e  supplyci foo  Is drfctd -         ahll   -I. inIcivit  core  ar   oseduIotl  male, ao  feAnisu                                 facsa
quiceanuca for ali councrlet enrol lluhed ~~ by.0..oefe  lmu                      pIreoae  ufi.  totl,.. mal a.d feaepplaino   llagtcnpriey
aliussnna of. 60. gram  fi cucal poei   e  day and 210,guao  aninad  soI90   90   u   9Ydr. Teear   ae   nI'                                                 rpt        ae
aunaly  prutcuanvcaeicteard.                         A"ropuIs-'t,Thy-iwcothte...d7phlr-d   ..oaeetdnyai-aiuioaalnctlsdisd-ls
Oorld Pood  urvey; 19h -6  17  co  1977~ data        P  ..  cg theitotal i aho  foc..-ITV                                                             _d      f
trn    aa  eie f     rosl-b.l.   lIf  rahirs; 1960). 1970aod199  dots    df h-asehIlda.
_im                                                                                      uonio  AIfy xap
Lif ioNpecteRTOrvaN    lt   rat      nrg   uhro   ec   ild   oao                               Thefolold  ant iacat apre   r  Ippr_  f_ot  mesrsofpvry_et
so hItch; 1960. 19011 and 1900 data.Id                                           nod1 CiI.  hAuld. ho...   "C isarred p-h oridYa-   ran l-dun.I
ofI eprcoso  ln   ics   OS  1970dsd 190  data                                                 aimidt  povrt .incm   aa   tta   tuelee   ao   hc                       iia
eatr sch  n cat -ro   pecorce  itshole. springs,  an7.d a1ic98      wls)a                Rural  elaTtn  penero.. yiusncome    .... isaone-thirdo  avrae  e  caita
pe-   tgry   ofi_-`I chirroprive ,pupuleotoot.   Ia ean nap-shifc                             pertosa  incoe ofthe. rfuo11ca.  nbar ilevel is deti..d f__heeno
-ousdrtd a  beiog nibi  reaso~.nabl  access s,i,the   -ibossa. I   urlaea-adend  ooio -abs Absor Pfnrt  Inom a.p .lgna (fetcg1 -bsehfat
do satBane o    fped s      disrpri e  roeoftedayis feRbiatl thea                                                                              ll_p-i'oc
A7e,i  fe be             y Ffe AG bttri of. d hynulatios 1 -.doat f-ba   and meal -ih.                                    I             :.   _.jf,1O.I   90d
lar snatnOistiane.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'                        l,-                 a   lil..R                              -.       & -1    PlNptl
rie Iuftdfro  a '      - meia  et ' at      " an .rse   leel Ttener   naysi  sd                                                               I.aacib-    easa
q.elaint=   fnt Nall... Parson   Poplisian divde  byD ester~ utl petoiese'tgg                                       1      ...  t l~ppl.isp tWO                 .l-.i-
male~ ~ ~ ~      ~       ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~.li g__ sa eal mdat nan.essao nma.pseia  ten a
'sll,g-aniIfrteS_.              lI          P'"               ---                               %,  W,1 1tOZ ,b,l.A



_ 39 -
ANNEX I
Page 4
TOGO - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Amount
(millions
-US$ at                                                    Annual gro.th rates (%) at constant 1990 prices
current
prices)    Actual ----------_______________________________________  _             Projected ----------------____________________
1980       1976        1977        1979        1979        1980        1981        1982        1983        1984        1985        1990
GDP at Market Prices               1018          0.1         7.0        10.8       -3.9          1.3         1.4       -0.1         0.3         4.5         5.2         5.9
Agriculture                 250         -7.5        -6.0        17.4        -5.1         4.6         4.2         2.5         4.1         5.'        5.0         5.6
Mining                      112         75.3        25.9       -13.6         1.6        25.5        -7.6         4.6         3.9        11.0         9.1        12.7
Industry                    160          3.0        10.6        12.5        -2.3       -10 3        -0.3       -4.5        -2.5          2.5         4.7        4.6
Services                    496         -2.9         9.1        12.5        -4.8        -0.3         2.7       -1 0         -1.7        3.3          4.4         4.5
Consumption                        948         -4.5         6.7          5.2       -0.7         1.7         5.2         5.4        -0.3         4.4         3.8         3.4
Net Investment                      340         40.4        68.3        11.7       -5.0       -34.2       -12.7       -22.5        -3.9         8.6        24.3         6.9
ESports of GNFS                    360         23.2        32.2        50.7       -31.8        46.4       -29.7        -3 2         7.2        11.6        10.5        10.5
Imports of GNFS                    -530        28.1        72.8        25.0       -15.3       -10.5       -22.8        -6.4         0.7        11.2        16.5         5.2
Gross Domestic savings              171       46.6           8.8       41.6       -21.8        -0.6       -17 2       -34.6         6.2         6.3        17.7        20.2
GDP Deflator (1980   100)                      79.0        95.3        90.5        89.4       100.0       110.2
Exchange Rate (US$1 =   )                     239.0       245.7       225.6       212.7       211.3       271.7       320.0       355.0       355.0       355.0       355.0
Share of GDP at Etarket Prices (%)                                  Average Annual Increase (4)
(at current prices) a!                                            (at constant prices)
1970         1975         1980         1985         1990            1970-1975   1975-1980   1980-1985 t 1985-1990
Gross Domestic Product               100.0        100.0        100.0        100.0        100.0              12.4          3.2          2.3          5.9
Agriculture                       33.8          26.6         24.6         27.0         26.6               2.5          0.7          4.2          5.6
Mining                              5.0         11.6         11.0         12.0         14.0                           22.9           4.2        12.7
Industry                          16.1         14.9          15.7         14.0        21.6                5.6 b/       2.7          --           4.6
Services                          45.2         46.9         48.7         47.0          37.8               3.4          2.7          1.7          4 5
Consumption                           86.2         89.8         83.2         89.2         79.7               6.7          1.7          3.7           3.6
Net Investment                        15.1         27.7         33.4         26.2         27.5              13.1         16.2        -12.2           6.9
Exports of GNFS                       30.8         26.9         35.4         28.4         35.2              -9.5         24.1         -0.7         10.5
Imports of GNFS                      -32.1       -44.4         -52.0        -43.9        -43.4               5.2         20.0         -0.2          5.2
Gross Domestic Savings                13.8         10.2         16.8         10.8         20.3               4.9         14.9         -4.3         20.2
PUBLIC FINANCE c/
As o of GDP
1972        1975          1980
Current Revenues                     15.5         24.9         32.0
Current Expenditures d/              13.4         17.9         26.5
Surplus (+) or Deficit (-)            2.1          7.0          5.5
*    Capital Expenditures e/               3.9          9.4           7.7
a/   Projected years at constant prices.
b/   Includes mining.
c/   Central Government only.
d/   Ieluding debt service.
e/   Including extrabudgetary expenditures.



- 40 -
AN.SE  I
Page5
TOGO - EXTEDIAL TRADE
Amount (cillion
U8S at current                                            Annual Gr-eth Rates  (f) at Current Prices
prices)           Actual ----------------------------------------------              Prejected ----------------------------------
1980            1976        1977       1978       1979        1980       1981       1982        1983       1984       1985        1990
Mec-h-ndi-s Exports                                          346              -7.6        57.0       38.7      -14.4        57.4      -11.4       18.5         8.7       26.5       21.6       16 7
Agricultural products                                    78              24.3       85.9       26.3      -31.2         9.8        2.0        18.1       15.0       20.8       21.6        14.2
Pho-phates                                              146            -25.1        46.0       11.6         2.0       42.2        3.1       -9.4        -2.8       41.1       33.7         9.3
Clinker                        -                         18                -          -          -           -          -        60.0       163.3       23.1       22.7         6.0        3.3
Petroleum products                                       92                -          -           -      -26 0       228.9      -80.9      -27.3          -          -           -          -
Other                                                    23              18.2       13 7       42 4         8 9        5.2       45.5        15.0       36.9        9.1        12.5        8.2
Merchandise Imports                                          440              19.0        57.2       44.6        9.2      -15.8       -10.2       11.7         5.0       22.5       32.1        13.6
Food end ieerrngs                                        62              29.3       73.6      -17.4        93.4      -11.6       -3.1       29.4         2.5       13.2        26.5       15.0
Other consucer goode                                     50              21.7       48.2          -        25.3        1.0       -0.9       35.2        10.6       23.6       39.7        16.9
Credo petroleum                                          78                -          _           -        18.3       52.7      -85.7          -          -          -           -          -
Refined petroleum                                        53              10.7       61.3          -        38.0       62.3       38.4        18.0       -8.8       15.0        15.9       14.6
Equipment                                               106              34.6       60.0       66.5       76.4       -21.4        1.6         1.5        9.1       30.8       34.5        11.4
Seni-finished prod-cte                                   62              -7.4       72.0       38.8         8.3       75.3        1.9         7.3        7.9       25.5       39.6        11.6
Other                                                    20              25.0       33.3       29.2        25.2      -78.9       12.2        15.2       17.0       22.6       36.6        13.2
Koport price ilden                                                            53.9        69.7       74.2       91.2      100.0       123.4      161.5      187.7       204.8      219.7      298.6
Isport price id-c                                                             47.1        55.1       67.0       81.0      100.0       127.0      181.2      199.5       218.2      249.6      376.2
Terms of t-eds                                                               114.4       126.5      110.7      112.5      100.0        97.2       89.1       94.1        93.9       88.0       79.4
TOGO - BALANCE OF PAYMETS  EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(Millions of USS at current prices)
ActPIr ------------------___------------------------------------------------              Pojeted ----------------------------------
1970       1975       1976       1977        1978       1979       1980       1981        1982       1983        1984       1985       1990
BALANCE OF PAYIIiETS
Enporto of goodo end eervi-es                            80        163        182         232        288        299        383         264        265        260         326        396        853
of chich   mero-h-dicc, f.o.b.                       (68)     (141)       (159)      (099)      (262)       (265)      (346)      (239)       (240)      (235)      (297)       '362)      (783)
I=portc of goode .nd sereices                           -93       -274       -236       -360        -529       -580       -605       -421        -423       -404       -478        -598      -1042
of ehich: rer-chdie., f.o.b.                       (-67)    (-212)       (-181)    (-253)    (-403)    (-435)    (-440)    (-306)           (-291)    (-275)       (-337)     (-446)      (-842)
Net tr-.f.-rs                                             8         15         15          15         16         17          18         14         13          12         13         18         31
Correct  -ccount batoce                                 -5        -95        -40       -113        -226       -264       -204       -142        -195       -132       -139        -184       -158
Pri-cte direet i-ecesteei                                            5           5          4         23         -1           -          -          -           1          3         34         23
Officicl gr-nt eid                                        4         25         20         23          35         40         49          44         31         50          67         52         70
fledium  end long-tern ions (not) n/                     _1         37         48         121        258        224         149        121         43          -2         12         66          79
Other capital b/                                         10         35        -60        -66         -69         23          18         66         73         63          42         34         -8
Cheneeginreceros   (increese -)                          -9         -8         26          31        -20        -23        -13         -89         -2         20          15         -2         -6
toteonctionni recercen (-nd of yenr)                     35         39         13         -18          2         25         38         127        129        109          94         96        102
Reerves as acethi  iapor-t                                4.5        1.7        0.7        -0.6        --         0.5         0.8        3.6        3.7         3.2        2.4        1.9         1.2
EXTE5 NAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Groec dibirses-sntn                                       5         51         81         171        292        216         107         38         43         75          74        132        177
Total debt ouetetndiag cod disbursed
(cod of year)                                         40         120        178        321        624         850        909        860        767         765        778        847        1218
Debt -erric   (-actu-1)                                   3         15          11         17         36         77         83          31         42        120         109        111         162
Icterest due                                           1          2          3          9         24          30         51         49          50         43         41          42         68
Principal doe                                          2         13          8         17         43          91        100        121         110        101         93          72         70
Rescheduli.g                                                                                                  62         61         92           7         53         54          32         __
Arrears (reduction -)                                __          __         __          9         31         -18          7         48         112        -29        -29         -29        -24
Pey e.ts as % exports                                     4         12          10         11         15         36          24         13         16         41          31         26          17
Psy=ents an 9 Gceernrent correct rerenun                  8         10           7         10         15         31         25          13         19         50          40         36         28
Average icterest rate en oem loana (9)                    4.6        7.7        7.4         5.0        7.7        2.4         3.6        3.6        3.6         6.0        6.0        6.0         6.0
A-erage =aturity of onew Icen  (yearn)                   17.2       14.7         9.7       22.0       11.1       30.1       23.7        35.5       35.5        15.0       15.0       15.0       15.0
a/  IEcludes all payp.ets of pri-cipai and  -edoction cf arrears.
b/   OIcludes ehort-ter= eapitl, net fLF credits, error  and omissions.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TOGO
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of March 31, 1983)
Amount US$ Million
Loan or    Fiscal                                              (Less Cancellations)
Credit No.  Year  Borrower Purpose                     Bank   IDA 1/   Undisbursed
Five Credits and One Loan Fully Disbursed               3.50   41.60         -
638-TO    1976   Togo  Maritime Region Rur. Dev.                7.80      0.56
810-TO    1978   Togo  Feeder Roads                             5.80       1.47
930-TO    1979   Togo  Technical Assistance                     2.20       1.15
945-TO    1979   Togo  Cocoa/Coffee Development II             14.00      11.64
1018-TO    1979   Togo  First Education                         11.00       6.31
1139-TO    1981   Togo  Fourth Highway                          17.59      14.76
1169-TO    1981   Togo  Phosphate Engineering                    5.15      4.22
1190-TO    1982   Togo  Power Engineering and Tech-
nical Assistance                     1.93       1.12
1270-TO    1982   Togo  Technical Assistance II                  3.32      3.00
1302-TO    1983   Togo  Second Rural Develop-
ment Proj. 2/                       23.87      23.87
Total                                3.50  134.26      68.10
of which has been repaid             0.35    0.17
TOTAL now outstanding                3.15  134.09
Amount Sold
of which has been repaid              -        -
Total Now Held by Bank and IDA       3.15  134.09
Total Undisbursed                                      68.10
B.   Statement of Bank Loan Guaranteed by Ghana, Ivory Coast and Togo
1295-WAF   1976   CIMAO - CIMAO Regional Clinker    49.5                     -
C.   Statement of IDA Credit for Regional Projects - Benin, Ivory Coast,
Niger, Senegal, Togo, Upper Volta
969-WAF   1980   BOAD Project Preparation Credit                3.0       2.14
1/   Prior to exchange adjustment.
2/   Not yet effective.



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
E.   Projects in Execution 1/
Credit No. 810      Feeder Roads Project; US$5.8 million; Credit of June 28,
1978; Effectiveness Date: March 2, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
The project consists of a four-year program for the improvement and
maintenance of about 1,000 km of feeder roads, technical assistance to estab-
lish a Feeder Roads Unit in charge of the program, and consultant services to
study a follow up feeder roads program. At the end of 1982, the project was
being wound down as most of the IDA credit had been disbursed. Due to lower
output than expected from the brigades, institutional difficulties and a
shortage of local funds resulting from the difficult budgetary situation in
Togo which was alleviated only in part by an increase in IDA disbursement
percentage, only about 530 km of feeder roads have been constructed. By March
1983, US$4.3 million had been disbursed, leaving an undisbursed balance of
US$1.5 million. Part of this will be needed for outstanding commitments and
for completion of certain remaining structures; the rest will be reserved for
maintenance works.
Credit No. 930      Technical Assistance Project; US$2.2 million; Credit of
June 22, 1979; Effectiveness Date: October 23, 1979;
Closing Date: February 28, 1986.
The project provides for two advisers in the Ministry of Planning for
a three-year period each and for short-term consultants to carry out specific
project-related and macroeconomic studies. The first adviser is to counsel on
general economic and public finance questions, while the second adviser is to
assist in selecting major new investments and in finding ways of improving
existing large projects. The assignment of the first adviser has been
extended for a fourth year until August 1983. The second adviser began his
assignment in September 1982.
Credit No. 945      Second Cocoa and Coffee Development Project; US$14.0
million; Credit of July 23, 1979; Effectiveness Date:
July 11, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
The project is a continuation of the First Coffee/Cocoa Project. It
provides for the planting and maintenance of a further 7,500 ha of coffee and
4,000 ha of cocoa as well as services, applied research, associated food crop
development, and construction of 300 km of feeder roads.  Coffee production is
proceeding satisfactorily.  The cocoa program has fallen far behind appraisal
targets due to technical problems, a lack of farmer interest, and diseases
affecting the cocoa plants. These problems have been examined by a specialist
in cocoa cultivation. Possible solutions, including the cancellation of
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors on the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any pro-
blems and actions being taken to remedy them. They should be read with
the understanding that they do not present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 43 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
the cocoa component of the credit, are being considered. Another problem
facing the project has been the poor rate of medium-term credit recovery from
participating farmers. The Government has taken steps to solve this problem
by using marketing channels for credit recovery.
Credit No. 969      Project Preparation Credit to Banque Ouest Africaine de
Development; US$3.0 million; Credit of January 25, 1980;
Effectiveness Date: April 29, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
The objective of the project is to finance feasibility and detailed
engineering studies for regional development projects. The project is
proceeding satisfactorily.
Credit No. 1018    First Education Project; US$11.0 million; Credit of
September 15, 1980; Effectiveness Date: January 27, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Construction of training facilities is progressing satisfactorily.
One of the four project institutions became operational during the last
quarter of 1982, and the three others are expected to become operational by
October 1983. Project management continues to perform well, but should focus
on the timely implementation of the educational programs, the institutional
budget, and the technical assistance. Despite an initial lag in disburse-
ments, the project is expected to be completed on schedule.
Credit No. 1139    Fourth Highway Project; US$20.0 million; Credit of
October 28, 1981; Effectiveness Date: September 2, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
This project provides for a three-year training program for road
maintenance personnel; procuremnt of road maintenance equipment and spare
parts; pavement of 157 km of road; pre-investment studies for 57 km of road;
and technical assistance to improve transport planning and coordination, as
well as railway operations. Following a delay in project effectiveness,
implementation of all project items has now been started and progress is
generally satisfactory. Due to a difficult budgetary situation the Government
has requested that IDA and OPEC Fund increase their disbursement percentages
for civil works.
Credit No. 1169    Phosphate Fertilizer Engineering Project; US$5.7 million;
Credit of October 28, 1981; Effectiveness Date: May 21,
1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The purpose of this project is to determine the technical and
economic viability of developing a phosphate fertilizer project to manufacture
for export phosphoric acid and phosphate fertilizers from the Dagbati deposits
and from recovered slimes. Studies and tests comprising the first phase of
the project are nearing completion and show promising results.  The final
feasibility study, which will be executed during the second phase of the
project, is scheduled to be completed by December 1983.



- 44 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
Credit No. 1190    Power Engineering and Technical Assistance Project; US$2.0
million; Credit of January 21, 1982; Effectiveness Date:
December 29, 1983; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
This credit is financing the preparation of the Nangbeto hydro-
electric project, a joint undertaking involving Togo and Benin. Funds may
also be used to strengthen the power sector institutions in each country,
particularly in the areas of planning and accounting.
Credit No. 1270    Second Technical Assistance Project; US$3.5 million;
Credit of July 2, 1982; Effectiveness Date: November 15,
1982; Closing Date:  June 30, 1986.
The project provides an Investment Programmer for two years who will
work in the Ministry of Planning along with the Project Adviser financed under
the First Project. In addition, a planning unit and an applied research
coordination unit are being created in the Ministry of Rural Development with
the assistance of a planning expert, a research coordinator, and short-term
consultants. Two experts are being provided to the State Secretariat for
Industry and State Enterprises to introduce program-contracts and analytical
studies. Additional consultants will be provided on a short-term basis for
studies connected with the implementation of economic adjustment and financial
stabilization measures.  All of the medium-term exerts have been recruited and
have begun their assignments in Lome.
Credit No. 1303    Second Rural Development Project in Cotton Areas; US$23.5
million; Credit of February 18, 1983; Closing Date:
October 1, 1988.
The project would follow the First Rural Development Project in
Cotton areas and will be executed by the Societe Togolaise du Coton
(SOTOCO). The purpose of the project is to expand the production of food
crops and cotton grown by smallholder farmers. Financing would be provided
for extension and animal traction services, applied research and seed multi-
plication, farmer inputs, reconstruction of feeder roads, village water
supply, and technical assistance. The credit has not yet been declared
effective.



211211202                      II   10.0   ,-0                                     -'   K
0240 2000-0,-Ol    20            20,-'20200    20                 o002000200*00
02202-'  0200000       0         0020,'0020                     0-00200000-02020200020     0
20                               0                              0o00o02200020-o-
:c:t22::7   '  I
0-0002 20o,-,'-t    2-         0<   200-
2002020200,          0         2000"2020
::0-:oo  20
0220   0020         20         202020200
20  202020                         00   020  20-0020           '1
200    2002-'  0               00-  0-                          0-000         2200             20
0000'    00   0                2000-0                           02",-'  2    00000
00     202020  0               1-0-2000                         002000.  00   0
2-'   20002                  020020200                        0-020   200  o-,20020-
200    0200  02                000   20                           020    20  200000            [to
020        20  0               202020200                        0202    020'  2000020          20
0-     20      20              20200-0-00                       0   00  020    202020-         0
200-  200                        0020   0 ,2000'ooo-            20
0      0       02             '20   2020                        00      -'02  2002020
20     0       0                     200                          -02  0020
-       0      0               0                                  00   020   0
02000200200202020202000-002000                      0-200.0         20200202o,-'-'20o-o002,0 020o'200
0202000-000200-20020'200202000                      20200           00202000020000000200   020200-
0000000'o2000002000020-o                            Oo0             200200,00   0-2-'-'00002"02020202           220
'00002020002002020200-200   20                       -'020             -200000002002-00000200                    20
20020o20,02000'002002-20o-20000                     200,0           0-',-'020020'02000-202020   2020020          20
00020020-0-0200202000-20-                           0-02            0  200-o2020'  2020000-2002000               0
'000200,,  000-200   2020200                         000            20020   200-200-20 00000   20                0
2020  '020  020      20  0020                   0200-0          0-02020020   00,0202020200   0,0             0
00000020-2000   0000-0220   0                     0200            200-  00      000   000020       0         20
000   00   2200    200  0200,o                    0200            0-  0-0022'  02    0000220   '20
0  0200      0    22   20  20                         0           00202  200  200  20  02020  -00             20
200   0200   200   0-0020-000-20                  0  -            00   02       0-0    20  -'02  021-'-       20
02000-  02   0-4  02202002-0200                   20  0           00"20'  02  202020200.20--' 00               0
02000-2      0    '0000000                         0                0200   0    0  000200    102               20
00-  0200   200      00000,00                     0  20           00-020   0  20 02  0o00-200-  20             0       0-
0.020    202020               20  0           2002020                                              00
0020    00   0-2002000-0                         20  20                    0-        00-20   020             0-      0
02000-020   0200  0020,00   00                                          00        20  -000020  2-20          00      00
0-000000-'  000'  0020200  20                     0  20           002  00  0  02   00   200  002               0
000-0,00     0   0002020  2002                   0             200-20202000202002002020
002020   o   0-0-  020020   '0                    '0  20         202            200   00420      200           0
0020     20  0220  0000       200                 20  0-          00-20  02  02  0-0    000002   2020          20      02
20  0220  20    0    0020   0                     20  0           000  0  0  0-20  02000-  0020               20      220
00-020   00000   200200   020                     0-  20          00   0  0  0    002  0-20   0                000
0002   0   020  200  0-  2020                   20              0-0  00  0  00   00         20  200         20       02
02000   00  2000       020   00                   0  --           0002  -  20  0    00       0-  0-                    0
o'o200             20'20020    20                 20  22          0,00  0  220  0002  2000   20  200           '00
20  0-0      0         200  200-                      20           00  20      0-  0        02   20                   0
0   200      20        020  2002                  0                     0  0  20                   20
20       0220                        20                                                                  02
2211112                          I I I I                                  2 I  I II                          0
020000202000-40000',000            000200200200                         0020002002022000020200                   0-
20020oo0 0000,0020200              02020200-00020                       0000202002020000                         0
02002000002002-00000               020202000200220                      200020000202000-020                      20
20000-2000020   02200-                   00-202020                      02000200-2020   0200002
2000002000200-,'                        0000020                         0000-000-2000202020
0-020200020,0000-20020             20202002:20200.20                    0020o0,-,"0-"020   00-           20
02000020024200200                        0020  0                        00   2020200000    00            20      02
020 00-ooOO-00                           0 -0200                        200000-0-20         0-0         [20      02
1020200   02000000                       2020  02                        020020000-0   00               '0      0
20000-0020220                            0-  02                             0002020020  20
20020,020   0-00  20                    0-'*  20-00                       000  00   20    00             to
0,  00,  00-    00-02                  0   000                          0  02000000202  2002           0
000-00020    20200                      0   20000                         020020     0  0               0       00
0200020      020       20               -   0-200                         000200   020   200
20  200   000   00-0                   0   00020                        20202000220020  2002           00
0200       20                          -20  0  0-                        0-20020000-2002    o           00
20020  20                                0  002020                        2000020000   0                 0-
0-2002  2-'                             0   0-200                         0-00000000   20,0              0       2
2020  0                                20   20                         20       20020    02,-                 [-2
0  20                   20  0                         02002000-'  20  00              20     20
0-  20
0       0,                  02       0                          020020  20020  00             00      0
0200       -2  20  00  02              000  20  20                         0220  00  2020  020           0
0o00
02             0-  0  02                0-  0  20                                     00   020
0  0  0        0       20               20  --  0                           02020   002   o20                    0-
0-    20  0    20    20  0               0-  0   0'                         200       020    0-                  02
0                      20                                                    00      02'-' 02                    K
02
020002020020200,02020 0-'20002040020 10020-'002                   22000-          0020-0- 02-'000020 00' 020002 0-'00                   0
00220020 o000O0020-200020200-200-0200o0-                         o02020          20020022020002002020-0000200
-0000200   20200-- 20-00-02000220020200-0002  20                  0-0020        02000   00000-202020000-0'0020                         00
0-  02-020   00    0020-20000   0-00-0-020                      0-02002         0-0020000202020   00002000201                  20      0
o   Oo 00000--0 00           0  20-00020   202-'                      000         0020  0  00-00-00010, 020000--0               0       0
OJo02o0-0002000020           00,42020020   20                     0020,           0200-020   0000200-00-0-   0220              20      20
oo-0-200020   0000020-0  200-000   00-0        020                0220200            2020    02020000020000020020                0      20
0-02,-boo   00-o00200200   00-' 00000000   020                    002000          20020   0  200000-20   02ooo   0               0-
0-000   0  o-            02000   00                     -              020   002  00   0-0020020                      0
-0-o00-0200o0   0202)                         00-                2001,20           000   020000-0-0-00-00                       0    I
20200,       0  020-         -''0I-,200-'00,00-            20
02002  '000200   000   2000   200000   00-                        0-  0,          020     0  0,0'   0   0  '02   020           200-     02
200      0-0002  0-0     000000-00200   00                      02,-  02          002-'0   00,  002020         20            000       20
2002'200-'0 200-    002020   0  20-20      0  200                   002-                              0   0'2   0202         2020      02
200-0  220020   0  0-002  020   000200-0-0                        202000         '0  -0200    0220  020   0002000
020000-20020   000    20020  0  20002,--'  400                    000020          00-0-00   1,0020020  20 02o 2000             02
2002020002  00       2020  020   00002   0-  000                  00-0           02000-   000-0000--'o20o  20                 00        02
0    200-0  20  02  00   20-'0200020  00                                                00   0200        20    0         00
0000    00-0020   020,0  o0-    '00200           0                                  00   0-  0    000
0-'002   0000-'  0)20   20   20  000200   0                                         00    -  020   0000   2          0
''20    00- 02000o  20  02-0' 200  02                             00-020            000  20  20,,  00200   0  02   0
0        02  0  0    20   200020                                              00         20  020    20  00-
202000-  00      0-0-  002  0-00    0                                     000   0  0-20  200  20  0    20 02          20
2020200   0-00    00-0   200   00020   20  0                                        0020  02  02-'   0020  0  00   0
0202020-00000-20   00202  020   0  20000-  02                                         0  2    20  0-0.0  02  00   0
000       -000       -     0020           20  0                   022000            200   0  2020  02020  20  0    0
00000   0-  20  2000  0-  200  20  20o0                 0020              200  20  0       00-  20  0202  20
'-'00   000200  02020   020                                       202020          0 00-200o02020  0  20
0   00020      020  020                                                       0.0  0-  200    2002  00   20
200020    0000   0000  20          00200   00                                     2002  20         200       0-20  02
2000-  0-00    '00,0   200,000,000,  0-                                                20  0       00   0  020   0
20020  "200      0   2    20  00                                                       20  0       200   0    0  0
20     20    00      0-0                                                               '       02,-i      20
00     20                                                                                    0
020   0                                               02020   "220  020  200
00                                              0200   -00   o0   200
000220   220   00   220         K
200-                     020-  0-0  020   02             220
0    00  020    02
20         200    02
00-    0-  2020   20
20    0                                 0220-
200 00 0 00
20 00 0<
0                        000    20  too    20
0                                                00     20                                   120
20                                              020     0     20   02        f               00
400    02         20
27     0                       r
002 02 02 20
000,0 20 20 0



- 45 -
ANKEX III
Page 1
TOGO: PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJISTMENT PROGRAMI -ISSUES AND SCOPE
Structural Issues                         Measures taken by Government                         Meaeures to be taken                        Monitorable Policy actions                   Related TOedProject Lending and
and timing                                Related ISF Program
Maacroeconomie lianagement
Inadequate policy and planning                  - Reductions in extra-budgetary                  - Strengthen financial control and              - Review and adoption of 1984-1985              Technical asse;stonc  projects in
environment                                        expenditures                                    Policy coordination role of  SEFC               Investment plan by Decembor 31,               Ministries of Plan and Rural
- excessively ambitious growth and              - Elimination of carry-overs in                  - Implementation of investment                    1983                                          Development and State Secretariat
investment targets                              investment budget                                programming                                  - Initiation of 2-year rolling                  for Tndustry sod State Enterprises
- deficient project screening and                - Budgetization of OPAT financial               - Preparation of 1984-85 Investment               investment planning system  in 1983           (930-TO and 1270-TO)
selection                                       surplus                                          Plan                                         - Introduction of system of
- lack of coordination in aectoral              - Constraints on curront                         - It-rodaction of a system of                     macroeconomic accounts designed to            IMF
allocation of investment                         expenditure. hiring and salary                  macroeconomic accounts                          provide quarterly information on
- extra-budgetary expenditures                     increases                                     - Budgetization of all OTP transfers              Treasury, OTP, OPAT and other                 Thlrteen-month stand-by arrangem-nt
- Large reductions in investment                  to Government                                   large public agencies by April 30,            (February 1983-March 1984):
budgets for 1981, 1982 and 1983                                                                 1983
- Creation of Rational Stabilization                                                            - Submission of quarterly data to               Objectives:
Program Commission (NISPC)                                                                      Bank at same time as IMF                      - Reduction in overall Preasurv
- French technical assistance in                                                                                                                  deficit
financial control                                                                                                                            - Strengtheaed control over central
- IDA technical assistance in                                                                                                                     government expenditure
investment programming                                                                                                                       - Improved management of state
- IMF technical assistance in                                                                                                                     enterprises
consolidation of public financee                                                                                                             - Improvements in debt management
- Initial steps to prepare 1984-85
Investment Plan                                                                                                                              Cooditions:
- Agreement on a 1983 stand-by with                                                                                                             - Redactions in Trasoury payments
the IMF                                                                                                                                         arrears
- ,ewdutione in current expenditures
,        Ioc05lans with one-to-tweive
year maturity on ommercIal terms
- Domesically financed investments
in 1983 no be held at 1982 level
-Limits an increase in met domesoic
assets and net credit to
Gover.mest in domestic bank system
-Revision of Tnveeceent lode
- Acti ns on state enterprises (some
as SA.C)
- Revision of agricultural prico
Policies (same as SAC)
- Monthly monitoring of macro-
economic indicators
Excessive external public debt and               - Debt rescheduling through Paris               - Rescheduling of debt due in 1983
payments arrears                                   Club in 1979 and 1981, and with                 and beyond
private creditors in 1980                     - Further improvements in management
- Centralization of debt data and                 of public external debt
payments in SNI
- IDA technical assistance in debt
recording
- Reductions in foreign borrowing
- Avoidance of non-Concessionary
terms
Insufficient public savings                     - Tax and customs reforms                        - Additional tam reforms
- excessive reliance on foreign                 - Increases in public utility rates
financing
- rapid rise in current expenditures
- rigid revenue structure



- 47 -
ANNEX III
Page 3
TOGO:  PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJIISTMENT PROGRAM - ISSUES AND SCOPE  (continued) - page 3
Structural Issues
Measures taken by Government                        Measures to be taken                        Monitorable Policy actions                  Related IDA Project lending and
and timing                                Belated IMP Program
Mineral production
- Low production and reinvestment by
OTP due to low transfer price for           - Change in taxation policy                     - New financial arrangements between           - Appl.ication of new financial                 Consultant's study of OTP financed
rhosphate rock                                 equivalent to increase inl transfer            OTP and the Government, leaving                 arrangements between OTP and                 under 930-TO
- Low value added                                price                                           enough funds in OTP for current                Government by June 30, 1983
- Overtaxation of OTP                          - Elimination of export compensation              opetations and future investments                                                            Phosphate Fertilizer Engineering
-  on-recording of OTP's export                  contracts for extra-budgetary                   and transferring funds to the                                                                Credit (1169-TO)
compensation contracts                         expenditures                                   budget in ani orderly predictable
- Possiblity of' untapped potenitial           - Clear idenitification of export                 fashion                                                                                      Consultants' studies of attapulgite
for production of other minerals               compensation contracts entered               - Completion of phosphoric acid                                                                and marble deposits financed under
into for marketing purposes on                 study and decision on feasibility                                                            930-TO
OTP's books                                  - Contacts with possible partners
- Initiation of feasibility study                and formulation of financing plan                                                             CIMAO Regional Clinker Plant (1296-
for phosphoric acid plant                      for phosphoric acid plant                                                                    TO, 1295-WAP)
- Decision to invite equity                       (a8slsming positive decision)
participation by foreigni investors                                                                                                         CIMAO restructuring project (Board
(both private and official) with                                                                                                            approval Pebruary 24, 1983)
technical expertise in phosphoric
acid
- 0rospectinag for attapulgite
- Study of marble deposits (SOTOMA)
Energy resources
- Dependence on imports of                     - Promotion of energy conservation             - Energy Assessment                                                                             Power Engineering and Technical
electricity and oil                            through higher prices                        - Decision on Nangbeto project                                                                 Assistance Project (1190-TO)
- Deforestretion due to increased              - Preparation of oil exploration               - Feasibility studies for oil
wooa   fuel consumption and                    project begun,                                 exploration project
inadequate replanting                       - Feasibility study of Nangbeto
-Policy based more on political                  hydroelectric project underway
than economic considerations
- Installation of non-economical
thermal plants in order to reduce
dependence on electricity imports






- 48 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1
English translation of Letter in French signed by Minister Walla
Mr. A.W. Clausen, President
international Development Association
Washington, D.C. 20453
February 16, 1983
Dear Hr. President:
1.    Attached is a memorandum on economic policy which the Togolese
Government has adopted. This memorandum outlines the economic and
financial policy measures which the Government of Togo intends to
implement within the framework of a recovery and structural
adjustment program. These policy measures are designed to improve
Togo's internal and external financial situation and restructure the
economy so as to enhance economic growth and development.
2.    In support of this structural adjustment program, the
Government of Togo would like to request an IDA credit equivalent to
US$40 million. The proceeds from this credit will be used to finance
imports, thus alleviating the strain on domestic resources during
this period of financial and economic adjustment.
3.    The Government of Togo believes that the policies set forth in
the attached memorandum are adequate to achieve the objectives of the
structural adjustment program. The Togolese authorities will remain
in close consultation with you regarding the progress of the program
and will provide the staff of the Association with all relevant
information on the implementation of its specific measures.
Very truly yours,
Koffi Kadanga WALLA
Minister of Plan and
Administrative Reform



_ 49 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2
Februar,y 16, 1983
MEMORANDUM ON THE TOGOLESE GOVERNMENT'S
ECONOMIC POLICY
(WITHIN THE FRAMEWORK OF A RECOVERY AND STRUCTIURAL ADJuSTMENT PROGRAM)
INTRODUCTION
1.       After benefiting from particularly favorable economic conditions
during the first half of the last decade (a sharp rise in worl(d prices of
cocoa, coffee and phosphates, substantial public savings, and an abundant
supply of foreign capital), Togc has been afflicted in rapid succession by an
extraordinary combination of highly adverse factors, the effects of which are
still being felt. The positive results achieved by projects for the
development of the country's two main agricultural exports, cocoa and coffee,
were more than offset by the collapse of the international prices for these
products. The stagnation in world consumption of phosphate fertilizers and
changes in the industrial structure (which increasingly favors phosphate
fertilizer production in vertically integrated operations near the mines)
caused a sharp drop in the world market price of phosphates and made it very
difficult to find an outlet for OTP's production. The oil crisis and world
inflation have resulted in considerable increases in the cost cf Togo's
imports of energy, industrial products and capital goods, causing a
concomitant significant rise in investment costs well beyond the projections
of financing plans. Finally, the recession or slower growth rate in the
industrialized countries has had an adverse impact on Togo's new industries.
The fact that some European cement manufacturers have sold clinker at dumping
prices on African markets has slowed down the recovery of the regional company
CIMAO, whose start-up was in any event severely handicapped by serious
production problems.
2.       These unfavorable external circumstances and other factors which are
difficult to control have indeed played an important role, but the Togolese
Government readily acknowledges that the country's serious economic and
financial problems are due to internal factors as well.  Encouraged by an
enormous increase in disposable public savings from phosphates, coffee and
cocoa in the 70's, Togo embarked on a massive progriam to expand public
investment and to increase the number and functions of Government and
parastatal agencies. To augment savings, it borrowed extensively on terms
incompatible with today's economic and financial realities. These new
resources were used to finance armong other things industrial and hotel
projects which had low or negative economic returns.
3.       All of these factors resulted in a substan-tial increase in the public
debt (State debt and government-guaranteed borrowings), which rose from CFAF
12.6 billion at the end of 1973 to CFAF 240.3 billion by the end of 1981, and
in particular in the cost of servicing that debt, which in 1973 represented
only 11% of government revenue arid 7% of the country's export earnings but



- 50 -
ANNEX IV
Page 3
which by 1981 had risen to 76% of government revenue and 69% of export
earnings (before debt rescheduling). Today, one of the major obstacles to a
rapid recovery of Togo's public finances and its balance of payments situation
is the heavy burden of this indebtedness.
4.        Aware of the gravity of the situation and anxious to bring its
finances and external accounts into balance as soon as possible, as well as to
resume the country's development on a sound basis, the Togolese Government has
shown at the highest level a willingness to make the efforts and implement the
reforms that are necessary for economic and financial recovery. The
Government has already launched, and intends to pursue vigorously--with the
technical and financial support of the international and bilateral agencies
operating in Togo--a vast program with two main objectives:
-  to ensure progressive stabilization in the area of public finance;
-  to stimulate economic recovery and gradually alter the structure
of the economy in order to derive maximum benefit from any new
activities in which the country may be able to develop a
comparative advantage.
PART I:  FINANCIAL STABILIZATION
5.        For three years now, the Togolese Government has been taking
important measures to promote financial recovery and short term adjustment.
On one hand, tax and customs reforms have been adopted to increase Government
revenue, and the rates charged by some public utilities have been raised. In
addition, growth in government expenditure has been curtailed by limiting
salary increases and new recruitment. Some of the indicators of this
financial effort are:
-  an appreciable increase in the tax burden (from 14% of GDP in 1973
to 26% in 1981;
-  a relatively modest expansion of current government expenditure,
at a rate about equal to that of inflation;
-  a noteworthy increase in gross budgetary savings (before debt
service), which rose from CFAF 0.5 billion in 1973 (0.6% of GDP)
to CFAF 20.0 billion in 1981 (8% of GDP).
6.        Concurrently with these budgetary and tax measures, the Togolese
Government has also introduced the first elements of a long-term program for
reforming public finances. It has significantly reduced extrabudgetary
expenditures and public investment, and has tried to slow the rate of increase
in the debt. Since 1978 only high priority projects have been undertaken with
financing provided by grants or soft loans. In addition , the Government has
ended its policy of expanding the parapublic sector and of creating numerous
new enterprises. While the annual rate of new public borrowing commitments
(including guarantees) reached CFAF 68.7 billion in 1977, it fell to CFAF 17.7
billion in 1981 (composed almost entirely of long-term concessional loans from
official aid agencies). Finally, stabilization programs, in conjunction with
the rescheduling of the Togolese debt, were negotiated with the IMF and the
Paris Club in 1979 and 1981.



- 51 -
ANNEX IV
Page 4
7.       Unfortunately, these efforts and programs were not sufficient to halt
the deterioration of Togolese public finances. In fact, the measures taken
were neutralized in part by the following factors:
a) Although the Togolese Government refrained from Launching any
major new public investment projects, it was justified in completing many of
those already underway, a fact, which considerably increased the level of
disbursed external debt;
b) Although new public enterprises were no longer being created, the
public sector of Togo nevertheless suffered an appreciable worsening in the
financial performance of a number of recently created enterprises;
c) Projections of phosphate exports have not been realized. OTP
sales were expected to amount to 2.9 million tons in 1981, but actual sales
amounted to only 2.2 million tons and fell to 2.0 million tons in 1982.
Moreover, the financial contribution from OTP to the Government budget was
reduced as a result of the repayment of OTP's bank overdrafts, by export
compensation transactions, and by the financing of non-budgeted public
investments.
8.       The combined effect of these factors has been that the increase in
gross budgetary savings has not been adequate to ensure financial recovery.
In spite of the rescheduling of the Togolese debt--which made it possible to
reduce the public debt service from CFAF 46.4 billion to CFAF 21.5 billion in
1981--the Togolese Government has not been able to meet its external debt
obligations. Arrears increased from CFAF 7 billion at the end of 1980 to CFAF
58 billion at the end of 1982. This unfavorable *turn of events meant that the
financial stabilization prograrm with the IMF for :L981 was suspended. The
Togolese Government realized however that further debt rescheduling was needed
and had to be accompanied by better public financial management. Discussions
were therefore resumed with the IMF in late 1981. While the deteriorating
financial situation made it urgent that a stabilization program be adopted,
the greater adjustment effort required to reverse the trend and reduce arrears
made it significantly harder for the Government to reach an agreement with the
IMF. The discussions between the Government and I]MF were inconclusive until
November 1982, when an agreement was reached.  The financial stabilization
program negotiated for 1983 is stringent and will require a major adjustment
(tightening) in fiscal policy to cope with the foreign debt crisis.  Fiscal
stringency will not be sufficient and further substantial debt rescheduling
through the Paris Club and with private banks will also be necessary.  The IMF
program is indeed predicated or, such rescheduling. The Government intends to
request that the Paris Club be reconvened to consider major debt rescheduling
for 1983, and beyond, shortly after IMF Board approval of the 1983 financial
stabilization program-cum-standby arrangement of SDR 21.4 million (75 percent
of quota).  The broad lines of the program are:
a) a sharp reduction in the overall government deficit (commitment
basis) from 6.1% of GDP in 1982 to 3.2% of GDP in 1983, by raising additional
revenue and reducing current and capital expenditure (at current prices);
b) despite anticipated debt rescheduling through the Paris Club and
with private creditors, a large increase in debt service paymeints in cash in



- 52 -
ANNEX IV
Page 5
1983 involving the paying of all debt due after the new debt rescheduling as
well as paying CFAF 10 billion in arrears;
c) no external borrowing on commercial terms in the maturity range
one to twelve years;
d) rehabilitation of state enterprises in accordance with Bank
recommendations;
e) revision of agricultural pricing policy in accordance with Bank
recommendations;
f) monthly monitoring of major financial and macro-economic
aggregates to follow adherence to performance criteria (reduction in arrears,
monetary aggregates, etc.);
g) an in-depth review of the program in the second quarter of 1983
after debt rescheduling has been obtained.
9.       As part of this new program, the Togolese Government has decided to
deal energetically with the problem of unprofitable public enterprises and has
taken the following steps, among others:
a) The Togolese Government has decided not to reopen the oil refinery
(STH).  Consultants will be engaged to determine the most advantageous way of
transforming the tank farm into a storage facility for imported refined
products and disposing of the refinery equipment. The consultants' study will
be completed by the end of May 1983, and the resulting recommendations will be
examined with the World Bank before August 31, 1983. The measures which are
decided upon in light of these recommendations will be take by December 31,
1983.
b) Production and marketing problems have resulted in a low capacity
utilization of the steel mill (SNS); the Togolese Government has decided to
recruit, by March 31, 1983 at the latest, consultants to examine problems
relating to primary material procurement, production, costs, management, and
marketing. The recommendations of the consultants will be elaborated in terms
of three options:
i)   continuation of operations provided that measures can be taken
to achieve a positive operating cash flow;
ii) temporary closure until prospects improve;
iii) liquidation.
The recommendation will be examined jointly with the World Bank, so that a
final decision on the future of SNS can be made by August 31, 1983.
c) Following the adoption by the Government in December 1982 of a
policy of reorganization and rehabilitation of state enterprises, the
following enterprises were closed: SALINTO, SOTEXMA, TOGOFRUIT, CNPPME,
Compagnie du Benin and Regie Municipale des Transports Urbains. In the
context of this Memorandum, closure means definitive cessation of both



- 53 -
ANNEX IV
Page 6
production and salary payments to 90 percent of thie staff. The privatization
of TOGOROUTE was also decided and will be completed by June 30, 1983.  TOGOTEX
is still at the level of trial operations, and the installation of equipment
is not yet complete. In June 1L982, consultants recruited under the World
Bank's first technical assistance project completed a study of the marketing
prospects of TOGOTEX products and of the condition of the installed
equipment. A decision on the future of this enterprise, and on the
possibility of supplementary investments, if these should be deemed
worthwhile, will be made in consultation with the World Bank by May 31,
1983. SOTOMA's ceramic tile department has been closed. The department
producing marble, and products derived therefrom, will be reorganized in light
of recommendations made in a study by consultants concerning the extent and
quality of local deposits. These consultants were financed through the First
Technical Assistance Project of the World Bank.  The future of the brick
department will be decided in :Light of the conclusions of a consultants' study
regarding the outlook for this department. The consultants will be chosen in
agreement with the World Bank and will be financed through the First Technical
Assistance Project.  The study will be completed by July 31, 1983, and a
decision with respect to the futureD of the brick department will be taken in
agreement with the World Bank before September 30, 1983.
d) The Togolese Government will revise its hotel policy.  It will
create a hotel holding company, the functions of which will be as follows:
i)   to implement a selective price policy and a division of markets
among the principal hotels for the purpose of optimizing the
occupancy rates and the profitability of the state owned hotels
as a whole.  (This irmplies an end to the current room rate war,
as well as the discounts offered to business clients.);
ii)  to determine in advance each year (beginning with 1983), the
subsidies which will be necessary to balance the operating
accounts of the Hote:L du 2 F&vrier. These subsidies should be
designed so as to provide an incentive for a gradual reduction
in the need for subs:Ldies;
iii) to establish a common system of accounts;
iv)  to supervise the activities of the hotel management companies;
v)   to carry out all deposits to and withdrawals from the accounts
of the owners.
10.      The Togolese Government is aware that financial stabilization can not
succeed without better programming and monitoring of revenues and expenditures
in the public sector and of performance in the parastatal sector. To this
end, it will, by March 31, 1983, introduce a system of macroeconomic accounts
designed to provide quarterly information on the financial operations of the
Treasury, OTP, OPAT, and large public agencies such as the PTT.  In setting up
this system of accounts, the Togolese government will make useD of the
investment programmer financed under the World Barik's second -technical
assistance project.
11.      The Togolese Government will produce each year a report on public



- 54 -
ANNEX IV
Page 7
enterprises, which will cover the entire sector. Accordingly, financial
audits of all public enterprises and institutions with a turnover of more than
CFAF 200 million will be required no later than six months after the end of
each fiscal year (starting with 1983). These financial audits will be carried
out by accounts commissioners certified by the Government. The commissioners
will certify that the financial accounts are presented in conformity with
current legislation. In addition, management studies covering the
institutions that play an important role in the Togolese economy will be
prepared with technical assistance from the World Bank. Starting in 1983,
such analyses will be prepared for OPAT (by June 1983), the National Water
Supply Company (by end of 1983) and CEET (by June 1983). These management
studies are intended to define medium-term restructuring and expansion plans
of these enterprises on the basis of economic objectives and realistic
financial projections.
PART II: RECOVERY AND RESTRUCTURING OF THE TOGOLESE ECONOMY
12.      The financial stabilization measures described above are aimed
primarily at optimizing the use of scarce resources. While undertaking the
austerity measures and restrictions required to deal with the crisis, the
Togolese Government wishes also to establish the basis for renewed sustained
economic development. The two aspects of the program are in any event closely
linked. Without financial recovery, the Togolese Government would be hard put
to restore the confidence of its economic partners and Togolese and foreign
investors, on whom the success of its development program will depend.
Likewise, it will be possible to stabilize the public finances over the long
term only through revitalization of production and exports.
13.      As a country with a limited market whose prosperity depends largely
on the economic situation of neighboring African countries and the fortunes of
the international market, Togo will not find it easy to attain the high rates
of growth which it experienced very briefly during the phosphate boom. The
country is therefore determined more than ever not only to bring about the
recovery of its traditional exports but also, and in particular, to develop
new and previously unexploited or poorly exploited potentials, that correspond
to its long-term comparative advantage.
14.      Recovery and restructuring of the economy are thus the two main goals
of a more dynamic economic policy. These two goals will be applied to
practically all sectors. In agriculture, it is justifiable in the short run
to continue to encourage the production and export of traditional export
crops, especially cocoa and coffee. But, in view of the inelasticity of the
demand for coffee and cocoa and the uncertainties of world markets for these
crops, an agricultural policy which is based on coffee and cocoa would almost
certainly fail to meet the Government's development objectives. Thus, it is
essential that a strategy be followed to diversify agricultural production,
reflecting expected longer run world and local market conditions, exploiting
Togo's existing comparative advantages and concentrating on those crops for
which productivity increases can be achieved cost-effectively. Such a program
would have to be supported with appropriate applied research, public and
private investments, and especially producer incentives. This would mean that
increased attention would be given to food crop production and marketing
especially through private channels, including farmers organized in co-



- 55 -
ANNEX IV
Page 8
operatives, in order to take fill advantage of new opportunities--sometimes
little recognized though proba-bly substantial--that have been created by urban
development in Togo itself, and by the growing dependency of large neighboring
countries on food imports. The strategy should also be based on the
development of infrastructure to minimize the risks of production, including a
better control of water in rural areas against the vagaries of the weather, in
order to permit, among other things, an enhanced mobilization of national
savings in favor of the rural sector.  In the industrial and mining areas, the
priority will be to ensure the optimal long-term development of Togo's
phosphate production facilities. 'This is most likely to require that some of'
the processing be done locally (production of phosphoric acid), in line with
the world trends in this industry (which favor local processing of rock).  It,
will also require that the Togolese penetrate new markets and seek some form
of association with major foreign partners, whose aid for a venture of this
kind will be essential.
15.       The principal measures described below have been conceived within the
framework of the double objectives of recovery and restructur'-ng.  The
following paragraphs cover, one by one, the problems facing agriculture,
energy, mining and industry, and the multi-sectoral problem of public
investment.
A.  Recovery and Diversificatin of' Agricultural Production and Exports
a) General objectives: planning, coordination and research
16.       The Government attaches the highest priority to formulating a
development program for agriculture. Over time its aim is to elaborate
operational objectives for the level, structure and regional distribution of
production, based on an appreciation of broader economic and social
imperatives. Among these imperatives would be recognition of comparative
advantages of Togolese production, the prospects of relieving various
constraints on productivity and the efficiencies of various fcrms of
agricultural production. In addition, goals for food self'-sufficiency and
equity in income and food distribution would be significant considerations.
To date, the Government has made various attempts to meet these objectives,
but without a uniform implementation strategy. For instance, there are
numerous rural development projects currently underway, financed by different
donors and involving several different approaches to development. Many have
their own extension services, training facilities and research programs.
Agricultural development is fragmented and may suffer from duplication and
inefficiency in some areas, since there is little coordination among the
various projects and no overall rural development strategy. The Government
has decided to conduct an evaluation of rural development projects with a view
to identifying both successes and difficulties, and on the basis of this
experience, to formulate a long-term strategy for rural development.  For this
purpose, under the World Bank's second technical assistance project, a study
and planning unit is to be established by March 31, 1983, within the Ministry
of Rural Development. With the assistance of a consultant team, including a
group of Togolese consultants, this unit will make a detailed survey of the
experience of the ongoing and completed projects in order to (a) evaluate and
compare the advantages and disadvantages of the various approa3hes, (b)
determine to what extent project. support services (such as training, extension
and research) could be coordinated and combined and (c) in lighat of (a) and



- 56
ANNEX IV
Page 9
(b), make recommendations for strategy formulation and aid coordination. The
consultants will submit their final report by December 15, 1983. The
Ministries of Rural Development, Rural Works, and Plan will then formulate a
rural development strategy after review of the report and consultation with
the Bank. Subsequently the study and planning unit of the Ministry of Rural
Development will play an important role in the implementation of the agreed
strategy through the identification of new projects and the related
coordination of support services. In view of the division of responsibilities
for the rural area between the Ministry of Rural Development and the Ministry
of Rural Works, a coordination mechanism will be established.
17.      Over the longer term, it will be necessary to improve the
organization of agricultural research as part of an effort to expand the
production of cash crops as well as food crops-- which have been somewhat
neglected in the past, to improve the productivity of agricultural labor, and
to adapt extension services to the specific needs of each region and to the
socio-economic constraints of small-scale farming as a whole. Initially,
however, it is particularly important to increase coordination between
national and regional programs of applied research and to expand contacts with
international programs concerned with techinical problems similar to those
which exist in Togolese agriculture. It will also be necessary to improve the
coordination and quality of seed multiplication programs. Under the second
rural development project in cotton areas, a food crop seed quality control
unit will be established under the Ministry of Rural Development. Under the
same project, operating funds will be provided for a national food crop seed
multiplication coordinating committee, which would be responsible for
ascertaining farmers' needs and planning future production. Under the World
Bank's second technical assistance project, an applied research coordination
unit will be established within the Ministry of Rural Development by March 31,
1983.
b) Recovery of export crops
18.      The precipitous fall in the price of certain exports, such as coffee
and cocoa, has caused serious problems for Togo. Generally speaking,
Government revenues from export agriculture are no longer as important a part
of total revenues as they were from 1975 to 1977. The Government has
therefore tried to keep producer prices relatively low. Since inflation is
rapidly eroding farm incomes, this policy runs the risk of having very adverse
long-term effects on agricultural output and exports. The Togolese Government
therefore believes that a more effective strategy would be to pay producers an
adequate real price for export crops, while making up for the revenue loss
through a gradual increase in other sources of tax revenues.
19.      Under this policy, the Togolese Government adjusted the following
producer prices for the 1981/82 crop year: the price per kilo of cocoa has
increased from CFAF 220 to CFAF 225, of coffee from CFAF 200 to CFAF 215, of
cotton from CFAF 60 to CFAF 65, and of palm nuts from CFAF 10 to CFAF 12. The
prices of cocoa and coffee were increased to CFAF 235/kg for the 1982/83
season and cotton will be increased to at least CFAF 75/kg by February 28,
1983 for the 1983/84 season. The Government has also decided to phase out
gradually fertilizer subsidies for cotton over a five-year period beginning in
1983. In addition a unit has been established within OPAT to study and
monitor prices and subsidies in the agricultural sector. With the aid of



- 57 -
ANNEX IV
Page 10
consultants, this group will prepare an in-depth study of the structure of
agricultural prices, subsidies and costs, based oIn the following factors:
- present small-farm production costs (operating budget, evaluation
of hours worked and of wages) and any other factors that might
influence the minimunm remuneration level required to promote a
particular crop;
- the expenditures that the public sector must make to promote
production and to provide for the marketing, processing and export
of agricultural products;
- FOB export prices and anticipated trends, based on world market
prospects;
- on the basis of these three factors, the long-term comparative
avantages available to Togo for the crops considered.
20.      Under the second rural development project in cotton areas, the
Government has agreed to eliminate gradually fertilizer subsidies and to
review cotton prices and incentives annually in light of studies to be carried
out by the OPAT unit. The more complete study described above will address
all crops in order to insure that incentives for one crop are not achieved at
an undesired sacrifice in production of other crops. The unit and its
consultants should submit, by June 30, 1983, detailed recommendations
regarding export crop prices to be taken into account in government decisions
on prices for the 1983/84 agricultural season. These agricultural price
studies will complement the management studies to be undertaken for OPAT (see
paragraph 11).
c) Diversification and restructuring of Togolese agriculture;
Expansion of food crop production
21.      As indicated in paragraph 14, the poor prospects for cocoa and coffee
prices is reason enough for Togo to develop new crops. In addition, the areas
that are ecologically favorable for cocoa and coffee account for only a small
part of the territory. The Togolese Government has made serious attempts to
diversify agriculture. In particular, cotton production has been rapidly
expanded and cotton has become an important export crop facilitating the
economic development of new regions.
22.      Up to the present, food crops in Togo have been grown only for
subsistence. However, the existance of food deficits in some areas combined
with the country's growing urbanization and its proximity to large countries
that have become increasingly dependent on outside sources of foodstuffs,
present Togo with an opportunity for significant growth and justify energetic
programs to expand food production and productivity, not only for the domestic
market but for export as well. The exploitation of this new potential and the
promotion of these crops will require improved applied research and the
preparation of projects aiming at the systematic promotion of food crops,
either alone, or in association with cash crops. The development and proper
maintenance of basic infrastructure and public services (secondary and rural
roads, village water supply, etc.) will also be needed to expand production,
market the food crops produced and improve living standards in rural areas.



- 58 -
ANNEX IV
Page 11
The second rural development project in cotton areas which was recently
approved by the World Bank is designed to achieve several of these
objectives. In particular, it provides financing for the production and
multiplication of cotton and food crops seeds, and the creation of control and
coordination units for food crop seed production. In order to encourage the
production of food crops in rotation with cotton, the project will support an
extension service for training in improved cultivation techniques. Other
project components include the provision of seeds, fertilizers and pesticides
and the promotion of animal traction. In addition, rural roads, tube wells
and storage facilities for seed cotton will be constructed.
23.      The success of a program to expand .food crop production, the surplus
of which will be sold in increasing quantities on the domestic market and
abroad, is predicated on effective and economical marketing operations. At
present, the traditional commercial system seems best suited to the very
difficult task of collecting products throughout the surplus areas and selling
them at retail outlets. The Togolese Government does not plan to disturb this
system by establishing State monopolies or other large-scale State
interventions as a substitute for private enterprise. However, the extreme
seasonal variation in most food prices is a problem for the urban and rural
consumer alike and also hinders the success of production programs based on
food crop surpluses. As part of its rural development policy, the Government
intends to encourage farmers to increase their own storage capacity.
24.      The Government has proceeded to create TOGOGRAIN, whose objective is,
on the one hand to constitute security stocks permitting to cope with
situations of extreme shortages, and, on the other hand, to contribute to a
reduction in price fluctuations by buying during periods of excess supply and
by selling during periods of insufficient supply, and by exporting if needed
to replenish working capital. In any case, marketing of food crops will
remain in the hands of traders, individual farmers or farmers organized in co-
operatives, who have the market intelligence and experience to minimize
transaction costs while operating in a competitive market. As a matter of
fact, the policy of the Government aims at a gradual liberalization of the
export market for food crops. This policy will be implemented together with
measures aimed directly at stimulating production - research, extension
services, seed production, village storage, etc... - and its objective will be
to encourage an expansion in the production of food crops so that, during
years of normal rainfall, Togo will attain selfsufficiency in food crops and
even generate an exportable surplus. Before the end of June each year, the
Togolese Government will discuss with the World Bank the progress realized
toward the attainment of these objectives, and the measures taken, or to be
taken toward their attainment.
25.      Under these circumstances, TOGOGRAIN will play a limited role.  Its
resources, coming from the Government, the Party (Togolese People's Union
Party), or external aid, will be used to build up the working capital of
TOGOGRAIN, to acquire a security stock that will not exceed 15,000 tons
between now and 1985, and to permit a limited intervention in the marketing of
food crops, while applying a policy of avoiding sales below cost. In
addition, TOGOGRAIN could use its resources to finance rural storage
facilities for collection in surplus areas and distribution in deficit areas,
with the objective always being to minimize costs. Farmers and co-operatives
will be encouraged to store food crops privately, and will have the right to



- 59 -
ANNEX IV
Page 12
sell these stocks at free market prices as they wish. Before the end of June,
1983, the Government and the World Bank will discuss the relative efficiency
and economic cost of the activities of TOGOGRAIN, as well as means to secure
the best use of the financial resources that the Togolese Government can
reasonably allocate to this type of activities.
26.      In order to assure the success of the food crop development program,
it will be necessary to monitor carefully the impact on farmer incentives for
both food crops and cash crops Df subsidies, credit arrangements and producer
prices for cash crops. This task will be included in the terms of reference
of the OPAT price analysis and monitoring unit (see paragraph 19).
B.  Development of National Energy Resources
27.      Togo intends not only to encourage energy conservation by keeping the
selling price of petroleum products relatively high, but also to develop
sources of domestic energy both for domestic consumption and for export. Togo
is therefore now looking into hydroelectricity, the possibility of resuming
oil exploration, reforestation, and finally the study of renewable energy
resources.
a) Hydroelectricity
In addition to the power it obtains from Ghana through CEB, Togo
has substantial thermal power capacity already installed or under
construction. In view of the ir,creased cost of oil produc-ts, Togo has decided
to purchase no new thermal generating stations.  In the future,, studies for
expanding energy production will focus on hydroelectric resources, including
the NANGBETO project, which is keing studied in cooperation with Benin and the
World Bank. The advantages of a regional interconnection of the electricity
network will be examined.
b) Oil Exploration
Off-shore drilling operations were carried out during 1969-1971,
but the results were not encouraging enough to justify commercial exploitation
at the time. The Togolese Government has now decided to review the data which
were gathered at that time in order to decide on a strategy for resuming oil
exploration. The World Bank also plans to provide Togo with appropriate
technical and financial assistance in this area.
c) Reforestation and Research on Renewable Energy- Resources
In the context of its development of national energy resources,
Togo intends to emphasize the following activities:
- Reforestation, on the one hand around the urban fringe areas in
order to provide fire wood to the urban population, on the other
hand in rural areas to stem desertification, to prov-ide wood for
construction and fire wood for the rural population.
- Research on renewable energy resources, especially wind power,
solar energy, biomass, etc... under the auspices of the Togolese



- 6n -
ANNEX IV
Page 13
Association for Scientific Research and the Multiscience
Interministerial Committee for Applied Technology.
It is necessary to reinforce this policy and to support its execution through
the provision of sufficient funds.
C. Development and Processing of Mineral Production
28.      As with the agricultural sector, development of the mining sector
should have two objectives: to revitalize ongoing operations; to diversify
mineral resources by stepped-up prospection and restructure the sector,
particularly through local processing of part of the mineral production.
a) Relations between OTP and the Government
29.      The expansion of phosphate rock production, like agricultural
development, is one of the main components of the plan to bring about economic
recovery and improvement in public finances and the balance of payments. OTP
is certainly an efficient enterprise, but given the present state of public
finances, OTP may have to make its share of the sacrifices for the sake of
financial recovery. It would be counterproductive, however, for the
Government to try to wring from the enterprise an excessive financial
contribution which could only impair its sound management and the balanced
development of its operations. With this in mind, the Togolese Government has
already replaced the "transfer price" system with an annual levy on the income
of OTP. However, this levy was collected only in part during 1981 because of
the fall in export volume, the repayment of bank overdrafts previously
incurred by OTP, various export compensation operations, and other indirect
contributions to investments already in progress.
30.      In order to improve the financial relationship between the Government
and OTP, the Government has decided to implement the following reforms:
- All receipts from the sales of phosphates will be allocated to a
general sales account starting June 1, 1983. This general account
will be subject to internal audits by the accounts commissioners
like other accounts pertaining to balance sheets and income
statements. The commissioners will certify that the accounts are
presented in conformity with current legislation. The general
account will be domiciled with local banks.
- As of June 1, 1983, all counterpart funds for export compensation
contracts will pass through OTP or the Treasury and will be clearly
identified.
- No new export compensation contracts to finance extra-budgetary
expenditures will be entered into from February 1, 1983, whereas
export compensation contracts needed for marketing purposes will
continue to be negotiated.
- On the basis of medium term (3 years) projections prepared by OTP's
treasury, funds from the general sales account will be allocated
first to OTP's general revenue and operations account in order to
cover production and operations, debt service, depreciation, and



- 61 -
ANNEX IV
Page 14
working capital needs.
- An obligatory contribution will then be allocated from the general
sales account to a Government budget account; the amount of this
fixed contribution will be established during the budget planning
process.
- The general sales account will finally be used to establish a
residual account in which the balance between -total sales,
including counterpart funds for export compensation contracts, if
any, and the funds allocated to the two preceding accounts would
accumulate. A fixed percentage of the residual account will be
contributed to the Government budget; the amount w-ill be dependent
on OTP's export performance.  This percentage will be set by mutual
agreement between Gcvernment and OTP during the annual budget
preparations. The remainder of the residual fund will be available
to OTP for future self-financed investments, in particular a
portion of the phosphoric acid project.
The implementation of this acccunting system implies that all of OTP's
contributions to the State be budgeted and that direct payments by OTP to
various public agencies cease. The system will be reviewed periodically in
response to changes in OTP's self-financing needs and prospects, and
improvements in the situation of the public finances. In the long term, the
aim is to strengthen OTP's financieLl autonomy and to replace its contributions
to Government by a simpler system cf profit taxes and dividends.
b) Diversification and restructuring of the mining sector
31.      Togo will step up mineral research and will continue prospecting for
mineral deposits with a view to diversifying production (attapulgite project)
and improving the profitability of industrial projects (study of marble
deposits for SOTOMA's production). But one of the most important long-term
development need for the mining sector is to strengthen Togo's phosphate
industry by establishing a phosphoric acid industry. Local processing of
Togolese deposits should entail not only a higher value added, but also a
longer economic life for the mine (by making use of low-grade deposits), and
an improvement in the position of Togolese products on the world market. The
feasibility study for the phosphoric acid project is now under way. To help
ensure the success of this important project, and to help minimize the risks
associated with it, Togo will need to bring in foreign technical and marketing-
partners. After the feasibility study is completed Togo will thus, in
agreement with the World Bank, approach possible partners in order to devise
appropriate forms of technical, financial and commercial cooperation,
including equity participation, for the implementation of the phosphate
fertilizer project in Togo.
D.   Development of Manufacturinag Industry Based on the Economical Use
of Local Factors of Production
32.      The industrial (nonmining) sector accounts for only a small
proportion of the country's GDP. In view of the limited size of the domestic
market and uncertainties of the export market, the chances that the
manufacturing industry will develop very rapidly are limited. There is room,



- 62 -
ANNEX IV
Page 15
however, for the gradual expansion on industry through private initiative.
This will depend on the country's ability to regain the confidence of Togolese
and foreign investors and to set up a system of incentives for the creation
and development of a small industrial sector which should be or-iented toward
both import subsitution and exports and be designed to make better use of
local labor and other factors of production.
33.      Under this policy, the Togolese Government has begun a study of the
small and medium-size enterprise (SME) sector and of the incentives needed for
its development. On the basis of this work, the Government will subsequently
prepare studies of the Investment Code and, if necessary, of effective
protection. The scope and timetable for these studies will be decided in
agreement with the World Bank. In addition, these studies should elaborate
recommendations for the reform of institutions dealing with SME's. Government
and the World Bank will agree upon a plan of action and a calendar for the
implementation of these recommendations by June 30, 1983.
E. New Orientation of Public Investment Programs
34.      In view of the financial constraints described in Part I, during the
next two or three years the public investment program will have to be reduced
to a minimum consisting of:
- completion of worthwhile projects currently under way;
- replacement and other minor capital expenditures required to
maintain or reach an optimal level of operation for existing
assets;
- a few new priority projects financed almost entirely by long-term
credits from external assistance agencies.
Public investment in 1983 for this limited program should amount to about CFAF
25 billion (Government and public enterprises), of which about CFAF 20 billion
will come from foreign sources. Before the end of 1983, a World Bank mission
will review the Togolese public investment program for 1984 and 1985.
35.      It is nevertheless important that steps be taken to revitalize
Togolese public investment by planning priority projects with a high rate of
return and mobilizing official aid on soft terms. Generally speaking,
feasibility studies based on detailed technical analyses and realistic cost
projections will be required for all new projects costing more than CFAF 300
million. They will normally be approved only if their economic rate of return
is at least 10%. In the case of projects for which it is impossible to
calculate an economic rate of return, selection will be based on the lowest
cost for the largest number of beneficiaries served.
36.      To ensure the adequate preparation and close monitoring of public
investment, the following procedures will be adopted and enforced beginning in
1983:
- projections of expenditures for each of the next two years, for
projects under way (public and parastatal sector projects), not



-- 63 -
ANNEX IV
Page 16
later than September 30 of each year, every effort being made to
ensure that these projections are reaListic, that possible cost
overruns are taken into account, and that the status of external
funds (amount disbursed and balance remaining) is known;
- preparation by ministries and other public and parastatal agencies
of statements of their investment needs - project by project - for
each of the next two years; aggregation and selection of projects
by the Ministry of Plarning, not later than November 30 of each
year;
- preparation of quarterly reports on project execu>.ion, expenditures
committed and funds disbursed (domestic resources and external
funds, etc.), and quarterly meetings cf the relevant ministries and
economic and financial departments in order to monitor macro-
economic indicators covering all areas of public finance.
37.      Initially, the two main objectives of the public investment program
will be:
- the completion of worthwhile projects under way arnd priority to
minor replacements and expansions to ensure proper maintenance and
optimal use of existing infrastructure works and installations;
- to give priority to investments in productive capacity and
infrastructure which will promote the expansion of agricultural and
mining production and exports, in accordance with Togo's
comparative advantage, while limiting the intervention of the
public sector in se-tors where there is a possibility of private
investment.
Nevertheless, activities in the areas of training and social services, which
are needed to ensure the balanced development of all regions of the country
and of all strata fo the population, should not be neglected. The main
objective is to achieve an economic standard of living that satisfies basic
needs and gradually makes it possible to increase the direct and indirect
participation by beneficiaries in the cost of investments and maintenance.
38.      Once Togo has a well prepsared and well justified investment program
based on the above described considerations for a two or three-year period,
the Government intends to organize a donors' meeting in order to present its
public investment plan and to orient official external aid in accordance with
the objectives and priorities of thaat plan.



- 64 -
ANNEK V
Page 1
TOGO
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
SUPPLEMENTARY CREDIT DATA SHEET
Section I:  Timetable of key events
1. Request from the Ministers of Plan, Finance and
Mining, for a Structural Adjustment Credit:    April 1981
2. Identification mission, discussion of contents
of structural adjustment program:                December 1981
3. Preparatory mission, discussion of draft
letter of development policies:                  March 1982
4.  Prenegotiations and appraisal missions:       May, October and December 1982
5.  Completion of negotiations:                   February 16, 1983
6.  Planned date of effectiveness:                August 31, 1983
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
1. Project implementation:
(a) Disbursement of the second tranche of the proposed credit would be contingent
upon satisfactory progress on the Structural Adjustment Program, particularly
with respect to the following:
(i) initiation of implementation of decisions taken, after consultation
with the Association, with respect to the conversion and/or
liquidation of STH;
(ii)  adoption of an appropriate medium-term producer price policy for major
crops, including specific prices for the 1983/84 crop year;
(iii)  adoption of an appropriate marketing policy for food crops; and
(iv) adoption of an appropriate Investment Plan for 1984 and 1985
(para 102).
(b) The local counterpart funds generated by the proposed credit would be
deposited in a special account of the Central Bank and would be used
exclusively to finance expenditures for the Borrower's development and
stabilization program (para 106).
2. Special condition of effectiveness:
(a) Agreement with lenders on the rescheduling of the Borrower's medium- and
long-term debt (para 33).



4                                                                                                                                                                             r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 



IBRD 13601R
C   8      ~~~U P P E R   V 0 L T A           MA?TNIi?_ 
i   oDpoon                       TA                    ; P> r  YLA1EP
/         ~~~~DAPAON                                   "- -wsa XGYE  t ' ', 2i   N Iu  G NIE  A
S A                                                       A  +       f             4 ~ t
j                                                        <9#g7.  \A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ango
s                         1C                                r.    !~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p  KANTE               ,
R K    A    R a A          eqeodW Y. 
*t            ~~~~~~~Nic mtogou CP/A,G UDA   ,rtR#Mtn6y659Sl-e/
6     CtX                  Nz~~~~~~~~A\MTOG>OU Pcigouda-o._Sxed
BASSARI LMKR.qAt
t   _  D            ~~~~~~~~~~~~Lom a Kora D
)             \ ~BAFILO 
I               oS  ~~~~~~~Bassar,   \Bfla 
.y _--J\SOKODEg//f hamba\
k // \ Q~~~Sokodef  
C    E   N   T \R 1                E IL
TOGO         \5_ SATOUBOUA)i  \
Sotou bouc  a- 
REGIONS AND    t                                       
CIRCONSCRIPTIONS  ,                                              I                'jLU
RLcGION5                                         
LET CIRCONSCRIPTIONS                   - --\                                               B
t \ A ;AKPAME 
 P   L   A 0T   E' A   U  x.    co
AMLAME        o                        i
Amlomneo          IAt.kpame ,         j
/                                           Chet eade frco srlotoon  iR  .,. H-/ .,-              NOT-SE        I-
_7. hetZ-d ertn                        KL06TOt               0 Notse      9 
c -,7rpt"cn B.und.- Ke  palill    ,,  .>
__Reg,-;l ou d  e                 k)                    <~
t        V  ~TSEVIE   \,-
'i         >          A ~~~~~Tsevie    '\\Vogan  i\
20    40     60     ao    1o                          tAn                  h
K LOMETERS                                              E     <  t,,6trt
r                                                                  FBRAR 1982



