CUMENTS        SPECIAL FUND CREDIT NUMBER$         TO
Special Fund Credit Agreement
(Structural Adjustment Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL FUND
established with funds contributed by
certain members of the
International Development Association
Dated          e   I7              , 1983


﻿SPECIAL FUND CREDIT NUMBER.  3 TO
SPECIAL FUND CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated  3hL      I 7              , 1983, between
REPUBLIC OF TOGO (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION as ADMINISTRATOR of the Special Fund established with
funds contributed by certain members     of   the  Intertational
Development Association.
WHEREAS (A) by Resolution No. IDA 82-6, adopted on Octo-
ber 26, 1982, of the Executive Directors of the International
Development Association (hereinafter called IDA) there has been
established by IDA a Special Fund constituted by the funds which
shall be contributed by certain members of IDA and administered
by IDA, acting as Administrator of such Special Fund, for .the
purpose of, and in accordance with, the provisions of, said
Resolution;
(B) IDA has received from the 'Borrower a letter dated
February 16, 1983, with a memorandum on economic development
policy in annex thereto, describing a program of actions, objec-
tives and policies designed-to achieve a structural adjustment of
the Borrower's economy, declaring the Borrower's commitment to
the execution of that program, and requesting Assistance from IDA
in the financing of urgent imports to be made during the execu-
tion of such program;
(C) the Borrower has also requested IDA ,tp provide addi-
tional assistance towards the 'financing of said., imports ,and by
an agreement of even date herewith between the -Borrower and, IDA
(hereinafter called the Development Credit Agreement) IDA is
agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal
amount equivalent to eighteen million four hundred and fifty
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 18,450,000) (hereinafter
called the IDA Credit); and
WHEREAS on the basis of, inter alia, the for6going, the
Administrator has decided in support of such program to provide
assistance to the Borrower by making the Special Fund Credit in
two tranches as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree.as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to. this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the International Development Association,
dated June 30, 1980, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following
modifications thereof (said General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements of the International Development
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions):
(a) the term "Association", wherever used in the General
Conditions, means the International Development Association
acting es the Administrator of the Special Fund referred to in
the Preamble to this Special Fund Credit Agreement;
(b) the terms "Development Credit Agreement", "Credit" and
"Credit Account", wherever used in the General Conditions, are
amended to read "Special Fund Credit ,Agreement", "Special Fund
Credit" and "Special Fund Credit Account",.respectively;
(c)  the second sentence of Section 5.01 is deleted;
(d) in Sections 6.02 and 7.01, the term "Association" shall
also include the International Development Association acting in
its own capacity, the term "Development Credit Agreement" shall
mean both Development Credit Agreements and Special Fund Credit
Agreement and the term "Credit" shall mean both Credit and
Special Fund Credit.
(e) paragraph 9 of Section 2.01 shall be modified to read:
"The term   'Project' means the imports that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Special Fund Credit
,pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Special Fund
Credit Agreement."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:


﻿-3-
(a) "Special Fund Resolution" means Resolution No.- IDA 82-6
of the Executive Directors of IDA which, inter alia, establitshe s
the Special Fund;
(b)  "Administrator" means   the  International -Development
Association acting as Administrator of the Special Fund-referred
to in the Preamble to this Special Fund Credit Agreement; ±
(c)  "Part I member of IDA" means a member -of- IDA' with
respect to which the terms and conditions of membership are-'those
prescribed in the Articles of Agreement of IDA for couitries
whose names are listed in Part I of Schedule A to those Articles;
(d)  "Part II member of IDA" means a member of IDA -which is
not a Part I member of IDA;
(e)  "Development Credit Agreement" means the agre'ement 'of
even date herewith between the Borrower and IDA for the purpdse
of the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to
time; and such term includes the General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements of IDA, dated June 30, 1900' as
made applicable to such agreement, all agreements supplemental. to
the Development Credit Agreement and all schedules td the
Development Credit Agreement;
(f)  "SITC" means the United Nations Standard International
Trade Classification, 1974 Revision (SITC,. Revi 2), published in
Commodity Indexes for the Standard International Trade Classifi-
cation, Revised, Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev. 2
(1975);
(g)  "CFA Franc" and "CFAF" mean the currency, of the Bor-
rower;
(h)  "BCEAO" means Banque Centrale des Etats de-l'Afrique de
l'Ouest; and
(i) "STH" means Soci6t6 Togolaise des Hydrocarbures.
'ARTICLE II
The Special Fund Credit
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower on the terms and conditions in the Special Fund-Credit


﻿Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various cur-
rencies equivalent to eighteen million four hundred fifty
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 18,450,000).
Section 2.02.- (a) The amount of. the Special Fund Credit may
be withdrawn from the Special Fund Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of .Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such
Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between
the Borrower and the Administrator, for expenditures made (or, if
the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of imported goods.
(b) Withdrawals shall be made only on account of expendi-
tures for goods produced in4 or services supplied from, the
territories of (A) any Part II mz;7ber of IDA; (B) any Part I
member of IDA which fulfills the conditions set forth in
paragraph 13 (d) (ii) of the Special Fund Resolution on the date
of this Agreement, as determined by the Administrator.*
Section 2.03. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise
agree', procurement of the goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the. Special Fund Credit shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1985,
or such later date as the Administrator. shall establish. The
Administrator shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to IDA a commitment
charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Special Fund Credit not
withdrawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue
from a date sixty days after the date of the Special Fund Credit
Agreement to the respective dates -on which amounts shall be
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Special Fund Credit Account or
shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as IDA shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any
kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii)
in the currency specified in this Agreement for purposes of
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or
selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
*    DRAFTING NOTE: A list of all eligible members will be given
by the Administrator to the Borrower at the time of the
signing  of   the  Special   Fund  Credit   Agreement  in   a
supplemental letter.


﻿- 5 -
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to IDA a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the amount withdrawn from the Special Fund Credit
Account and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay to IDA the principal
amount of the Special Fund Credit in semiannual installments
payable on each April 1 and October 1 commencing October 1, 1993
and ending April 1, 2033, each installment to and including the
installment payable on April 1, 2003 to be one-half of one per
cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the Republic of France is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.10. (a) BCEAO is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
(b) Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing,
the Borrower shall entrust BCEAO with responsibility for the
preparation of withdrawal applications under the Special Fund
Credit and for the collection of the documents and other evidence
to be furnished to IDA in support of such applications; such
withdrawal applications shall to the extent practicable be
consolidated so as to apply for withdrawal of aggregate amounts
of not less than $1,000,000 equivalent.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall open and thereafter
maintain an account (hereinafter called the Project Account) at
BCEAO and shall, upon each withdrawal from the Special Fund
Credit Account, deposit in the Project Account the equivalent in
CFA Francs of the currency or currencies withdrawn from the
Special Fund Credit Account (such equivalent to be determined as


﻿- 6 -
of the respective dates of such withdrawals). The amounts so
deposited in the Project Account shall be used exclusively to
finance the Borrower's development-related expenditures and to
reduce the Borrower's payment arrears.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Administrator all
such information as the Administrator shall reasonably request
concerning the utilization of the amounts deposited in the
Project Account pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section.
Section 3.02. The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Special Fund Credit against
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
Section 3.03. Upon the a--ard of any contract for goods
costing the equivalent of $100,000 or more and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Special Fund Credit, the Administrator may
publish a description thereof, the name and nationality of the
party to whom the contract was awarded and the contract price.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower and the Administrator shall
from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
on the progress achieved in carrying out, the program for struc-
tural adjustment referred to in the Preamble to this Agreement
and the measures specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b) Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Administrator for its review and comment a
report on the progress achieved in carrying out said program, in
such detail as the Administrator shall reasonably request.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices the expendi-
tures financed out of the proceeds of the Special Fund Credit.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified


﻿-7-
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that an event has
occurred which shall make it improbable that the program for
structural adjustment or a significant part of the program for
structural adjustment referred to in the Preamble to this Agree-
ment will be carried out.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Designation of Administrator
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Special Fund
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
(a) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Development Credit Agreement, except for the effectiveness of
this Agreement, have been fulfilled; and
(b) the rescheduling of the Borrower's medium and long-term
debt has been agreed upon with its lenders.
Section 5.02. The date              14-1 t T3   , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 5.03. In the event that the Executive Directors of
IDA decide to terminate the functions of IDA as.administrator of
the Special Fund pursuant to paragraph 17 of the Special Fund
Resolution, the Administrator may, by notice to the Borrower,
designate another party which, on the date specified in such
notice, shall assume part or all of the rights and obligations of
the Administrator under this Agreement in accordance with the
Special Fund Resolution and such decision of the Executive
Directors, as specified in such notice.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Subject to the provisions of Section 2.10 of
this Agreement, the Ministre de l'Economie et des Finances of the


﻿- 8 -
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministare de l'Economie et
des Finances
B.P. 387
Lome
Republic of Togo
Cable address:                      Telex:
MINFIE                             5286
Lome, Togo
For the Administrazor:
Administrator of the Special Fund
(International Development Association)
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names J.n the District


﻿- 9 -
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL FUND
established with funds contributed by
certain members of the International
Development Association
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Special Fund Credit
1.   The reasonable cost of importation of any goods into the
territory of the Borrower may be financed out of the proceeds of
the Special Fund Credit, except that no withdrawals shall be made
in respect of:
(a) goods included in the following SITC groups or sub-
groups:
Group     Sub-group          Description of Items
112         -               Alcoholic beverages
121         -               Tobacco, unmanufactured,
tobacco refuse
122         -               Tobacco, manufactured
667         -               Pearls, precious and semi-
precious stones, unworked or
worked
688         -               Uranium depleted in U235 and
thorium, and their alloys,
unwrought or wrought, and
articles therefor, n.e.s.;
waste and scrap of uranium
depleted in U235 and of thorium
718      718.7              Nuclear reactors, and parts
thereof, n.e.s.
897      897.3              Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals (except
watches and watch cases) and
goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
wares (including set gems)
-        971.0              Gold, non-monetary (excluding
gold ores and concentrates)


﻿- 11 -
(b) expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower; provided,
however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of
another country from the territory of which goods are supplied,
expenditures in such currency for such goods shall not be deemed
to be expenditures in the currency of the Borrower for purposes
of.this Section;
(c) payments made for expenditures prior to May 17, 1983;
(d) payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower on goods, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof;
(e) expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing
less than $10,000 equivalent;
(f) expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency
other than IDA shall have financed or agreed to finance;
(g) expenditures for goods intended for a military or
para-military purpose or for luxury consumption; and
(h) expenditures in excess of an aggregate amount equiva-
lent to $10,000,000 for petroleum products and $10,000,000 for
foodstuffs.
2.   No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be
entered into to pay amounts to the Borrower or others in respect
of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Special
Fund Credit after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Special
Fund Credit withdrawn from the Special Fund Credit Account and
the total amount of such commitments shall have reached the
equivalent of SDR 8,100,000, unless IDA shall be satisfied, after
an exchange of views as described in Section 3.04 of this Agree-
ment, with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying
out of the program for structural adjustment referred to in the
Preamble to this Agreement and in particular that the measures
described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement have been taken.
3.   If the Administrator shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditure for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds


﻿- 12 -
of the Special Fund Credit, and the Administrator may, without in
any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy
of the Administrator under the Special Fund Credit Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Special Fund
Credit as, in the Administrator's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Special Fund
Credit.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
1.   Subject to the eligibility restrictions set forth in Section
2.02 (b) of the Special Fund Credit Agreement, contracts for the
procurement of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000
or more each, shall be awarded through international competitive
bidding in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in Part A of the current edition of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" dated March
1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), subject to the follow-
ing modifications:
(a) By the deletion of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines and
the substitution therefor of the following:
"1.2 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a
timely manner (see also para. 3.1) of the opportunity to
bid. This will be done by advertising invitations to apply
for inclusion in a bidder's invitation list, to apply for
prequalification or to bid; such advertisements should be
placed in at least one newspaper of general circulation in
the Borrower's territory and, in addition, in at least one
of the following forms:
(i) a notice in the United Nations publication, Devel-
opment Forum, Business Edition; or
(ii) an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
technical journal of wide international circula-
tion; or
(iii) a notice to local representatives of countries and
territories referred to in these Guidelines, that
are potential suppliers of the goods required."
(b) By the addition at the end of paragraph 2.9 of the
Guidelines of the following:
"As an alternative, bidding documents may require the
bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
used in international trade and specified in the bidding
documents."


﻿- 14 -
(c) By   the deletion of sub-paragraphs     (a) and (d) of
paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines and the substitution for sub-
paragraph (a) of the following:
"(a) Payments under the contract will be made in the
currency in which the price has been stated in the success-
ful bid."
(d) By the deletion of the third sub-paragraph of paragraph
3.8 of the Guidelines and the substitution therefor of the fol-
lowing:
"Customs duties and import taxes should be excluded for
the purpose of comparison among bids for the supply of
goods."
(e) By the deletion of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
2.   Contracts and purchase orders for goods estimated to cost
the equivalent of less than $100,000 each shall be awarded on the
basis of the normal procurement procedures of the purchaser of
such goods.
3.   The eligibility restrictions set forth in Section 2.02 (b)
of the Special Fund Credit Agreement shall be stated in the
tender or prequalification documents.
4.   With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Administrator,
prior to the submission to the Administrator of the first appli-
cation for withdrawal of funds from the Special Fund Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids and
recommendations for award, a description of the advertising and
tendering procedures followed and such other information as the
Administrator shall reasonably request.
5.   With respect to each contract or purchase order referred to
in paragraph 2 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Administrator, prior to the submission to the Administrator
of the first appplication for withdrawal of funds from the
Special Fund Credit Account in respect thereof, such documenta-
tion and information as the Administrator may reasonably request
to support withdrawal applications in respect of such contract or
purchase order.


﻿- 15 -
6.   The Administrator shall, if it determines that the award of
a contract or the documentation received, as the case may be, was
not consistent with the provisions of this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Tranche Release
(Schedule 1, paragraph 2)
1.   The Borrower has started to implement the decisions taken
with respect to STH in accordance with the provisions of para-
graph 9 (a) of the memorandum on economic policy referred to in
the Preamble to the Special Fund Credit Agreement.
2.   An appropriate medium-term price policy and specific prices
for the 1983-1984 crop year for cocoa, coffee, cotton and palm
kernels have been adopted.
3.   An appropriate marketing policy for food crops has been
adopted.
4.   The Borrower has adopted an appropriate public investment
program for 1984 and 1985.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
1983
FOR SECRETARY


