Report No. 23829
Report No: I059872 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 03/12/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: TURKEY Project ID: P059872
Project: Basic Education II (Phase II APL)       Task Team Leader: Marit
Ketilsson Granheim
Authorized to Appraise Date: March 22, 2002       IBRD Amount ($m): 300.00
Bank Approval: July 2, 2002      IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: ECSHD     Sector: EP - Primary Education
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)          Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The objective of the first APL was to promote the objectives of the Basic
Education Program by supporting the Phase I implementation of the Basic
Education Program through: a) the provision of educational equipment and
materials to basic education schools , b) upgrading rural basic education
schools, c) in-service training of basic education teachers, principals,
and inspectors, d) strengthening the Ministry of National Education's
(MONE's) capacity to implement the Program, and e) monitoring and
evaluation of Program outcomes. The objective of the second APL is very
similar: to promote further progress in coverage of eight-year basic
education and improved basic education quality by supporting the Phase II
implementation of the Basic Education Program, comprising the same actions
that were supported under the first APL, plus the development of preschool
education as an integral part of basic education.
I.A.3. Project Description:
Program Components. The main expenditure elements of the Basic Education
Program in Phase II, together with activities and expenditures during the
final two years of Phase I, are presented in the following table.
Activities proposed for financing under APL II are shaded.
Project Components. The Phase II Basic Education Project, to be financed
under the second APL, would support a continuation and extension of the
activities supported under the first APL. In addition, it would support
an expansion of preschool education which is designed to help children
from educationally deprived households succeed in basic education as well
as providing support for special education. Annex 2 provides a detailed
description of project components; Annex 3 provides a detailed cost
breakdown. As in the first APL, the project comprises four components:
n Improved Basic Education Coverage (estimated loan financing US$88.0
million) would support continued rural school rehabilitation and targeted
community-based actions to improve school attendance.



n Improved Basic Education Quality (estimated loan financing US$190.0
million) would support continued investments to equip basic education
schools with computer education and foreign-language laboratories, to
equip remote rural schools with modest computer facilities, to provide
educational materials to urban slum schools, to provide in-service
training to teachers to make them more effective teachers, and to support
an expanded program of school improvement activities. It would also
initiate support for expanded preschool education to provide better
chances of success in basic education for children from educationally
deprived households. Finally, it will provide support for children with
special needs.
n Project Implementation Support (estimated loan financing, $1.0 million)
would finance consultant services to upgrade implementation capacity --
particularly in the areas of procurement management and financial
management.
Monitoring and Evaluation (estimated loan financing, $2.0 million) would
support studies and other actions to assess the outcomes of the Program
against several categories of performance indicators, and to provide
continuous feedback to Program management to improve the effectiveness of
the Program.
Components:
Improved Basic Education Coverage
Rural School Rehabilitation
School-Community Fund
Improved Basic Quality
Computer Education
Educational Materials
Teacher Training
Preschool Education
Project Implementation Support
Monitoring and Evaluation
Front End Fee
Unallocated
j
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The Program is very large and the project sites are highly dispersed.
The subcomponent of the project that will have enviromental implications
is the refurbishment and renovations of schools and other learning
facilities related to primary education.
B. Check Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments:
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
-2-



Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)         Yes
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)    No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)      No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)        No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)    No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)      No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*         No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)       No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
Although the Program is very large, no significant environmental risks are
foreseen, in view of the highly dispersed nature of the Program.
Environmental standards for safety, waste disposal, use of hazardous
materials, esthetics and other aspects of the school construction program
are codified in a Handbook for Basic Education School Buildings which was
developed with Bank assistance in preparation for the Program. These
standards have been reviewed by the Bank team, and found satisfactory. No
involuntary resettlement will be involved in Program implementation. The
MONE has confirmed that no involuntary resettlement will occur under the
Program, and has instructed all of the provincial administrations, in
identifying sites for new schools under the Program, to select only sites
which are vacant public lands owned by the Ministry or the Treasury.
Given the urgency with which the Government aims to complete the physical
infrastructure for the Program, the Ministry is committed to avoiding
land acquisition as this would require extensive time for legally required
consultations and court decisions. In case private contributions are made
for school buildings, the MONE, from its own funds, would pay private
individuals who will contribute their vacant land for school building
purposes, in accordance with the laws of Turkey.
With regard to the refurbishment and renovations of the schools and other
learning facilities, the government has prepared an Environmental
Management Plan, which the PCU will ensure it is carried out.
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
See the above paragraph.
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
-3-



The rehabilitation of schools could result in significant levels of
contruction waste. The Ministry of Labor and Social Security provides
standards for construction materials and workers' health and safety.
Solid waste need to be disposed in accordance with Turkish Solid Waste
Control Regulations of the Ministry of Environment. There will also be an
increase in demand for drinking water. Drinking water supplied at the
refurbished schools financed under the Bank project should meet the
standards laid down by the Turkish Standards Institution. The Ministry of
National Education will collaborate with other government agencies to
conduct the monitoring and evaluation work.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
The Ministry of National Education will ensure the Environmental
Management Plan carried out fully. Together with other government
agencies, the PCU will conduct regular monitoring visits to the areas that
are affected by the refurbishment and renovations.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
The Ministry of National Education has and will work with other
government agencies, school authorities, local communities to ensure full
understanding of the project and the environmental impact on the
communities. The affected communities will be informed about program
schedule, including the details of quantities of waste.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I Si. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
[XI S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
1 S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
Insert page break here
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
-4-



Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:        Marit Ketilsson Granheim         March 11, 2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         Bernard Baratz   March 7, 2002
Sector Manager/Director:         James A. Socknat         March 12, 2002
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
- 5 -



