Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4671-TU 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Second Basic Education Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated July 26, 2002 
 
Page  2
2
Page  3
LOAN NUMBER 4671-TU 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated July 26, 2002, between the REPUBLIC OF TURKEY (the 
Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated May 26, 1998 from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to reform and 
develop its basic education system, achieve universal attendance in eight-year basic 
education, and significantly improve the quality of basic education through the following 
actions: expansion of universal eight-year access to basic education, improvement of the 
quality of educational instruction and materials, strengthening of the management 
capacity to provide basic education, and monitoring and evaluation to guide in the said 
actions, and a letter dated April 10, 2002 updating the actions, objectives and policies of 
the aforementioned letter (both letters hereinafter collectively referred to as the Program) 
and confirming the Borrower’s continued support thereto and to preschool education and 
special needs education as an integral part of basic education, and declaring the 
Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the said Program;  
 
(B) 
the Borrower has requested the Bank’s support in the execution of the 
Program through a series of two (2) loans over a period of approximately eight (8) years 
to be utilized by the Borrower for implementing the Program;  
 
(C) 
the first phase of the Program has been supported by the Bank through a 
loan in an amount equal to three hundred million dollars ($300,000,000) pursuant to the 
Loan Agreement (4355-TU) dated June 25, 1998, between the Borrower and the Bank; 
 
(D) 
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the part of the second phase of the Program (the Project) described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis
,
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
Page  4
-
2
-
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. 
The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions), with the following modification set 
forth below, constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
 
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
"(c) 
Not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower 
shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the Project, its 
cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower 
and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan." 
 
Section 1.02. 
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“APK” means the Research, Planning and Coordination Council within 
the MONE (as hereinafter defined in paragraph (g) of this Section); 
 
(b) 
“Basic Education” means the education dispensed in the Borrower’s 
territory from the first to the eighth grades of schooling; 
 
(c) 
“Category” means a category of items to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan as set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and 
the term “Categories” means more than one (1) Category collectively; 
 
(d) 
“EGITEK” means the General Directorate for Educational Technologies 
within the MONE (as hereinafter defined in paragraph (g) of this Section); 
 
(e) 
“Environmental Management Plan” means the plan acceptable to the 
Bank dated March 29, 2002, describing the environmental issues raised under the Project 
and setting forth the mitigation, monitoring and institutional measures to be carried out in 
relation to such issues; 
 
Page  5
-
3
-
(f) 
“Fiscal Year” means the twelve-month period corresponding to any of 
the Borrower’s fiscal years, which period commences on January 1 and ends on 
December 31 in each calendar year;  
 
(g) 
“MONE” means Borrower’s Ministry of National Education;  
 
(h) 
“Performance Indicators” means the agreed performance indicators set 
forth in a supplemental letter to the Loan Agreement of even date herewith to be utilized 
by the Borrower under the Project to measure the progress in the implementation of the 
Project and the degree to which the objectives thereof are being achieved; 
 
(i) 
“Project Coordination Center” or “PCC” means the restructured Project 
Coordination Team established under the first phase of the Program (Basic Education 
Project, Loan No. 4355-TU); 
 
(j) 
“Project Steering and Executive Committee” or “PSEC” means the 
committee comprising all of the critical Project implementation units within the MONE; 
and 
 
(k) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to three hundred 
million dollars ($300,000,000). 
 
Section 2.02. 
(a)  The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of works, goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, and in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special account in its Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement. 
 
Page  6
-
4
-
Section 2.03. 
The Closing Date shall be February 28, 2006 or such later date 
as the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
 
Section 2.04. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to 
one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself 
the amount of such fee. 
 
Section 2.05. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
 
Section 2.06. 
(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
 
(i) 
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
 
(ii) 
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 
2.07 of this Agreement. 
 
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial 
Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on 
or next preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
 
(iv) 
“LIBOR 
Total 
Spread” 
means, 
for 
each 
Interest 
Period:           
(A) three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) 
the weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 
Page  7
-
5
-
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of the LIBOR Base Rate and the 
LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines 
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said 
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis.  The 
new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower 
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
 
Section 2.07. 
Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on April  15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.08. 
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. 
(a)  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through the MONE with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, educational, 
engineering, environmental, financial and technical practices, and shall provide, promptly 
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
works and goods and selection and employment of consultants’ services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. 
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
Page  8
-
6
-
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. 
(a) The Borrower, through the MONE, shall maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
a
format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower, through the MONE, shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year: (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year as so audited; and (B) an opinion on 
such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower, through the 
MONE, shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
Page  9
-
7
-
(ii) 
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such Fiscal Year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals.   
 
Section 4.02. 
(a)  Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations specified in paragraph 3 of Section C of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the 
Borrower, through the MONE, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial 
monitoring report (FMR), in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as of the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) 
days after the end of the first semester after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
semester; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) 
days after each subsequent semester, and shall cover such semester.  
 
Page  10
-
8
-
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Bank 
 
Section 5.01. 
Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation shall have arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Termination 
 
Section 6.01. 
The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 7.01. 
The Undersecretary of Treasury of the Borrower
 
is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. 
The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Basbakanlik 
 
Hazine Mustesarligi 
 
Inonu Bulvari 
 
Emek-Ankara 
 
Republic of Turkey 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
HAZINE 
 
44232 HZM-TR or 
(312) 212-8550 
 
Hazine, Ankara  
44404 HZM-TR 
 
Page  11
-
9
-
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(1-202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Ankara, Republic of Turkey, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY 
 
By  /s/  Faik Öztrak 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By  /s/  Ajay Chhibber 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  12
-
10 - 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the  
% of 
 
Loan Allocated 
Expenditures 
 Category
(Expressed in Dollars)
to be Financed
(1) 
Works 
100,000,000 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures, 
 
100%
of local  
 
expenditures 
 
(ex-factory cost), 
 
and 85% of local 
 
expenditures for  
 
other items procured 
 
locally 
 
(2) 
Goods 
145,000,000 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures, 
 
100%
of local 
 
expenditures 
 
(ex-factory cost), 
 
and 85% of local 
 
expenditures for 
 
other items procured 
 
locally 
 
(3) 
Consultants’ 10,000,000 
78% 
 services 
under 
 
Parts A and B 
 
of the Project 
 
(4) In-service 
training 
15,500,000 
78% 
 
under Part C 
 
of the Project 
 
 
 
Page  13
-
11 - 
 
Amount of the 
% of 
 
Loan Allocated 
Expenditures 
 Category
(Expressed in Dollars )
to be Financed
(5) Training 
under 
500,000 
100% 
 
Parts B, D and 
 
E of the Project 
 
(6) Incremental 
600,000 
100% 
through 
 
 
operating 
 
June 30, 2003, and 
 costs 
 
80% 
thereafter 
 
 
(7) 
Fee 
3,000,000 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
(8) Unallocated 
25,400,000
TOTAL 300,000,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for works, goods or services supplied from 
the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for works, goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;  
 
(c) 
the term “In-service training” means expenditures incurred to finance the 
fees of consultants, including educational or other institutions and organizations, which 
provide such training services, the costs of related training materials and the travel, and 
subsistence costs associated with the participation in such training; 
 
(d) 
the term “Training” means expenditures incurred to finance the cost of 
workshops, and related travel expenditures, accommodation and per diem allowances 
provided to the participants in such training, and the cost of study tours abroad; and 
 
(e) 
the term “Incremental operating costs” means expenditures incurred to 
finance the reasonable and necessary incremental expenses incurred by the Borrower, 
through the MONE, on account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, 
including office supplies, the rent of the PCC office premises, the cost of advertisement 
for procurement under the Project, communications, office and maintenance costs, 
including the maintenance of office equipment, systems and facilities, and subscription 
Page  14
-
12 - 
fees of international institutions; provided, however, that such expenses shall have been 
previously budgeted in the MONE’s annual budget. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) works, under contracts costing 
less than $500,000 equivalent each, but excluding those referred to in paragraph 2 (a) of 
Part D of Section I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (ii) goods, under contracts costing 
less than $400,000 equivalent each, but excluding those referred to in paragraphs 2 (a) 
and 2 (b) (i), (ii), and (iii) of Part D of Section I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;         
(iii) services of consulting firms, including those rendered for In-service training, under 
contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each, but excluding those referred to in 
paragraph 2 (a) (ii) of Part D of Section II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (iv) services 
of individual consultants, including those rendered for In-service training, under contracts 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; (v) training; and (vi) Incremental operating 
costs, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. 
Page  15
-
13 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objectives of the Project are to support the Borrower’s implementation of the 
Program over the three (3) year period 2002-2005 by continuing the efforts to expand 
Basic Education school capacity, to improve the quality of Basic Education, and to make 
rural schools and schools in low-income areas around large cities (
gecekondu 
areas) more 
attractive to the populations they are meant to serve, specifically extending the actions 
supported under the first phase of the Program and supporting the development of 
preschool education and special needs education as an integral part of Basic Education. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A:
Improved Basic Education Coverage
1. School 
Rehabilitation
Rehabilitation of about one thousand (1,000) selected rural Basic Education 
schools and schools in low-income areas around large cities (
gecekondu 
areas), including 
five-year rural Basic Education schools, bussing schools, regional Basic Education 
boarding schools and part-boarding schools (
pansiyonlu ilkogretim okullari
), all for 
students from the remote rural areas. 
 
2. 
Expansion of Preschool Education Facilities
Construction and furnishing of about three hundred (300) preschool classrooms 
in existing Basic Education schools. 
 
3. 
Expansion and Enhancement of Special Needs Education Facilities
Renovation of about forty (40) special needs education schools and construction 
of about twenty (20) additional buildings for special needs education. 
 
Part B:
Improved Basic Education Quality
1. 
Information and Communications Technology
Carrying out of a program aimed to develop computer literacy for Basic 
Education students in grades four through eight, as well as for their teachers, through the 
implementation of regular courses of computer instruction in information and 
communications technology (ICT) classrooms, thereby extending the MONE’s ongoing 
effort on ICT by means of the equipping with ICT of about three thousand (3,000) Basic 
Page  16
-
14 - 
Education schools, the training of staff, and the establishment of an education portal for 
students, teachers and the community.  
 
2. Educational 
Materials 
Provision
Provision of tailor-made packages of Basic Education materials to about four 
thousand (4,000) schools in low-income areas around large cities (
gecekondu 
areas), so as 
to cure deficiencies in relation to the MONE’s norms on educational materials. 
 
3. Preschool 
Education
Carrying out of a program to support outreach programs of preschool education 
so as to improve children’s performance in Basic Education, and provision of educational 
materials and preschool teacher training in order to expand and upgrade the preschool 
education programs offered within the Basic Education schools or in free-standing 
preschools. 
 
4. 
Special Needs Education
Development of an implementation strategy for special needs education 
integrating special needs into ordinary education, and provision of educational materials 
and in-service training to expand and upgrade the delivery of special needs education. 
 
Part C:
Delivery of the Basic Education Program: In-service Training
Carrying out of an in-depth training program for teachers, inspectors and 
administrators in five (5) priority areas concerning: (i) information and communications 
technology 
integration; 
(ii) 
preschool 
education; 
(iii) 
special 
needs 
education;               
(iv) provision of training for instructors and participants (mothers with young children); 
and (v) study tours for MONE staff. 
 
Part D:
Project Implementation Support
Strengthening of the MONE’s implementation capacity, particularly of the PCC, 
in the areas of Project management, procurement, financial management, reporting and 
communications. 
 
Part E:
Monitoring, Evaluation and Review
1. 
Monitoring            
Expansion and improvement of the existing monitoring and evaluation model 
used by the MONE on the basis of information obtained from: (i) data from the State 
Institute of Statistics and the APK; (ii) data from its management information system; 
(iii) systematic and consultative meetings with inspectors, provincial and sub-provincial 
Page  17
-
15 - 
directors of education; and (iv) national and international student achievement testing 
programs. 
 
2. Evaluation
Carrying out of evaluation studies and evaluation of feedback resulting from 
surveys covering critical Program areas, including dissemination of the findings thereof 
so as to make the said findings accessible to all stakeholders in the education system.  
 
3. Semi-annual 
Reviews
Support for the carrying out of semi-annual meetings to review progress on Basic 
Education measured against selected indicators and thereby provide feedback to the 
Borrower aimed at improving the effectiveness of the Program. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by August 31, 2005. 
 
Page  18
-
16 - 
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Payment of Principal 
 
(Expressed in 
Date Payment Due
Dollars)
*
On each April 15 and October 15 
 
beginning on October 15, 2007 
  
 
 
through April 15, 2017 
  
15,000,000 
 
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars to be repaid, except as provided in 
Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions. 
Page  19
-
17 - 
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Works and Goods
Part A
:
General
Works and goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 
I
of
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by 
the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, works and goods shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to works and goods to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B: 
 
(a) Grouping 
of 
contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for works and goods shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each. 
 
(b) 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
 
(c) 
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to bid for each contract estimated to cost $10,000,000 equivalent 
or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to large 
contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines. 
 
Page  20
-
18 - 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
(i) Works estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $120,000,000 equivalent; and (ii) goods estimated to cost 
less than $300,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$5,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. In order to assure economy, 
efficiency, transparency and broad consistency with the provisions included in Section I 
of the Guidelines, the Borrower’s competitive bidding procedures shall be reviewed and 
modified as necessary in form and substance acceptable to the Bank.  
 
2. International 
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
3. National 
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
4. Direct 
Contracting
Goods which: (i) should be procured as an extension of an existing contract;     
(ii) must be purchased from the original supplier to be compatible with existing 
equipment; (iii) are of a proprietary nature; or (iv) must be procured from a particular 
supplier as a condition of a performance guarantee, estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract and costing $500,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, 
with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. 
 
5. 
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $6,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-
sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation.  The invitation shall 
include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant 
Page  21
-
19 - 
drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to 
complete the contract successfully. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all works and goods shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to: (i) each contract for works and goods to be awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Part B of this Section I; and (ii) the first three (3) 
contracts for each works and goods to be awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Part C.1 of this Section I, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to: (i) the first three (3) contracts for goods to be awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Part C.2 of this Section I; (ii) the first three (3) 
contracts for goods to be awarded in accordance with the provisions of Part C.3 of this 
Section I; (iii) each contract for goods to be awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Part C.4 of this Section I; and (iv) the first three (3) contracts for works to be awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Part C.5 of this Section I, the following procedures 
shall apply: 
 
(i) 
prior to the selection of any supplier and the execution of any 
contract under shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide 
to the Bank a report on the comparison and evaluation of 
quotations received; 
 
(ii) 
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct 
contracting, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract; and 
 
(iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Page  22
-
20 - 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services and training shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and 
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in 
January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services and 
in-service training shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, 
Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services for construction supervision and monitoring and 
evaluation, estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise 
entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for: (i)  in-service training for teachers and preschool teachers under 
Part C of the Project; and (ii) monitoring and evaluation under Part E of the Project, 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Single Source Selection
Services for: (i) the expansion of the mother and child education program under 
Part C of the Project under a contract estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent; and 
(ii) strengthening of the MONE’s capacity to implement the said program under a 
Page  23
-
21 - 
contract estimated to cost less than $70,000 equivalent, may, with the Bank's prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 
of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
3. Individual 
Consultants
Services for strengthening Project management and implementation under Part D 
of the Project which meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $850,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for 
its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 
t
o
the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with 
the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to: (i) each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; and (ii) each contract for the 
employment of consulting firms to be selected in accordance with the provisions of     
Part C.2 of this Section II, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded 
only after the said approval shall have been given. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply; provided, however, that prior review and approval by the Bank shall still apply to 
the terms of reference for each such contract. 
Page  24
-
22 - 
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Implementation Program 
 
Section A:
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Project Coordination Center shall be responsible for coordinating adequate 
arrangements for the overall implementation of the Project among the MONE central 
units and eighty-one (81) of its provincial directorates, including aspects related to 
procurement of works and goods and selection and employment of consultants’ services, 
disbursement of Loan proceeds, and maintenance of Project accounts.   To that end, the 
Borrower, through the MONE, shall maintain the PCC throughout Project 
implementation under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank and with sufficient and 
suitable human, financial and technical resources.  The PSEC shall provide policy 
guidance required for the implementation of the Project, meeting for such purposes every 
two (2) months to discuss and evaluate Project progress. 
 
2. 
At the province and sub-province level, the Project shall be implemented under 
the authority of the provincial governors and the sub-province governors (
kaymakams
), 
with the provincial education directors being responsible for the lead technical role on 
educational matters and provincial project management services units being established.  
 
Section B:
Project Implementation Responsibilities
1. 
The MONE and the provinces shall share responsibility for carrying out school 
infrastructure investments under Part A of the Project, the provinces being responsible for 
identifying their infrastructure needs and preparing initial proposals for school 
construction, rehabilitation and extension, according to criteria established by the MONE 
and agreed by the Bank.  Implementation of approved construction shall rest with the 
provinces and sub-provinces for extension and rehabilitation of existing Basic Education 
schools, while the MONE shall manage the construction of new schools with the 
assistance of management consultants’ regional teams. 
 
2. 
Information and Communications Technology under Parts B.1 and C of the 
Project shall be implemented by EGITEK and the Department of In-Service Training of 
the MONE, under the coordination of the PCC. 
 
3. 
Educational interventions under the Project shall be implemented by the 
respective line units of the MONE, under the coordination of the PCC assisted by 
consultants. 
 
4. 
Monitoring and evaluation activities under Part E of the Project shall be carried 
out by the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit of the PCC, in close collaboration with 
Project implementation units and the APK, under the coordination of the PCC. 
 
Page  25
-
23 - 
Section C:
Project Implementation and Reporting Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to carry out the Environmental 
Management Plan in a timely manner, ensuring that adequate information on the 
implementation of the said measures is suitably included in the progress reports referred 
to in following paragraph 3 of this Section C. 
 
2. 
For the purposes of the training consisting of workshops, seminars and study 
tours to be provided under Parts B, D and E of the Project, the Borrower, through the 
MONE, shall: 
 
(a) 
furnish to the Bank for its approval, the content of each such training, 
including an explanation on how such training is consistent and conducive to the 
objectives of the Project and whether it offers the best price/quality ratio, as well as the 
schedule for its implementation; 
 
(b) 
select the trainees in accordance with a transparent process and criteria 
satisfactory to the Bank; 
 
(c) 
not later than December 1 of each year, exchange views with the Bank 
on the training to be carried out during the following calendar year; and 
 
(d) 
furnish to the Bank a report of such scope and detail as the Bank shall 
reasonably request, on the results of each training and the benefits to be derived 
therefrom. 
 
3. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions, the Borrower shall, not later than April 30 and October 31 in each calendar 
year, commencing on April 30, 2003, and until Project completion, cause the PCC to 
prepare and submit to the Bank for its review, a progress report, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, describing, in accordance with evolving 
parameters acceptable to the Bank, the progress achieved by the Borrower in the 
implementation, through the MONE, of the Project during the preceding six (6) month 
period. 
 
4. 
With a view to foster the successful implementation of the Program, the 
Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
not later than April 30 in each calendar year, commencing on April 30, 
2003, and until Program completion, cause the MONE to carry out with representatives 
from the Borrower’s Undersecretariat of Treasury, the State Planning Organization, the 
State Institute of Statistics, the Bank and other third parties relevant to the 
implementation and development of the Program, including relevant non-governmental 
organizations, a quantitative review on the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying 
out the Program during the preceding twelve (12) month period, on the basis of published 
Page  26
-
24 - 
statistical abstracts to be furnished by the MONE, and, thereafter, the Borrower shall 
cause the MONE to carry out the measures resulting from the recommendations agreed 
upon with the Bank to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Program and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the twelve (12) month period following such 
date; and 
 
(b) 
not later than October 31 in each calendar year, commencing on October 
31, 2003, and until Program completion, cause the MONE to carry out with the Bank and 
other third parties relevant to the implementation and development of the Program, 
including relevant academics and practitioners from the Borrower’s provinces, a 
qualitative review on selected aspects of the Program during the preceding twelve (12) 
month period, on the basis of a selected topic established not later than October 31 in 
each calendar year for the said purposes and which shall focus on the outcomes of studies 
of different aspects of education, including those evaluation studies carried out under the 
Project, and, thereafter, the Borrower shall cause the MONE to carry out the measures 
resulting from the recommendations agreed upon with the Bank to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of the Program and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
twelve (12) month period following such date.  For the purposes of the qualitative 
progress review scheduled not later than October 31, 2003, progress shall be reviewed on 
the basis of the study on information and communications technology utilization and the 
social impact studies presently being undertaken by the MONE.  
 
5. 
The Borrower, through the MONE, shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Performance Indicators, the carrying 
out of the Project and the Program and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about January 30, 2004, a report integrating the results of the monitoring 
and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project and the Program during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the Program and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by April 30, 2004 or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take 
all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the Program 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.   
Page  27
-
25 - 
SCHEDULE 6 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4), (5) and 
(6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of works, goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $20,000,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount of $10,000,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $60,000,000. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Page  28
-
26 - 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence
 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the Project, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal 
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
Page  29
-
27 - 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule;
 
or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
Page  30
-
28 - 
M:\BACKUP\TURKEY\W-1995.doc 
4/10/2002 1:00 PM
 
