                                                                                                                       92559
                                                                                                                       May 3, 2004
Turkey: Putting Education First
                      In 1998, Turkey embarked on a program of poverty reduction on an epic
                                                                                                          -- Resources --
                      scale. Virtually overnight, it extended compulsory primary school
                      education from five years to eight. The program cost an average of $3               Full Story (PDF)
                                                                                                          English | Turkish
                      billion a year. The World Bank chipped in with two phases of $300 million
                                                                                                          Audio clip
                      to finance different aspects of the reform where it felt its involvement
                      would make a difference. However, it is a much smaller sum, less than               Project
                      $10 a month that has made all the difference to a schoolgirl Askin Yavuz            The World Bank in Turkey
in the southeast of Turkey.
                                                                                                          Also available in:
                                                                                                          Español | Français



                        “There are few cases...that can compare with these initial achievements.”
                                                                                     --Ilhan Dulger
In 1998, the Turkish government took what has been called a “great leap”—raising the number of
compulsory years of education from five to eight. Since then, more than 1 million more children have
started going to school than in the past. The cost has been enormous—more than $3 billion a year.
The World Bank has been helping the government meet the funding challenge. But there have been
other, more difficult, challenges, such as an entrenched bias against giving girls an education. Of the
10 million children estimated as not attending school, 60 percent are girls. Teachers like Sait Çepik,
of the Topraktas village primary school, are helping change attitudes. In his village, he went door to
door with two women teachers, explaining that education was compulsory and free.


                       “What sin have we girls committed? Is it a crime to go to school?”
                       --Aşkin Yavuz
                       For many Turkish girls, the chance for an education is a distant dream. Faced with a lack of funds
                       and a traditional resistance to educating girls, many Turkish families give the first preference at
                       schooling to their sons. For 13-year-old Aşkin Yavuz, the thought of not going to school was too
                       much. She wrote her principal, threatening to take her life unless she was allowed to go to school.
                       “What sin have we girls committed?” she asked in her letter. “Is it a crime to go to school?” Aşkin’s
                       principal pleaded with her family, and the girl was allowed to resume her education. Aşkin’s mother
                       agreed that keeping her home would have been a form of imprisonment. “They can’t even do the
                       shopping. That’s just the way things are,” her mother says.


                                                   “You never can tell. Some of them will make it.”
                                                                                     --Oya Sevinç
Fourteen-year-old Nurhan wants to be a judge. Her friend Hülya wants to become a nurse. Their
dreams are part of a transformation that is taking hold in Turkey as a major government push to get
more girls into school begins to gain traction. While many girls are still being kept home from school
because of traditions that favor boys, others are riding this new wave of hope as far as they can. At
school they get books, stationary, a uniform, and access to social and health services, as well as a
chance to fulfill their dreams. “You never can tell,” says school principal Oya Sevinç. “Some of them
will make it.”


                       “Sanctions don’t work; the real job is to convince people.”
                       --Salih Çelik
                       Asuma Kaçan has 11 children and lives next to the school in the village of Gümmetaş. She has no
                       qualms about sending her 13-year-old daughter the short distance to the school and is happy for her
                       “to be whatever she wants, to do whatever she can.” The Kaçan family reflects the seismic shift in
                       thinking on the value of girls’ education that is taking place in Turkey. Kaçan’s oldest daughter, 22,
                       was not so lucky. Even with a school in her backyard, she never learned to write.


Updated May, 2004
