                                     Document of
                                 The World Bank

                              FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                          Report No: 28057-CM

                    IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                      (IDA-28690)

                                         ON A

                               LOAN/CREDIT/GRANT

IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 41.7 MILLION (EQUIVALENT US$ 60.7 MILLION)

                                        TO THE

                              REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON

                     FOR THE TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT




                                     June 24, 2004




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         (Exchange Rate Effective September 1, 2002)

                                   Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFA)
                                  CFA 1 million = US$ 1538.46
                                           US$ 1 = CFA 650

                                        AT APPRAISAL
                              Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFA)
                                   CFA 1 million = US$ 1,980
                                       US$1 = CFAF 505

                                         FISCAL YEAR
                                        July 01   June 30

                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB      African Development Bank
AFD       Agence Française de Développement (French Development Agency)
APN       Autorité Portuaire Nationale (National Ports Authority)
EIB       European Investment Bank
BDR       Base de Données Routières (Roads Database)
BGFT      Bureau de Gestion du Fret Terrestre (Roads Freight Bureau)
CAMAIR    Cameroon Airlines
CAMSHIP   Cameroon Shipping Lines
CAMTAINER Société Nationale de Transport et de Transit du Cameroun
          (Cameroon Container Transport and Freight Forwarder Company)
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CCO       Comité Consultatif d'Orientation (advisory committee, part of the reforms process)
CEMAC     Communauté Economique et Monetaire de l' Afrique Centrale
CFA       Cameroon currency (Franc CFA)
CNCC      Conseil National des Chargeurs du Cameroun (Shippers' Council)
COFACE    French Import Export (insurance credit company)
CPE       Cellule de Protection de l'Environnement (Environmental Protection Unit)
CTS       Comité Technique de Suivi (technical body for privatization oversight)
DCA       Development Credit Agreement
DR        Direction des Routes
EDF       European Development Fund
IMF       International Monetary Fund
FSD       Fonds Social de Développement (social development fund)
GUCE      Guichet Unique du Commerce Extérieur (one-stop shop)
HIPC      Highly Indebted Poorest Countries
IDA       International Development Association
IMF       International Monetary Fund
LABOGENIE Laboratoire National de Génie Civil (National Road Laboratory)
MATGENIE  Parc National de Matériel de Génie Civil (Public Works equipment leasing co., state owned)
MINEFI    Ministère de l'Economie et des Finances (Ministry of Economy and Finance)
MINT      Ministère des Transports (Ministry of Transport)
MINTP     Ministère des Travaux Publics (Ministry of Public Works)
ONPC      Office National des Ports du Cameroun (Former Cameroon National Port Authority)
OPA       Organisme Portuaire Autonome (Autonomous Port)
PAD       Port Autonome de Douala

PPRCP      Private Sector Support Project
PUER       Programme d'Urgence d'Entretien Routier
QAG        Quality Assurance Group
REGIFERCAM Former state-owned railway company (liquidated)
RNCC       REGIFERCAM
RUR        Redevance d'Usage de la Route (Road User charge)
SAC III    Third Structural Adjustment Credit
SAR        Staff Appraisal Report
SDR        Standard Drawing Rights
SMEs       Small and Medium Enterprises
SOTUC      Société de Transport Urbain du Cameroun (Urban Public Transport Company Liquidated)
TAC        Terminal à conteneur (Container Terminal of the Douala Port)
TIR        Transit International Routier (International Road Transit)
TSTAP      Transport Sector Technical Assistance Project
TSP        Transport Sector Project
VAT        Value Added Tax


                                  Vice President:       Callisto Madavo
                               Country Director:        Ali M. Khadr
                                 Sector Manager:        Sanjivi Rajasingham
                             Task Team Leader:          Jean-Francois Marteau

                                        CAMEROON
                             TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            15
6. Sustainability                                                                16
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 17
8. Lessons Learned                                                               19
9. Partner Comments                                                              20
10. Additional Information                                                       20
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             21
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             26
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             28
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             31
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                32
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            33
Annex 8 Borrower's contribution                                                  34

Project ID: P000393                                                  Project Name: CM TRANSPORT SECTOR
Team Leader: Jean-Francois Marteau                                   TL Unit: AFTTR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 23, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: CM TRANSPORT SECTOR                                      L/C/TF Number: IDA-28690
   Country/Department: CAMEROON                                                           Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Roads and highways (86%); Central government administration
                            (14%)
                  Theme: State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization (P); Export
                            development and competitiveness (P); Pollution management and
                            environmental health (P); Rural services and infrastructure (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 04/13/1987                                     Effective: 04/24/1997                04/24/1997
     Appraisal: 05/14/1995                                         MTR: 12/31/1998                  02/20/1999
      Approval: 05/30/1996                                      Closing: 12/31/2002                 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT/MIN. OF PUBLIC WORKS & TRANSPORT
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Callisto E. Madavo                             Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:               Ali Khadr                                      Andrew Rogerson
Sector Manager:                 C. Sanjivi Rajasingham                         Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard
Team Leader at ICR:             Jean-Francois Marteau                          Jean-Noel Guillossou
ICR Primary Author:             Jean-Francois Marteau;
                                Abdelghani Inal


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

3.1.1    Preamble:

Since 1990, the Government of Cameroon has embarked in the design and implementation of a Transport
Sector Program. The Transport Sector Project (TSP), whose preparation and implementation spanned more
than thirteen years, was one of the various instruments used by the World Bank to support the
implementation of this program. In order to have a broader understanding of the Project's specific impact,
this preamble will provide an overview of the context in which the Program was prepared, as well as its
history and its main features.



The preparation of a Transport Sector Program was initiated in 1990 as Cameroon was going
through a very severe economic crisis that had left the sector in disarray. From 1986 to 1993,
Cameroon experienced serious economic difficulties, with per capita income falling by 50 percent. The
contraction was also reflected in a severe fiscal crisis, leading to drastic cuts in infrastructure spending. As
a result, the transport sector, like many other sectors, experienced very dire financial difficulties.
Moreover, it was suffering from an ill-adapted regulatory and institutional framework, and an inefficient
management system. It could no longer play its role to fuel the economic growth of the country. Mindful of
the need to reform the sector, the World Bank initiated a long-term dialogue process with the Government
as soon as 1990 to prepare a Transport Sector Program, to which the Bank would contribute provided that
initial reform steps be implemented. While donor coordination was initially lacking in the sector, this
process progressively assembled the whole donor community. As an initial step of this process, a sector
study (Report No. 11430-CM, dated June 30, 1993) provided a core diagnosis of the sector together with
recommendations for actions and reforms. However, the government capacity to sustain dialogue and
undertake reforms at that time was extremely low, and its financial capacity almost non existent. The
devaluation of the CFA Franc in January 1994, after striking a shock, changed the context and helped build
ownership for the reforms.

The Sector Program, as described in the June 1996 Transport Sector Policy Letter, became and
remains the reference for all donor interventions in the sector. In mid-1995, after nearly five years of
dialogue, the Government officially adopted a program of reforms, later outlined in its June 1996 Transport
Sector Policy Letter. As a result, an overall framework for the Transport Sector Program was agreed upon
between the Government and the entire donor community, which aimed to "improve efficiency and
sustainable and coherent development in the transport sector to enable it to resume its contribution to
development, poverty alleviation, and protection of the environment." The reforms envisaged were to be
supported by a tentative five-year US$ 722 million investment program over the period 1995-2000. After
the adoption of the sector policy, several donors, notably the European Union and the French Aid, endorsed
the Program reform strategy as the basis for their interventions, and the African Development Bank
modified its support to take into account reforms in the road sector. The World Bank Group used several
tools to support the Program (see below), with a combination of technical assistance, adjustment support
and investment lending. This Sector Policy remains the reference underlying the current Government
strategy.

The Transport Sector policy is comprehensive and based on four main pillars. The outcomes of this
policy since its inception are briefly described below:




                                                     - 2 -

l State divestiture from transport operations in favor of private operators, and institutions more
    focused on planning, regulation, and sector policies. The State has withdrawn from all transport
    operations, inter alia urban transport, railways and road maintenance. As an exception, CAMAIR, the
    State-owned airline, has not been privatized, nor were some port services which (in agreement with the
    Bank) were deemed too sensitive on security grounds to be privatized; the ministries of Public Works
    (MINTP) and Transport (MINT) were restructured along the lines defined in the Policy;
l Better balance between investment and maintenance expenditures, and sustainable resource
    allocation. Resource allocation between road investment and maintenance is better balanced and
    reforms were achieved in dialogue with the Bank, the IMF, and other development partners of
    Cameroon. Additionally, funding for road maintenance has been secured on a sustainable basis through
    the allocation of a portion of the tax on transport fuel to a Road Fund;
l Improved regulatory framework resulting in more liberalization, and increased competitiveness. The
    regulatory framework was improved, transport activities were liberalized at that time, which generated
    greater competition, especially between rail and road transport; besides, technical laws and regulations
    in air, maritime and land transport were updated; and
l Protection of the environment. The environmental protection legal framework was adopted for the
    entire transport sector and an environmental protection unit was set up in the Ministry of Public
    Works, which now serves the entire sector without donor funding.

Bank support to the Program progressively evolved from a comprehensive sector-wide hybrid
operation to a series of smaller more focused mutually reinforcing operations. As no lending could be
approved in the absence of sufficient track record in policy reform, Bank support in the early 1990s was
limited to dialogue and economic sector work. The TSP then under preparation was supposed to carry the
lending instrument. Designed as a combined project (adjustment and investment credit), the TSP would
contribute to support all sector reforms, while providing needed investment to the road and rail sub-sectors.
However, after appraisal in 1993, the team concluded that the Government's financial capacity and
commitment to reforms could not provide the basis to launch successfully an operation of that scale, and
that a more gradual approach using tailor-made support was preferable. Hence, the following operations
were deployed.

l A Transport Sector Technical Assistance Project (TSTAP, Cr. 2703-CM, approved on April 11, 1995
    and ended in 1999) contributed to fine tune the reforms and prepare the associated implementation
    plans together with a sector-wide investment program for the period 1995-2000.
l The scope of the TSP--whose preparation resumed (re-appraisal mission in May-June 1995, and
    board approval in May 1996) after the Government began to take steps towards implementing the
    Sector Policy--was eventually limited to a contribution to the road component of the overall Sector
    Program, and selective support to institutional sector reforms. The decision to delink the adjustment
    and investment components of the original TSP was taken in early 1996, based on the following three
    reasons. First, the government capacity to handle a complex adjustment lending was not there in 1996.
    Second, a comprehensive Structural Adjustment Credit was under preparation, which became the Third
    Structural Adjustment Credit or SAC III, and provided the required global macroeconomic framework.
    Last, allowing more time for the preparation of the adjustment component by integrating it in SAC III
    allowed to set more ambitious targets for some major reforms in the Port and Road sub-sectors.
l The Third Structural Adjustment Credit or SAC III, Cr. 3102-CM, approved on February 8, 1998,
    became the preferred instrument to carry out the overall transport sector reform agenda.
l Bank support was subsequently complemented by two other projects. The Private Sector Support
    Project (PPRCP, Cr. 3359-CM, approved in May, 2000) provided technical assistance to support
    privatization of some transport activities. The railway concession project, approved in July 2002 (Cr.
    3695-CM, initially negotiated in 1999) provided the necessary funding for track renewal and


                                                     - 3 -

    implementation of a model environmental mitigation plan.
The right sequencing of these operations developed synergies and produced outstanding results.

Because the objective of this report is to strictly evaluate the TSP, areas unrelated to the Project's
components will not be covered in the following pages. However, the Government contribution, provided
in Annex 8, includes a matrix that summarizes the outcomes of all sector reforms originally forecast in the
Program. Contributions of other projects or donor interventions to achieve some project objectives are
detailed in Annex 1.2 and discussed where relevant in this report. The ICR of the TSTAP (report 20044
dated Feb 14, 2000) provided details on the initial implementation of the Policy whereas the upcoming ICR
of the SAC III , which contained two transport sector adjustment tranches, will discuss in detail the
outcomes of the main sector reforms.

3.1.2 Original Objectives

Project objectives are: (a) to support : (i) road maintenance; (ii) the preservation of the national road
network; and (iii) road safety; (b) to support the Borrower's gradual retrenchment from the execution of
road maintenance by: (i) promoting the participation of small and medium enterprises; (ii) transferring
public equipment leasing activities; and (iii) developing the use of labor-intensive methods; (c) to revise the
transport sector institutional framework by: (i) restructuring the Ministry of Public Works (MINTP) and
shifting its role in road maintenance from the execution by force accounts into subcontracting of works,
planning, and supervision; (ii) restructuring the Ministry of Transport (MINT) and focusing its role on
planning, policy development and regulation; and (iii) increasing private sector and beneficiary
participation in transport management; and (d) to protect the environment.

3.2 Revised Objective:
Not applicable

3.3 Original Components:
The TSP targeted the road sub-sector with two main components, presented below as described in the
Development Credit Agreement.

Component A: Road Maintenance and Road Safety

A.1 Execution of sections of the three-year maintenance program for the primary roads in the priority
network. During the first year, this included rehabilitation or periodic maintenance of 915 km of roads (300
km paved, 615 km unpaved); during the two following years, the sections were to be determined as part of
the overall road maintenance and rehabilitation program prepared by the programming system set up by the
TSTAP (70.7 percent of the credit amount).

A.2 Execution of a rural infrastructure maintenance program, including rehabilitating a 1,500 km section
of the 10,952 km priority rural roads, and involving the beneficiaries in managing rural transport
infrastructure, and

A.3 Construction of two weighing stations, the first on the national highway RN3 at the exit of Douala, and
the second on the national highway RN1 between Maltam and Kousseri (13.8 percent of the total for A2
and A3).

Component B: Technical Assistance and Training




                                                     - 4 -

B.1 Technical Assistance and Training to support restructuring the MINTP and MINT, and to acquire
computers and office equipment (4.4 percent of the total).

B.2 The study and implementation of programs aimed at:

l improving road safety
l enhancing client capacity to supervise the execution of civil works in the transport sector
l involving beneficiaries in rural road management
l promoting participation of Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) in road maintenance
l strengthening the capacity of the Directorate responsible for merchant shipping to deal with
    environmental issues
l preparing the subsequent phases of the program
(6.0 percent of the total).

B.3 Surveys and seminars, particularly annual consultations between sector stakeholders, the Government,
and donors (5.1 percent of the total).

3.4 Revised Components:
Two amendments appended the Development Credit Agreement:

First amendment (December 15, 1999)
A third component was introduced, to cover the operating costs of the Transport Sector Program
coordination unit. These costs were borne by the TSTAP until it closed in 1999, but it was agreed that the
coordination unit was still needed for program monitoring and Project implementation, including support to
Project activities in other units of the administration, such as the environmental and rural roads units. It is
worth noting, however, that the cost of the civil service staff assigned to the coordination unit, including the
coordinator, was always funded by the Government. A works subcomponent under component A was also
added in this amendment to cover the cost of building offices.

Second Amendment (2002)
This work subcomponent for office building was never implemented and was finally withdrawn in this
amendment, which also slightly modified categories allocation.

The following table provides a synopsis of the reallocation of credit amounts in SDR between components
and subcomponent in the initial DCA, following the second amendment and as spent at the closing date.




                                                      - 5 -

            Components                    Original            After 2nd             Latest
                                                            amendment
                                     Amount   %     km    Amount      %     Amount     %    Km
A    Road      maintenance        and
     safety
A 1 Paved and earth roads            29,530   70.7  915    31,500    75.5   31,601    75.8 1049
A 2 Rural roads and                   5,740   13.8 1500     3,100     7.4    3,171     7.6  258
A 3 Weighing Stations
B    Technical Assistance and
     Training
B 1 Restructuring of MINTP and        1,830   4.4           600       1.4     436      1.0
     MINT
B2 Studies, supervision,              2,490   6.0           5,500    13.2    5,392    12.9
     sensitization, training, etc.
B 3 Seminars and surveys              2,140   5.1           650       1.6     683      1.6
C    PIU implementing costs             0      0            400       0.9     415      1.0
     TOTAL                           41,700   100          41,700     100   41,699     100


Fluctuation of the SDR/Euro exchange rate affected the two last road contracts, executed in 2002-2003 and
expressed in Euros, which amounted to 15 percent of the TSP costs. As a result, the share of the Project
that was supposed to be financed by IDA finally exceeded the allocated SDR amount. The balance, which
was not foreseeable at the time of contract signing, was to be covered by the Government budget.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality at entry is rated satisfactory, but marginally so, for the following reasons:

The Project objectives and the Program objectives more broadly, were in line with the Bank Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS, discussed by the Board in February 1996), which essentially aimed at
improving the efficiency of the public sector, streamlining its finances, fostering an environment conducive
to private sector development and poverty alleviation.

The overall design of the project evolved adequately throughout project preparation so as to adjust
to the country's readiness and ownership. At inception, the project covered the entire sector, was
elaborate and complex, attempting to address the main issues of the whole transport sector and related
activities, including road (trunk network, urban and rural), railway, maritime, and air transport, ports,
State-owned enterprises, administrations, etc. At the time, its objectives dovetailed those of the Program.
Broad institutional reforms were addressed, in addition to physical infrastructure, and road maintenance
funding and execution. After the decision to separate adjustment and investment lending at the end of 1995,
the final Project design was simplified to support administration reform and the various road sector
components (paved roads, gravel roads, and rural roads). The design provided an adequate basis for
achieving and monitoring project-related reforms, while benefiting from the earlier sector-wide project
concept in terms of policy analysis.

Three critical and courageous decisions were taken during the project preparation to adjust to
evolving country context. First, the decision to discontinue the Project processing after the 1993
appraisal was courageous in acknowledging that conditions at the time would not permit realization of
reforms objectives and that implementing the investment part of the project would run the risk of lack of
counterpart funding. Second, the decision to resume project preparation in June, 1994, was justified by
the concrete signs of Government's renewed commitment to sector reforms. Third, the decision to remove
the adjustment part and limit the project scope to roads after the re-appraisal of 1995 was also
appropriate: public finance in Cameroon were not ready for an adjustment lending, and the pace of reforms



                                                     - 6 -

was not fast enough to envisage easily reachable targets for tranche release. On the other hand, the
approval of an investment project provided, within the long-term process of sector dialogue, a strong
indication of the Bank support to the Government efforts to implement the reforms, especially in the road
maintenance area. Narrowing the scope to the road sector, also took into account progress already
achieved, which was not yet the case in other sub-sectors. The railway concession, for example, was not
completed at the time of project appraisal, and include a railway component requiring a long processing
time in the project would have badly affected the disbursement performance.

The risks associated with implementing reforms were clearly identified. They were also largely mitigated,
with the SAC III providing budget incentives, and other donors complemented IDA investment funding to
reforming sub-sectors (EU supported road maintenance and road sector reforms, the TSTAP also
supported restructuring of MINTP and MINT, and rural roads benefited from AFD and AfDB funding).
Support from other projects and donors coupled with the Bank team's proactive behavior (transport and
macro-economic units) made it possible to unleash all the synergy needed to meet the Program and Project
objectives.

The Bank sought the maximum financing rate             to minimize the risk of lack of counterpart funds.
Nevertheless, this risk briefly materialized at the inception and during the last two years of the project.

The extremely high risk of insufficient allocation of funds for road maintenance was mitigated by the
setup of specific deposit procedures, and quickly replaced by the Road Fund, which proved to be a very
efficient way of significantly increasing the amounts allocated to road maintenance, which were multiplied
by a factor of five in four years.

The investment design and preparation relied on (low) Government capacities in a sector-wide context
where the Bank and the Government had to focus more on reform implementation, and on gradually
establishing the capacities needed by the administration. Project preparation used reputable international
consulting firms for project design. In retrospect, the preparation of road subprojects could have been more
detailed. The cost of one of the paved roads contract under the first phase was underestimated. The time lap
of more than two years between the project appraisal mission and the launch of the bidding process
partially explain this, because the roads kept on deteriorating and the volume of works became much larger
than anticipated. The lack of specific unit in the government dedicated to rural roads at the time also
probably explains the slow preparation of the component dedicated to this sub-sector. Similar shortcomings
in technical design have been observed in other sector programs when the Client and the Borrower mostly
focus on global institutional reform rather than technical definition of project components.

The risk of delays in procurement was not addressed or mitigated, but was later covered in a
Bank-supported Government-wide procurement reform. Environmental risks were probably underestimated
considering the specifics of the country, but were addressed before credit effectiveness when the Bank
required the Government to implement a specific plan, which included enhanced studies, control of
environmental aspects of subprojects, and setting up, with technical assistance, of an Environment
Protection Unit in the MINTP. The Project preparation probably should have better analyzed the schedule
of implementation given the procurement constraints and the administration capacity. This would probably
have avoided the need to restructure the project to have the credit fund the operating costs of the
Coordination unit.

Overall, the few weaknesses of the project detailed design are more than offset by the quality of the policy
and reform content crafted during project preparation. The Bank adapted adequately to the country context
and effectively designed a series of operations that efficiently supported the Government strategy.


                                                      - 7 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The outcome of the Project is satisfactory, since most of the project objectives have been substantially
achieved, as explained below. A summary of the Project objectives achievements and the TSP and other
projects contributions to these are shown in Annex 1.2.

Ø       Objective (a): to support: (i) road maintenance; (ii) the preservation of the national road
network; and (iii) road safety

With regard to the sustainability and efficiency of road maintenance (objective (a), (i)), the project
contributed to the set up of the Road Fund and the divestiture of the Government from road maintenance
execution:

l The Government progressively understood that efficient road maintenance would rather be done by
    private contractors than traditional Force Account. The main constraint for implementation was
    financing, as private companies, and specially SMEs, would not bear the risk of delayed government
    payment. This was the rationale for setting up a specific funding tool for road maintenance, the Road
    Fund.
l Several years of dialogue were necessary before its setup, as the Bank and the Sector Ministries had to
    convince the IMF and the Ministry of Finance to derogate from strict budget pooling policy and
    elaborate specific disbursement procedures for the sector. For example, the Road Fund is not
    mentioned in the TSP SAR and DCA because no agreement with the Ministry of Finance had been
    reached at the time, though it was implicitly the only way to achieve the Project's main development
    objective.
l The Road Fund was finally set up in 1998 to channel maintenance funds through the allocation of part
    of the fuel levy, named the road user charge. The Government has since effectively transferred each
    year the share of the transport fuel tax initially agreed upon.
l The Road Fund was institutionally set up with a board where the private sector holds a majority of
    seats. It operates like a private entity. The Road Fund is essentially a tool that pays road maintenance
    contractors upon certification of work by the government agencies that supervise road maintenance.
    Total process usually takes about two weeks, compared with several months under the normal
    government budget processing.
l Complete withdrawal of the Government from executing road maintenance works had been decided in
    1997, and was not effective, contractors being unable to be paid on time, leading to several
    bankruptcies. The Road Fund setup completely changed the situation, and work programs have run
    according to plans ever since.

The results of the scheme are very impressive, as reflected in the sums mobilized and applied towards road
maintenance through the Road Fund, mostly executed by SMEs, and mentioned in the table below. Such
totals are by far higher than the amounts provided for in the SAR. It should be noted that road
maintenance expenses before the start of the project were between US$ 2 and US$ 7 million per year,
compared with more than US$ 30 million annually since 1999-2000.




                                                       - 8 -

        Financial year           Budgets     Income (including RUR)   Commitments       Payments
   1998-1999                        15.00       12.00 (12.00)                  11.50            4.90
   1999-2000                        20.00       20.70 (19.90)                  25.80           17.51
   2000-2001                        22.00       20.20 (18.80)                  32.40           30.33
   2001-2002                        26.00       24.30 (21.47)                  23.20           26.54
   Transitory 2002 (½ year)         13.00        11.32 (9.91)                  12.39            8.79
   2003                             26.00       23.94 (22.55)                  20.00           18.57
   TOTAL                           122.00             112.46                  125.29          106.64
                                                    (108.87)



The current funding now allows for the routine maintenance of 20,000 km of roads, against a SAR target
of 10,000. In terms of protecting the road network, project objectives were strengthened by effectively
implementing a strategy to control axle load on major roads.

The investment carried out for the rehabilitation of the trunk paved and gravel network directly contributed
to objective (a) (ii), as it fixed nearly 1,000 km, which represent 5 percent of the priority network. It is a
significant contribution to the upgrading of the road network, as it is still considered that more than 60
percent of it is in bad condition.

 The project also contributed to improved road safety (objective (a) (iii)) through its impact on road
condition, and the setup of databases to monitor road condition and accidents. However, no real statistical
follow-up supported this contention due to lack of Government resources to cover recurring costs of data
collection, which diminished the project impact.

Contribution of the project to attain objective (a) was twofold. Directly, the project contributed to training
and capacity building both in the ministries and with contractors. Indirectly, it eased acceptability of
reforms by providing rehabilitation of 5 percent of the network, so that Government funds could be targeted
towards maintenance rather than rehabilitation. Within project supervision, the Road Fund setup and the
divestiture from maintenance were the main dialogue subjects between the Government and the Bank,
which threatened to suspend the project if the Road Fund was not implemented. The Project DO rating was
restored as satisfactory only when the Government finally set it up at the end of 1998.

Other donors contributed to this objective, namely the EU with the PERFED I and II programs, which
provided assistance to the ministry of works in contract management and direct funding to the Road Fund.
The SAC III project also contributed as the Road Fund setup (which had been accepted in principle by the
IMF at the time) was one of the conditions of the first transport tranche release.

Objective (b): to support the Borrower's gradual retrenchment from the execution of road maintenance
by: (i) promoting the participation of small and medium enterprises; (ii) transferring public equipment
leasing activities; and (iii) developing the use of labor-intensive methods

As mentioned above, this objective was also achieved, since the Government ceased executing road
maintenance in 1997. However, the "real start" of effective maintenance under private sector execution
started with the Road Fund.

Given the average unit amount of maintenance contracts chosen by the Government (US$136,000), the new
policy favored SMEs development. More than 200 SMEs currently operate in the sector and absorb most



                                                      - 9 -

of the maintenance funding, compared with less than 50 at the beginning of the project. International firms
operate only on some sections of the trunk network that are contracted out under three-year contracts. The
number of SMEs using non-mechanized, labor-intensive methods has increased proportionally, although the
strategy pursued by the Government and supported by donors has since evolved in favor of techniques
optimized for each type of network, taking into account local contexts, and the fact that labor-intensive
methods are just one possible means of mixing labor-based and mechanized techniques. The project
provided direct contribution to achieving this objective through its restructuring and technical assistance
sections.

Ø       Objective (c): to revise the transport sector institutional framework by: (i) restructuring the
Ministry of Public Works (MINTP) and shifting its role in road maintenance from the execution by force
accounts into subcontracting of works, planning, and supervision; (ii) restructuring the Ministry of
Transport (MINT) and focusing its role on planning, policy development and regulation; and (iii)
increasing private sector and beneficiary participation in transport management

Restructuring both the MINTP and MINT, and the contracting out of road maintenance works to private
companies achieved institutional reform project objectives.

i)    The MINTP was effectively restructured to include a specific planning unit and a rural roads unit.
      Divestiture from road maintenance execution was achieved in 1997, and the ministry staff has so
      far focused on supervision of works. Even if the objective is achieved as compared to the situation
      at the beginning of the project, strengthening is still needed in terms of planning, programming,
      and above all monitoring functions, as the latter currently relies largely on EU funded technical
      assistance, which is due to end in late 2004. However, this remaining agenda is not unusual,
      and in keeping with road reform patterns observed in other countries.
ii)   The MINT was restructured and now focuses on planning and policy regulation. All the sub-sector
      specific laws have been updated, and a directorate for planning created, which supports the
      Government in policy formulation and implementation. It would still need support to produce sector
      works comparable with international standards, but already provides a service that did not exist at
      all before the project.
iii)  The objective of supporting private sector participation in sector management was achieved,
      particularly in regard to road maintenance and all transport services. As stated above, the number
      of Cameroonian SMEs have multiplied fourfold, consultant firms have sprung up, and the annual
      turnover of private local contractors in the road sector is probably over US$ 50 million, since more
      than US$ 30 million are consumed by routine maintenance and nearly US$ 20 million by
      rehabilitation of rural roads through the HIPC funds. This does not take into account the impact of
      urban road maintenance and other donor-funded projects on SMEs activities. The same turnover in
      1996 was probably close to eight times lower (that is, less than US$ 7 million for maintenance,
      and almost no investment)




                                                     - 10 -

As mentioned earlier, the Project and the Program objective of protecting the environment (objective (d) of
the Project) was achieved since Cameroon now has a good legal and regulatory framework for
environmental and resettlement impacts of the transport sector, and has established an Environmental
Protection Unit (CPE) inside the MINTP that operates efficiently and is adequately funded by the
Government.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component A (road maintenance and road safety)

Refer to the tables in Annex 2 on costs and detail of road sections included in Component A.

Subcomponent A1. Priority network
  This subcomponent dealt with the rehabilitation or periodic maintenance of a number of roads on the
priority network. It was to be executed in two phases:

Phase one was supposed to be for the first year of the project and comprised:

l The rehabilitation of 615 km of earth roads (estimated to cost CFA 9 billion, including taxes). Its
     actual execution concerned 663 km for a roughly equivalent final cost.
l Periodic maintenance or heavy rehabilitation works on 300 km of paved roads (initially estimated to
     cost CFA 11.4 billion, including taxes). Actual execution concerned 386 km for a final cost of CFA
     16.2 billion (VAT excluded), far higher than the initially envisioned program. The difference is
     explained by one contract: the heavy rehabilitation of the Kékem-Banjoun mountain road (74 km,
     traveled by nearly 4,000 vehicles per day) cost CFA 11.2 billion instead of the CFA 4.9 billion initially
     earmarked. Two years passed between design (appraised in 1995) and tendering, the design included in
     the tender documents probably not reflecting the road condition. Additionally, some bidders
     underestimated the cost and the contract had to be re-attributed after the failure of the lowest
     technically qualified bidder, whose bid was close to the initial estimate, but who finally refused to
     undertake the job due to fear of heavy losses. This added six more months to the process, and the
     selected bidder further obtained an increase in the amount of his contract, which was justified by the
     road technical condition.

Phase two dealt with the same type of works for the second and third years of the project, and was
supposed to be designed during the first year. An amount of CFA 6.5 billion (including taxes) was initially
projected to rehabilitate other unidentified priority gravel roads and CFA 3 billion (including taxes) were
earmarked for the rehabilitation of unidentified paved roads. Due to the slippage in costs for the first phase
(CFA 5 billion), as well as the time needed to undertake it, the second phase did not get underway until
2000, and dealt with constructing bridges, sanitation and drainage systems, as well as paving the steep
slopes of the Bamenda-Wum (25 km) and Nyamboya-Banyo (32 km) roads, for a total cost of CFA 7.7
billion, (VAT exclusive), which was close to CFA 127 million per kilometer (including bridges), normal
figures given the area's mountainous conditions. No additional rehabilitation of gravel roads was done due
to lack of resources.

Subcomponent A2: rural roads (works). The project aimed at rehabilitating 1,500 km of rural roads for
CFA 5.5 billion (including taxes) without any prior study. However, given the initially inaccurate estimate
and the necessary credit fund reduction for this component due to the above mentioned cost slippage in
Subcomponent A1, only 258 km in the Northwest (CFA 3.1 billion VAT exclusive) were financed by the
IDA credit in addition to the technical studies and sensitization campaigns for regional programs in the
Central and Southern provinces. The rest of the 1,500 km program was finally funded with HIPC resources



                                                     - 11 -

in 2001-2002, while programs funded by other donors covered part of the other regions. The unit cost per
kilometer of rehabilitation/construction work in the Northwest averages CFA 11.9 million without VAT.
This amount is justified by the fact that the region is mountainous, densely populated, with a heavy rainfall.

Subcomponent A3: construction of two weighing stations. Due to lack of resources, the component was
ultimately not funded by the Project but by the Government. The axle load policy, including contracting out
station management to a private firm, was well implemented and additional stations were either
rehabilitated or constructed with the support of the European Union (six are now in operation). The fines
for overloading, defined within the CEMAC framework, are partially allocated to the Road Fund.

Component B: Technical Assistance and Training

Sub-component B1. Support to the restructuring of two ministries, including specialized training of
MINT and MINTP staff.

MINTP: The project helped set up the planning unit as well as the rural roads unit, through equipment
(including traffic survey), technical assistance and capacity building. Both units are now operating without
support, and have been able to develop investment plans and a first round of rehabilitation works under the
HIPC initiative, which is a significant improvement from the situation before the project where no donor
funded implementation was possible without the creation of ad hoc structures. In terms of project inputs,
particularly successful was the implementation of an eighteen-month training course on road maintenance
management for civil servants, private contractor staff and consultants, by the Yaoundé School of Public
Works, in collaboration with the Lyon School of Public Works, to familiarize the entire sector community
with road maintenance operations after reforms. This training course is now self-funded by tuition fees and
Government support.

MINT: The component supported the creation of a directorate for planning and policy design, including the
creation of a transport observatory. This is a significant improvement since the Ministry previously had no
policy planning tool. The observatory still provides data, though it is no longer funded by the project. The
projected activities also included digitizing of transport documents on a pilot basis. Though this operation
had encouraging results, it was not extended and its sustainability could not be secured due to lack of
funding by the Government, and probably to vested interests.

Sub-component B2: studies and supervision. This included design studies on the road investment program
and supervision of works (CFA 3.2 billion, VAT exclusive), and a traffic survey (CFA 426 million, VAT
exclusive). It also supported the preparation of the rural roads strategy, including a participatory approach
to select some 800 km of rural roads for rehabilitation, as well as sensitization and training of the
population in road maintenance. The design and implementation of the pilot steps of this new rural roads
strategy cost over US$ 1 million (CFA 560 million, VAT exclusive), and its investment part had to be
implemented with HIPC resources earmarked for funding rehabilitation of such roads. This implementation
has now started and the 800 km identified for rehabilitation have been contracted to bidders.

This sub-component also funded part of the Program's environmental strengthening, including formulating
environment sector guidelines, and providing training and technical assistance (over US$ 1 million) to CPE
staff. The CPE recorded satisfactory results, which explains why other donor-funded projects now turn to it
for advice. The costs of the rural road strategy implementation and environmental unit strengthening
exceeded preparation estimates, since it was not foreseen at the time that these two processes would require
complete project support.




                                                     - 12 -

Sub-component B3. "seminars and surveys" essentially comprised seminars organized along several
themes: restructuring the Douala port, public/private sector partnerships, land transport, privatization of
the railways, SMEs participation in road maintenance, procurement, road network management, etc. These
actions were in line with those initiated within the framework of the TSTAP to enhance ownership of sector
reforms. They allowed for secured participation by all stakeholders in the reform process.

The third component was added in 1999 to cover recurring TSP coordination unit expenses after the
TSTAP closed. It also covered technical assistance costs of the road component executing agency. Total
expenses exceeded US$ 1 million over a period of four year and half.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The detailed economic analysis is provided in Annex 3. Economic rates of return were calculated using the
cost-benefit method with a 12 percent discount rate.

First component (A1 - A2)/First phase: Rehabilitation of part of the priority network

The rate of return of the entire road component fell from 74 percent at appraisal to 58 percent during the
mid-term review. This drop was due to a significant increase in program costs (specifically, advanced
deterioration of roads due to late work starts) and the relatively low level of traffic. This component
remains largely profitable and generates significant non-quantifiable benefits:

l Part of the time savings cannot be strictly accounted for, such as the increased availability of roads that
    used to be totally undriveable during some seasons;
l improved land access;
l Improvement of safety conditions leading to a decrease in accidents caused by a given road's condition,
    and;
l employment generation through sustained road maintenance.


First component(A1-A2) /Second phase: Paving of steep slopes

This phase was not identified at appraisal. The final rates of return are relatively low because of the low
level of traffic, but are still above 15 percent. Paving steep slopes made it possible to curb road
deterioration in this mountainous area. Most of the above mentioned non-quantifiable benefits also apply to
these sections.

Second component: Rehabilitation of rural roads in the Northwest province

Rural roads were not selected at appraisal. According to the SAR, the average rate of return for
maintenance works on the entire priority rural network was 36 percent against 52.3 percent for the
Northwest. The final rates of return for these roads are in this range, much higher than 12 percent for eight
sections out of nine. Traffic on many of the roads was far above forecasts and had a major impact on local
development.

A sharp drop in vehicle operating costs, travel time, transport fares, and a better access to market for
agricultural products have, all combined, enabled users and neighboring population to substantially
improve their living conditions.

A quantitative assessment of the social impact of the project was not carried out. However, a qualitative
evaluation on the basis of data provided by the Program's national coordination unit and the Project



                                                     - 13 -

Mid-Term Review is presented as an attachment to Annex 3 and shows highly significant access impacts
for both the rehabilitated rural roads and the priority network.


4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not Applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The Project's impact on institutional development is substantial.

Road maintenance funding and execution. The project helped the adoption of legislative and regulatory
instruments related to sector reforms (such as Road Fund law and implementation decrees, and regulations
organizing the two ministries). The main project legacy will be the set up of the Road Fund and the
withdrawal of Government from road maintenance works, as explained in paragraph 4.1. The Road Fund
was established and is now functioning. SMEs have developed; more than 200 are now operating in the
sector, compared with fewer than 50 before the beginning of the project. Collection of the road user charge
through the fuel levy is effective. A share of the proceeds from road tolls and fines for overloading trucks
are allocated to the Road Fund. The MINTP has completely withdrawn from road works, now handled by
private contractors selected through competitive bidding. Tender boards were reformed to give authority to
decentralized or sector-specific boards, which resulted in improving procurement timing and transparency,
though the process duration can still be considerably speeded up. The current system now allows for the
maintenance of 80 percent of the priority network, which is comparable to Kenya, but much more efficient
than countries like Tanzania (funding covering 40 percent of priority needs in 2002) or most West African
countries like Côte d'Ivoire (before the crisis) Mali or Senegal. The payment system is probably one of the
most efficient Africa-wide.

As indicated in paragraph 4.1, it is not easy to measure the extent of the project contribution to this reform,
compared to other projects like TSTAP and SAC III. With both, the project provided a very strong
incentive and encouragement to the Government by de facto acknowledging progress already made. The
covenants to the mandatory allocation of road maintenance funds in the credit agreement as well as the
unsatisfactory rating of the Project DO until the end of 1998 also reinforced the pressure to find a reliable
maintenance funding system, which led to the Road Fund. The dilapidated condition of the main network
also implied that users would not get to view the results of maintenance reform if part of it was not
previously rehabilitated. By rehabilitating 5 percent of the priority network, the project contributed to
taxpayer acceptance of the need to maintain road assets. This problem is now surfacing again, since a
significant part of the rehabilitation was beyond Government and donor capacities, leading to an increase in
the number of roads needing complete reconstruction. Finally, the training and capacity building carried
out under the project contributed directly to the reinforcement of the administration and the SMEs.

Administrations reform. MINTP and MINT were restructured through the project to include planning or
programming departments, which improved their capacity to formulate sector policy. The MINTP is now
well equipped to design both investment and maintenance programs. These restructurings still appear
fragile, as capacities remain relatively low and, in the case of MINTP, partially dependent on external
technical assistance. This is, however, quite comparable to other countries like Kenya or Côte d'Ivoire after
their own sector reforms. Countries that have tried to improve their contract management skills often opted
for the creation of specific autonomous agencies. Planning functions, that usually remains with the
Government administration, show the same weaknesses as observed in Cameroon, their sustainable
improvement being usually a challenge.




                                                      - 14 -

Institutional development of rural roads management. A rural road Unit was set up to manage rural road
programs, which helped implement the HIPC-funded rural road rehabilitation strategy (little funding was
available before the HIPC initiative was launched). The new Ministry organization currently under
preparation plans to upgrade it into a Rural Roads Directorate. A rural road maintenance strategy was also
designed, based on community participation and labor-intensive methods. This strategy was relying on the
communities being empowered to manage their own infrastructure. It is not yet effective as the
decentralization laws, which would give adequate responsibilities to local communities, are still pending,
but the government has prepared interim measures to continue the strategy implementation.

Environmental management. The CPE, established as part of the project, was staffed and provided with
the equipment and the necessary training to monitor all transport infrastructure projects. It has kept its
efficiency after the project funding ended, and compares with the most efficient of such units in the
continent. Adequate supervision of the CPE by the Ministry in charge of Environment will have to be
ensured so that it adapts to the evolution of environmental regulations.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Fluctuations in world oil prices and the price of most of Cameroon export products (coffee, banana,
vegetables, timber, rubber, cattle, etc.) as well as fluctuations in the CFA exchange rate have had an impact
on the country's revenues and expenditures. This is especially true for transport fuel, which impacts on
road traffic, hence, road user fee revenues, and led to the stagnation of Road Fund resources since 2000.
With regard to the physical investments in the project, upward fluctuations in the price of bitumen and
equipment export insurance cost for foreign contractors (such as the French COFACE, which raised its
rates for Central Africa following unrest in other countries), also had an impact on the cost of road works.
The exchange rate between the SDR and the CFA went up and down throughout the project's duration,
finally resulting in additional requirements for counterpart funding to cover the last road contracts costs.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Factors affecting the project and under Government control had contrasting effects, including:

l Political will to implement reforms. Just after the start of the project, the Government adopted the
    method of completely contracting out road maintenance and set up the Road Fund, which almost
    immediately permitted achievement of the project's major objectives, and subsequently helped their
    consolidation;
l Inter-ministerial coordination. Implementation of the rural roads strategy designed under the project
    was not finalized due to delays in broader decentralization reforms. Nevertheless, good coordination
    was observed in setting up the Road Funds between Finance and Public Works administrations;
l Allocation of counterpart funds: Non-payment of counterpart funds with two years in arrears at the
    end of the project comes after four consecutive years during which the Government had been able to
    keep its commitments;
l Policy adjustment to the sector situation: The Government did not react to post-2001 stagnating Road
    Fund resources, while needs were well identified and growing, nor did it modify its financial
    framework, thereby hampering progress in maintaining the road network as a priority and blocking any
    expansion of the latter. Instead, it waited until early 2004 to prepare new texts to make the system
    more sustainable;
l Procurement policy. The procurement system was reformed during the project period, leading to
    improvements but likely with a still significant margin to reduce processing time.



                                                       - 15 -

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The implementing agencies include the MINT (Directorate of Land Transport) and MINTP (Direction des
Routes, DR). In fact, the TSP Coordination Unit, together with the two Departments, acted as
implementing agency for the institutional and monitoring components of the project, the DR being
responsible for the road components. Delays by the DR in implementing road components due to
inadequate capacity caused the Bank to request, at the mid-term review, that specific units be established to
supervise both road investment and rural roads. The measures taken at that time led to efficient
implementation of the project during the end of the first and the second phase.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The total Program cost was estimated at US$ 722.7 million, including taxes, and was funded by the
Government, and some parastatals (port and airport authorities), the European Union, the AfDB, France,
Germany, Japan (port), and IDA. The final implementation, and associated costs and results are difficult to
assess since some donors, such as the AfDB, granted funds in 1990, whereas other contributions, such as
the AFD assistance to the airport sector, which was supposed to back an efficient concessionaire, were
ultimately cancelled. Finally, the additional resources generated by the HIPC initiative could not be taken
into account at the start of the Program (1990) and the Project (1996).

The total Project cost was estimated at US$ 87.6 million, taxes included (CFA 44.2 billion). Of this
amount, US$ 60.7 million (SDR 41.7 million or CFA 30.6 billion) was to be provided by IDA, and US$
26.9 million (CFA 13.6 billion) by the Government. At the end of the project, costs totaled US$ 77.4
million (CFA 50.3 billion), with US$ 56.4 million (CFA 36.3 billion or 41.7 million SDR) coming from
IDA credit and US$21 million (CFA 14 billion) from the Government. Fluctuations in the CFA/US$/SDR
exchange rates caused the final CFA amount to increase by 14 percent, and in dollars to drop by 13
percent, although, as indicated above, the total SDR amount was disbursed. Government counterpart
contribution increased by more than US$ 0.5 million following fluctuations of the SDR-Euro exchange rate
mentioned in paragraph 3.4 in the last year of the project, increasing the funding gap experienced by the
project at its end.

 Alterations to the amounts earmarked for different categories resulted from the underestimated 1995 cost
of a single paved works contract and of the rural roads component, coupled with delays in the start of some
works, leading to the deterioration of the roads slated for rehabilitation. Similarly, the costs (US$ 2 million)
of supporting the implementation of the rural roads and environmental protection strategies, which were
higher than projected, impacted the consulting services category.

Towards the end of the project, the Government failed to allocate the counterpart funds, part of which is
explained by the unforeseen drop of the US $/Euro parity. The Government has not yet mobilized enough
funds to meet its initial commitments or cover the additional required amounts.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability of the project's impact is considered likely.

It is very likely for most of the reforms linked to the project. The execution of road maintenance works by
private contractors is obviously more efficient than the previous system and is not contested. The private
sector is now well developed and, given its impact on job creation, constitutes an economic asset for the
Government.




                                                     - 16 -

Sustainability of the Ministries reorganization is likely. The Government does not intend to go back to
managing transport operations and will probably limit its intervention to regulation and sector policies.
However, planning and contract management capacities in MINTP need to be strengthened, as detailed in
the following paragraph.

Sustainability of the project's achievements in funding road maintenance and managing the road network is
likely but needs to be strengthened and developed given the time necessary for the administration to
undertake long-term changes, and the adjustments necessary to cope with the evolution of the network.

However, sustainability of the rural roads strategy is uncertain because the legal framework for
decentralization is not in place, and the current one does not yet allow councils to take over rural roads
maintenance. The Community Development Program, to which the Bank contributes through the
eponymous project, considers this strategy as the base for rural road maintenance, but does not foresee
specific support as it focuses on infrastructure rehabilitation and community institutions. The MINTP is
currently proposing an interim strategy to provide adequate support to the rural road maintenance, but it
will however depend on questionable budget allocations to the various stakeholders, and the communities'
willingness to participate to maintenance in kind or in cash has not been tested on a large scale.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Even if they are impressive, the project results should now be deepened in three areas.

First, the scheme still secures only the maintenance of 80 percent of the whole priority network (20,000 out
of 25,000 km) and only part of the main urban roads. To improve this situation would require an increase
of the share of the petroleum tax allocated to the Road Fund, and the allocation of other road transport
related revenues to the Fund.

Second, maintenance and rehabilitation planning, as well as contract management should be improved, as
maintenance contracting is now often handled with technical assistance from the EU, expiring late in 2004,
and donor funded rehabilitation are usually supervised by ad hoc units. Maintenance contracts, specially
for the trunk roads, still offer few quality incentives. The government is contemplating (i) to open a second
window for the Road Fund to improve payment process on rehabilitation works, and (ii) to study
opportunities for setting up a roads agency, reinforcing planning capacities and new types of long-term
performance-based maintenance contracts. However, past history of reform in Cameroon and experience
gained in other countries show that donor support is needed to implement these reforms given the vested
interests to overcome within the administration. All stakeholders (donors and government) are urging the
World Bank to continue leading this dialogue as it did under the Transport Sector Program.

Third, funding needs for investment in the priority road network and rural roads will still require donor
support, even taking into account additional resources from the HIPC initiative. Studies currently being
carried out highlight the need for continued external funding to "save" the priority network: for more than
60 percent of the network, securing current maintenance needs will not be enough to keep roads passable
given their already bad condition.

 The current CAS does not provide for a new project in Transport, though a PRSC in FY06 may be
targeting the sector among others. Meanwhile, support for trunk roads may also be partially provided
through regional infrastructure projects in the CEMAC zone, but to maintain a form of dialogue and
technical assistance will probably be key to secure the outcomes of the project.




                                                      - 17 -

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank performance during the project preparation was generally considered satisfactory, but with some
shortcomings. Consistency and perseverance existed in pursuit of the approach adopted - sector studies,
technical assistance, sector investment program, structural adjustment, and investment projects - coupled
with the proactive nature of World Bank teams on the reform agenda, which made it possible to gradually
support significant reforms. The Bank also took several difficult and retrospectively accurate decisions,
first, to postpone the project in late 1993, and then to split it between adjustment and investment in 1996.
Bank staff had good knowledge of the inherent problems and difficulties as well as solutions.
Some of the technical aspects of project preparation could have been improved, specifically the scheduling
of phases 1 and 2 of the road investment component. It would also have been easier to monitor fewer and
clearer project indicators.

7.2 Supervision:
The Bank performance with regard to supervision was generally considered satisfactory. Such appreciation
is supported by efficient teamwork between the macro-economic group and the transport team, who
reviewed the macro-economic and reform aspects for the former, and the technical aspects for the latter.
The continuity of the teams, their constitution, proactivity, the Bank support, the extensive and open
dialogue as well as the frequency of the various missions all played a major role in implementing the
project. Procurement was closely monitored. Periodic meetings and consultations were held with other
donors, which ensured coherence of support and actions, and increased collaboration in implementing
reforms. The Mid-Term Review took adequate measures to reinforce project management. While focusing
on project implementation arrangements, it may have missed an opportunity to revisit the Project objectives
and align them more clearly with the components and to review the performance indicators.

Project supervision led to two reviews by the QAG in July 1999 and October 2002. The findings of both
reviews were satisfactory for the quality of project supervision. The project, handed to five successive
project managers during the supervision phase, was not disturbed by this turnover, thanks probably to the
stable interface with the resident mission in Yaoundé.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall performance of the Bank is considered satisfactory, based on its preparation and supervision
ratings. The Bank played a critical role in helping the Government achieve its ambitious objectives.

The Bank's impact on the Program can also be considered as an added positive item in its performance
rating, particularly in the privatization of a major part of transport activities, the significant positive
changes in the management and maintenance of the road network, and the improvement in transport
services and infrastructure. The way the Bank slowly phased its support to the transport sector through
several instruments, including this project, is one of the main reasons for its success.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower preparation performance is rated satisfactory despite long periods of time consumed by
studying reforms and formulating the sector policy letter. These delays were partly justified by the very
sensitive nature of some reforms. The complexity of the Program and the Project (before limitations to the
road sector) have already been noted. Many reforms were formalized during the conclusion of the project
preparation. It should be noted that the Government took the responsibility to pay, from its own budget,
compensations arising from lay-offs of staff from companies liquidated, privatized or restructured.



                                                     - 18 -

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The report describes Government implementation performance as unsatisfactory, but with several very
positive aspects. Reform implementation was highly significant, even if it was sometimes characterized by
cumbersome, bureaucratic, and long procedures. The slowness of the Central Tender Board delayed
procurement but was subsequently reformed. The main reason for this rating is that Government
counterpart funds were not made available during the last two years of the project. At the time this report
was drafted, this problem was still unsolved. Most of the other current IDA credits to Cameroon currently
face the same situation.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The report describes the Implementation Agency's performance as satisfactory. The Program coordination
unit, which had already managed the TSTAP, had the necessary experience to implement the institutional
components. With regard to physical components, setting up specialized units inside the Directorate for
Roads at the mid-term review made it possible to implement the project within reasonable time limits, in
spite of the one-year extension of the credit closure deadline. Quarterly reports, financial statements, audits,
and other documents were produced on time. The CPE and the Rural Roads Unit erected within the
framework of the Project effectively carried out their functions.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The Borrower performance is rated generally satisfactory, with a caveat because of the non-compliance
with its commitments concerning counterpart funds. The substantial achievements of the project, the
efficiency of the implementing agencies, and the linked success of the road sector program more than
compensate the counterpart funding difficulties.


8. Lessons Learned

The main lessons of the Program and the Project could be the following:

l A good combined effort by the IDA macro-economic and transport sector teams and a real dialogue
    with the Government, leading to firm commitments from the latter, can make possible the undertaking
    of vast reform programs. The gradual implementation of reforms requires a sustained dialogue with,
    and support to, the sector and the support of various instruments on the part of IDA. The TSP,
    Transport Sector Memorandum, TSTAP , SAC III, and, lastly, Railway Concession Project made it
    possible to have a global and long-term vision of the sector and to ensure continuity of implementation.

l More specifically, the complementary relationship between the adjustment and investment lending can
    ensure the success of sector wide reforms. The investment provides a direct benefit to the sector
    undertaking the reforms, whereas the adjustment provides incentive to the Government as a whole to
    carry them on. The port and air transport services reforms, which were not supported by an investment
    credit, respectively, took long to implement and was not implemented, partially due to lack of
    incentives that would directly benefit the sector.

l The Bank needs to coordinate all its support and insure that the Government will not design conflicting
    schedules in strategies implementation: the rural roads strategy, for example, has not been rendered
    sustainable so far because it interfered with much broader decentralization issues that could not be
    dealt with at a pace compatible with the project.

l The organization of road maintenance and the sustainability of its funding requires a gradual approach.



                                                    - 19 -

    Though the results achieved are laudable and in accordance with the objectives set during Project
    appraisal, they need to be enhanced and adapted to the current context with regard to both the method
    of financing the Road Fund and the organization of public services responsible for road management,
    which calls for continuous improvement and Bank support.

l A solid framework shared with other donors with good coordination, coupled with a large stakeholders
    involvement, is key to generating positive outcomes for reforms. This strategy was at the basis of the
    initial discussions with the Government on the formulation of transport sector reforms, and was also
    fully applied to the road sector covered by the Project.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:


(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                    - 20 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


1.1 Output Indicators : Transport Sector Project
                  Indicator/Matrix                             Projected in SAR                                  Latest Estimate
Kms of paved roads rehabilited                              300 km of paved roads                      386 km of paved roads rehabilitated
Kms of earth roads rehabilited                               615 km of earth roads                       663 of earth roads rehabilitated
Kms of high ramps paved                                                                   Pavement of 30kms out of 65 kms of high ramp roads paved
Rural roads: Degree of satisfaction of beneficiaries                    /                 a survey was conducted: beneficiaries are pleased with better
                                                                                            access to transportation, hospitals, schools and markets,
                                                                                           improvement in living conditions, decrease in goods price,
                                                                                               increase of small new manufacturers in the villages
Rural roads: Level of involvement of beneficiaries in                    /                  Strategy under development; NGOs are still working on
rural road maintenance                                                                       sensitization, training on maintenance. The risks of not
                                                                                          achieving this objective are high. A Decree is being prepared
                                                                                            for local committees to propose workable arrangements
Kms of roads maintained                                        about 10,000 kms                                     21,000 km
Average cost of road maintenance by contract                                                                 US$136,000 by contract
Funds allocated to the Road Maintenance Fund,          Not agreed at time of negotiation A cumulative total amount of CFAF 76.9 billions deposited on
deposited on the SA and disbursed                        (Road Fund not established)      the SA and CFAF 76.2 billions disbursed during the 4 years
                                                       Road maintenance funding of less              1998-2002, pace sustained afterwards
                                                      than 4 billion CFA/year before 1996
Traffic on roads maintained or rehabilitated under the            Not available                    Average traffic of 4,000 to 5,000 cars/day
project
Average number of road maintenance contracts signed                not defined                                  245 contracts/year
with local small and medium enteprises/year
Number of men/d generated by road maintenance                      not defined                                  135,000 men/month
contracts
Distribution between foreign and local contractors of  60% SME, 17% international and    10% of the resources went to foreign contractors, 90% to local
resources allocated to road maintenance                23% force account after four years       contractors, force account abandoned since 1997.
                                                       (cf road maintenance government
                                                           divestiture strategy, 1996)




                                                                      - 21 -

Appendix 1.2 Assessment of project objectives


                  Project objectives             Sub-objectives                Components of the TSP             Other projects that       Qualitative assessment of
                                                                            supporting the sub-objective     contributed in attaining the           outcome
                                                                                      (Section 3.1)            objective/sub-objective
                                                                                                                 IDA             Others
              a) Support                           road maintenance         A1 and A2 (Rehabilitation          TSTAP,         AFD, AfDB, Attained. Funding and
                                                                            /maintenance of major roads         SAC III            EU    management to be consolidated
                                                                            and rural infrastructure)
                                                   preservation of existing A1, A2                                            AFD, AfDB, Attained. (new rural roads
                                            infrastructure                  (Rehabilitation/maintenance of                         EU    maintenance strategy
                                                                            major roads and rural                                        developed, but awaiting
                                                                            infrastructure), A3 (Setting-up                              instruments on decentralisation
                                                                            weighing stations) and B2                                    to go operational)
                                                                            (Rural roads maintenance
                                                                            strategy)
                                                   road safety              B1 (Reorganisation of MINTP,                                 Improved monitoring but
                                                                            MINT ­ setting-up monitoring                                 serious deterioration of results
                                                                            bodies)                                                      (2001: 1512 deaths as against
                                                                                                                                         944 in 1996)
              b) Support gradual                   encouraging the          A1, A2 (Involvement of SMEs         TSTAP              EU    Attained (the majority of Road
              withdrawal of                 participation of small-and      in maintenance works), B3                                    maintenance works carried out
              Borrower from the             medium-sized enterprises        (Seminars on SME participation                               by SMEs)
              execution of                                                  in road maintenance)
              maintenance works by:
                                                   transferring public                                                                   Activity not transferred, but
                                            equipment leasing activities                                                                 sector opened to the private
                                                                                                                                         sector
                                                   developing the use of    A1, A2 (Use of such techniques                      EU, GTZ  Attained (use of such
                                            labour intensive techniques     to carry out maintenance works)                              techniques by SMEs)
              c) Review the transport              reorganising the         B1 (Reorganisation of MINTP),      TSTAP,             FAC    Attained (but capacity building
              sector institutional          Ministry of Public Works        B3 (Seminars on the SME             SAC III                  in planning, programming and
              framework by:                 (MINTP), by withdrawing         participation in road                                        monitoring of contracts in the
                                            from the execution of road      maintenance)                                                 sector not yet finalised)
                                            maintenance works, and
                                            focusing on planning,
                                            programming and supervision
                                            duties, and contracting
                                            maintenance works to
                                            enterprises
                                                   reorganising the         B1 (Reorganisation of MINT)        TSTAP,             FAC    Attained (but need for capacity
                                            Ministry of Transport (MINT)                                        SAC III                  building in planning,
                                            by refocusing its role on                                                                    programming as well as
                                            planning, policy development                                                                 monitoring means)
                                            and regulation
                                                   increasing the           B2 and B3 (Sensitisation of      TSTAP, SAC III              Attained
                                            participation of the private    people on the new rural roads
                                            sector and beneficiaries in the maintenance strategy; seminars
                                            management of transport         on public sector/private sector
                                            activities                      partnership and participation of
                                                                            SMEs in road maintenance)




                                                                                    - 22 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing




Project Costs by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
            Project component                  Appraisal        Revised     Actual/Latest Percentage of Percentage of revised
                                               Estimate         Estimate     Estimate      Appraisal         allocation
Part A: Road Maintenance and Safety

A.1 Rehabilitation and maintenance of           65,91            65,73          59,98         91%               91%
Priority Roads Network (paved and earth
roads)
A.2 Rehabilitation and maintenance of Rural     10,89            5,39           5,62          52%              104%
roads and
A.3 Construction of 2 weighing stations

Part B: Training and Technical
Assistance
B.1 Training, Technical assistance for the       3,28            1,03           0,79          24%               77%
reorganization of MINTP and MINT,
acquisition of computers, building of offices
B.2 Studies, design and programs'                4,22            8,65           8,86         210%              102%
implementation
B.3 Surveys and seminars                         3,32            0,93           0,98          30%              105%
Part C: Project Implementation,                   0              0,54           1,14           0               211%
Management and Monitoring
TOTAL                                            87,6            82,3           77,4          88%               94%




Civil Works Costs (in US$ million equivalent)


               Civil Works                     Appraisal estimate        Latest Estimate
IDA FIRST TRANCHE

Paved Roads

Kekem-Bandjoun                                        9.7                     20.5
Douala-Edoua-Pouma                                    4.4                      2.8
Garoua-Maroua                                         8.3                      6.3
Additional Rehabilitation                             6.0

Total                                                28.4                     29.6
Earth Roads

Bamenda-Wum                                           1.6                     2.34
Nanga-Eboko-Mbet-Mbouam                               4.2                      4.7
Ngaoundere-Meiganga-Garoua-Boulai                     7.2                      5.5
Kumba-Loum                                            1.6                      1.2
Nyamboya-Banyo                                        3.0                      2.9
Remaining of the priority I roads                    12.7                       /
Total                                                30.4                     16.2
IDA SECOND TRANCHE                                    7.1                     14.1
Undefined at appraisal                                7.1                       /
High ramp section of Nyamboya- Banyo                                           7.8
road
High ramp section of Bamenda-Wum road                                          6.3

RURAL ROADS

IDA program                                          10.9                      5.6




                                                             - 23 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements: Appraisal Estimate (in US$ million equivalent)
      Expenditure Category                Procurement Method/1

                                       ICB         NCB          Other       NBF/2      Total Cost

1 Civil Works

1a Paved Roads                        28.4           /             /          /            28.4
                                      (17.9)                                              (17.9)

1b Earth Roads                          35          2.5            /          /            37.5
                                      (23.3)       (1.7)                                   (25)

1c Rural Roads                           /         10.9            /          /            10.9
                                                   (8.4)                                   (8.4)

2 Goods                                 0.9         0.2            /          /            1.1
                                      (0.8)        (0.2)                                   (1.0)

3 Consultant services

3a Training and technical                /           /            2.2         /            2.2
assistance                                                       (1.7)                     (1.7)

3b Studies, design and                   /           /            4.2         /            4.2
implementation of programs                                       (3.7)                     (3.7)

4 Surveys and seminars                   /           /            3.3         /            3.3
                                                                 (3.1)                     (3.1)

TOTAL                                 64.3         13.6           9.7         0            87.6
                                      (42.0)      (10.3)         (8.5)                    (60.7)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements: Latest Estimate (in US$ million
equivalent)
      Expenditure Category                 Procurement Method/1

                                        ICB           NCB          Other     NBF/2       Total Cost

1 Civil Works

1a Paved Roads                          29.6            /            /           /           29.6
                                       (20.6)                                               (20.6)

1b Earth Roads                          30.6           0.0           /           /           30.6
                                       (22.3)         (0.0)                                 (22.3)

1c Rural Roads                           5.6           0.0           /           /            5.6
                                        (4.2)         (0.0)                                  (4.2)

2 Goods                                  0.0           0.2           /           /            0.2
                                        (0.0)         (0.2)                                  (0.2)

3 Consultant services

3a Training and technical assistance      /             /           0.4          /            0.4
                                                                   (0.4)                     (0.4)

3b Studies, design and                    /             /           8.9          /            8.9
implementation of programs                                         (7.3)                     (7.3)

4 Surveys and seminars                    /             /           1.0          /            1.0
                                                                   (0.9)                     (0.9)

5 Incremental operating cost              /             /           1.1          /            1.1
                                                                   (0.5)                     (0.5)

TOTAL                                   65.8           0.2          11.4        0            77.4
                                       (47.1)         (0.2)        (9.1)                    (56.4)

1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies
2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units




                                                           - 24 -

Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
           Project component               Appraisal Estimate        Revised        Actual/Latest Estimate
                                                                     Estimate
                                            IDA       Govt    CoF IDA    Govt  CoF  IDA       Govt      CoF

Part A: Road Maintenance and Safety

A.1 Rehabilitation and maintenance of      42.98     22,94        42,70  23,03      42,77     17,21
Priority Roads Network (paved and earth
roads)
A.2 Rehabilitation and maintenance of      8.36       2,53        4,12    1,27      4,30       1,32
Rural roads

A.3 Construction of 2 weighing stations

Part B: Training and Technical
Assistance
B.1 Training, Technical assistance for the 2.66       0,61        0,84    0,19      0,51       0,28
reorganization of MINTP and MINT,
acquisition of computers, building of
offices
B.2 Studies, design and programs'          3.62       0,60        7,42    1,23      7,54       1,32
implementation

B.3 Surveys and seminars                   3,12       0,20        0,88    0,05      0,78       0,20
Part C: Project Implementation,            0,00       0,00        0,54    0,00      0,47       0,67
Management and Monitoring

TOTAL                                      60,7       26,9        56,5    25,8      56,4       21,0




                                                          - 25 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

 summary of findings
                                                                       ERR
Civil Works (Roads)                                            Appraisal estimates    Latest estimates
Paved Roads
Garoua-Maroua                                                          22%                36% (1)
Kékem-Banjoun                                                          62%                72% (1)
Douala-Edéa-Pouma                                                      90%                44% (1)
Average for paved roads                                                52%                  55%
Earth roads
Bamenda-Wum                                                            15%                25% (1)
Nanga-Eboko-Mbet-Mbouam                                               143%                76% (1)
Ngaoundéré-Meiganga-Garoua-Boulai                                      54%
Kumba-Loum                                                             23%                14% (1)
Nyamboya-Banyo                                                            /               55% (1)
Average for earth roads                                                100%                 66%
High ramp section of Nyamboya-Banyo                                                       18% (2)
High ramp section of Bamenda-Wum                                                          16% (2)
Rural roads (North West)
Lot 1                                                                                        (3)
 Nso-Mundum-1 Palace                                                                       102%
 Njenka-Ngwandikang                                                                        43%
Lot 2
 Ntanfoang-Guzang                                                                           96%
 Bawock-Pinyin(Konfin)                                                                     200%
 Bali-Bossa-Bome                                                                           42%
Lot 3
 Santa-Pinyin-Ashong                                                                  None (very high)
Lot 4
 Mile 12-Rock Form                                                                          47%
 Baba ll-Ngwandikang                                                                        55%
 Santa-Gahdiwalla-Baligham                                                             None (619%)
Lot 5
 Nkambe-Akweto-Mbande                                                                      14%
Lot 6
 Ndu-Wowo-Ntunbaw                                                                          38%
 Binshua-Bih-Sa'ah                                                                         60%
Lot 7
 Wanagwen-Ngouh(GS)                                                                   None (very high)
 Modele-Mbamba-Okoromajang                                                                 78%
Lot 8
 Kumfutu-Aba'ar(Health Center)                                                             54%
Lot 9
 Misage-Nkanchi-Lassen                                                                       <0
Average for the overall priority network                               36%
(1)      source: revue à mi parcours du projet
(2)      source : étude d'impact du PUER2, Juillet 2003
(3)      pour l'ensemble des lots : source : étude d'impact du PUER2, Juillet 2003


Appendix 3.B : Social Impacts

Social impacts of primary roads rehabilitation

The project enabled women, ill and old people to travel throughout the year; facilitated the despatch of
perishable products towards consumption centres; improved local SMEs capacities; created jobs and
promoted women's participation.




                                                                   - 26 -

Social impacts of paving high slopes sections

The project promoted job creation (for example 800 local labourers employed in January 2003 for works on
Nyamboya-Banyo section) through the development of labour-intensive methods; improved access to social
infrastructure, with the building of access ramps and parking areas for the benefit of the populations. The
traffic doubled since the end of the project.

Social impacts of rural roads rehabilitation

The project provided access to remote populations thanks to mobility improvement (increase in traffic from
227 v/d to 649v/d on the rural roads rehabilitated), rise in agricultural productions, job creations, better
access to social infrastructure, building of bus stations, reduction of transport costs (from 109 FCFA/km to
46 FCFA/km on average for rual roads) and delays (on some itineraries, travel time has dropped from 1
day to 1 hour- even 15 minutes in some cases) .

Development of local capacities

The project supported the transfer of knowledge in routine maintenance works implementation, and
improved proficiency of firms and control agencies (audit missions, PUER implementation agency). The
use of labour-intensive methods was developed. The proportion of contract value going towards unskilled
employment increased and stands at: (i) 11% for maintenance; (ii) 23% for rehabilitation; (iii) 11% for
reconstruction, including paving (underestimate figures because of the use of non-wage labour for basic
road cleaning works).
The project promoted development of local maintenance SMEs and research groups as shown in the
following table:

                Years     Mechanised SMEs      Non-mechanised SMEs         Research groups
              1996/97             13                      24                      6
              2000/01            100                      75                      10




                                                      - 27 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              03/1992
              11/1992                   2    TRANSPORT ECONOMIST (2)
              11/1993                 10     HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1),
                                             TRANSPORT ECONOMIST (2),
                                             PORT SPECIALIST (1), PSD
                                             SPECIALIST (1), CIVIL
                                             ENGINEER (1); PSD
                                             SPECIALIST (1); HUMAN
                                             RESOURCES SPECIALIST (1),
                                             TRANSIT & FACILITATION
                                             SPEC. (1), OPERATIONS
                                             OFFICER (1)
              06/1994

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              10/1994                 10     TRANSPORT ECONOMIST
                                             (1), PRIVATISATION
                                             SPECIALIST (2),
                                             RAILWAY SPECIALIST
                                             (1), ECONOMICS
                                             ADVISOR (1), LAYWER
                                             (2), PORT SPECIALIST (1),
                                             HWY. SPECIALIST (1),
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                             (1)
              01/1995                   2    HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1),
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)

 Supervision

              06/30/1996                3    ECONOMIST (1); PROJECT           S              HS
                                             OFFICER (1); ENVIRONMENT
                                             (1)
              10/04/1996                2    TRANSPORT ECONOMIST (1);         S               S
                                             PR. OPERATION OFFICER (1)
              04/11/1997                7    ENVIRONMENT (1);                 U               U
                                             COORDINATION (1); TASK
                                             MANAGER (1); SENIOR
                                             ECONOMIST (1); FINANCIAL
                                             ANALYST (1); ROAD ENG. (2)
              02/03/1998                5    SR. ENV SPECIALIST (1); SR.      U               U
                                             TRANSP ECONOMIST (1);
                                             TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (1);
                                             PRINCIPAL ROAD ENGIN (1)
              06/23/1998                4    TEAM LEADER (1);                 U               U



                                              - 28 -

                                                   PRINCIPAL RD ENGINEER
                                                   (1); ENV PROTECTION
                                                   SPECIAL (1); OPERATIONS
                                                   ANALYST (1)
             11/20/1998                      2     CLUSTER LEADER (1); TASK      U    S
                                                   TEAM LEADER (1)
             02/20/1999                     11     TASK TEAM LEADER (1);         S    S
                                                   CLUSTER LEADER (1);
                                                   FINANCIAL MGT SPEC. (1);
                                                   FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                                   TRANSPORT ECONOMIST (1);
                                                   ECONOMIST (1); ROAD ENG.
                                                   (1); ENVIRONMENT SPEC.
                                                   (1); SOCIAL SC. (1);
                                                   ASSISTANT (1); SECTOR
                                                   MANAGER (1)
             11/13/1999                      4     SR. HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);     S    S
                                                   PRINCIPLE PORT ENGR. (1);
                                                   PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                                   (1); PROGRAM ASSISTANT
                                                   (1)
             11/13/1999                      2     TTL S. HIGHWAY ENGINEE        S    S
                                                   (1); FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
             07/13/2000                      2     SR. HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);     S    S
                                                   SSATP REGIONAL COORD.
                                                   (1)
             04/18/2001                      4     TEAM LEADER (1); SR.          S    S
                                                   TRANSP. SPECIALIST (1);
                                                   PROJECT OFFICER (1); LANG.
                                                   PROGRAM ASSIST. (1)
             07/21/2001                      4     TTL (1); OPERATIONS           S    S
                                                   OFFICER (1); PROGRAM
                                                   ASSIS (1); INTERN (1)
             10/05/2002                      3     TTL(1); CONSULTANT (1);       S    S
                                                   PROGRAM ASSISTANT (1)

ICR

             03/08/2003                      8      HIGHWAY ENG. TTL (1);             S
                                                    HWY ENG (1); FINANCIAL
                                                    MANGT. SPECI (1); TEAM
                                                    ASSISTANT (1); PROGRAM
                                                    OFFICER (1); LEAD
                                                    SPECIALIST (1); SR.
                                                    TRANSPORT SPEC(1);
                                                    ENGINEER (1)
             09/20/2003                      3      TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1);
                                                    MUNICIPAL ENGINEER (1);
                                                    SR. PROGRAM OFFICER (1)
             04/30/2004                      3      TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (2);
                                                    SR. PROGRAM OFFICER (1)

NB: Project preparation started in 1987 but data is not available before 1992




                                                   - 29 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                      Actual/Latest Estimate
                                       No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                 248.4                         655.6
  Appraisal/Negotiation                        155                         134.9
  Supervision                              458.42                         701.87
  ICR                                                                      35.00
  Total                                    861.82                        1527.37
NB: Staff weeks and Budget cost prior to 1992 are not included




                                                  - 30 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 31 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 32 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


  Transport Sector Strategy Note 02/02/1992
  Transport Sector Memorandum 06/30/1993
  Statement of Appraisal Mission Objectives
  Back to Office Report of Appraisal Mission 12/30/1993
  Minutes of Yellow Cover Review Meeting 02/15/1994
  Back to Office Report of second Appraisal Mission
  Staff Appraisal Report 04/18/1996
  Development Credit Agreement 06/10/1996
  Notice of Invitation to Negotiation 02/22/1999
  Mid-Term Review Aide-mémoire 02/22/1999
  Report of the Mid-Term Review (May 1999)
  Report of last supervision mission (Oct 2003)
  ICR mission Aide-mémoire 04/16/2004




                                                - 33 -

 Additional Annex 8. Borrower's contribution



                        RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT DU PROGRAMME ET
                             DU PROJET SECTORIEL DES TRANSPORTS


                                   CONTRIBUTION DU CAMEROUN


 INTRODUCTION

        L'une des exigences de l'accord de crédit 2869-cm est la soumission à l'IDA d'un rapport
   d'achèvement six (6) mois au plus après la date de clôture du projet.

l Le crédit 2869-cm a été signé le 10 Juin 1996.
l Mis en vigueur le 24 Avril 1997, il a été amendé trois fois, respectivement en Octobre 1998, Mai et
   Décembre 1999 et il a fait l'objet d'une prolongation de la période d'exécution de douze (12) mois.
l Il a été clôturé le 31 Décembre 2003.
l Le présent rapport est la contribution du Cameroun audit rapport d'achèvement.
l Sa particularité est qu'il ne se limite pas au projet 2869-cm, mais il se réfère au programme plus
   ambitieux de la déclaration de stratégie sectorielle des transports insérée dans un processus à long terme
   de réformes économiques entamées au début des années 1990.
l Le rapport évalue rapidement les objectifs de ces réformes dans le secteur des transports avant d'aller
   dans le détail du projet, objet du crédit 2869-cm.
l Il s'agit ainsi, de vérifier si les objectifs institutionnels, physiques, sociaux, économiques,
   environnementaux et financiers du projet ont été atteints, de même que les impacts du projet au niveau
   macro-économique et sur la lutte contre la pauvreté.
l Le présent rapport est la synthèse du rapport d'achèvement plus exhaustif du Gouvernement du
   Programme Sectoriel des Transports.

   PREAMBULE

        Le Programme Sectoriel des Transports s'inscrit dans le processus à long terme de réformes
   macro-économiques lancé dès le début des années 90, pour sortir le Cameroun du grand marasme
   économique, institutionnel et réglementaire dans lequel le pays était plongé.

        Après près de cinq (5) années de réflexion et de dialogue avec tous les partenaires sociaux du
   secteur, un programme d'ensemble pour le secteur des transports a été élaboré dans le but de : mener à
   terme l'ajustement des institutions, faire face aux problèmes financiers du secteur, accroître l'efficacité
   des opérations et assurer un développement durable et cohérent du secteur des transports pour lui
   permettre de contribuer à la croissance économique, à la réduction de la pauvreté, à la protection de
   l'environnement, dans le cadre du Programme Sectoriel des Transports (PST).
   Il a donné lieu à une lettre de politique sectorielle approuvée en Juin 1995 et comprenant le détail des
   réformes, et un programme d'investissements.
   Le Programme Sectoriel des Transports a bénéficié de plusieurs sources de financement :




                                                    - 34 -

  A.   De la part de l'IDA et du groupe de la Banque Mondiale

l Le PPRT crédit 2706-cm approuvé le 14 Avril 1995 et clôturé le 31 Décembre 1999 à près de 20
  millions de dollars.
l Le PST crédit 2869-cm a financé le Programme d'Urgence d'Entretien Routier (PUER), son rapport
  d'achèvement est partie intégrante du présent rapport.
l Le CAS3, compte tenu de la longue période de préparation du PST, la partie ajustement a finalement été
  récupérée par le Crédit d'Ajustement Structurel CAS3; ce qui a permis de conclure les réformes
  importantes du Fonds Routier, du Transport maritime, du Secteur portuaire et de la mise en concession
  du Transport ferroviaire.

  Il fait l'objet actuellement d'un rapport d'achèvement en cours de rédaction au niveau du Comité
  Technique de Suivi (CTS). Nous ne nous y attarderons pas dans le présent rapport.

                B.       De la part de l'Union Européenne à travers ses programmes :

  Stabex 1992/93, 1993/94, portant sur un programme expérimental d'exécution à l'entreprise des
  travaux de réhabilitation des routes rurales . C'est de cette opération que sortira le premier tissu de
  PME d'entretien routier,
  PIN (Programme Indicatif National) 7e, 8e et 9e, ont financé un programme d'entretien routier pour
  accompagner la mise en oeuvre du Fonds Routier en favorisant le renforcement des capacités du MINTP
  dans la maîtrise d'ouvrage, en consolidant le secteur privé (ETP et BET) et appuyant la décentralisation
  de l'entretien des routes rurales (PAIDER).
  Perfed N°1 et 2
  Les programmes d'Entretien Routier Financés par le FED (PERFED I et II) portant sur un important
  programme d'exécution à l'entreprise des travaux d'entretien          des routes principales du réseau
  prioritaire, un vaste programme de formation au bénéfice du secteur privé, des entreprises et bureaux
  d'études, et un appui institutionnel important.
  des programmes d'allègement des effectifs de la Fonction Publique, du Matgénie et du Labogénie, et
  d'exécution à l'entreprise des travaux d'entretien financés sur crédit du Programme d'Ajustement
  Structurel (PASFED).
  un programme de construction de routes d'intégration régionale (PAS Régional FED).

  C- De la part de la Banque Africaine de Développement (BAD) portant sur un programme de
  bitumage des routes, de construction des ponts, de fournitures de matériels de génie civil et de véhicules
  pour les services du MINTP.

   D- De la part de l'Agence Française de Développement (AFD) portant sur un programme
  d'exécution à l'entreprise des travaux d'entretien des routes rurales dans les zones de la Lékié, les
  ouvrages d'art sur les routes régionales, les ouvrages de franchissement sur les pistes cotonnières, les
  routes de substitution des gares ferroviaires devant être fermées, la construction des importantes routes
  régionales Ebolowa-Ambam et Nsimalen-Mblamayo, la réhabilitation des ponts routier et ferroviaire sur
  la Dibamba, la réhabilitation du pont sur le Wouri, l'informatisation du Guichet Unique et la
  réhabilitation des ouvrages d'accostage, des quais et terre-pleins du port de Douala, la réhabilitation des
  locomotives, des wagons ainsi que de la voie du chemin de fer.

  RAISON D'ETRE DU PROJET

  Le programme reflète les priorités du secteur tel que le développement institutionnel, le développement


                                                  - 35 -

des capacités d'exécution, la préservation du capital investi, la réhabilitation.
Car des infrastructures en bon état sont un facteur critique de réduction de la pauvreté et de
développement de l'économie.
La promotion des petites et moyennes entreprises et l'utilisation des techniques à haute intensité de main
d'oeuvre sont plus aisés à expérimenter.
Il en est de même de la mise en oeuvre du désengagement de l'Etat de l'exécution des travaux d'entretien
routier et son transfert à l'entreprise.
Enfin et non les moindres, la qualité des travaux, l'efficacité et la responsabilisation dans l'utilisation
des ressources locales seront améliorés car il y aura séparation des rôles.
Le projet était également conforme à la stratégie de l'IDA visant l'amélioration de l'efficacité du secteur
public, la création d'un environnement favorable au développement du secteur privé, la stabilisation des
finances publiques et la lutte contre la pauvreté.

EXECUTION DU PROJET

Le suivi et l'évaluation du projet étaient faits par les Ministères de tutelle, la Cellule du PST et les
bailleurs de fonds à travers : (i) les rapports périodiques ; (ii) les rapports d'audits ; et (iii) les missions
sur le terrain par les bailleurs de fonds et les représentants des Ministères de tutelle. Pour faciliter le
suivi, des indicateurs de base sont produits régulièrement. Ces indicateurs ont permis de déterminer
l'état d'évolution du Projet et de prendre les décisions nécessaires pour améliorer son exécution.

a. Gestion des activités et des composantes
       La gestion des composantes est revenue aux agences et organes d'exécution qui se trouvent être des
directions, des départements ministériels ou des organismes publics ou para-publics sous tutelles.
       Chaque structure concernée par le Projet était responsable pour établir, en étroite collaboration
avec les autres ayant un rôle à jouer dans le même secteur et la Cellule de Coordination du PST, une
programmation des activités de son ressort qui se devait d'inclure : (i) la définition des objectifs
recherchés ; (ii) la description des activités prévues avec un calendrier de réalisation, et (iii) une
estimation des ressources financières nécessaires pour la réalisation des objectifs énoncés.

b. Déroulement du projet
- Passation des marchés
Les fournitures et travaux ont fait l'objet de marchés conclus conformément aux directives pour la
passation des marchés financés par les crédits de l'IDA (janvier 1995).
Les consultants ont été recrutés conformément aux dispositions des directives sur l'emploi de
consultants par les emprunteurs de la Banque Mondiale (Août 1981).

- Système financier et comptable du PST
Pour la mise en oeuvre du PST, le Gouvernement et l'IDA ont opté pour une comptabilité de type
commercial pour le suivi financier et comptable des activités du projet. Cette option nécessitait le
recours à une expertise privée qualifiée pour ce type de comptabilité.
La comptabilité et les états financiers du projet ont été régulièrement produits :
i. les rapports de suivi financier du projet étaient produits suivant le calendrier arrêté dans l'Accord de
crédit ; annuellement et à chaque mission de supervision de l'IDA.
ii. les états financiers produits à partir du sous-système comptable étaient établis pour être audités tous
les six (6) mois la première année d'exécution du projet, et 12 mois à partir de la deuxième année.
iii. le suivi des impôts et taxes sur les contrats du projet :
la TVA       et l'AIR retenus sur les décomptes et enregistrés en comptabilité n'ont pas été apurés
régulièrement.


                                                    - 36 -

La Cellule du projet qui devait être informée des opérations de compensation des décomptes de taxes par
le MINFIB pour solder les comptes y relatifs dans sa comptabilité, ne l'a pas été et les comptes de TVA
et d'AIR n'ont pas été soldés.
iv. les pertes de change sur paiements en devises
      Certains cas de rejet de financement des pertes de change enregistrées lors des paiements en devises
à partir du Compte Spécial ont connu quelques difficultés de traitement, en l'absence de directives
précises pour le traitement des pertes de change.

c. Audit des comptes
Les comptes du crédit ont été régulièrement audités et les rapports remis à temps à l'IDA tout au long
du projet et du programme.

d. Décaissement
Le crédit de l'IDA a été décaissé sur la base ci-après représentant la part IDA :
1. Travaux
A.    Routes bitumées75% puis 85%
B.    Routes en terre            80%
C.    Routes rurales             90%
2. Fournitures                   100% puis 75% des dépenses en devises et
3. Services de consultants              100% puis 85%

Pour tous les marchés, l'Etat a financé les impôts et taxes, y compris la Taxe sur la Valeur Ajoutée
(TVA) et les droits d'entrée.
Les fonds de contrepartie devaient être déposés sur un compte dans une banque commerciale avant la
signature de tout marché de travaux financé par le crédit.
Mais ceci n'a pas toujours été le cas, d'où l'important montant des arriérés de paiement dû aux
entreprises à la fin du projet ; redevances toutefois prises en compte par les fonds PPTE.
Le compte dit des Routes Principales qui avait à recevoir les fonds de contrepartie, a été régulièrement
vérifié dans le cadre des activités du projet.
Tous les marchés ont été établis `'Toutes taxes comprises'', et les demandes de retrait ont fait état de la
TVA.

      Pour faciliter les décaissements, le Gouvernement a ouvert un compte spécial auprès d'une banque
commerciale, à des conditions acceptables par l'IDA. Ce compte était géré par la Caisse Autonome
d'Amortissement. Le montant autorisé du compte spécial est de 500.000 dollars. Les demandes de
réapprovisionnement du compte soumises à l'IDA à des intervalles réguliers. Ce compte était
régulièrement audité.

      Les décaissements ont été effectués sur présentation des pièces-types justificatives requises par
l'IDA, sauf pour les marchés de services de consultants et de fournitures d'un montant inférieur à
50.000 dollars, pour lesquels les relevés des dépenses sont présentés a posteriori.
Ces relevés ont été régulièrement examinés par les missions de supervision et à l'occasion d'audits
financiers périodiques.
Les demandes de paiement direct à partir du compte du crédit ont porté sur des montants d'au moins
50.000 dollars, sauf quand il a fallu résorber certains décomptes en instance.

e) Délais de paiement
      Les délais de paiement sont restés assez longs pour les paiements directs et les
réapprovisionnements du compte spécial (45-60 jours).


                                                  - 37 -

      Les délais de paiement sur le compte spécial étaient sensiblement réduits lorsque le compte était
approvisionné (15-20 jours).

EVALUATION DU PST

Le PST qui n'a été approuvé qu'en 1996, a conservé un rapport d'évaluation englobant tout le
programme de réforme prévu, le programme d'ajustement structurel, d'assistance technique et d'appui à
la privatisation et le programme d'investissement.

1. Appréciation générale

i) Sur la qualité du projet, la conception du programme était complexe pour faire face aux problèmes
importants du secteur tant du point de vue des institutions, de la réglementation, des investissements que
des opérations.
Il embrassait tous les modes de transport et visait une coordination étroite des bailleurs de fonds et des
administrations impliquées.
Dans le sous secteur routier, le projet visait l'expérimentation de grandes réformes pour le financement
durable des travaux d'entretien et pour l'implication des populations locales dans la planification et la
réalisation des travaux.

ii) En ce qui concerne les réformes, il est à rappeler que le PST a permis la création d'importantes lois
et des codes qui ont : 1) libéralisé le transport maritime, le transport aérien et le transport urbain de
personnes par grands bus, 2) mis en place un cadre légal de protection du patrimoine routier, 3) créé un
fonds d'entretien routier et, 4) organisé le secteur portuaire dans le cadre d'une loi portuaire, 5) adopté
les directives de protection de l'environnement dans les travaux d'entretien routier.
iii) Sur le plan opérationnel, le PST a permis la mise en place d'un mécanisme de partenariat
public/privé, réservant ainsi au secteur privé, la gestion des activités commerciales et industrielles, et au
public le rôle de définir et de déterminer les objectifs, de planifier et de programmer.
C'est ainsi que :
- la filière maritime (SOCAMAC, CAMSHIP, CAMTAINER) a été privatisée,
- la SOTUC, qui assurait le transport urbain a été liquidée et l'activité libéralisée donnant place à une
multitude de petits transporteurs (taxis jaune, minibus et motocycle),
- une nouvelle organisation de la gestion des aéroports s'est mise en place à travers les Aéroports du
Cameroun (ADC),
- dans le secteur portuaire, en plus d'une plus grande implication des opérateurs dans la gestion
portuaire, il y a eu la mise en place d'un groupement d'intérêt économique des opérateurs portuaires, à
travers la mise en place d'un Guichet Unique (GUCE) dans le but de faciliter les procédures, et réduire
les délais de passage des marchandises au port de Douala.
iv) En ce qui concerne les infrastructures, le PST a mis en oeuvre un important programme d'entretien
et de réhabilitation des routes, en utilisant les petites et moyennes entreprises locales à la place de la
régie, et le Fonds Routier alimenté par une contribution d'usage de la route à faciliter les paiements des
travaux à la place du mécanisme budgétaire de l'Etat.

2. Les résultats

Grâce à la synergie entre le programme des réformes, l'assistance technique, le partenariat public/privé
et le financement des travaux (investissements), des résultats remarquables ont été atteints.
i) Sur le plan global, les objectifs de développement visés par le PST ont été tous atteints. Le secteur
des transports est dynamique et efficient, et contribue à la croissance économique du pays et à la lutte


                                                  - 38 -

contre la pauvreté, tout en préservant l'environnement.
ii) Sur le plan du partenariat public/privé, l'Etat s'est retiré des opérations de transport, avec un cadre
réglementaire opératoire libéralisé donnant lieu à une plus grande compétitivité. Les finances publiques
ont été soulagées du poids des entreprises publiques. Des entités nouvelles (Fonds Routier, Guichet
Unique, Ports Autonomes) et de nombreuses PME du secteur routier ainsi que des secteurs portuaire et
maritime ont vu le jour. La perception de la Redevance d'Usage de la Route, instituée par le PST, se fait
normalement, il en est de même du péage et des amendes pour surcharge des camions. La gestion
privatisée du chemin de fer a permis à ce mode de se maintenir et de contribuer à l'efficacité de
l'économie.
iii) dans le domaine routier, un meilleur état du réseau routier, une meilleure gestion du réseau routier,
un afflux grandissant des financements provenant des bailleurs de fonds et des usagers des
infrastructures, une adhérence à la politique nationale et internationale de réduction de la pauvreté par la
création d'emplois à travers la promotion des PME.
En tout état de cause, les travaux routiers sont crédités d'un fort taux de rentabilité économique
dépassant 150% sur le PUER et atteignant 36% sur les routes rurales.
iv) dans le domaine maritime et portuaire, l'accroissement de la fréquentation et du trafic portuaire,
l'amélioration des accès maritimes au port (dragage du chenal), la modernisation des équipements
portuaires (terminal à conteneurs), l'éclosion d'une multitude de professions portuaire, maritime et
para-maritime, la création de quatre (4) ports autonomes et d'une (1) autorité portuaire.
v) dans le domaine du transport terrestre, le développement du transport inter-urbain par grands bus,
l'amélioration de la desserte des zones rurales, la constitution d'une base de banque de données et le
développement d'un programme de sécurité routière ont été les principaux résultats.

3. Indicateurs de performance

i) Indicateurs d'activités
Les indicateurs d'activités ont permis de suivre l'évolution du Programme en fonction des différentes
activités à entreprendre. Les principaux paramètres retenus étant : (i) les travaux réalisés ; (ii) les études
réalisées ou à réaliser ; (iii) la formation (le nombre de séminaires et le nombre de participants à ces
séminaires) ; (iv) les passations de marchés (les principales variables étant les dates importantes de la
procédure : date de non-objection à l'appel d'offres, date de remise des offres, date de non objection à
l'attribution du contrat, date de signature du contrat, date de démarrage et de fin du contrat et le coût du
contrat) pour les consultants, et pour les fournitures en tenant compte de la nature spécifique de chaque
marché.
Les travaux ont été réalisés à 100%, bien que les procédures étaient longues et laborieuses pour passer
les marchés, pour décaisser et que certains marchés ont débordé les délais de réalisation impartis.
ii) Indicateurs financiers
Les indicateurs financiers ont comporté les éléments suivants : (i) un rapport financier et comptable ; (ii)
une synthèse des dépenses du programme par catégorie ; (iii) décaissements par bailleur de fonds.
Le crédit a été consommé à 100%, les différents retards dans le démarrage (12 mois), dans les
procédures (11 mois), ont été à l'origine du dépassement de l'enveloppe du crédit obligeant le
Gouvernement à un effort supplémentaire en fonds de contrepartie.
La comptabilité du projet ainsi que les audits ont été réalisés à temps. Le projet n'a pas connu
d'énormes problèmes financiers.

iii) Performance de la Banque
Le programme et le projet ont bénéficié d'un suivi régulier par la Banque Mondiale, par une équipe sur
place qui répondait à toutes les préoccupations immédiates et par une équipe du siège dont les missions
rapprochées permettaient de dénouer des problèmes et d'obtenir des avancées.


                                                  - 39 -

La multidisciplinarité des équipes de la Banque constituait un atout essentiel ; le programme et le projet
ont bénéficié amplement de la logistique arrière de la banque en documentation et en conseil. Les
différents aides-mémoire des missions constituaient ainsi le guide des actions de suivi.
La forte rotation des équipes du projet (huit chefs de projet) pouvait être un destabilisateur, mais le
professionnalisme des différentes équipes a été plus fort.
iv) Performance de l'Administration
En dehors des procédures de passation des marchés, l'Administration a été performante sur tous les
autres points de vue, pour prendre des décisions importantes quand il le fallait pour reformer le projet, le
réorganiser (unité de gestion du PUER), créer les lois et les règlements nécessités, pour accueillir et
organiser les missions de revue et de supervision, établir des rapports périodiques et faire les audits
nécessaires.
Les deux dernières années du projet ont connu des difficultés de fonds de contrepartie.
La stabilité de l'équipe du projet a constitué un élément important du succès du PST. De même,
l'intégration du personnel issu du secteur privé a constitué un atout certain pour ce succès.

4. Leçons à tirer

i) Sur le système de gestion du projet, les performances du système de gestion ont été satisfaisantes en
ce qui concerne le sous-système comptable. Le sous-système financier n'a pas donné entière satisfaction
au niveau de la génération de certains tableaux ou de la conversion des données en devises. L'interface
également n'a pas été exploitée.
ii) Sur les procédures de paiement, le projet a connu de nombreux problèmes liés aux procédures. Ces
problèmes étaient d'ordre structurel et ponctuel. La rigidité des procédures du côté Banque Mondiale a
parfois causé des retards préjudiciables au projet. Une certaine flexibilité tenant compte du niveau
d'activité permettrait d'éviter certains problèmes de trésorerie au projet. Du côté du Gouvernement, des
procédures de mobilisation des fonds de contrepartie doivent être écrites et communiquées aux projets
pour leur application.
iii) Sur la gestion fiscale des contrats du projet
Une bonne application des dispositions fiscales dans les contrats du projet a manqué.
iv) Sur le programme, le programme lui même était ambitieux dans son approche globale. La
coordination ne pouvait qu'en être difficile eu égard au nombre et à la qualité des différents intervenants.
La définition d'une politique sectorielle des transports a canalisé les interventions des bailleurs de fonds.
Cependant, la gestion par chaque bailleur de fonds de son projet n'a pas rendu le suivi coordonné.
A cause de l'ampleur des questions à résoudre, il n'a pas été possible, malgré le long délai de
préparation, d'avoir des études précises. Aussi, le programme et les projets ont-ils été bâtis sur des
données insuffisantes ; ce qui, à l'exécution, a nécessité de nombreuses révisions et adaptations.
Grâce à la Cellule de Coordination, le suivi financier, la réalisation des audits, la préparation des
rapports périodiques, l'organisation des missions de suivi et de supervision, ont été fait sans difficultés.
L'utilisation au sein de la Cellule du personnel recruté du secteur privé a été un atout important.

5. Risques et pérennisation du programme

      a) Les risques, les risques liés aux réformes ont été bien appréhendés et atténués par la prise en
charge des aspects sociaux à travers plusieurs programmes d'ajustement structurels (Union Européenne
et IDA).
      Toutefois, il est à remarquer que les réformes non appuyées par un financement ont connu des
lenteurs dans leur exécution.
- Sur la libéralisation, celle-ci s'est faite dans la mouvance mondiale, sans évaluer et tenir compte de
notre capacité réelle de résistance financière et d'adaptation.


                                                  - 40 -

C'est ainsi que la plupart des privatisations ont échappé aux opérateurs locaux.
Elle a ainsi constitué un risque de disparition des entreprises nationales.
Et parfois, il a manqué un véritable cadre réglementaire ; ce qui a souvent entraîné l'anarchie (cas du
transport urbain).
- Sur la privatisation, certains aspects sociaux notamment la reconversion des agents ont été négligés.
Toutefois, les effets induits de la privatisation ont permis la création de nombreux emplois ; ce qui a eu
pour conséquence d'alléger le risque important des mouvements sociaux qui naissaient.
Le désengagement de l'état des travaux a également constitué un risque, les opérateurs nationaux
présentant parfois des défaillances.
Mais d'une manière générale, les privatisations ont permis une amélioration et une maîtrise des finances
publiques dans les secteurs concernés.
- le projet comportait un nombre de risques qui pouvaient entraver sa bonne réalisation si des mesures
appropriées n'étaient pas prises pour les éliminer ou atténuer leurs effets.
Le premier élément de risque portait sur les retards que pourrait accuser l'exécution du programme si la
capacité institutionnelle pour le gérer n'était pas à la hauteur de la situation. Ce risque était rendu
sérieux par la complexité du programme qui faisait intervenir plusieurs partenaires extérieurs, de
nombreuses agences du Gouvernement et/ou entreprises publiques et des communautés et collectivités
locales dans la planification, la programmation et l'exécution des travaux routiers.
Le délai de passation des marchés a été particulièrement long. Il s'est ainsi écoulé en moyenne 11 mois
entre la date de lancement de l'appel d'offres et la date de signature du marché. Le délai moyen de non
objection de l'IDA était de 92 jours.
      Les longs délais de paiement des factures ont été aussi à l'origine de longs délais d'exécution des
travaux dans la mesure où ils limitent les moyens d'action des entreprises.

      Un engagement constant des autorités a été indispensable, et un effort important consenti pour
assurer une bonne coordination et des relations de travail harmonieuses entre les différentes agences de
l'administration participant au projet.
L'exécution du programme était suivi de près.
La création des cellules à l'instar de la Cellule du PUER, la Cellule des Routes Rurales et la Cellule de
Protection de l'Environnement a été un élément catalyseur pour la bonne exécution du projet.

      Une réunion mensuelle regroupant les différentes agences du Gouvernement et les bailleurs de
fonds a été instituée.
      Le deuxième risque concernait la volonté politique à soutenir le programme ou les stratégies
proposées, plus spécialement en ce qui concerne les routes rurales. Ce risque est d'autant plus réel que le
Gouvernement peut être enclin à négliger les routes dans un contexte budgétaire particulièrement
difficile.
Les dispositions prises ont considérablement atténué ce risque. Cependant, le retard des textes sur la
décentralisation ne permet pas l'application intégrale de la nouvelle stratégie des routes rurales.
      Le troisième risque portait sur l'absence de fonds de contrepartie. Le Gouvernement a dépensé en
terme de fonds de contrepartie un montant de plus de 14 milliards, taxes comprises. A la fin du projet, le
montant des impayés imputés au fonds de contrepartie est de 1.082.529.096 dont 340.938.161 FCFA
initialement imputé au compte du crédit mais non payés en raison de la dépréciation du DTS, une
décision récente a autorisé de l'imputation de ce reliquat sur les ressources PPTE.
Le quatrième risque sérieux portait sur le manque de transparence qui pouvait se produire dans le
processus de privatisation des entreprises publiques. Ce risque n'a pas été expérimenté.
Le cinquième risque portait sur la confusion possible des rôles et responsabilités et le manque de
collaboration et de coordination efficaces qui pourrait résulter entre les services publics et le secteur
privé. La Cellule de Coordination du PST a à cet effet égard évité de s'immixer dans l'exécution directe


                                                   - 41 -

des composantes. Un Comité Interministériel de Suivi des Opérations de Pesage (CISOP) a été créé
pour la protection du patrimoine routier.
      Le sixième et dernier risque concernait le manque de familiarité des structures concernées avec
quelques unes des nouvelles mesures. Ce risque s'est vérifié principalement dans l'exécution des
travaux d'entretien routier par le secteur privé constitué de Petites et Moyennes Entreprises dans la
mesure où les responsables décentralisés du MINTP ont eu tendance à exécuter les travaux pour le
compte desdites PME.

b) Pérennisation
Les dispositions prises pour la pérennisation du programme par composante se présentent comme
ci-après :
- Travaux
L'engagement pris avec les bailleurs de fonds consistait à entretenir les routes récemment réhabilitées
sous financement des partenaires au développement.
Les routes du réseau classé ont toutes été intégrées dans le programme pluri-annuel d'entretien.
Pour les routes rurales, compte tenu du retard accusé pour la promulgation de la loi sur la
décentralisation, une stratégie intermédiaire d'entretien courant post-réhabilitation des routes rurales a
été élaborée et va être expérimentée à partir de l'exercice 2004.
- Fournitures
Tous les équipements acquis dans le cadre du projet ont fait l'objet d'un inventaire exhaustif, et ils ont
été transférés aux Administrations.
- Etudes
Dans le cas de la programmation et de la planification des transports et des travaux d'entretien routier,
les banques de données ont été constituées respectivement au Ministère des Transports (DEPP) et au
Ministère des Travaux Publics (Cellule de la Programmation).
- Financement des travaux d'entretien routier
Le Gouvernement a engagé une réforme du Fonds Routier dans le but de renforcer ses capacités et ses
performances.
Cette réforme porte sur l'augmentation du niveau des ressources mobilisées notamment par :
- l'augmentation du pourcentage de la Redevance d'Usage de la Route (RUR) à prélever sur la Taxe
Spéciale sur les Produits Pétroliers (TSPP),
- le déplafonnement de la Redevance d'Usage de la Route,
- la sécurisation des autres ressources et,
- l'extension de l'assiette à d'autres taxes spécifiques à la route (taxe à l'essieu, ...).
Il est également envisagé la création d'un guichet d'investissement et d'un organe de concertation et de
coordination des actions et des financements du secteur, le Conseil National de la Route (CNR).
- Internalisation
La dislocation de la Cellule de Coordination du projet est un risque important ; pour toute la
documentation issue du programme et du projet, pour l'expérience dans la gestion de projet.




                                                   - 42 -

Etat d'avancement de la matrice d'action du Programme Sectoriel des Transports (avr. 2004)


Domaine d'action     Stratégie/objectifs                  Actions           Résultats obtenus                Observations
1. Restructuration   - Restructurer l'efficacité des                        7 des 8 entreprises initialement
des entreprises      entreprises, améliorer les                             envisagées sorties du
publiques du secteur finances publiques, arrêter                            portefeuille de l'Etat ou avec
des transports       l'endettement et                                       des participations publiques
                     l'accumulation des arriérés                            marginales
                     des principales entreprises                            Retrait des secteurs
                     publiques du secteur                                   opérationnels au niveau
                     (SOTUC, CAMAIR, CNCC,                                  portuaire et aéroportuaire
                     REGIFERCAM, CAMSHIP,
                     CAMTAINER, SOCAMAC,
                     CNIC)
1. Restructuration   - Restructurer l'efficacité des      - concéder les    ADC opérationnelle depuis         Le partenaire
des entreprises      entreprises, améliorer les finances  aéroports         1994, actionnariat de l'Etat      stratégique d'ADC
publiques Aéroports  publiques, arrêter l'endettement et  principaux        limité à 29%. Difficultés         (ADP) n'a pas joué
et aviation civile   l'accumulation des arriérés                            financières et opérationnelles    le rôle escompté, et
                                                                            n'ayant pas permis l'atteinte des les relations avec
                                                                            objectifs initialement fixé       CAMAIR ont
                                                                                                              également
                                                                                                              complexifié la
                                                                                                              gestion
1 CNCC              Améliorer le service des chargeurs et -                 - CNCC restructuré et de facto    Une liquidation
( Conseil National  limiter les coûts du transport        Liquidation/Priv retiré des opérations du secteur   serait souhaitable
des Chargeurs       international                         atisation du      des transports maritimes. Pas de  compte tenu du
camerounais)                                              CNCC              transformation/privatisation, la  manque
                                                                            structure subsiste comme          d'enthousiasme des
                                                                            gestionnaire de patrimoine        privés à reprendre la
                                                                                                              structure
1. Restructuration  - Restructurer l'efficacité des       Liquidation de   -           ONPC en cours de
des entreprises     entreprises, améliorer les finances   l'ONPC et        liquidation ,
publiques. Ports    publiques, arrêter l'endettement et   création de      -           Port Autonome de
                    l'accumulation des arriérés           Ports            Douala (PAD) créé depuis 1999,
                                                          Autonomes        mais capital non complètement
                                                                           libéré par l'Etat

                                                                           -           Autres Ports
                                                                           autonomes créés depuis 1999
                                                                           mais non complètement
                                                                           opérationnels
1. Restructuration  - Restructurer l'efficacité des       Privatisation de -           Remorquage et         arrangement
des entreprises     entreprises, améliorer les finances   services         lamanage concédés fin 2003        provisoire pour le
publiques. Ports    publiques, arrêter l'endettement et   portuaires       -           Ensemble des services TAC depuis 2001
                    l'accumulation des arriérés                            opérationnels privés              avec les acconiers.
                                                                           -           Terminal à conteneur
                                                                           en cours de mise en concession
1.1 SOTUC           - Liquidation de la SOTUC             Cessation des     Clôture de liquidation de         Service encore
                                                          activités de la   SOTUCprononcée                    largement mal
                                                          SOTUC et                                            organisé et
                                                          liquidation       Emergence de quelques             dégradation des
                                                                            entreprises privées de transport  conditions de
                                                                            urbain dont SOCATUR               déplacement à
                                                                            (Douala, 400 employés)            Douala et Yaoundé
1.2 CAMAIR          - Restructurer l'efficacité des       - Inclusion d'un   Expérience de gestion « privée   Expérience non
                    entreprises, améliorer les finances   mode de gestion   » entre 1999 et 2003, sans        réussie de
                    publiques, arrêter l'endettement et   privé dans        amélioration de long terme        restructuration
                    l'accumulation des arriérés           l'entreprise                                        interne préalable à
                                                                                                              privatisation
                                                          - définition       Etude SH&E (fin 2002) sur
                                                          d'une stratégie   Projet PPRCP, nouveau plan
                                                          de privatisation  élaboré par le MinF en Déc
                                                                            2003




                                                                   - 43 -

1.3               - Privatisation de l'exploitation et     - Liquidation de  - RNCFC en fin de liquidation      Finalisation de la
REGIFERCAM        liquidation de l'entreprise              la RNCFC                                             cession des actifs à
(RNCFC)                                                                                                         faire avant la clôture

                                                           - octroi d'une    - CAMRAIL créée , concession       Concession
                                                           concession et     signée en 1999                     opérationnelle
                                                           concession
                                                           opérationnelle
1.4 CAMSHIP       Désengagement de l'Etat dans le          - Privatisation   CAMSHIP privatisé (1999)           Participations très
                  capital social                           de CAMSHIP                                           minoritaires du PAD
                                                           - Mise en vente                                      et de la SNI
                                                           des actions
1.5 CAMTAINER/ - Restructurer l'efficacité des             -                -          SOCAMAC Privatisé Actionnaires de
SOCAMAC           entreprises, améliorer les finances      Liquidation/Priv (1999)                             CAMTAINER sans
                  publiques, arrêter l'endettement et      atisation        -          CAMTAINER               objectif vis à vis de
                  l'accumulation des arriérés                               Privatisé de facto (actionnaires : l'entreprise
                                                                            CAMSHIP et SOCAMAC)
1.6 CNIC          Optimisation des opération du CNIC et Privatisation        Capital privatisé, libération du
                  maintien d'une activité de chantier                        quai du PAD mobilisé pour le
                  naval au Cameroun                                          CNIC, transfert à Limbé prévu
2. Réformes       Amélioration de l'efficacité,
institutionnelles clarification des responsabilités
2.1 MINTP         - Recentrage des activités sur la        - Mise en place   Cellule mise en place depuis       BDR à consolider
                  définition des politiques, la            d'une cellule     1996
                  planification, la programmation et la    chargé de la
                  budgétisation des investissements        mise en oeuvre
                  routiers et des travaux d'entretien des  d'une banque de
                  infrastructures des transports           donnée routière
                                                           -                 Mise en place d'un système de      - Système de
                                                           Restructuration   programmation, réorientation       programmation à
                                                           du Ministère des du personnel sur la maîtrise        consolider
                                                           Travaux Publics d'ouvrage et la maîtrise
                                                                             d'oeuvre depuis 1996
2.2 MINT          Concentrer le MINT sur la                Etude et mise en Réorganisation effectuée depuis     moyens en personnel
                  planification des investissements du     oeuvre de la      1998                               et financiers pour le
                  secteur, la programmation,               réorganisation                                       suivi des politiques
                  l'élaboration, l'application et le suivi du MINT                                              insuffisant.
                  des politiques et des réglementations
                  sectorielles




                                                                    - 44 -

2.3 Organes de     - Assurer une bonne coordination des  - Création du     Action continue, à objet
Coordination       activités d'ajustement du secteur des Comité            beaucoup plus large que le PST
                   transports                            Interministériel
                                                         de suivi des
                                                         programmes
                                                         économiques en
                                                         tant qu'organe
                                                         de décision du
                                                         PST (CIS)
                                                         - Comité          Action continue, à objet
                                                         Technique de      beaucoup plus large que le PST
                                                         suivi des
                                                         Programmes
                                                         Economiques en
                                                         tant qu'organe
                                                         de préparation
                                                         des décisions du
                                                         PST (CTS)
                                                         - Poursuite de la Réalisé en matière de              Projet de création
                                                         concertation      facilitation des transports        d'un conseil national
                                                         technique avec    (Comité FAL) le secteur            de la route par
                                                         les opérateurs    portuaire (Comité de               décret
                                                         économiques et    coordination), moins
                                                         les bailleurs     systématique dans les secteurs
                                                         fonds par les     des routes, des transports
                                                         autorités         terrestres et en sécurité routière
                                                         compétentes de
                                                         l'Etat.
3 Entretien routier
3.1 Efficacité     - Désengagement de l'Etat et          - Privatisation   Privatisation totale de            Voir indicateurs
opérationnelle     amélioration de l'efficacité de       progressive de    l'entretien routier depuis 1997,   spécifiques au projet
                   l'entretien routier                   l'entretien       essentiel de l'entretien réalisé
                                                         routier et        par des PME, volume des
                                                         promotion des     travaux multiplié par 4 par
                                                         PME               rapport au début du projet
                                                         - Mise en place   Audits réguliers par le fonds      Dépendance
                                                         d'un système      routier                            partielle de
                                                         efficace de       Suivi de l'entretien par des       financements
                                                         suivi, de         bureaux d'études privés            extérieurs pour cette
                                                         contrôle des                                         tâche
                                                         travaux et
                                                         d'audit externe
                                                         - nouveau code    Code passé en 2002. Les délais     Impact effectif sur
                                                         des marchés       de passation des marché restent    les délais. Difficulté
                                                         publics avec      encore relativement longs (6       à analyser l'impact
                                                         changements       mois) mais sont améliorés par      sur les coûts
                                                         des seuils,       rapport au circuit administratif
                                                         création de 3     classique antérieur.
                                                         Commissions de
                                                         Passation des
                                                         Marchés au
                                                         MINTP:
                                                         - travaux neufs
                                                         - travaux
                                                         d'entretien
                                                         routier
                                                         - autres travaux
                                                         Création d'une
                                                         Commission des
                                                         marchés au
                                                         MINT


3.2 MATGENIE       - Désengagement de l'Etat             -Régionalis. de   Régionalisation effectuée en       Problème résiduel de
                                                         l'activité        1997, mais privatisation non       disponibilité des
                                                         -Privatisation    aboutie. Le secteur a cependant    engins de travaux
                                                         d'une des         été ouvert au secteur privé et     publics pour couvrir




                                                                  - 45 -

                                                              régions            des entreprises de location ont    le volume des
                                                              -Ouverture du      vu le jour                         travaux.
                                                              secteur au privé                                      Privatisation de
                                                                                                                    MATGENIE
                                                                                                                    toujours envisagée
3.3 LABOGENIE        Restructuration et mise en concurrence   Restructur du      Labogénie restructuré,             Labogénie reste le
                                                              LABOGENIE          ouverture du secteur au privé      principal
                                                              et mise en         effective avec plusieurs           laboratoire, avec des
                                                              concurrence        laboratoires                       risques de conflit
                                                                                                                    d'intérêt.
3.4 Planification et - Amélioration de l'objectif des choix,  - Définition       - Réseau prioritaire retenu en     Le système de
Programmation        et coordination des actions de           d'un réseau        1997 et actualiser en 2002,        programmation et de
                     planification, en adéquation avec les    prioritaire        comprenant maintenant 28 000       planification a déjà
                     ressources disponibles                                      km                                 été rodé mais
                                                                                                                    nécessité de
                                                                                                                    consolidation
                                                              - Mise en place    L'essentiel des routes             Compte tenu de la
                                                              d'un système de    principales est entretenue sur la  limitation des
                                                              programmation      base de contrats pluriannuels,     moyens financiers,
                                                              pluriannuelle de   avec des contrats biennaux ou      de facto non mis en
                                                              l'entretien        annuels pour les routes en terre   oeuvre pour tout le
                                                              routier            suivant l'importance du trafic.    réseau
                                                             - Mise en place    -           BDR mise en place       La BDR pourrait
                                                             d'une BDR          -           Collecte d'information gagner en fiabilité si
                                                                                systématisée pour l'actualisation les données existantes
                                                                                                                    en matière de marchés
                                                                                                                    d'entretien étaient
                                                                                                                    mieux diffusées
                                                              - Reprise dans le  - Réalisé depuis 1996
                                                              programme
                                                              d'entretien
                                                              courant, des
                                                              routes qui
                                                              viennent d'être
                                                              réhabilitées
3.5 Financement      Mise en place d'un mécanisme             - Réforme de la    La création d'un fonds
                     pérenne, autonome et régulier du         fiscalité routière d'entretien routier et
                     financement de l'entretien                                  l'affectation d'une partie des
                                                                                 recettes pétrolières au secteur
                                                                                 est la principale réalisation de la
                                                                                 réforme. fiscalité non
                                                                                 véritablement réformée
                     - Amélioration des procédures pour       - Mise en place    Réalisé, procédure de paiement
                     raccourcir les délais de paiement aux    d'un fonds         rapide effective, avec des délais
                     PME                                      d'entretien        de paiement inférieur à 15 jours
                                                              routier
                     - Mise en place d'un mécanisme           - Réforme du       - séminaire en mai 2003,           Projets révisés
                     pérenne, autonome et régulier du         financement et     propositions de textes à l'étude   soumis à l'examen
                     financement de l'entretien               du                 au niveau du gouvernement          des bailleurs de
                                                              fonctionnement                                        fonds en avril 2004
                                                              du fonds
                                                              d'entretien
                                                              routier
                     - Mise en place d'un mécanisme           - Participation    Peu expérimentée faute de cadre
                     pérenne, autonome et régulier du         des                institutionnel adéquat
                     financement de l'entretien               communautés
                                                              dans l'entretien
                                                              des routes
                                                              rurales




                                                                       - 46 -

                  - Recouvrement des coûts des            -               - Seules les cartes grises ont   Difficulté de mener à
                  services rendus par l'administration,   Informatisatio  été informatisées à Yaoundé en bien une réforme sans
                  maîtrise des recettes à affecter au     n des titres de 1999, sans que l' opération soit bénéfice direct pour le
                  secteur routier                         transports      poursuivie ou étendue            personnel de
                                                                                                           l'administration
                                                                                                           sectorielle.
3.6 Protection du - Faire respecter les barrières de      - Mise en       Effective depuis 1998,
Patrimoine        pluies, les règles de charge à l'essieu place           actualisée récemment pour
Routier           et autres règles de circulation         réglementatio   tenir compte des
                  routière                                n adéquate      réglementations CEMAC

                                                          - Mise en       Fait sur Douala-Yaoundé-        Seule une petite partie
                                                          place du        Ngaoundéré, en cours            du réseau est
                                                          pesage routier  d'extension sur les principales correctement
                                                          sur les         routes                          surveillée.
                                                          principaux
                                                          axes

                                                          - Prise en      Effectif
                                                          compte de la
                                                          gestion des
                                                          barrières de
                                                          pluies dans les
                                                          contrats
                                                          d'entretien
                                                          routier
4 Industrie des   Protéger le patrimoine routier          - Mettre en     -Création du CISOP (comité      Manque de moyen
transports                                                place le        interministériel de suivi)      pour étendre
                                                          pesage routier  effectif.                       effectivement la
                                                          et un cadre de                                  couverture du
                                                          concertation/s                                  territoire en matière
                                                          upervision de                                   de suivi
                                                          cette activité
                  - Renforcement de la sécurité           - Code de la    - Nouveau code de la route
                  routière                                route révisé    adopté et révisé au niveau de la
                                                          pour préciser   CEMAC en 2001
                                                          les normes,
                                                          gabarit,
                                                          protection
                                                          patrimoine
                                                          routier,
                                                          dimension et
                                                          poids de
                                                          véhicules et
                                                          leurs éléments

                                                          - Mettre en       - Création du Comité          Le comité n'a pas eu
                                                          place un code     Interministériel de           l'impact escompté
                                                          de                Prévention et de Sécurité     faute d'implication
                                                          responsabilisa    Routière                      des partenaires privés
                                                          tion en           - Achat d'équipements et      et publics, et a
                                                          matière           réalisation de campagnes      manqué de moyens
                                                          d'accidents de    d'information
                                                          la route, de
                                                          destruction
                                                          des
                                                          équipements
                                                          routiers




                                                                - 47 -

4.1 Transport de - Améliorer et faciliter le transit  -               - Itinéraires régionaux         Recherche en cours
Transit                                               Réhabilitation  définis :                       pour les financements
                                                      des itinéraires travaux achevés :               de la construction des
                                                      de transit      * Bertoua-Gar.Boulaï            autres maillons
                                                                      (FED)                           manquants.
                                                                      * Ebolowa-Ambam (AFD)           Nécessité de
                                                                      Travaux en cours :              réhabilitation de
                                                                      * Ngdéré-Touboro/FED            plusieurs sections déjà
                                                                      * Ponts sur le Ntem/FED         bitumées sur les axes
                                                                      * Gar.Boulaï-Ngdéré/FED         principaux

                                                                      * Ambam-Eking/BAD
                                                                      * Ambam-Kye Ossi /AFD
                                                                      * Ayos-Bonis/FSD
                                                                      * Mamfé-Ekok
                                                                      Recherche financement
                                                                      * Kumba-Mamfé
                                                                      * Kribi-Ebolowa
                                                                      * Sangmélima-Djoum-
                                                                      Frontière Congo

                                                      -               Marché pour la mise en place    - Poursuivre et mettre
                                                      Réhabilitation  du nouveau système signé,       en oeuvre les travaux
                                                      du système      travaux initiés                 engagés dans le cadre
                                                      informatique                                    de la stratégie
                                                      douanier                                        régionale
                                                                                                      CEMAC
                                                      - Mesures de     - Instruments de facilitation  Pas de bilan complet
                                                      facilitation sur adoptés (LVI, vignette         de ces mesures
                                                      le corridor      spéciale, sauf conduit) ­
                                                                       Réglementations routières
                                                                       harmonisées

                                                      - Mise en       - Adoption d'un manuel des      Les impacts en terme
                                                      place du        procédures de passage           de réduction de délai
                                                      Guichet         portuaire et des mesures de     de passage au Port
                                                      Unique          facilitation                    sont significatifs mais
                                                                      - informatisation               encore en deçà des
                                                                                                      attentes
4.2 Transports   - Désengagement de l'Etat des        -                Décret libéralisant            Cadre en cours
urbains          opérations                           Libéralisation   l'exploitation des lignes à    d'organisation à
                 - Libéralisation des activités       des activités    Douala et à Yaoundé signé      Douala et Yaoundé
                                                                       Création de micro-entreprises
                                                                      de transport urbain mais
                                                                      l'activité reste mal organisée
                                                                      sur le terrain




                                                             - 48 -

5 Secteur        - Améliorer l'efficacité du port      Privatisation/r                                Emergence d'un
Portuaire        - Réduire les délais et les coûts de  estructuration                                 partenariat secteur
                 passage portuaire                     : voir item 1                                  public/secteur privé

5.1 Périmètre                                          - Délimitation  Textes signés en 2001
d'activité                                             géographique
                                                       des
                                                       circonscriptio
                                                       ns portuaires
5.2 Organisation - Réforme Institutionnelle            - Adoption de
                                                       la loi          - Seule la définition complète
                                                       portuaire       des organes de gestion de      La situation des autres
                                                        * création de  l'APN et du PAD a été faite    Ports doit être
                                                       l'APN, des      depuis 1999, révisé 2002.      examinée pour
                                                       OPA avec        - Pour les autres ports,       concilier autonomie et
                                                       institution des nomination des membres         économies de gestion
                                                       CCO dans        du CA et des CCO faite, mais
                                                       chaque port,    textes non totalement mis en
                                                                       application


                                                       -
                                                       Autonomisati
                                                       on des OPA :    Seul le bilan d'ouverture du
                                                                       PAD a été réalisé
                                                       * Bilan
                                                       d'ouverture     Non achevé
                                                       des OPA
                                                       approuvé        Non achevée
                                                       * Prononcer     - Besoin de 10 milliards de
                                                       la dévolution   FCFA en cours de mobilisation
                                                       du patrimoine   - en cours d'élaboration pour
                                                       * Liquidation   le PAD
                                                       de l'ex-ONPC
                                                       en cours
                                                       *
                                                       Recapitalisati
                                                       on du PAD en
                                                       cours

                                                       * Préparation
                                                       du plan
                                                       d'entreprise et
                                                       du plan social

                 - Transfert des activités au secteur        Définitio - Cadre de transfert défini
                 privé                                       n du      - concession du remorquage et
                                                             cadre de  du lamanage réalisée en 2003
                                                             transfert
                                                             Mise en   - AO lancé pour la concession
                                                             concessi  du TAC
                                                             on des
                                                             opératio
                                                             ns

5.3              - Maîtrise du dragage du chenal du    -               - Profondeur du chenal portée  Non paiement par
Investissements  port Douala                           Entretien/Réh   de ­5,40m à ­6,5m, puis 7m et  l'Etat de ses
                                                       abilitation     7.5 m par plusieurs contrats   engagements
                                                       puis            successifs                     financiers sur le
                                                       approfondisse                                  dragage,
                                                       ment                                           pérennisation des
                                                                                                      contrats de dragage à
                                                                                                      faire




                                                              - 49 -

5.4 Tarification et - Réduction des coûts               * Réduction     Réalisé entre 1998 et 2000.      Les coûts portuaires
relations avec les                                      des tarifs      Réduction supplémentaire sur     dans leur ensemble (y
usagers                                                 portuaires de   le coût des services attendue de compris prestataires
                                                        10% sur les     la concession du terminal à      de services privés au
                                                        navires et de   conteneur.                       Port) restent encore
                                                        10% sur les                                      élevés.
                                                        marchandises
                                                        et réduction
                                                        de 10% *
                                                        Réduction des
                                                        tarifs
                                                        d'acconage de
                                                        7,5%
                                                        *
                                                        Libéralisation
                                                        et réduction
                                                        des tarifs de
                                                        transit
                    - facilitation du transit des       Création d'un GUCE créé en 1999,
                    marchandises au Port                Guichet         opérationnel
                                                        Unique
                                                        rassemblant
                                                        tous les
                                                        intervenants
5.5 - Informatique                                      - Mise en       A l'étude                        A relier aux projets du
portuaire                                               place d'un                                       GUCE
                                                        Système
                                                        Informatique
                                                        Portuaire
                                                        (SIP) au PAD
                                                        - Mise en       - Marché attribué, mise en
                                                        place d'un      place en cours
                                                        système
                                                        informatique
                                                        au GUCE
                                                        -               Marché attribué, système
                                                        Modernisation SIAM choisi
                                                        du système
                                                        informatique
                                                        douanier
6. Sous-Secteur     - Améliorer la capacité du commerce -               - Loi adoptée en décembre
Maritime            extérieur national à exploiter de   Libéralisation  1998
                    nouveaux marchés                    du Transport
                                                        Maritime
                    - Disposer d'un secteur maritime    -               - Loi adoptée en 1995. Impact :
                    performant                          Libéralisation  maintenant plus de 250
                                                        de l'accès aux  sociétés camerounaises opérant
                                                        professions     dans le secteur, y compris dans
                                                        maritimes       le cabotage maritime
                    - Rendre les différents acteurs     abolition du    Impact sur les coûts de
                    compétitifs au plan économique      principe de     transports maritimes très
                                                        quota de        sensible et renforçant l'impact
                                                        cargaison       de la chute des prix mondiaux
                                                                        de transport maritime.
                    - Demeurer présent dans le secteur  - Privatisation Réalisé, CAMSHIP et des
                    des transports maritimes            de CAMSHIP      sociétés de cabotage
                                                        et              camerounaises sont présentes
                                                        CAMTAINE        sur le marché, ainsi que dans
                                                        R               l'ensemble des professions de
                                                        -               prestataires de service
                                                        restructuration
                                                        du CNCC
                                                        avec
                                                        suppression
                                                        de la taxe
                                                        CNCC




                                                               - 50 -

5.4 Tarification et - Réduction des coûts               * Réduction     Réalisé entre 1998 et 2000.      Les coûts portuaires
relations avec les                                      des tarifs      Réduction supplémentaire sur     dans leur ensemble (y
usagers                                                 portuaires de   le coût des services attendue de compris prestataires
                                                        10% sur les     la concession du terminal à      de services privés au
                                                        navires et de   conteneur.                       Port) restent encore
                                                        10% sur les                                      élevés.
                                                        marchandises
                                                        et réduction
                                                        de 10% *
                                                        Réduction des
                                                        tarifs
                                                        d'acconage de
                                                        7,5%
                                                        *
                                                        Libéralisation
                                                        et réduction
                                                        des tarifs de
                                                        transit
                    - facilitation du transit des       Création d'un GUCE créé en 1999,
                    marchandises au Port                Guichet         opérationnel
                                                        Unique
                                                        rassemblant
                                                        tous les
                                                        intervenants
5.5 - Informatique                                      - Mise en       A l'étude                        A relier aux projets du
portuaire                                               place d'un                                       GUCE
                                                        Système
                                                        Informatique
                                                        Portuaire
                                                        (SIP) au PAD
                                                        - Mise en       - Marché attribué, mise en
                                                        place d'un      place en cours
                                                        système
                                                        informatique
                                                        au GUCE
                                                        -               Marché attribué, système
                                                        Modernisation SIAM choisi
                                                        du système
                                                        informatique
                                                        douanier
6. Sous-Secteur     - Améliorer la capacité du commerce -               - Loi adoptée en décembre
Maritime            extérieur national à exploiter de   Libéralisation  1998
                    nouveaux marchés                    du Transport
                                                        Maritime
                    - Disposer d'un secteur maritime    -               - Loi adoptée en 1995. Impact :
                    performant                          Libéralisation  maintenant plus de 250
                                                        de l'accès aux  sociétés camerounaises opérant
                                                        professions     dans le secteur, y compris dans
                                                        maritimes       le cabotage maritime
                    - Rendre les différents acteurs     abolition du    Impact sur les coûts de
                    compétitifs au plan économique      principe de     transports maritimes très
                                                        quota de        sensible et renforçant l'impact
                                                        cargaison       de la chute des prix mondiaux
                                                                        de transport maritime.
                    - Demeurer présent dans le secteur  - Privatisation Réalisé, CAMSHIP et des
                    des transports maritimes            de CAMSHIP      sociétés de cabotage
                                                        et              camerounaises sont présentes
                                                        CAMTAINE        sur le marché, ainsi que dans
                                                        R               l'ensemble des professions de
                                                        -               prestataires de service
                                                        restructuration
                                                        du CNCC
                                                        avec
                                                        suppression
                                                        de la taxe
                                                        CNCC




                                                               - 51 -

7. Utilisation des - Développer la profession des        Définition les Développement important de       Professionnalisation à
compétences        consultants locaux                    tâches qui     la profession, forte présence de poursuivre,
locales            - Encourager le recours aux           peuvent être   consultants locaux dans le       notamment dans
                   consultants locaux                    confiées aux   secteur routier, développement   l'entretien routier.
                                                         consultants    de la profession dans le secteur
                                                         locaux         des transports, notamment
                                                         Recours aux    maritimes.
                                                         consultant
                                                         locaux
                                                         notamment
                                                         par AON
8. Sous-secteur    Réforme de la politique et du cadre   - Passation de Non réalisé                      De quoi s'agissait
Transport aérien   réglementaire du transport aérien     contrat                                         il ???
                   pour le rendre plus efficace et plus  d'obligation
                   utile à l'économie nationale          de service
                                                         public sur
                                                         appel d'offres

                                                         -              Non effectif                     Réalisé ?? (a priori,
                                                         Libéralisation                                  non)
                                                         transport du
                                                         fret
                                                         Réforme de     Code de l'aviation civile révisé Cadre conforme aux
                                                         l'aviation     (1998), autorité aéronautique    normes
                                                         civile         nationale créée (1999)           internationales, mais à
                                                                                                         renforcer au niveau
                                                                                                         organisation et
                                                                                                         réglementation
                                                         - Contribuer   Décision de Yamoussoukro
                                                         au             adoptée en 1999,
                                                         développemen développement de trafic vers
                                                         t des accords  l'Afrique de l'Ouest, mais la
                                                         régionaux en   sous région reste très mal
                                                         vue d'une      desservie et dépendante
                                                         libéralisation d'accords nationaux
                                                         du transport
                                                         aérien entre
                                                         pays de
                                                         l'Afrique
                                                         Centrale
9. Environnement   - Protection de l'environnement dans - Etude de      - Cellule environnementale
                   les travaux routiers                  l'impact des   créée au MINTP avec un
                                                         problèmes      fonctionnement satisfaisant et
                                                         environnemen   reconnu
                                                         taux dans les
                                                         travaux
                                                         routier
                   - Protection faune et flore au niveau - Pan de       - Analyse réalisée               Suivi dans le cadre du
                   de Camrail                            Gestion                                         projet CAMRAIL
                                                         Environneme
                                                         ntal et Social
                                                         du Projet
                                                         (PGES)
                                                         élaboré et en
                                                         cours de mise
                                                         en oeuvre




                                                                - 52 -

- 53 -

