Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15550HCM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
APRIL 18, 1996
Infrastructure Operations Division
Central Africa and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of April . 1996)
Currency Unt                =                 CFA Franc (CFAF)
USSI                       =                  CFAF505
CFAF I million                                USS1 9140
WEIGII'S AND MltASURES
Metric Systen
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASECNA        = Agence pour la Steuritd Acricnne cn Afrique ct do Madagascar
(Air Safet, Agency for Africa and Madagascar)
AGCD          = Agenec Gcncralc dc la Coopcration au Dcvcloppcmcnt
(Bclgian Gencral Agency for Cooperation and Development)
BMZ           = Bundcsministenum rur Zasammcnarbcit
(German Ministry for Cooperation)
CAMAIR        = Camcroon Airlincs
CAMSHIP       = Cameroon Shippiig Lines
CAMTAINER  = Socictc Nationalc de Transport ct de Transit du Caincroun
(Camcroon Container Transport and Freght Forwardcr Company)
CAR           = Republique Centrafricaine (Ccntral African Republic)
CAS           = Contry Assistance Strategy
CFD           = Caissc Franraisc dc Dhselopmcment (Frcnch Developucrn Agency)
CIF           = Cost, Insurance Freight
CNCC          = Conseil National dcs Chargcurs hi Cameroun (Shippers' Council)
CNIC          = Chanrie Naval et Indusirtel du ti amcroun (Cameroon Dockyard)
CNPS          = Caisse Nutionalc dc Prcvoyanee Socialc (National Socal Secunty Fund)
DhlN          =Dcveloping NIaritime Nations
DGTC          = Direction GG&rrale des Grands Trav-a-s l Camcroun
(General Directorate for Large Works ot Carneroon)
DPO           = Deferred P'riva-trattnn Opuon
ERC           = Economic Recovery Credit
ESOP          = Employce Stock Owncrship Program
EU            = European Union
FAC           = Fonds d'Aide et do Coop6ration (Frcnch Copecration Fund)
FOB           = Frec on Board
1y            = Fiscal Yar
GDP           = Gross Domestic Product
GOC           =Govcmment of Cameroon
IBRD          = Inteniational Bank for Reconstruction and Dcvelopment
ICAO          = International Civl Aviatin Organizetion
ICB           = International Competitive Bidding
IDA           - Intemational D,eslopnt Association
IMPF          =lntenruainal Monetary Fund
IRU           = International Road Union
LABOGENIE  = Laboratoire National do Gdnie Civil (National Road Laboratory)
MATGENIE   = Pare National do Matericl dc Geise Civil (Equipment Pool)
MC            =Managemcnt Contract
MINEFI        = Ministerc dc I'Econrmic ct dcs Finances (Ministry of Economy and Finance)
MINT          = Mmnistdre des Transports (Ministry of Transport)
MINTP         = Ministmr dcs Travaux Publics (Muiistry of Public Works)
NCB           = NaLional Compctitive Bidding
OECF          = Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
ONPC          = Office National des Pors du Cameroun (Cameroon National Port Authority)
PE            = Public Enterpise
PIP           = Public Investmet Program
PPA           = Participatory Poverty Analysis
PPF           = Project Preparation Facility
PSO           = Public Service Obligation
REER          = Rel Effective Evehange Rate
RFGII:ERCAM = R&grc Natiunalc dcs Chemins do Fcr du Cameroun (Cameroon Railuays)
SAC           = Stnuctural Adjustment Crcdit
SAL           = StruCtLral Adjustment Loan
SAP           = Structural Adjustment Prognam
SAR           = Staff Appraisal Report
SME           = Small and Medium Entcrprisc
SNH           = Soci&6t Nationale d'H-drocarburcs (National Oil Company)
SNI           = Societe Nationale di'lnestissnmcnt (Slatc Holding Company)
SOCAMAC    = Sociott d'Aninagrcn,et ct do Manuaiti,on du Camcroun
(Port Handling Company of Cameroon)
se ruc        = Socicte dc Transport Urbain du Camcroun (Urban Public Transport Company)
SSATP         = Sub-Saharan African Transport Policy Program
TICU          = Ccilule dc Coordination du Projct Sctoriel des Transports
(Transport Intrmministerial Coordination tnie)
TIR           = Transit Inicnaitonal Roulier (Intcrnational Road Transit)
TIPAC         = Tr-nsit In.tcrEtats dcs Pays dc l'Afriquc Cciralc
(Central African Countries Regional Transit)
TSP           = Transport Seetor Project
TSTA          = Transport Scctor Technical Assistance Project
UDEAC         =Union Douanirc et Ecoro.niquie de l'Afriquie Centralc
(Central Africa Customs and Econoomic U iion)
UNC1-AD       = Umnted Nations Confrcnce om Trade and Dcvelopment
FISCAL YEAR
Jlilv I - Juine 30



REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ............................i
1. COUNTRY BACKGROUND                                         .1
2.  TRANSPORT SECTOR INSTITUTIONAL ASSESSMENT                               .2
3. TRANSPORT SECTOR PROGRAM   1..
A. Program Objectives .1
B. Program Description .12
C. Sector Investment Program .21
D. Technical Assistance, Training and Seminars .25
E. Program Implementation .26
Procurement .26
Disbursements .29
Accounting and Auditing .31
Program and Project Implementation .32
Reporting and Monitoring ................ .                                 33
Environmental Aspects ................                                      34
Program Benefits ................                                           35
Program Risks ................                                              40
4.  IDA ASSISTANCE STRATEGY TO THE TRANSPORT SECTOR  . .43
A. Lessons Learned from Past Experience .43
B. Rationale for IDA Involvement .44
C. IDA Assistance Strategy to the Transport Sector .45
5.     AGREEMENTS REACHED, CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATION                                  46
This Report is based on the findings of a reappraisal mission carried out in May/June 1995 by
Mmes./Messrs. Jean-Noel Guillossou (Task Manager, Transport Economist, AF3IN); Kingson Apara
(Principal Project Officer, Resident Mission); Aubert Zohore (Financial Analyst, AF3IN); Abdelmoula
Ghzala (Highway Engineer, AF31N); Gerard Paget (Highway Engineer, AFTES); Karim-Jacques Budin
(Railway Specialist, TWUTD); Marc Juhel (Port Specialist, TWUTD); Patrick Bultynck (AFTES, Urban
Transport Specialist); Ellis Juan (Private Sector Development Specialist, CFSPS); Claudine Morin
(Lawyer, LEGAF); and Hakan Wilson (PSD). Mr. Ian Heggie (TWUTD) is Lead Advisor; Ms. Sunita
Kikeri (PSD), Ms. Brigitta Mitchell (AF41N) and Mr. Hans Peters (TWUTD) are Peer Reviewers. Ms.
Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard (AF3IN) is the Division Chief. Mr. Andrew Rogerson (AF3) is the
Department Director.



Table of Contents
SCHEDULES                                                                                                                                           Page
1.         Letter of Sector Policy and Matrix of Actions ..............................................................                                 49
2.          Benefits resulting from  the Privatization/Liquidation of Transport Public Enterprises .................. 60
3.         Action Plan and Timetable for the Transit Component of the UDEAC
Transport Reform  Program  ..............................................................                                                   61
4.          Action Plan to Overhaul the Customs System ..............................................................                                   62
5.         National Port Authority's (ONPC) Investment Plan ..............................................................                               65
6.          Status of Implementation of the Transport Sector Technical Assistance Project ........................... 66
7.         Detailed Project Costs ..............................................................                                                        68
8.         Outline Terms of Reference of Technical Assistance ..............................................................    72
9.          Training ..............................................................                                                                     77
10.        Project Implementation  Schedule ..............................................................                                              79
11.        Project Performance Indicators .............................................................. 84
12.        IDA  Supervision Plan                                                            .............................................................. 85
13.        Economic Evaluation of the Overall Road Maintenance Program  ................................................ 86
14.        Economic Evaluation of the First-year Road Maintenance Program  ............................................ 88
15         Economic Analysis of the Rural Transport Infrastructure Program  ............................................. 90
16.        Economic Evaluation of the Rehabilitation of the Access Channel to the Port of Douala .............. 92
17.        Financial Evaluation of ONPC ..............................................................                                                  95
18.        Selected Documents in the Project File ..............................................................                                        99
MAPS
IBRD No. 24837 and 24838 (Priority Road Network)
IBRD No. 24029 (UDEAC Infrastructure Communications Network)



Credit and Project Summary                                                            i
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                   Republic of Cameroon
Guarantor:                  Not Applicable
Implementing Agencies:      Ministry of Economy and Finance
Ministry of Public Works
Ministry of Transport
Transport Interninisterial Coordination Unit
Beneficiary:                Not Applicable
Poverty:                    Program of Targeted Interventions
Amount:                     SDR 41.7 million (US$ 60.7 million equivalent)
Terms:                      Standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years
Commitment Fee:             0.50% on undisbursed credit balances,
beginning 60 days after signing, less any waiver
Onlending Terms:            Not Applicable
Financing Plan:             See para. 3.41
Net Present Value:          Values below are given for new projects only but not for on-going
projects included in the sector investment program.
Economic Rate of Retum of the road maintenance strategy applied to the
overall priority network: above 100 percent.
Economic Rate of Return of the road rehabilitation program financed by
IDA:
Rehabilitation Program   Paved Roads          Earth Roads
74%                  52%                 100%
Economic Rate of Retum of the Rural Transport Infrastructure
Maintenance Program: above 12 percent.



Cameroon - Transport Sector PrograMi
Net Present Value discounted at 12 percent of the rehabilitation of the
access channel to the port of Douala
23 -                        Cost of Maintenance
s1                           Dredging
j                              -i- D/  \\   MCFAF2,0001m3
= 13                   ~~~~~~-U-CFAF2,600hm3
3ji    .    .    .   §   ---CFAF3,000/m3
3
6.5    7    7.5    8    8.5
Channel Depth (m)
Staff Appraisal Report:       Report No. 12451 -CM
Maps:                         IBRD No. 24837 and 24838 (Priority Road Network)
IBRD No. 24029 (UDEAC Infrastructure Communications Network)
Project ID Number:            393



Chapter I - Countpy Background                                                          I
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
0.1    Chapter 1 presents the country background to place the proposed project in the context of past and
current economic adjustment. Chapter 2 presents the transport sector institutional assessment. Chapter 3
describes the reform program prepared by the Government, as of mid-1995, to address the issues identified
in the sector institutional assessment. The chapter also presents the sector investment program, provides
the reform and investment programs' benefits and risks, including those related to environment, and the
programs implementation arrangements. Chapter 4 proposes the IDA's assistance strategy to the transport
sector in Cameroon based on lessons learned from Bank Group involvement in Cameroon. Chapter 5 lists
the agreements reached. Figures in the report derive from studies carried out to prepare the project.
1. COUNTRY BACKGROUND
1.1    Throughout the 1970s and until 1985, Cameroon registered an average real growth rate of about 8
percent per annum. Production of oil, which accounted for about 45 percent of Government revenues, was
a major factor of growth. Three external shocks, starting in 1985-1986, revealed the fragility of the oil-
dependent economy: decline in external terms of trade (coffee, cocoa and oil), depreciation of the dollar,
and decline in oil production. As a result, the economy and living standards started to deteriorate in 1986-
87. Per capita income declined by 55 percent between 1986 and 1993. The population living in poverty
increased from 40 percent of households in 1983 to 48 percent in 1993. To reverse this decline, the
Government launched a first Structural Adjustment Program in 1989 supported by a World Bank
Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL1, Ln. 3089-CM, June 1989). In the absence of a real depreciation of the
CFA franc, however, these efforts proved ineffective. As a result, the economy contracted by an average
5.3 percent per annum between 1990-91 and 1992-93. Per capita income decreased by an average 8.6
percent per annum over the same period.
1.2   The CFAF devaluation in January 1994 created a pre-condition for the resumption of positive real
growth and an improvement in the country's external competitiveness. In parallel, the Government
implemented the Central Africa Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC) tax and tariff reform to simplify
the tariff structure and eliminate all remaining quantitative restrictions on merchandises imports. However,
without deepening of the adjustment effort, the economy did not fully benefit from the devaluation. As a
result, Cameroon's long-term development has continued to be plagued by three main constraints: (a) a
fiscal crisis with inadequate resource mobilization, poor quality of public expenditure and a crippling
internal debt; (b) an external debt overhang with, in 1994, the external debt service accounting for 63
percent of total Government revenues, or, taking into account payment arrears, total debt service
accounting for 111 percent of Government revenues; and (c) uneven ownership and commitment to the
adjustment agenda.
1.3   Since early 1995, the Government has clearly demonstrated its commitment to reverse past trends.
All outstanding undertakings agreed under the Economic Recovery Credit (ERC) financed by IDA and due
for implementation by December 1995 have been completed. The Head of State announced additional
adjustment measures such as: (a) acceleration of the privatization program including utilities; (b)
improvement of the privatization procedure under the auspices of a committee at the Presidency responsible
for ensuring transparency; (c) making the preshipment inspection company responsible for customs duties
assessments and monitoring of actual collection; and (d) imposition of sanctions on civil servants guilty of
corruption or embezzlement. In line with IDA or IMF concems, the FY96 Finance Law contains a series
of revenue-raising measures as well as increased budget allocations to development sectors such as
education and health. As a result, the IMF concluded negotiations of its Standby Agreement. A letter of
intent was signed on August 1995. A new Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC) in the amount of US$150



2                                                                      Transport Sector Project
million was approved by the Board of the Association on February 8, 1996, and became effective on
February 22, 1996.
2. TRANSPORT SECTOR INSTITUTIONAL ASSESSMENT
2.1    This chapter assesses the transport sector issues as identified in the Transport Sector Strategy
Memorandum (Report No. 11430-CM, June 30, 1993) with data updated as of fiscal year 94. The
memorandum was prepared after long discussions with public and private sector stakeholders and its
recommendations were the basis of the transport sector reform program adopted by the Government in
1995 and presented in Chapter 3. Since the report was completed, the Government has started to
restructure the transport sector and has launched several actions. These recent developments have not been
taken into account in the following description of the transport sector issues to maintain consistency with
the reform program presented in Chapter 3 as well as for the sake of comparing 1993 and 1995 and
evidencing the Government commitment to the reform of the transport sector.
2.2    Overall Sector Performance. Weak management of institutions and an unsatisfactory regulatory
framework have caused the transport sector to have a major negative impact on the overall economy,
especially for the poor for which poor transport infrastructure has become one of the major impediment to
their participation in economic development. The Government gave priority to investment and to protection
of PEs. As a result, transport infrastructure has lacked maintenance and PEs have drained scarce State
resources. The consequences are a lack of competitiveness within the transport sector, the running down of
existing assets, and a lack of resources for investment.
2.3   Impact on the Poor. Improvement of transport infrastructure, particularly main roads and farm-
to-market roads, was one of the priority actions identified during the national workshop on poverty held in
Cameroon in November 1994. In the South-West province, 86 percent of the people interviewed during the
Participatory Poverty Analysis (PPA) carried out in 1994 indicated that poor transport was the major cause
of poverty. Many of the problems of the poor were found to be compounded by the limited or non-existent
road infrastructure which cut off many villages or make some inaccessible for up to four months during the
rainy season, which is the time of high agricultural activity (Figure 1). Limited mobility, especially in rural
areas, greatly reduces inter-village and ruraL/urban trade and commerce. The absence of efficient
communication facilities in their regions in general means that the poor have to pay proportionally higher
prices for travel.
2.4    Physical isolation also is a factor of economic and social isolation. Women in a village on a main
road with direct access to wholesalers were able to spend more time producing food to sell and made an
average income of US$570, more than twice the US$225 income earned by women in an isolated village
located 1.5 hours from the main road. Poor transport infrastructure makes access of women to transport
even more out of step with their transport responsibilities embedded in the gender division of labor.
2.5    Poor transport infrastructure also contributes to food insecurity in poor rural areas by hampering
movements between areas of surplus and areas of shortage, as well as making transportation costs so high
that movements in relative prices required to stimulate the transport of food to areas of shortage become so
large that many of the poor in afflicted regions cannot afford marketed food. During the PPA survey, a
respondent who sells foodstuffs in the Northern province pointed out that plantains selling for CFAF 500 in
Yaounde would cost CFAF 2,000 in Maroua, due principally to transportation costs. Poor urban transport
infrastructure is also a major constraint for the poor who have to walk on long distances to access urban
transport services in addition to the proportionally higher prices for travel that they have to pay to use these
services.



Chapter 2 - Transport Sector Institutional Assessment                                    3
Figure 1: Impact of Poor Infrastructure
on the Rural and Urban Poor
Health Lrvices                                          Education
Roads impassable during rainy season                    Isolation - teachers do not
High cost of transportation to                          want to work in isolated/
health centers                                          cut off areas
Parents cannot afford
transportation fees.
Econimic Production                                   Agricultural Production
. Roads in poor condition limit flow                   No markets for products
of goods and services and trade                       High transportation costs
between commercial centers and                        Hard to get inputs
neighboring states                                   . Difficult access to farms
. High transportation costs translated                 High transportation costs
into high transaction costs                           deter agricultural extension
workers
Gender
Limited mobility for women
especially during the rainy season
2.6    Weak Sector Management and Institutions. Sector ministries are overstaffed and have interfered
negatively with PE management and decisions on staffing, operations and investments. The Government
institutions involved are the Ministry of Public Works (MINTP), with about 6,700 employees, and the
Ministry of Transport (MINT), with about 880 employees. MINTP runs an inefficient, unaccountable
road maintenance system driven by force account. MINT's role is to oversee transport PEs, but instead, it
has interfered with their management, hindering both their autonomy and performance. MINT initiates and
supervises regulations for road, rail, air, and transit and maritime transport. It also oversees the Shippers'
Council (CNCC), which controls the distribution of Cameroon's maritime traffic under the United Nations
Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD)'s Code of Conduct (40-40-20), negotiates liner
conference tariffs, and represents Cameroonian shippers' interests.
2.7    The functions of the Directorate of Large Works of Cameroon (DGTC), which has about 110
employees, overlap with those of the other sector institutions. DGTC is a public enterprise under the
tutelage of the Prime Ministry. DGTC serves as a secretariat to the National Tender Board on
procurement decisions. Until the 1994 restructuring, it also prepared and supervised large works, including
road civil works. DGTC has given priority to investment to the detriment of maintenance. Road
investment has not been coordinated between DGTC and MINTP. DGTC has not achieved its objectives
of reducing construction costs and making enterprises comply with contractual time stipulations. The
Government has not allocated resources to DGTC since 1993. DGTC's revenues have derived from civil
works contracts, which caused lack of transparency and conflict of interest. In March 1994, DGTC's debt
to suppliers, employees, the Social Security Fund and the Government amounted to US$3.5 million. The
country procurement review carried out by IDA in 1993, qualified the local procurement procedures as
critically deficient because of little transparency in bid evaluation and award of contracts, resulting in long
procurement processing and high costs.  In June 1995, the Government adopted a new national
procurement code in consultation with IDA and procurement procedures have been decentralized. Technical
ministries and PEs are autonomous for procurement activities below about US$1 million equivalent for
works, US$0.6 million for goods, and US$0.4 million for consultants.



4                                                                    Transport Sector Project
2.8    Unsatisfactory Regulatory Framework.  The current framework is an obstacle to effective
competition in some transport subsectors:
(a)    Civil Aviation: Although the regulatory framework is overall satisfactory, its provisions
are not applied consistently. The Government intervenes in CAMAIR's operational
management. Other domestic companies were authorized in 1994 to operate regular or
charter flights within Cameroon and between Camneroon and neighboring countries, but the
Govemment is unwilling to allow competition between these companies and CAMAIR.
Regional and international air cargo services are not developed, although the market does
exist. High aviation fuel prices in Cameroon due to local taxes impede civil aviation
development.
(b)   Interurban Road Transport: A bureau of freight was created in 1994 to control the
distribution of transit traffic to Chad and the Central African Republic between
Cameroonian, Chadian and Central African transporters. The Shippers' Council, the
railway company and the road transport associations participate in the bureau. This is
likely to reduce sector efficiency and increase transport costs. The road taxation system is
complex and cumbersome, with about 15 taxes collected at different stages, by different
institutions. Tax revenues are insufficient. Road transport benefits from the price structure
for petroleum products which does not promote competition and does not encourage
petroleum companies to use the least-cost mode of transport. The regulation to control axle
loads is not applied. Road insecurity increases.
(c)    Maritime transport: The negotiations of tariffs between shipping lines and the shippers'
council have kept tariffs at the same official level for several years, although they have
decreased in the rest of the world on average by an annual 4 percent between 1980 and
1992, and by an annual 7 percent since 1989. These negotiations and confidential rebates
proposed by the shipping lines result in lack of transparency in the transport market. The
current regulation protects the national shipping lines, and its application causes delays
and increases costs of international maritime transport, thereby impeding the country's
competitiveness. A background note on maritime transport regulation in sub-Saharan
countries can be found in the Technical Annex of the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) of the
Transport Sector Technical Assistance Credit (SAR No. P-6559-CM) presented to the
Board on April 11, 1995.
2.9    Non-Performing Transport Sector Public Enterprises. Seven PEs are under the jurisdiction of
MINT: the national airline (CAMAIR), with about 1,600 employees; the railway company
(REGIFERCAM) with about 3,600 employees, operating about 1,000 km of railways; the urban bus
company (SOTUC) with about 1,050 employees, operating bus lines in Yaounde and Douala until
February 1995; the national shipping line (CAMSHIP) with about 270 employees, including 80 sailors; the
national freight forwarder and road transport company (CAMTAINER) with about 200 employees; the
National Port Authority (ONPC) with about 1,000 employees, managing Cameroon's main port at Douala
and three secondary ports, and the national dockyard (CNIC) with about 130 employees, operating a
maritime workshop and dry-dock. Two PEs fall under the jurisdiction of MINTP: the equipment pool for
road maitenance (MATGENIE) with about 400 employees, and the road laboratory (LABOGENIE) with
about 440 employees, which controls the norms and standards of road and building construction, and
carries out research.
2.10   Six out of nine transport sector PEs are bankrupt and drain huge resources from the State budget.
The transport sector PEs' debts and arrears severely constrain the State Treasury. At the end of FY93,
direct subsidies needed to cover transport PEs' deficit amounted to US$55 million, equivalent to 8 percent
of the State revenues. About US$240 million of subsidies had been allocated to transport sector PEs



Chapter 2 - Transport Sector Institutional Assessment                                        5
between FY90 and FY92, of which 84 percent to CAMAIR. As of 1994, the total domestic debt for the
nine sector PEs amounted to CFAF 122 billion, US$236 million equivalent (Table 1). This accounted for
about 24 percent of the total debt of the 34 major PEs in Carneroon, 6 percent of the total domestic debt
and 3 percent of the gross domestic product. REGIFERCAM, CAMSHIP and SOTUC are the most
important debtors to the State among transport PEs. Transport PEs owe US$74 million to the State, which
accounts for 19 percent of the total PE debt due to the State. SOTUC, MATGENIE, ONPC and
LABOGENIE are the most important creditors of the State among transport PEs. The State owes US$93
million to these enterprises which accounts for 22 percent of the total State's debt due to PEs.
Table 1: FY94 Short-term Debt of Transport Public Enterprises (CFAF billion)
SOTUC CAMSHIP ONPC  CAMAIR  REGIFER   LABO-   MAT-    CAM-   TOTAL
1994    1994   1994   1994    -CAM    GENIE   GENIE  TAINER
1994    1994    1994      1993
Arrearsonsalaries      5.0    0.0    0.1    0.5       0.3      1.9      2.7     0.0      10.5
Fiscal arrears        4.7    0.2    0.0    5.1        4.0      1.3      1.0      0.0     16.3
Arrears on Social Security  4.6    0.0    0.6    13.7  8.0     2.3      2.2      0.0     31.4
Bank overdrafls and arrears    6.7    0.0    0.0    8.9  6.8    1.8     0.2      0.0     24.4
Local suppliers       3.6    1.1    2.7    3.6        2.0      1.2      0.8      1.9     16.9
External suppliers    0.0    0.7    0.0    3.5        0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      4.2
Other debt and arrears  0.3    0.0    11.5    6.3     0.0      0.0      0.5      0.0     18.6
Total                 24.9    2.0    14.9   41.6      21.1     8.5      7.4      1.8     122.2
2.11   In 1993/94, CAMAIR had an estimated debt of about US$78 million, with arrears of about
US$55 mnillion, and a negative net worth of US$20 million, against assets of US$50 million. On the basis
of projected operating losses and debt service requirements, the company would need an annual US$10
rmillion subsidy to continue, and still be unable to renew its equipment when it reaches the end of its
economic life in five years. Financial and operational management is poor and lacks transparency. Fraud
is widespread. The company is overstaffed by about 800 employees. CAMAIR operates one B-747, and
two short haul carriers (B-737) for regional and domestic flights, after one crashed in 1995.
2.12   Several attempts to restructure the company failed because the Government interfered with
management, in particular with respect to staffing decision. The company maintains the presidential fleet
without being paid for the service, and civil servants use CAMAIR without the Government paying for all
tickets. The agreements under the performance contract concluded between the Government and CAMAIR
as part of the Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL1) conditionalities were largely unfulfilled. The agreement
to prepare a sale and lease-back arrangement for CAMAIR's long haul carrier (B-747), signed by the
Minister of Finance under the SAL, was rescinded by the President of Cameroon. Despite the appointment,
in October 1992, of a Director-General from Air France, which is a minority shareholder (25 percent), the
situation has started only recently to improve, thanks to the devaluation of the CFAF franc. Since 1992,
when Air France purchased UTA, the former French airline which serviced Cameroon, Air France's
participation and technical assistance entail a conflict of interest as the airline competes with CAMAIR on
the Douala-Paris line.
2.13   REGIFERCAM's long-term debt (mostly in foreign currency) stood at about US$75 million
equivalent on June 30, 1994. Arrears to various bilateral donors, suppliers, and local banks amount to
about US$40 million equivalent. Arrears to the Social Security system amount to about US$15 million.
During FY93, the enterprise incurred an operating loss, before subsidies, of about US$20 million (down
from about US$52 mnillion in 1988). Growth of log and timber traffic in 1994 has improved the cash-flow
situation but the long-term situation remains the same because of the importance of the debt. The company
plays an important role in domestic freight and transit transport. Logs, wheat and flour, petroleum
products, cotton, and transit goods are the largest items using railway services. The construction of the
pipe line between Chad and Cameroon should boost rail transport during the next two years. In addition,



6                                                                    Transport Sector Project
the company provides passenger services to and from Northern Cameroon (at 620 km from Yaounde and
880 km from Douala), which is linked to other regions by an earth road in poor condition.
2.14   The company made substantial efforts within the framework of the performance contract signed
with the Government under the SAL in 1989. The management has been more commercially oriented and
has full autonomy to set tariffs and negotiate contracts. The number of employees was reduced from 6,350
to about 3,600. REGIFERCAM concluded agreements with the State on compensation for operating
unprofitable passenger transport services under public service obligations. Some auxiliary activities were
privatized. But Govemment still interferes with some management and procurement decisions, therefore
limiting the potential for further efforts which would be required in view of the still weak financial situation
of the company.
2.15   SOTUC, which owned 229 buses (107 in Yaounde and 122 in Douala), has been unprofitable
since its creation. In 1994, only about half of its buses were operational, and this number was rapidly
dwindling because of lack of maintenance. In FY93, SOTUC's net loss amounted to about US$7 million
equivalent, with a tumover of US$4 million. By June 30, 1993, its negative net worth amounted to about
US$56 million equivalent, against assets with a book value of US$12 million. Its arrears to banks,
employees, suppliers, the Treasury, and the Social Security system amounted to about US$45 million. The
Govermment's policy of maintaining a high number of staff, insisting on operating uneconomic routes, and
setting preferential tariffs for certain segments of the population has been the principal cause of SOTUC's
failure. It would have cost the State about US$7 million annually to continue operating SOTUC over the
next few years. A perfomance contract signed under the SAL was never implemented. In 1994, because
salaries had not been paid for more than one year, the company had been de facto taken over by its
employees who ran the buses for their own account.
2.16   In 1993, SOTUC's market share was less than 5 percent of total urban transport, which is very
low compared, for example, to 22 percent in Conakry and 41 percent in Abidjan for similar public bus
transport. The police and military accounted for 28 percent of SOTUC's passengers, but only 8 percent of
its revenues. Students also paid reduced fares or no fare at all. The Govemment never fully compensated
SOTUC for the deficit caused by public service. Between 1986 and 1991, passenger volume dropped from
152,000 per day to 44,000, a decline of 70 percent in five years. Most urban trips were then done by
private vehicles, by taxis or by foot. Until 1994, the taxi fleet was estimated at about 5,000 in Yaounde
and 5,500 in Douala. It is now shrinking and the condition of vehicles is deteriorating quickly after the
devaluation. Transport tariffs cannot be increased because the revenue per capita decreased significantly
following salary reductions in 1993. The cost of spare parts and new vehicles is now too expensive for
owners to maintain or renew the fleet. The share of the population walking is now estimated at around 40
percent.
2.17   CAMSHIP is recovering from several years of poor efficiency and weak management due to
political interference. Until FY89, CAMSHIP made profits of about US$6 million on sales of about
US$80 million. In 1991, its operating loss reached US$4.4 million, which increased to US$6 million
before taxes in 1992. Its working capital was negative by US$1 million in 1991. CAMSHIP owns two
vessels and charters ships for petroleum and clinker. In June 1993, net equity stood at below 75 percent of
the company's initial capital, thus implying bankruptcy. The company's liquidation value was estimated at
US$20 million in 1993, below its cash-flow of US$32 million, calculated on a net present value basis of 20
years at the 20 percent annual interest rate prevailing in Cameroon.
2.18   CAMSHIP's debt was substantially restructured in an amount of US$21 million in a convention
concluded with the State in September 1993. The Government agreed to: (a) transfer to the State the
additional US$11 million debt incurred in the purchase, arranged by the Government, of two vessels at
above market value; and (b) reschedule over eight years the remaining bilateral debt due by CAMSHIP,
and assume that debt. As a result, the June 30, 1995, balance sheet shows a profit. However, this



Chapter 2 - Transport Sector Institutional Assessment                                 7
agreement was not signed by the private shareholders of CAMSHIP, who do not agree to participate in the
capital increase as intended in the agreement. In addition, the company remains burdened by its lead share
(27 percent, US$2.6 million) in a real estate holding (SIMAR) created by the Government to build a
maritime office building, which has substantial arrears on its mortgage payments (US$13 million). The
mortgage banks could call the entire loan balance. Besides being a financial burden on the State Treasury,
the company impacts adversely on the maritime sector's efficiency and competitiveness and on the country's
economy. This is because application of quotas to shippers under the UNCTAD's Code of Conduct results
in high transport costs due to the absence of competition between shipping lines servicing Cameroon. In
addition, delays in transport operations arise from cumbersome procedures created by the efforts of
Cameroonian authorities to allocate its full quota of traffic to CAMSHIP. The Government considers that
the presence of CAMSHIP increases competition.
2.19   CAMTAINER is heavily leveraged with an 87/13 debt/equity ratio, and has insufficient revenues
to meet debt service obligations. As a result of competition with other companies and its overdesign at its
creation, CAMTAINER has been unable to recover the cost of the initial investment and is unprofitable. In
early-1995, its foreign partners (45% German and Danish institutional investors) agreed to debt-relief to
improve the company's cash-flow.
2.20   ONPC breaks even, but at much too high costs and tariffs, and without providing efficient
services. Expenditures are estimated at one third above the normal level for the services rendered, because
of overstaffing and past over-investment. ONPC's management lacks both autonomy and accountability.
ONPC has been unable to maintain the access channel, whose depth was reduced from 7.2 m after
rehabilitation in 1989, to 5.4 m in 1992. Until 1995, the investment policy was not based on financial
return and capacity to service the debt. ONPC was considering an unrealistic five-year US$275 million
investment program, the equivalent of 40% of overall Government investment, to finance a new dredger, a
new container terminal, the rehabilitation of the channel and construction of calibration dikes, the
rehabilitation of the Douala port infrastructure, the renovation of secondary ports, and the construction of
two deep-sea ports. This plan was supported by the Government for political reasons, but the financing
was not available for its most important components. In FY93, salaries increased by 12 percent, although
port traffic remained the same than in FY92.
2.21   ONPC's tariffs are set arbitrarily and do not reflect costs. The implementation of the analytical
accounting system and the management information system, which would provide the basis for a more
accurate calculation of tariffs, has incurred long delays and is not yet completed. ONPC increased its
tariffs for ships up to 300 percent after devaluation, and intends to increase its other tariffs on goods.
ONPC revenues totaled US$33 million after devaluation, down from US$48 million before devaluation,
and were obtained from ships (piloting, tug boat services, occupation of berth space) for about US$18
million, from goods for US$8 million, from renting-out warehouses and port space for about US$6 million,
and from non-port activities, such as the production and sale of ice, utilities and other items. The net
operating income ranged between slightly positive and slightly negative during the FY89-94 period.
However, until 1993, ONPC experienced serious liquidity shortages due to partial transfers of port
revenues from the Treasury to ONPC on port dues collected by customs. A substantial portion of ONPC's
costs were derived from short-term bank lending to cover the shortfall, amounting to about 30 percent of
ONPC's revenues. At the end of 1993, the Ministry of Economy and Finance agreed to let ONPC collect
these revenues itself.
2.22   CNIC is subsidized by using the dry-dock without amortizing it in its accounts, and not paying a
lease to the State as the owner. It is reasonably well managed, but tends to seek Government's assistance
and favored treatment for work orders. Its development plan is not consistent with its financial capacity to
service the debt, and CNIC expects the Government to cover the financing gap. In 1994, CNIC's tariffs
became more competitive because of the devaluation. The balance sheet has continually improved since the
creation of the dockyard, and showed profits for FY94.



8                                                                    Transport Sector Project
2.23   MATGENIE has faced a liquidity crisis for several years because of accumulating Government
debts for services rendered in road construction and maintenance. In 1993, the Government's outstanding
debt amounted to US$25 million. The company was overstaffed by about one third. Unpaid salaries for
more than one year led to low morale and strikes. The Government and MATGENIE's management took
measures to improve the situation in 1994, when a new manager was appointed and a restructuring plan
prepared. The plan was implemented in September 1994 with a new administrative chart and staff
reduction by about 50 percent, equivalent to 40 percent of the total salary bill. Also, the management
reduced salaries by 10 percent in January 1995.
2.24   Although LABOGENIE monopolized defacto road laboratory works in Cameroon until recently,
its financial performance has deteriorated. Arrears from the Government, which was the only client,
amount to US$7 million. Due to external donor pressure, the market was opened to competition, and
LABOGENIE has benefited from externally-financed contracts, reducing its dependency on Government
financing. However, the volume of road construction works has severely decreased, thereby strengthening
the need for restructuring the company. Although LABOGENIE's staff was reduced from 821 to 526 in
1991 and 443 in 1996, the company remains overstaffed. With the Bank's assistance under the Sixth
Highway Project (Loan 2584-CM), financial management and commercial orientation have improved.
2.25  Investnents Opportunities Poorly Apprehended. Sector investments were oversized and did not
take recurrent costs into account. The Public Investment Program (PIP) has not reflected sector priorities
or been based on economic criteria and availability of local funds. For example, a new airport built in
Yaound6 for 1.5 million passengers per year is used by less than 100,000 passengers. In Maroua, the
airport's rehabilitation is incomplete due to a lack of funds. Meanwhile, the main airport in Douala, with
about 400,000 passengers per year, is not maintained and is deteriorating. In 1992-1993, the Government
sought financing for a new four-lane expressway between Yaounde and the new airport, while it lacked the
funds to maintain the road network. Until 1995, the port authority of Douala gave priority to the
modernization of the container terminal with expensive, sophisticated cranes, while the access channel to
the port was insufficiently dredged. A 6 billion CFA dry-yard, purchased in 1988, is used well below its
capacity because the demand for ship repair is low, and the dry-yard is located in shallow waters which
limit its operating capacity. Finally, several investments in the transport sector were begun but not
completed for lack of financing, resulting in the loss of what had been executed.
2.26  Insufficient Maintenance of Existing Infrastructure. During the past ten years, priority given to
investments has resulted in neglect of transport infrastructure maintenance. In addition, several weaknesses
hamper maintenance:
(a)    Poor management. Procedures do not exist to establish consistent annual objectives and
monitor the performance of maintenance units. This results in inefficient use of force
account for routine and periodic road maintenance, and the maintenance of the access
channel to the port of Douala.
(b)    Weak institutions. The institutional framework has never encouraged accountability
within the institutions responsible for maintenance, nor from these institutions to the
Government, nor from the Government to infrastructure users beyond the budget
procedure.
(c)    Poor funding procedures. The local budget for road maintenance is insufficient due to the
State budget crisis which barely allows for payment of salaries to civil servants. The port
does not have a specific funding procedure for the maintenance of the channel and gives
priority to the payment of salaries.



Chapter 2 - Transport Sector Institutional Assessment                                 9
(d)   Inadequate donor strategy. Until recently, donor assistance focused on investments rather
than maintenance.
2.27   Although ONPC's (National Port Authority) dredging crew has technical capacity, the current
institutional framework in which ONPC's dredging departrnent operates, and the technical constraints of its
dredger, make it impossible for ONPC to satisfactorily perform such dredging. The dredging performance
has rapidly declined since 1988 when the contract with foreign expertise was terminated. This contract
provided for rehabilitation and maintenance of the 22 km long access channel through the Wouri river,
from the sea to the port of Douala. Heavy siltation of the Wouri river has reduced the depth of the channel
from -7.5 m after rehabilitation, to about -5.4 m at the end of 1992. Shipping lines are forced to enter and
depart with reduced loads, and to spend costly idle time at the quay or at the channel entrance awaiting high
tides. CAMSHIP's vessels depart with about 3,000 tons below load capacity. In 1993 and 1994,
following the dredger's overhaul and donor pressure, the channel depth was increased to about -5.9 m, but
is still well below the minimum of -6.5 m needed for satisfactory port performance.
2.28   The low productivity of road maintenance is caused by inefficient planning and management, slow
budgeting and payment procedures, non performiing force account teams, defective equipment and, for the
past three years, a lack of financing. MINTP has insufficient knowledge of the status of the road network
or the actual cost of maintenance. The 4,054 km of paved road network is mosdy in fair condition because
it is relatively recent and has been well maintained with German assistance until 1992, but is now
beginning to deteriorate. The 17,289 km-long earth road network is now mostly in poor to very poor
condition. During FY93, only some 6,000 km of roads were maintained, while maintenance almost ceased
in FY94. In 1990-1991, the availability rate of equipment leased by MATGENIE to the Department of
Highway Maintenance was only 56 percent. The rate has since decreased because of MATGENEE's lack
of maintenance of equipment.
2.29   The poor condition of the rural transport infrastructure is due to the ad-hoc consideration that has
been given to its development. Thousands of km of roads were constructed as part of rural development,
agricultural or other projects without a common strategy, consultation with appropriate road agencies and
due consideration to maintenance requirements after construction. The 28,000 km-long rural transport
infrastructure, which has not been maintained for several years because of lack of financing, is now in very
poor condition, and will need to be rehabilitated or rebuilt. About 12,500 km of rural roads are under
MINTP's responsibility. Although MINTP's budget includes some funds for rural transport infrastructure,
priority is given to the primary road network and almost no maintenance works are executed on rural roads.
The remaining rural roads (15,500 km) fall under the responsibility of local governments or communities
and agricultural development companies. Local governments or communities do not have fiscal autonomy
and do not have resources to maintain the rural roads. They were rarely involved in the decision to build
these roads. Agricultural development companies have built about 10,000 km of rural roads. Some were
transferred to MINTP and some are still maintained by the companies. The agricultural development
companies also maintain some rural roads under MINTP's responsibility, as well as some primary roads.
Village and farm access tracks are unaccounted. Their construction and maintenance is the sole
responsibility of villagers.
2.30   The weak fiscal situation and priority given by the Government to the payment of salaries and to
the service of the external debt are the reasons for the lack of financing for road maintenance. In
1993/1994, total government revenue amounted to US$650 million against US$1,245 million of planned
expenditure. Salaries and the service of the external debt accounted for US$1,000 million, 50 percent more
than Government revenue. Although the Government has acknowledged that road maintenance is the
second priority after salaries in the allocation of resources, it has been unable to make the necessary
resources available. In 1985/1986, about US$100 million, excluding salaries of MENTP staff, were
allocated from local and external resources to the road subsector for routine and periodic road maintenance,
including some openings of feeder roads. In 1991, this allocation was reduced to about US$27 million.



10                                                                   Transport Sector Project
That year, the shortfall in the annual volume of maintenance works (i.e., the difference between road
maintenance expenditure necessary to maintain the entire network and the amount actually spent) was
estimated at USS144 million. In 1992-1993, the actual amount spent for routine and periodic road
maintenance was about US$10 million. Salaries amounted to about US$7 million in 1993-1994. In
comparison, the fiscal revenues collected from the transport sector were estimated at US$130 million in
1993-1994, about 20% of government revenue. US$60 million (46 percent) were collected from taxes
specific to the transport sector, of which US$53 million from taxation on petroleum products. Table 2
details the discrepancies between revenues collected form the road sector and financial requirements for
road maintenance.
Table 2: Tax Revenues Collected from the Road Sector and Maintenance Requirements
CFAF million. FY95              Total      Urban Roads   Paved Roads   Earth Roads
Revenues from specific taxation   32.0         18.3            7.8           6.0
Revenues from common taxation     35.6         15.3           11.1           9.2
Total revenues                    67.6         33.5           18.9          15.2
Maintenance requirements          26.7          7.7            7.2          11.7
2.31   Lack of Competiveness. The costs caused by weak port management, protection of the national
shipping line, together with the inadequate legal, fiscal, and regulatory framework, and poorly maintained
nfrastructure, aggravate Cameroon's lack of competitiveness in transit transport, both within the country,
as well as to and from the neighboring hinterland (Chad and Central African Republic-CAR). Before
devaluation, the cost of road transport was high (about four times the cost in Pakistan and twice the cost in
France) and hindered the competitiveness of export products of the Central African countries. The many
cumbersome customs regulations to control evasion of customs duties cause delays in transit. In spite of
these regulations, about half of the customs revenues are lost because of fiaud and an inefficient
bureaucracy. Financial transactions associated with clearing and transiting import freight into and out of
the region significantly increase the cost of transit transport. Transaction costs paid by transit and
transport operators to customs and police agents to ease transit operations range between 6 percent and 29
percent of land transport for a 15-ton container in transit to CAR and Chad. According to IMF data, the
cost of regional non-factor services on imports in 1992-1993 was 16 percent for Cameroon, 39 percent for
Chad and 31 percent for the Central African Republic.
2.32   The main obstacles in the transit chain are summarized below:
(a)    Freight-forwarders charge 1.25 percent of the shipment's value to shippers to cover posting
a bond, although the actual cost of the bond charged by a bank is 0.25 percent per quarter.
(b)    Premiums for transport insurance must be paid to local insurance companies which have
insufficient resources and competence to settle damages, and are also often paid to foreign
companies.
(c)    The signature of customs documents by the Minister of Finance is compulsory for transit
of "sensitive" goods (textiles, alcoholic beverages, goods produced in Cameroon at higher
than world market prices).
(d)    Customs escorts are compulsory for transit transport until the border, at the cost of the
importer, to ensure that goods exit Cameroon.
2.33   Lack of security in the port of Douala also impedes Cameroon's competitiveness for transit traffic
and increases port transit costs. Port facilities and areas are openly accessible to non-authorized persons,
as check points are not efficiently manned. The presence of the administrative offices of Customs in the
center of the port generates uncontrolled traffic. Police do not effectively control the port area. Pilferage is
common during unloading of general merchandise, and containers selected by Customs for inspection are
often found vandalized thereafter. Although ONPC is legally empowered to protect the port against theft



Chapter 3 -Transport Sector Program                                                   11
and disorder, it shifts the responsibility to the Government. The port handling companies have made their
own private arrangements at additional costs for the goods.
3. TRANSPORT SECTOR PROGRAM
3.1    The Government has developed an overall transport sector program to complete the adjustment of
the sector institutions and address the financial issues in the sector. It has been designed to replace the past
project-by-project approach with a sustained process of sound sector policy making and rational investment
decision tied to Cameroon's macroeconomic performance and absorptive capacity. The program was
established after a 4-year consultation process with sector stakeholders:
(a)    A thorough analysis of all transport subsectors was carried out in close association with
the Government to arrive at a broadly internalized consensus on sector issues and the need
for reform. The analysis was translated in a Transport Sector Strategy Memorandum
(Report No. 11430-CM, June 30, 1993).
(b)    Several seminars were organized to involve pluri-disciplinary groups of public and private
sector representatives to discuss sector issues, formulate policy measures and outline a
new sector reform program.
(c)    An interministerial group was created to foster inter-ministerial concurrence, prepare a
draft reform program including a matrix of action for discussion within their own
ministries, and produce a truly internalized program.
(d)    Several donors meetings were organized by the Government to keep the donors informed
on as well as discuss with them the transport sector reform program. Meetings internal to
the donors' community were also held to forge closer alliance among donors and adopt a
common approach.
3.2    Section A describes the overarching program objectives. Section B details the reform program and
its implementation timetable. Section C presents the investment program which will be executed during the
1995/1996-1999/2000 period in parallel with the implementation of the reform program. Section D
summarizes the benefits and the risks associated to the program, including those related to the
environmental impact of the program. Section E describes the implementation arrangements.
A. PROGRAM OBJECTIVES
3.3    The program, as stated in the Government letter of sector policy (Schedule 1), aims at improved
efficiency and sustainable and coherent development in the transport sector to enable it to resume its
contribution to development, poverty alleviation and protection of the environment. These objectives would
be achieved by: (a) State divestiture from transport operations in favor of a greater involvement of private
operators, and institutions more focused on planning, regulation and definition of sector policies; (b) better
balance in resource allocation between prudent investments and maintenance expenditures, and sustainable
resource mobilization; (c) improved regulatory framework resulting in more liberalization, increased
competitiveness and more competition; and (d) development and implementation of a sector policy to
protect the environment. The letter of sector policy and its matrix of action agreed during negotiations
should be adopted by the Government before Boardpresentation.



12                                                                      Transport Sector Project
B. PROGRAm DESCRIPTION
3.4    Civil Aviation.  In September 1994, the Government agreed to privatize both domestic and
international air transport operations in Cameroon. The agreed strategy consists in the winding-down of
CAMAIR and the creation of a new company for the provision of air services. Control and ownership of
the new company to the private sector would be transferred through a management contract with deferred
privatization option or by capitalizing the new company by a group of private investors. There is a
potential for private provision of air services, both by national investors or in partnership with foreign
carriers. Since 1994, four national air carrier were authorized to operate in Cameroon. South African
Airways has also hinted at possible cooperation. However, if the private sector was not interested in
participating in the ownership of the new company, the Government would divest the aviation related assets
and auction the traffic rights to domestic/regional air carriers. The strategy for the privatization of air
services and key financial data are presented in the Technical Annex of the SAR for the Transport Sector
Technical Assistance Credit. Timing targets for the critical steps of the process are in the matrix of action
attached to the letter of sector policy. Benefits resulting from this privatization are presented in Schedule 2.
Bidding for the selection of the private strategic partner is expected to be launched before August 1996.
Status of progress: The financial adviser which will assist the Government in the privatization process was
appointed in February 1996.
3.5   In conjunction with the privatization of air services, CAMAIR is preparing to reduce its number of
employees. On the basis of typical ratios for airline companies, it is estimated that CAMAIR is overstaffed
by 600 to 800 employees or about half of its personnel. When funds for severance payment are available, a
first group of employees would be laid off. A second group would be laid off after a decision is taken by
the management team of the new company on the number of staff which would be rehired by the new
company. Status of Progress. A consultant, hired under the Transport Sector Technical Assistance
Project, is evaluating CAMAIR's employees to provide the basis for staff reduction.
3.6    An outright liquidation of CAMAIR would have been politically unacceptable. The Government
attaches great importance to CAMAIR as the national flag carrier, not only because it services domestic
routes, but also because it puts Cameroon on the map regionally and internationally. The Government also
considers that Cameroon, a country with a population of 12 million, needs a domestic air service. The
Government recognizes that a solution needs to be found, which would be compatible with political
constraints, to stop subsidizing air services. IDA's position is that Carneroon is entitled to an air service
provided that it is efficient, not subsidized, and operates on market principles, preferably with a majority of
private shareholders. Following the detailed studies carried out on CAMAIR, the Government requested
that concrete proposals be presented, which resulted in the strategy mentioned above. Two options were
also considered but rejected: (a) elimination of budget support, which would cut spending in vital sectors;
and (b) execution of another performance contract, which was unsuccessfully attempted under the SAL
(1989).
3.7   In order to increase the efficiency for the provision of air transport services in Cameroon, and to
promote private sector participation, the regulatory framework should be revised before completion of
privatization. The status of the revision is the following:



Chapter 3 -Transport Sector Program                                                         13
Action                                 Status                   Timetable *
To open the cargo market, both in the local and  Issue being  analyzed  to  provide  Medium term
international segments, through more flexibility  recommendations.
in the use of charter flights to allow for
competition and competitive rates.
To use explicit and efficiency-driven subsidies  Definition of routes and subsidies will Medium term
in the case of social routes.             be  included  in  the  privatization
process.
To establish a jet-fuel price policy in line with  Issue being  analyzed  to  provide  Medium term
international standards.                  recommendations.
To revise the Civil Aviation Law.         A consultant is being recruited to  Medium term
prepare the new Law.
* Indicates the term the end of which the action is expected to be completed.
Short term: less than one year; medium term: between 1 and 3 years; long term: more than three years.
3.8    Railway. The Governnent has agreed to separate the ownership of the infrastructure from railway
operations by creating a new private company to commercially operate railway services for freight through
a concession agreement. The core shareholders of the new operating company would be selected following
intemational bidding procedures. The Government has still to choose the conditions of operations for
passenger services from four options: (a) include the services in the concession agreement as public service
obligations; (b) contract an agreement with a private company distinct from the concessionary company for
freight; (c) replace rail passenger services by bus services and contract a private company for the operation
of these services; and (d) stop providing passenger services while maintaining the roads accessing the
villages along the railway track. The strategy for the privatization of railway operations, key financial data
after privatization and a preliminary risk analysis for both Govemment and private investors are presented
in the Technical Annex of the SAR for the Transport Sector Technical Assistance Credit. Timing targets
for the critical steps of the process are in the matrix of action attached to the letter of sector policy.
Benefits resulting from the privatization are presented in Schedule 2. Preselection of the potential private
majority shareholders of the concessionary company is expected to be launched in April 1996. Status of
progress: A decision on passenger services has to be taken before launching the tender for the selection of
the private majority shareholder. The financial adviser which will assist the Govermment in the
privatization process was appointed in December 1995.
3.9    Revision of the regulatory framework is needed to accompany the privatization of railway
operations. The status of the revision is as follows:
Action                                   Status                  Timetable
The transport component of the price structure for A new price structure will be prepared  Medium term
petroleum products should be revised to promote  in conjunction with the simplification
competition between transport modes and encourage  of the road taxation system (see para.
petroleum companies to use the less expensive mode  3.11 below).
of transport.
The railway transit procedures should be improved.   The reform will be implemented as part Long term
of the UDEAC Transport Reform
Program (see paras. 3.16-3.17).
3.10   Urban Transport.  The Government has decided to liquidate SOTUC, the public urban bus
company and divest of urban transport. On February 22, 1995, the General Assembly of shareholders
officially announced SOTUC's liquidation, and services were stopped. A liquidator was appointed in April
1995, whose terms of reference sought the completion of liquidation within sixth months, once the
procedure has begun. Benefits to the Cameroonian economy resulting from the liquidation, are presented in
Schedule 2. The conditions of access to the industry, related to vehicle insurance, vehicle certification,
taxation of activity and vehicle safety should be revised accordingly. Status of Progress. The liquidation



14                                                                      Transport Sector Project
has been delayed because of lack of decision by MINEFI regarding the settlement of SOTUC's debts and
arrears and because of procurement issues in the sale of the buses. Draft recommendations on the new
regulatory and institutional framework for urban transport were discussed during a seminar held in
November 1995. The seminar was attended by private urban transport operators, representatives of local
governments, the Administration, commercial bankers and donors. Based on the outcome of the seminar, a
new regulation was drafted. The Government should enact the new institutional and regulatory framework
for urban transport before effectiveness.
3.11   Interurban Transport. The Government is studying simplification of the taxation system for road
transport, through the creation of a road tax collected by one institution only (thus replacing several taxes
collected at different stages, by several institutions), as well as a road user charge, clearly identified in the
price of petroleum products, to be used to finance road maintenance (see para. 3.24). The Ministry of
Economy and Finance (MINEFI) has not yet agreed to such a simplification, or to the implementation
arrangements. Status of Progress. Recommendations on the simplification of the road taxation system
prepared by a task force created by MINEFI are being reviewed by the Government. Once decision is
taken by the Government, implementation arrangements have to be defined, especially the responsibilities
of both MINEFI and MINT.
3.12   A presidential decree was taken in 1995 to remove illegal road controls by the administration
(police, customs, etc.). The experience shows that such decree has a temporary impact and illegal controls
reappear soon.  MINT intends to follow up on the compliance with the decree to prevent such
reappearance. Toll roads were created in 1993, but revenues have been far lower than expected because of
fraud, estimated at 50 percent. A decision on their privatization or removal will be taken as part of the
simplification of the road taxation system. In parallel to the simplification of the road taxation system,
truck loads should be limited to reduce considerable overloads especially on timber trucks. Four weighing
stations on the Douala-Yaoundd road were rehabilitated under the Sixth Highway Project (Loan BO 18-CM)
in 1994. Status of Progress. The operation of two weighing stations which was going to be started by
MINT was postponed by the Government. MINT wants to fine overloaded trucks, but the trucking industry
is complaining that the axle load regulation is inadequate and that its application would hamper the
competitiveness of the industry. Collection of statistics on truck loads should start at least at two weighing
stations on the Douala-Yaounde road as a condition for disbursement of the paved road component of the
IDA credit. The Government should enact a new regulation based on data collected and after discussions
with the trucking industry.
3.13   Maritime Transport. The Government has agreed to privatize CAMSHIP, the national shipping
line, and to privatize or liquidate CAMTAINER, the national road carrier and freight forwarder. Key
financial data after privatization are presented in the Technical Annex of the SAR for the Transport Sector
Technical Assistance Credit. Timing targets for the critical steps of the process are in the matrix of action
attached to the letter of sector policy. Benefits to the Cameroonian economy resulting from the privatization
are presented in Schedule 2. Status of Progress. The financial adviser which will assist the Government
in the privatization process was appointed in October 1995.
3.14   Early 1995, the National Assembly adopted a law which liberalizes access to the maritime industry
by Cameroonian shipping lines. Although the Government agrees to the final objective of fully liberalizing
maritime transport, it wants to maintain the current regulation on cargo distribution during a transitory
period. The 1995 law suppresses CAMSHIP's monopoly, but maintains the application of the Code of
Conduct (see paras. 2.8 and 2.18 above) and the protection of Cameroonian shipping lines. As an
immediate step of the liberalization process and to set up an acceptable regulatory framework in parallel to
the privatization of CAMSHIP, the manner in which the Code of Conduct is applied should be revised in
order to comply with the clauses of the Code. Accordingly, the quota system would be applied to the Liner
Conference traffic and no more to the entire Cameroonian maritime traffic, especially not to bulk traffic.
Terms and conditions for freight transport outside of the Liner Conference traffic, and currently contracted-



Chapter 3 -Transport Sector Program                                                    15
out to CAMSHIP (clinker and petroleum products), should also be reviewed to decide whether or not these
contracts should be abolished and retendered. Further steps in the liberalization process should be
coordinated at the regional level, as part of the Trade and Transport component of the Sub-Saharan Africa
Transport Policy Program (SSATP), which involves Sub-Saharan African countries and most of the donors
involved in transport in this area. The Trade and Transport component aims at establishing a new maritime
transport policy for Sub-Saharan African countries. Status of Progress. The decrees defining the
modalities of application of the 1995 law were approved by the Government in April 1996. The
preparation of a new regional maritime policy is still at the studies stage under the SSATP. Studies are
expected to be completed, and recommendations discussed during a regional seminar of SSATP countries
and donors in 1996. The discussion between the Govermment and IDA will continue as part of the
discussions on the overall adjustment program. A study is included in the Transport Sector Technical
Assistance Project to identify the bottlenecks in the intemational chain of transport and to estimate their
costs to prioritize reform actions. This study will support the discussions on the timetable for the full
liberalization of maritime transport. The contract with the consultant which will carry out the study is at the
negotiation stage.
3.15   To be consistent with the sector policy, the role of CNCC, the Shippers' Council, should be
revised. As a first step, CNCC should control a posteriori the application of the Code of Conduct.
Financing of CNCC by a 0.3 percent surcharge on importlexport by sea and waivers paid by shipping lines
to transport freight toward Africa should be stopped, and CNCC should be financed from the State's
budget. Further steps will be defined as part of the Trade and Transport SSATP component. The role of
CNCC was discussed by CNCC, public and private shippers, CAMSHIP, and the Cameroonian
Administration during a seminar, and during several meetings of a committee created to follow up on
recommendations made during this seminar. However, the committee's recommendations maintain the
current role of CNCC and financing means while adding the roles of economic observer of the transport
sector and strengthening the services to shippers. Status ofProgress. The draft decree defining the control
a posteriori is being reviewed by the Government.
3.16   Transit Transport. Within the Union of Central African States (UDEAC) framework, the 1989
Joint EU-World Bank initiative launched a transit transport facilitation program in the Central Africa
subregion. The obstacles to trade and facilitation prevalent throughout the UDEAC customs were analyzed
by the UDEAC countries during preparation of the transport component of the UDEAC Regional Policy
Reform Program (Report No. 1 1296-AFR dated April 30, 1993) in collaboration with the EU and IDA. In
joint workshops held in November 1991, and in March and December 1993, the UDEAC countries agreed
to a Program of Regional Reforms to improve transit conditions. National Transit Commnittees were
created in the six UDEAC countries to draw up plans to: (a) simplify customs documents and devise a
system of regional transit under customs bonds (TIPAC); (b) review the criteria for establishing bonded
customs centers; (c) redefine transit requirements for intermodal transport (rail/road, rail/river) and
containers; and (d) improve road transport conditions and regulations (maintenance of international
itineraries, trucking liabilities, vehicle inspection, and cost recovery).
3.17   The TIPAC mechanism is a procedure whereby goods travel duty free across the border under
customs bonds, accompanied by a bill of lading, with the liability for possible loss of customs duties held
by the transport operator. The Manual of Procedures for the TIPAC was adopted by the UDEAC
countries in March 1993. The mechanism is similar to the transit system in Europe (TIR), where this
liability is guaranteed and surveyed by the International Road Union (IRU). For the liability to be credible
to customs in UDEAC countries, the bill of lading and the transporter must be covered by a regional
insurance policy which would reimburse customs for lost duties should the transport operator or the
importer abuse the mechanism by evading import duties. The insurance policy would be funded from the
sale of vouchers attached to the bill of lading. The regional insurance policy is being designed and
candidate institutions were identified to manage the insurance policy. EU financing is available to provide
assistance for the implementation of the TIPAC, which is expected to be completed two years after



16                                                                   Transport Sector Project
commencement of the assistance. An action plan and a timetable are provided in Schedule 3. Delays in
implementation of the TIPAC are due to the difficulty to hire the international coordinator who will assist
the regional and national committees.
3.18   The policy measures to complement the TIPAC system are the following:
(a)   streamline road transport regulations to harmonize national and UDEAC transport
regulations and vehicle standards; harmonize the structure of road user charges; enforce
control of truck overloading to prevent road deterioration;
(b)   seek legal registration of customs agents, forwarding agents, and international road
transporters, and agree to and enforce criteria underlying the approval of such registration;
(c)    harmonize and liberalize freight insurance in UDEAC.
3.19   As most of the obstacles to transit transport occur in Cameroon, the success of this program
depends to a large extent on the willingness of the Cameroonian authorities to take the necessary measures
to overcome these obstacles. In addition to the measures to be taken at the regional level, Cameroon should
shorten the list of sensitive goods which require a customs clearance for transit; limit road controls by the
administration to those specified in the UDEAC legislation; and suppress requirements for customs escorts
for transit goods through Cameroon. The requirement to domicile invoices and import licenses in Chad and
the Central African Republic was removed in 1994. The continued dialogue between UDEAC countries
within the framework of the UDEAC Regional Policy Reform Program and its transport component will be
key to the success of the TIPAC as well as to the removal of obstacles to transit in Cameroon.
3.20   The Cameroonian customs need a comprehensive overhaul. In March 1995, the French Ministry
of Cooperation (FAC) prepared a plan for improving customs' performance and efficiency. The plan
includes the following measures: (a) carry out a human resource development plan; (b) improve human
resource management; (c) revise the organizational chart based on actual workloads; (d) rehabilitate the
customs computerized system; (e) transfer customs headquarters to new offices outside from the port,
rehabilitate existing buildings and provide telecommunication equipment; and (f) maximize the input of the
preshipment inspection company (para. 1.3). Details are provided in Schedule 4. Status of Progress. The
preshipment inspection company was made responsible for customs duties assessments and monitoring of
actual collection in 1995. The Government is in the process to choose the new customs computerized
system. Arrangements to implement the remaining measures in the plan described above have still to be
worked out. The financing to support the restructuring of customs is still sought. FAC and CFD have
expressed an interest. The discussion between the Government and donors will continue as part of the
general discussion on structural adjustment.
3.21   The physical component of the transport component of the UDEAC reform program consists of:
(a) rehabilitation and maintenance of international road itineraries to CAR and Chad, as agreed by the
UDEAC Steering Committee in June 1993; (b) improvement of the customs facilities in Douala and at
border crossings with CAR and Chad; (c) rehabilitation of the computerized customs declaration system in
Douala, and provision of a modem telecommunication system; and (d) provision of international trucking
facilities at Douala port. The rehabilitation of the Cameroon-CAR road itinerary and provision of a
modem telecommunication system are being executed with EU financing. Status of Progress. Detailed
engineering studies for the rehabilitation of the intemational itineraries are underway.



Chapter 3 -Transport Sector Program                                                   17
3.22   Primary Roads Maintenance.  The Government has agreed to a new strategy for road
maintenance to improve its efficiency and its sustainability:
(a)    To adjust the road maintenance program to management and financing capacity: A 13,738
km priority network out of 21,343 km of primary paved and earth roads (see Maps IBRD
Nos. 24837 and 24838) has been identified based on: economic importance (traffic flows);
consistency of the network and needs for links between urban centers and regions of
agricultural production; communication between administrative centers; and regional
equity. The priority network includes all paved roads (4,054 kIn), 8,568 km of earth roads
of economic importance and 1,136 km of earth roads responding to the above criteria other
than economic importance. Detailed characteristics of the priority network are available in
the project file.
Type of network                           Total network   Priority network
(km)           (km)
Primary Roads               Paved roads      4,054           4,054
Earth roads     17,289          10,704
Sub-total       21,343          14,758
Rural Transport Infrastructure              27,935          10,952
Total                                       49,278          24,710
(b)    To disengage itself progressively from maintenance execution: Periodic maintenance and
rehabilitation of all paved roads, as well as periodic maintenance of earth roads, and
progressively routine maintenance of earth and paved roads would be contracted-out to
private contractors, including the local construction industry, small contractors, village
workers, and communities, using labor-intensive methods and local materials, where
possible.
(c)    To  improve planning  and  programming  capacity: A  pluri-annual maintenance
programming system will be established using as criteria the existing level of service of the
priority road network, and also climatological, geographical and geotechnical parameters.
The system is being defined under an IDA-financed study for earth roads, and Germany-
financed study for paved roads.
(d)    To focus MINTP's role on planning, programming and budgeting, supervising works and
controlling objectives: External audits of technical and financial performance and of
procurement procedures would be carried out to ensure accountability.
(e)    To encourage development of small and medium contractors by providing training in
technical and financial management; by creating a stable market; by defining policies to
eliminate present constraints to private sector participation; by revising procurement
regulations; and by establishing a rapid payment system because small contractors do not
have sufficient working capital to prefinance expenditures for works: Use of small and
medium enterprises for road maintenance was tested under EU financing. A road
maintenance program amounting to about US$26 million was contracted out to 38 small
and medium enterprises (SMEs). SMEs which had been preselected, were trained on
procurement and management of road works. Lessons learned from this project were used
to prepare the application of the new strategy to the entire priority network.
(f)    To ensure sustainability of road maintenance financing and transparency and
accountability in the use of funds. A Road Maintenance Account would be used as a
mechanism to achieve these objectives (see para. 3.24).



18                                                                     Transport Sector Project
3.23   The status of preparation of the strategy and the timetable for its implementation are the following:
Action                    Status                             Timetable
The State to disengage itself A program to progressively contract out Rehabilitation, periodic maintenance,
progressively  from   road  road  maintenance  execution  was cleaning of shoulders: short-term.
maintenance execution.    established by MINTP.              Routine Maintenance: long term.
To improve planning  and  A study was carried out to establish the  Medium term
progranmming capacity.    mechanism. The draft report was
submitted to MINTP.
To focus MINTP's role on  MINTP restructuring is being defined  Short term
planning, programming and  accordingly under an on-going study
budgeting, supervising works part of the Transport Sector TA Project.
and controlling objectives.  The draft report was submitted to
MINTP.
To encourage development of The new framework and procedures are  Short term
small    and      medium  being defined under an on-going study
contractors.              part of the Transport Sector TA Project.
3.24   The Ministry of Economy and Finance has created a Road Maintenance Account in a commercial
bank to which funds would be allocated from the budget to finance road maintenance expenditures. A task
force created by the Ministry of Finance on the financing of road maintenance endorsed the
recommendation made during a national seminar and several regional seminars on the road maintenance
strategy to create a Road Fund funded by a road user charge under the supervision of a committee
constituted of representatives of road users, local Governments and central Government. Status of
progress. The Government has defined management procedures, including annual audits, of the Road
Maintenance Account. The account should be opened and an initial deposit paid before effectiveness. In
April 1996, the Government approved the principle of a Road Fund and is reviewing the recommendations
mentioned above.
3.25   The Government has adopted a program to progressively contract out road maintenance (see
matrix of action attached to the letter of sector policy). However, the experience from previous highway
projects in Cameroon points to the difficulty to ensure compliance with as well as monitor such program,
especially with respect to routine maintenance. This is due to the geographical spreading out of the works,
their variety, the need to implement the monitoring system involving large amounts of training and
equipment as well as technical assistance. Experience under the Sixth Highway Project also shows the
difficulty to sustain the organization necessary to execute and monitor such program. Therefore, it is
proposed to adopt a progressive approach with realistic objectives easy to monitor aimed at sustaining the
maintenance of invested capital. Starting when the Road Maintenance Account is created, the minimum of
funds allocated to the Account for maintenance by contract during each fiscal year would be equal to
resources needed to maintain by contract roads which were built, rehabilitated or maintained by contract
since January 1st, 1990. Such approach would lead to a progressive increase in the minimum amount of
resources allocated to road maintenance by contract. A programn of allocation of funds was established in
accordance with the proposed approach. Funds should be allocated in accordance with the program before
effectiveness. Fund allocation and use of these funds to maintain the roads defined as above, will be closely
monitored during project execution in order to decide on financing a second- and third-year slice of the road
maintenance program under the IDA credit.
3.26   Rural Transport Infrastructure. Improvement of rural transport infrastructure is one of the
actions to reduce poverty that was identified during a national workshop on poverty held in November
1994. To achieve this objective, delegation of authority for the management of rural transport
infrastructure should be entailed to local govermnents, local communities down to village level and
community groups depending on the type of rural roads.  To make rural transport infrastructure
manageable, the not-homogenous and vast rural transport infrastructure has to be divided into clearly



Chapter 3 -Transport Sector Program                                                   19
defined sub-categories which fall under the responsibility of these various institutions. This would be a
significant shift from the current centralized system regarding decision-making and execution, and has to be
implemented in conjunction with the overall decentralization process where the central government would
divest of implementation and execution of investment projects of local importance.
3.27   Because full decentralization cannot be achieved in a short period of time, the objective for the
period covered by the program is to launch the decentralization process in the management of rural
infrastructure and to set up an institutional framework which involves beneficiaries at the various steps m
the management of rural transport infrastructure maintenance: (a) planning: in the choice of itineraries to be
maintained; (b) periodic maintenance and rehabilitation: in the procurement process for contracting out
rehabilitation works; and (c) maintenance: in the financing of maintenance works as well as in their
execution. Itineraries would be chosen in accordance with pre-established criteria within a 10,952 km
priority network agreed by the Government. The priority network consists of rural roads whose
rehabilitation would generate a rate of return above 10 percent. Details on the priority network are
available in the project file. Rehabilitation would be limited to critical spots in order to make the roads
passable in all season and adapt their characteristics to the maintenance capacity of local communities.
Periodic maintenance and rehabilitation would be financed by the State; routine maintenance would be
financed by the local communities. Such strategy should be discussed in several regional seminars and a
national seminar and disseminated during a sensitization and training program aimed at the rural road
administration, the local governments and direct beneficiaries.
3.28   Priority for the execution of maintenance works should be given to small and medium enterprises
and to the use of labor-based methods and local materials. The emphasis on execution of routine
maintenance supports these objectives as these works, such as brush-clearing are labor intensive. The
critical-spot approach for rehabilitation is also suited to these objectives. Works are scattered resulting in
small contracts that can be executed by the local SMEs, which have a limited capacity. Road standards
and norms for the execution of maintenance works should also be defined with the objective of promoting
labor-based methods and the use of local materials.
3.29   AMTGENIE. The Government has agreed to retrench on its equipment rental activity. The
strategy consists in splitting MATGENIE into five separate entities and progressively privatizing these
entities. Critical steps and timing targets are in the matrix of action attached to the letter of sector policy.
This would make it easier to privatize MATGENIE in accordance with the financial capacity of local
investors. Both direct privatization through sale of public participation in the entities, or privatization of
management could be considered. This option would also introduce an element of competition among the
five entities. Although liquidation of MATGENIE and sale of the equipment was initially considered, this
option was not retained as the road maintenance organization and financing still need to be sustained before
local investors can be expected to invest in equipment rental, and supply the full equipment required for
road maintenance. The regional managers should be appointed before effectiveness.
3.30   The number of items of equipment needed for the maintenance of the priority network is estimated
at 941. Depending on the capacity of private entrepreneurs to provide their own equipment, the number of
items of equipment to be provided by MATGENIE in the future ranges from 130 to 190. The number of
employees is estimated at 300, against 385 after the 1994 restructuring. In April 1995, MATGENIE
owned 734 items of equipment of which 55 percent were operational (up from 31 percent in April 1994),
26 percent needed heavy repairs (down from 49 percent in April 1994), and 19 percent should be scrapped.
MATGENIE and MINTP are preparing the auction of the equipment to be scrapped which should take
place before the end of 1995.
3.31 LABOGENIE. The Government has agreed to restructure LABOGENIE. The process will
consist in financial restructuring and dismissal of about 300 employees. This is expected to result in the
creation of local consulting firms specialized in the field of geotechnics and foster competition for the



20                                                                   Transport Sector Project
geotechnical supervision of road works. The legal statute of LABOGENIE for the long term has still to be
defined and the potential participation of private investors in the company to be established.
LABOGENIE's operating expenditures should be reduced by 30 percent in relation to LABOGENIE's
FY94 accounts before effectiveness.
3.32   Port Activities. The Government has defined a new strategy for port operations:
(a)    Dredging of the access channel will be contracted out to ensure efficient and sustainable
performance of the activity. The Govermnent is considering two options to contract out
dredging: (a) select a firm through international competitive bidding; or (b) promote the
creation of a local firm with participation of local and foreign private and public partners.
Status of Progress: A consultant is being selected to compare the two options and provide
the elements of decision to the Government. Implementation of the option would be a
condition for any further IDA involvement in the port sector.
(b)    Port operators should be more involved in the management of the port authority and im the
definition of strategies in the sector by redefining the relationships between stakeholders
within the port community and by increasing the participation of port users in the Board of
Directors of the port authority. The contractual relationships between the port authority
and port operators need to be revised to provide investment incentives, and to encourage
the commitment of port operators to the long-term development of Cameroonian ports.
Status of Progress. The arrangements related to the new role of port operators are being
defined. Their implementation would be a condition for further IDA involvement in the
port sector.
(c)    The port authority will be restructured to reduce operating costs and tariffs on the basis of
the analytical accounting being implemented. A human resource development plan should
be established and implemented in conjunction with the restructuring. Status of Progress.
The action plan prepared by ONPC for FY96 and FY97 is attached to the letter of sector
policy. Technical assistance is being selected as part of the Transport Sector TA Project to
support the port authority during the restructuring process. Operational and financial
targets to be met by the port authority within one year after the start of the technical
assistance should be established before Board presentation.
(d)    The investment plan is being revised to reflect economic priorities and ONPC's capacity to
finance the plan. This capacity was assessed in a study available in project files. The
order of priority is: dredging of the channel, rehabilitation of port infrastructure,
construction of a berth for timber vessels, implementation of the management information
system, modernization of the container terninal, and construction of dikes to calibrate the
access channel. Including on-going investments, the five-year investment plan amounts to
US$116 million (CFAF57.7 billion), of which 51% is available external financing, 19% is
own financing and 30% is sought from external donors. The investment plan agreed
between the Ministry of Transport and ONPC is attached in Schedule 5.
3.33  Institutions. As mentioned above, MINTP's role would be to program, manage and supervise road
muintenance works, most of which will be contracted to private contractors. Following the 1995 revision
of the national procurement code, MINTP became autonomous in procurement decisions on maintenance
works below a certain amount to ensure efficient execution of road maintenance by small and medium-size
contractors (para. 2.7). MINT would focus on sector strategy, policy formulation and transport regulation.
Status of Progress. An IDA-financed study was carried out to prepare MINTP's shift toward its new role.
MlNTP's procurement committee should be created before Board presentation. The Government should
decide before effectiveness on an action plan for restructuring of MINTP. Progress in restructuring of



Chapter 3 -Transport Sector Program                                                  21
MINTP according to the action plan would be reviewed by IDA before agreeing to finance subsequent
slices of road maintenance works. A FAC-financed study will be carried out to prepare MINT
restructuring. MINT restructuring would be implemented as part of the project to accompany the
privatization of transport PEs. MINTP's restructuring is expected to be completed before August 31, 1996,
and MINT's restructuring before December 31, 1996.
C. SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM
3.34   Public Expenditures. The Government policy is to substantially change the structure and quality
of public expenditures by allocating and increasing proportion of spending to non-wage current and capital
expenditures, particularly primary and secondary education, basic health, agriculture services, maintenance
of transport infrastructure and special poverty reduction measures. This policy was reflected in the FY96
Finance Law which increased non-wage current expenditures for key development sectors from 30.5
percent of total non-wage expenditures in FY95 to 37 percent.
3.35   The distribution of the FY96 budget among ministries was prepared by the Government in
consultation with IDA as part of the SAL preparation. The operating and investment budgets of MINT
and MINTP are provided in table 3. The investment budget is split into two priorities to allow adjustment
in accordance with the actual fiscal revenues. Determination of priorities by Goverrnment remain ad-hoc.
The Government provided assurance durtng negotiations that subsequent budgets and PIP for both
ministries would be adopted in the annual Finance Laws in consultation with IDA.
Table 3: FY95/96 Budget. MINT and MINTP (CFAF million)
Operating Costs                Investment
Excluding Salaries    Priority I  Priority 2  Sub-Total      Total
MINT               985            580          320          900         1,885
MINTP           15,272          3,000        1,611         4,611       19,883
3.36   Two issues in relation with MINTP's budget are being addressed under the program:
(a)    Budget preparation: The budget should be established on the basis of actual maintenance
needs for the priority network. Currently, MINTP's budget in its presentation is scattered
among all roads with the political objective to satisfy all demands. The on-going road
programming study should provide the tool to establish more realistic budgets and help in
determining priorities.
(b)    Budget execution: Budget execution is less than satisfactory. Most of the budget is
executed by decentralized services of MINTP. MINTP is unable to consolidate the budget
execution at the end of year because of uneven information transmitted by its decentralized
services. Payments are made from the Treasury without the information being transmitted
to MINTP. Suppliers cover the risk of delays in payment by artificially increasing the
amount of invoices. MINEFI's information on the budget execution is not reliable because
of the absence of relation between the financial commitment and the actual execution of the
works of supply of the goods. The creation of the Road Maintenance Account (para. 3.24)
should significantly improve the quality of MINTP's budget execution by identifying the
expenditures prior to the allocation of resources to the Account and requesting a
justification for previous expenditures before replenishing the Account.
3.37   Recurrent Costs. Recurrent costs have been calculated for the priority network only. They include
routine and periodic maintenance costs. The average amounts of annual recurrent costs are estimated at
CFAF18.0 billion (US$35.4 million) (Table 4). This is CFAF2.7 billion above MINTP's budget for
FY96. This does not include resources required for urban roads (about 3,000 kIn) which are estimated at
CFAF4.2 billion for routine maintenance and CFAF3.5 billion for periodic maintenance. These estimates



22                                                                    Transport Sector Project
are based on a network in good condition and maintained in accordance with reasonable standards. The
actual needs are much higher in the short term because most of the network is in fair to very poor condition,
and maintenance requirements are thus much higher to bring back the network to a good condition in a
short period of time. Actual costs are being estimated in the on-going road programming study. However,
it is clear that resources available from the Government and donors are insufficient to bring back the
network to a good condition and maintain the priority network with reasonable standards.
Table 4: Average Annual Road Maintenance Recurrent Costs
Routine Maintenance        Periodic Maintenance
Quantity    US$ million   CFAF million   US$ million    CFAF million
Paved roads     4,054 km      7.3          3.7           6.9            3.5
Earth roads     9,704 hn      7.8          4.0           11.5           5.9
Rural roads    10,954 km      1.9          0.9           0.0            0.0
Total          24,712 km      17.0         8.6           18.4           9.4
3.38   During the next four years at least, the Government will have to manage the political sensitive issue
resulting from the inadequacy between scarce resources and the financial requirements for road
maintenance. In addition, unaccountable force account will still continue to exist during this period,
although road maintenance will be progressively executed by contract. For these two reasons, targets have
not been established for the entire budget for road maintenance including force account. Assurance should
be sought during the annual review of the road maintenance budget by IDA that financial targets have been
established based on the evolution of the macro-economic situation, costs of road maintenance by contract
and the targets established in the matrix of action of the letter of sector policy for the progressive transfer
of road maintenance execution from force account to contract (para. 3.25) and that funds to be deposited
on the Road Maintenance Account should not be less that these financial targets.
3.39   Public Investment Program.  After having been subject to lengthy unsuccessful discussions
between the Bank and the Government for several years, the 1995/1996-1999/2000 Public Investment
Program (PIP) for the transport sector prepared in conjunction with the FY96 Finance Law represents an
improvement in comparison of the previous years. It is a first step toward an effective programming tool.
It includes only on-going projects and projects for which a preliminary agreement already exists between
the Government and the external donor. Most projects were or are being submitted to an economic
analysis. The PIP also includes taxes in accordance with the new tax regulation adopted in 1995. Further
improvement is needed to update more regularly data and reflect the actual execution of projects.
3.40   The total cost of the sector investment program, including taxes, is estimated at US$722.7 million.
The cost, net of taxes and duties, is estimated at US$614.1 million with a foreign exchange component of
US$410.1 million or 67 percent. The Government and transport public enterprises would bear the cost,
estimated at US$108.7 million, of taxes and duties levied on works, consulting services and goods.
Investments carried out by public enterprises and listed in the program are those for which Government
guarantee is required although the PEs will service the debt. Investments, such as for REGIFERCAM,
which will not service the debt, are listed as Government investments. Detailed program costs are provided
in Schedule 7. A summary breakdown of the program costs is given below.



Chapter 3 -Transport Sector Program                                                               23
Table 5: Estimated Program Costs
CFAF billion                  USS million
Component                      Foreign  Local  Taxes  Total  Foreign  Local  Taxes  Total  % Foreign  Base
Exchange  Costs
1. Civil Works
A. Paved Roads                29.1   11.6   8.7  46.4    57.7   23.0   17.3  98.0             59   15
B. Unpaved Roads               36.6   25.7   6.9  69.1    72.4   50.8   13.6  136.8           53   22
C. Rural Roads                 12.6   10.5   3.0  26.1    25.0   20.8    6.0  51.8            48     8
D. Port                        25.1   11.0   9.2  45.2    49.7   21.7   18.1  89.5            56   14
E. Rail                       23.5   11.8   7.2  42.5    46.5   23.4   14.3  84.2             55   13
F. Air                         4.3    1.9   1.3   7.6        8.6    3.8    2.5   14.9         58    2
2. Goods                           36.0    5.9   6.7  48.5    71.3   11.6   13.2  96.1            74   15
3. Consultants' Services and Studies
A. Institutional Development    6.0    3.0    1.7  10.7    11.9    5.9    3.4  21.2           56     3
B. ProjectImplementation       10.7    5.0   2.1   17.8    21.1   10.0    4.1   35.2          60     6
4. Training and Seminars            1.3    1.0   0.5   2.9       2.6    2.1    1.0   5.7          46     1
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS              185.2   87.4  47.3  319.8   366.7  173.1   93.6  633.4          58  100
Physical Contingencies         14.1    7.1   4.3  25.4    27.9   14.0    8.4  50.3            55     8
Price Contingencies             9.9    9.6   3.9  23.4    15.5   16.9    6.7  39.1            40     6
TOTAL PROGRAM COSTS              209.1  104.0  55.4  368.5   410.1  204.0  108.7  722.7           57   114
3.41. The costs above include on-going projects financed by IDA, OECF, EU, AfDB, BMZ, CFD, FAC,
and the UN, as well as projects under preparation by IDA, CFD, EU and AGCD. Schedule 7 details the
amounts per component, per donor and per year. Table 6 details the amounts per donor for on-going and
new projects. About half of the investment program consists in on-going projects. Half consists in new
projects for which 42 percent of the resources, excluding Government resources, are available. The EU
envisages a new road maintenance project of about US$50 million. IsDB and the OPEC Fund have
expressed their interest in participating in the investmnent program.
Table 6: Distribution of Financing per Source of Funds (US$ million)
On-going projects New projects
International Development Association (IDA)                         10.2               60.7
European Union (EU)                                                120.9
Caisse Frangaise de Ddveloppement (CFD)                                -               56.8
Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC)                                 3.0
African Development Bank (AfDB)                                     48.9
Bundesministerium fir Zusammenarbeit (BMZ)                          77.7
United Nations Agencies                                              0.9
Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF)                           25.0
Agence Gendrale de la Cooperation au Developpement (AGCD)              -                8.2
Financing to be sought                                                 -              143.0
Public Enterprises (including US$16.1 million of taxes and duties)  15.8               30.5
Government (including US$92.6 million of taxes and duties)          27.7               78.9
Total                                                              344.6              378.1
3.42   On-going investmnents have been included in the program to start the process of globalizing the
approach in ternis of transport sector investment. It is also to take into account projects that have been
prepared in line with the new transport sector strategy as well as to reflect efforts made by the Government
and donors to adapt these projects to the sector program approach. On-going projects in line with the new
transport sector strategy include the Road Maintenance Project financed by EU and the Transport Sector
Technical Assistance Project financed by EU, FAC, BMZ and IDA. As an exarnple of on-going projects
which were adjusted, supply of road maintenance equipment under the AfDB highway project was modified
to focus on equipment used for routine maintenance and supply of heavy equipment was canceled. Also, a



24                                                                                Transport Sector Project
dredger to be purchased under a BMZ project is being redesigned to make it simpler and more coherent
with the privatization of dredging underway. The container terminal modernization project financed by
OECF was also downsized to adjust to the diminution of port traffic. All these modifications are also
expected to result in a decrease of recurrent costs.
3.43    Table 7 summarizes the distribution of the investment program per donor, subsector and type of
investment.
Table 7: Distribution per Donor, Subsector and Type of Investment (US$ million)
Project Component IDA    IDA    OECF  AGCD  EU    BMZ  AfDB  CFD   FAC  UN  Ben. Govt. To be  Total
TSP   TSTA                                                                     sought
1. Civil Works
A. Paved Roads      17.9                         2.8   8.6  20.2                           23.4   35.9  110.9
B. Earth Roads      25.1                        78.2           1.3  20.7                    19.9   13.4  158.6
C. Rural Roads       8.4                        22.6                12.2                    16.7           59.9
D. Port                           25.0                                               44.6   6.6   29.2  105.4
E. Rail                                                21.6          7.0                    17.0   54.2   99.8
F. Air                                                              14.5              1.3   1.7            17.4
2. Goods
A. Roads             0.1                                      24.8                           4.7           29.7
B. Port                                                22.4                                  0.3    0.8   23.5
C. Rail                                    8.2         23.3                                 11.8           43.3
D. Air                                                                                       0.7            0.7
E. Other transport   0.9    0.2                  0.9                       0.2               5.6    1.4    9.2
3. Technical Assistance
A. Institutional     1.7    4.7                  6.0   0.8                 2.2        0.4   3.6    3.2   22.6
Development
B. Project           3.7    4.5                 10.0   0.9   2.4   2.3   0.4  0.9           6.1    4.5   35.7
Implementation
4. Training and      3.0    0.8                  0.4                                         1.1    0.3    5.9
Semninars
TOTAL               60.7   10.2   25.0    8.2  120.9  77.7  48.9  56.8   3.0  0.9  46.3  121.2  143.0  722.7
3.44   IDA Contribution to the Sector Investment Program. The proposed contribution would consist in
the following components:
(a)     Execution of a three-year time-slice of the maintenance program on primary roads of the
priority network: During the first year, rehabilitation or periodic maintenance will be
executed on 915 km  (300 km  paved, 615 kn unpaved).  Rehabilitation and periodic
maintenance requirements for the second and third year of the time-slice will be determined
on the basis of the road maintenance programming mechanism being established under two
on-going studies financed by IDA for earth roads and by Germany for paved roads under
the Transport Sector Technical Assistance Project. All roads are part of the priority
network.
(b)     Execution of a rural transport infrastructure maintenance program: The program aims at
rehabilitating about 1,500 km within the 10,952 km priority network of rural roads, and at
involving beneficiaries in the management of rural transport infrastructure.
(c)     Construction of two weighing stations, the first on the RN3 road at the exit of Douala, the
second on the RNI road between maltam and Kousseri.
(d)     Purchase of data processing supplies and equipment of related offices.



Chapter 3 -Transport Sector Program                                                  25
(e)    Provision of technical assistance and consulting services: (i) assistance during the
restructuring of the Ministry of Public Works and the Ministry of Transport, especially for
the establishment of a planning mechanism and for the improvement of human resource
management; (ii) execution of a plan to improve road safety; (iii) supervision of civil
works execution; (iv) execution of a sensitization program to involve beneficiaries in the
management of rural transport infrastructure; (vi) preparation of an action plan to develop
the international trucking industry; (vii) detailed engineering studies for the preparation of
further time-slices of the sector investment program; (viii) project audits and
implementation completion report.
(f)    Training to support MINTP's and MINT's restructuring, the execution of a plan to
improve road safety, the implementation of the new maintenance strategy for rural roads,
development of SMEs in the road maintenance sector, and to strengthen the Merchant
Shipping Department in environmental concerns.
(g)    Surveys and seminars, including annual consultation between sector stakeholders,
Government and donors, and as part of the Systematic Client Consultation process.
D. TECENICAL ASSISTANCE, TRAIIING AND SEMINARS
3.45   Although there is no common strategy yet among donors regarding technical assistance and
training, there is a growing awareness of the need to reduce long-term technical assistance. Currently, long-
term technical assistance consists of: (a) one adviser to the Minister of Transport and the Minister of Public
Works financed by FAC; (b) one adviser to the customs department financed by FAC; (c) several
consultants to manage the on-going road maintenance project financed by EU: the purpose of the project
was not to build local capacity to manage such projects but to encourage the emergence of small and
medium enterprises through a pilot operation, transitory between previous projects where road maintenance
was executed by force account and future projects where it will be executed by SMEs; the lessons learned
from this operation were used in the design of the present program; and (d) one adviser to the paved roads
department financed by BMZ, which can be considered as substitute to local staff. Additional long-term
technical assistance would be financed by: (a) EU to assist the regional and national committees in UDEAC
countries to implement the TIPAC system; and (b) AfDB to strengthen MATGENIE's management
capacity; the Government and AfDB agreed that this assistance should be designed consistently with the
process of State divestiture of equipment rental activities. Other technical assistance identified in the
program would consist in short-term missions, studies or assignments which require capacity that is not
found or insufficient in Cameroon.
3.46   The Government and donors are making efforts to promote local consultants. A review of local
consulting capacity in auditing, accounting and data processing was initiated by three donors (CFD, CIDA,
UNDP) and APECCAM (Association Professionnelle des Etablissements de Credits du Cameroun) in
1993. A similar review of local capacity in transport and public works will be carried out under the
Transport Sector Technical Assistance Project. A market of consulting services is developed in parallel
with the development of local public works SMEs to sustain the development of local consulting firms.
3.47   The IDA credit would finance 414 person-months of consulting services to support institutional
development and to assist in project implementation (Table 8) at a cost of about US$5.4 million.
Consulting services would consist in detailed engineering studies and supervision of works (200 person-
months), studies (64 person-months) and short-term missions (150 person-months).



26                                                                   Transport Sector Project
Table 8: Person-Months by Type of Technical Assistance and Subsector
Subsector              Support to      Project     Total
Institutional  Implementation
Development
Ministy of Public Works   53            211         264
Ministry of Transport     97            53          150
Total                     150           254         414
3.48   The list of consulting services to be financed by the credit and the most important terms of
reference were agreed at appraisal. The list would be regularly reviewed and updated, if necessary in the
course of IDA's supervision missions, and in light of studies' outcomes, and of developments in the sector.
Draft terms of reference are presented in Schedule 8. When appropriate, they will be revised to indicate
that transfer of know-how is expected in the core output, and evaluation of consultants by the counterparts,
and of the counterparts by consultants should be made. Performance of consultants will be reviewed to
determine how assignments' objectives were achieved and how well consultants were able to transfer skills
and know-how to their counterparts, and to strengthen the local agencies to which they were assigned.
Counterparts should be designated before the start of major consulting assignments, with qualifications and
ternns of reference acceptable to IDA, and should remain in post until the completion of the activity, in
accordance with the strategy regarding counterparts adopted under the Transport Sector Technical
Assistance project (TSTA). These counterparts will be responsible for preparing seminars related to
project activities and for presenting papers on the conclusions and recommendations of studies. Terms of
reference will detail tasks to be carried out by the counterpart staff as part of their training. Consultants'
proposals should include the time necessary to train counterparts during execution of studies, and the
corresponding budget.
3.49   Training needs to support the restructuring of MINTP are being defined under an on-going study
financed by the TSTA project. Training in procurement, civil works supervision and environmental issues
in road maintenance will be carried out under the TSTA project. Additional training will be carried out
under the TSP. Training needs to support the restructuring of MINT will be defined under a study to be
launched as part of the TSTA project. Training in the civil aviation sector, maritime sector, meteo sector,
and on the restructuring of the Ministry will be carried out under the TSTA project. Additional training
will be carried out under the TSP. Training activities to support the rehabilitation of the customs
computerized system and the training strategy to develop SMEs in the road maintenance sector are
described in Schedule 9. Total cost of training to be financed from the credit is estimated at US$3.1
million.
E. PROGRAM ILEMENTATION
PROCUREMENT
3.50   Procurement procedures are not actually harmonized among donors. However, the Transport
Interninisterial Coordination Unit (para. 3.75 below) uses IDA standard documents for the selection of
consultants for other donors as well. IDA standard bidding documents were also used in the preparation
for the tender of civil works in the Douala port channel although the Government decided to postpone the
execution of the works after 2000. The creation of the Ministerial Tender Board in MINTP should
harmonize the decision-making process in procurement and prevent the creation of various ad-hoc
committees at the request of donors. The following paragraphs describe procedures to be used for
procurement of works and goods and selection of consultants under the IDA credit.
3.51   During negotiations, the Borrower agreed to the procurement procedures described hereafter.
Goods and works will be procured in accordance with the Guidelines for the Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995). Consultants will be selected in accordance with the Guidelines



Chapter 3 -Transport Sector Program                                                       27
"Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" (August
1981). Table 9 summarizes the project elements, their estimnated costs and procurement methods.
Table 9: Proposed Procurement Methods (Amounts in US$ million)
Project Element                ICB       NCB       Other      N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Civil Works
A. Paved Roads                28.4                            82.5        110.9
(17.9)                                      (17.9)
B. Earth Roads                36.0       2.5                 120.3        158.8
(23.3)    (1.7)                             (25.0)
C. Rural Roads                          10.9                  49.0        59.9
(8.4)                             (8.4)
D. Port                                                       105.4       105.4
E. Rail                                                       99.8        99.8
F. Air                                                        17.4        17.4
2. Goods                        0.9       0.2                  105.3        106.4
(0.8)    (0.2)                              (1.0)
3. Technical Assistance
A. Institutional Development                       2.2        19.4        21.6
(1.7)                  (1.7)
B. Project Implementation                          4.8        33.9        36.7
(3.7)                  (3.7)
4. Training and Seminars                             3.5        2.4          5.9
(3.1)                  (3.1)
TOTAL                         64.6      12.5       10.5      635.1        722.7
(42.0)    (10.3)     (8.5)                  (60.7)
N.B.F.: Not-IDA Financed. Project executing agencies will follow procedures specific to each donor.
ICB: International Competitive Bidding; NCB: National Competitive Bidding
Note: Figures in parentheses are the amounts financed by the IDA Credit.
Rem: Figures may not add up to total due to rounding.
Procurement of Civil Works
3.52   Contracts estimated to cost US$ 500,000 equivalent or more per contract for the rehabilitation of
paved and earth roads will be awarded based on ICB in accordance with IDA's procurement guidelines.
All ICBs will be advertised in national newspapers and in Development Business. Bank Group's standard
bidding documents shall be used. A 7.5 percent margin of preference may be granted in the evaluation of
bids to domestic contractors.
3.53   In order to achieve the project's objective of promoting national small and medium enterprises,
about 5 contracts estimated to cost less than US$500,000 equivalent per contract for earth road
rehabilitation up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$1.7 million equivalent will be awarded based on
NCB in accordance with IDA's procurement guidelines. There is adequate local capacity among local
contractors and enough competition is expected from them at competitive prices which would justify NCB.
Foreign bidders will not be excluded from participating in NCB. Standard bidding documents shall be
used. They shall be reviewed and approved by IDA before their use.
3.54   Rehabilitation of rural transport infrastructure will be limnited to critical spots. Contracts will be
scattered in nine districts to be carried out over a project period of 4 years and it is difficult to package
them for bigger lots. Contract amounts are estimated to range between US$2,000 and US$250,000. They
will therefore be awarded based on NCB.



28                                                                   Transport Sector Project
3.55   Contracts specifying completion time more than 18 months will provide for a price adjustment
clause. All bids will be opened in public. Evaluation criteria will be included in the standard bidding
documents. Contract negotiation will not be permitted. The contract will be awarded to the lowest
evaluated responsive bidder.
Employment of Consultants
3.56  In order to ensure the satisfactory execution of the project, the Borrower agreed during
negotiations that qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions of employment of consultants shall
be satisfactory to IDA. The model letter of invitation issued by the Bank Group shall be used. For
complex, time-based assignments, and lump-sum contracts, the Borrower will employ such consultants
under contracts, using the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank Group,
with such modifications as shall have been agreed by IDA. Where no relevant standard contract documents
have been issued by the Bank Group, the Borrower will use other forms agreed with IDA prior to inviting
proposals.
3.57   Following the recommendations of the Country Procurement Assessment Report issued in April
1994, which concluded that procurement practices in Cameroon were inadequate, and to enable a
satisfactory procurement process, the following measures were agreed during negotiations:
(a)    Short-lists shall be a minimum of 3 and a maximum of 6 firms with no more than two
firms from the same country.
(b)    The practice of requesting bid, performance securities and other retention guarantees shall
be discontinued.
(c)    Quality shall be the main criterion for the selection of consultants.
Procurement of Goods
3.58   Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 equivalent or more per contract will be
procured by ICB. Tenders will be advertised in a national newspaper and in Development Business. Use
of standard bidding documents is mandatory. Goods estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$208,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of NCB, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA,
including: (a) bids will be opened in public in the presence of bidders or their representatives; (b) there will
be no negotiation with bidders between bid opening and contract award; (c) bid evaluation and post-
qualification criteria will be defined in precise quantitative and monetary terms; and (d) award will be made
to the lowest evaluated responsive bidder. For ICB, a 15 percent margin of preference may be granted in
the evaluation of bids offering domestically manufactured goods.
Review by IDA of Procurement Decisions
3.59   Prior review by IDA of bid and contract documents will be required for all consultants' services,
civil works contracts above US$200,000 equivalent (about 32 contracts) and goods contracts above
US$50,000 equivalent (one contract).



Chapter 3 -Transport Sector Program                                                     29
Additional Arrangements
3.60   Contracts will be awarded within the agreed bid validity period and only exceptionally, bid validity
extension may be requested. In the case of fixed price contracts, requests for second and subsequent
extensions will be permissible only if the request for extension provides for an appropriate adjustment
mechanism of the quoted price to reflect changes in the cost of inputs for the contract over the period of
extension.
Procurement Times
3.61   Procurement processing times for major steps up to contract signing were agreed during
negotiations. For consultants, time between the transmission of the letter of invitation and the deadline for
the submission of proposals should not be less than 45 days. Time between the deadline for the submission
of proposals and contract's signature should not exceed 120 days. For goods and works, time between
notification of the tender or availability of bidding documents, whichever is later, and deadline for
submission of bids should not be less than 45 days. Time between the opening of bids and contract's
signature should not exceed 120 days. A first General Procurement Notice was issued after negotiations.
General Procurement Notices will be updated annually.
DISBURSEMENTS
3.62   Schedule 7 provides the estimated annual financial commitments for the overall sector investment
program during the 1995/1996-1999/2000 period. Actual disbursements should take place on a period
longer by at least one year. Based on the assumption that a commitment will be disbursed by 30 percent
the first year, 50 percent the second year and 20 percent the third year, the disbursements would be as
follows:
200-                                         10010
US$                                              s60
million i                                       %40-
50--                                         20
0                                            0
FY96 FY97 FY98 FY99 FY00 FY01 FY02         FY96 FY97 FY98 FY99 FY00 FY01 FY02
Annual Disbursements                          Total Disbursements
3.63   The proposed IDA credit would be disbursed on the following basis.



30                                                                       Transport Sector Project
Table 10: Allocation of Credit Proceeds (USS million)
Category              Amount         Percent of Expenditures to be Financed
Allocated
1. Civil Works
A. Paved Roads                 16.0       75 percent
B. Earth Roads                 22.4       80 percent
C. Rural Roads                 7.6        90 percent
2. Goods                          1.0       100 percent of foreign expenditures and
75 percent of local expenditures
3. Consultants' services
A. Institutional Development    1.7       100 percent
B. Project Implementation       3.7       100 percent
4. Training and Seminars          3.1       100 percent
5. Unallocated                    5.2
Total                            60.7
3.64   The Government will finance taxes, including TCA (Taxe sur le Chiffre dAffaires), and duties on
all contracts. Counterpart funds will be deposited on a Primary Roads Account in a commercial bank prior
to the signature of any works contract financed from the credit. This account will be audited as part of the
project activities. All contracts will be established including taxes and withdrawal applications will identify
TCA. The mid-term review (para. 3.81) will assess the overall Government contribution to the project and
revise disbursement percentages accordingly.
3.65   To facilitate disbursements and to ensure that funds are available on time to finance the costs of
services to be provided under the project, the Government will establish a Special Account in a comnmercial
bank on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. The Special Account will be managed by Caisse
Autonome d'Amortissement (CAA), the Government debt management agency, while withdrawal
applications will be prepared by the Transport Interministerial Coordination Unit. The authorized amount
of the Special Account is CFA 250 million. Requests for replenishing the account will be submitted to IDA
monthly or at such intervals as IDA shall specify.
3.66   Disbursements will be made against standard Bank documentation, except for contracts of less
than US$100,000 for civil works and less than US$50,000 for consultants and goods, for which certified
statements of expenditure would be used. These statements of expenditure will be subject to review by
supervision missions and periodic financial audits. The minimum application size for payments directly
from the credit account will be US$50,000.
3.67   The credit is expected to be disbursed on a 6-year period. Based on an expected effectiveness in
December 1996, the closing date would be December 31, 2002. This is two-year less than the standard
disbursement profiles for the transportation sector in Cameroon (see following graph). A shorter period is
justified by the execution of maintenance works, which are simpler than new road constructions executed
under the previous IBRD highway projects. In addition, the process is underway to select consultants
which will carry out the detailed engineering studies, assist MINTP in the bidding process to award the
civil works contract, as well as supervise the works.



Chapter 3 -Transport Sector Program                                                     31
Graph 1: Disbursement Forecasts
80 -                         0 ~~~~~~~--Standard
Disbursement
60-                                       Profiles
Percent
40                 -U-- -Transport
20                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sector
Program
'97 '98  99 '0rooy     '02 '03 '03
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING
3.68   The Transport Interministerial Coordination Unit (TICU) will consolidate data on program costs
and disbursements in order to ensure accurate cost analysis for annual planning. The following paragraphs
describe the disbursement procedures for the IDA credit.
3.69   Accounting. TICU will maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with
sound accounting practices, the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the IDA credit.
Accounting procedures will be defined in a manual prepared by the unit, to be part of the Project
Inplementation Plan (para. 3.76) and to be agreed by IDA before effectiveness.
3.70   Auditing.  The signature of a contract with the project auditors is a condition of credit
effectiveness. During negotiations, the Borrower agreed to:
(a)    have the records and accounts referred to in the preceding paragraph including those for
the Special Account year for each fiscal audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to IDA;
(b)    furnish to IDA as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after the end
of each such year, a certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as IDA shall have reasonably requested; and
(c)    furnish to IDA such other information concerning said records and accounts and the audit
thereof as IDA shall from time to time reasonably request.
3.71   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the
basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(a)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 3.69, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(b)    retain, until at least one year after IDA has received the audit report for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account or payment out of the Special Account
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(c)    enable IDA's representatives to examine such records; and
(d)    ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph 3.70 and that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,



32                                                                         Transport Sector Project
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
PROGRAM AND PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
3.72   The transport sector reform program would be implemented on a long-term (more than 3 years)
period, to reflect the limited capacity of implementation, the order of priority of the reforms and the various
progress either in their preparation or in the decision-making process within the Govermnent. The matrix
of action in Schedule I details the implementation schedule of the transport sector reform program and
identifies the entities responsible for this implementation. The matrix is summarized in table 11.
Table 11: Transport Sector Reform Implementation Plan
Reform                          Timetable *
Public      CAMAIR            Creation of a new company with private management    Medium term
Enterprises  REGIFERCAM       Commercial operation of railway services for freight through  Medium term
a concession agreement.
CAMSHIP          Sale of State participation to the public.            Short term
CAIvifAINER      Sale of State participation to the public or liquidation.  Short term
SOTUC            Liquidation.                                          Short term
ONPC             Contracting out of dredging.                          Short term
Restructuring.                                       Medium term
MATGENIE         Restructuring into autonomous entities.               Short term
Privatization of autonomous entities.                Medium term
LABOGENIE        Restructuring.                                        Short term
CNIC             Sale of public participation to the public.           Medium term
Institutions  Ministry of Public  Restructuring by shifting role toward budgeting,  Short term
Works            programming, planning, and supervising road maintenance
works.
Creation of a Road Maintenance Account.              Short term
Ministry of      Restructuring by shifting role toward planning and definition  Short term
Transport        and implementation of the regulatory framework.
Shippers' Council  Change of role and retrenchment from maritime cargo  Medium term
allocation.
Customs          Reinforcement of pre-shipment inspection and reconciliation   Short term
with customs data.
Restructuring                                        Long term
Rehabilitation of the computerized management information   Medium term
system.
Procurement      Creation of MINTP procurement committee with autonomy    Short term
below agreed thresholds.
Regulatory   Maritime         Strict application of the Liner Conference Code of Conduct   Short term
Framework  transport         to the Liner Conference traffic.
Full liberalization                                  Medium term
Road Transport    Revision of urban transport regulation.              Short term
Air Transport    Revision of the Civil Aviation Law.                   Medium term
Transit Transport  Creation of the new international transit under customs bond  Long term
* Near term: less than one year; Medium term: between 1 and 3 years; Long term: more than 3 years.
3.73   MINEFI will be responsible for the preparation of the annual budget and public investment
program in collaboration with sector ministries. MINEFI will also be responsible to achieve State
divestiture of transport public enterprises, and for the restructuring of customs and computerization of the
customs information system. MINT will be responsible for the definition and implementation of policies
and regulations and for planning in the transport sector. In the road sector, this will require a close
collaboration with MINTP, for example regarding the regulation of truck overload and the planning of road



Chapter 3 -Transport Sector Program                                                  33
works. MINT in collaboration with sector PEs will be responsible for the planning of investments carried
out by public enterprises, when the State guarantee is required. Public enterprises will responsible for the
execution of these investments.
3.74 MINTP will be responsible for the public works component of the project and other related
activities. In the sector, there is a general agreement among donors that DGTC should no more be involved
as executing agency. With respect to the proposed IDA credit, the Government agreed during
negotiations that MINTP would be solely responsible for the road rehabilitation and maintenance
component. Thus DGTC shall have no investment execution responsibilities under the Project, nor any
procurement responsibilities except those allowed under the Borrower's procurement code.  The
Government is considering a revision of the institutional framework for NGOs to take into account their
increasing role in the country's economic development. Should the revision authorize NGOs to become
executing agencies for projects, such arrangements would be implemented under the rural transport
infrastructure component of the project.
3.75   The existing Transport Interministerial Coordination Unit which helped the Government prepare
the reform program, will continue its coordinating role between externally-financed projects. TICU is well
accepted by most donors. It will also be responsible for reporting progress in the execution of the reform
program, and consolidating financial data on the execution of the investment program. In collaboration
with MINEFI, MINT and MINTP, TICU will prepare annual stakeholders' meetings to assess progress in
the execution of the reform program. CAA will manage the IDA credit.
3.76   A Program Implementation Plan will be prepared to help the project coordinator implement and
monitor the project. The Plan will be distributed to all executing agencies. The plan would include all
procedures agreed with donors, standard bidding documents for works, goods and consultants, the list of
goods and semces to be procured and the type of procurement, detailed program costs, the terms of
reference of the studies and support services to be carried out, and standard forms for progress reports.
The IDA section of the plan should be completed as a condition of credit effectiveness. The sections
related to the other donors should be completed as part of the program.
3.77   The Program Implementation Plan will include an implementation schedule for the activities
covered by the program. A draft schedule is provided in Schedule 10 for the implementation of activities
supported by the IDA credit. It was prepared on the assumption that the credit would become effective in
December 1996. The project would be completed over a five and a half-year period on June 30, 2002.
REPORTING AND MONITORING
3.78   Program implementation as well as success in achieving program objectives will be evaluated and
monitored through a two-fold process:
(a)    Sector stakeholders, the Government and donors will participate in annual meetings
organized to: (i) review adherence to the agreed sector development strategy and progress
in implementation of policy measures; and (ii) update the transport component of the
Public Investment Program and determine new financing requirements.
(b)    Systematic Client Consultation will be carried out to obtain feedback from beneficiaries on
the improvement of road maintenance, at various stages of the rural transport
infrastructure maintenance program (choice of itineraries, type of works, level of
satisfaction), and during the preparation of additional policy measures in the transport
sector.
3.79   Reporting. The content and timing of progress reports was agreed during negotiations. A draft
standard form of progress report is available in project files. The final form would be included in the



34                                                                   Transport Sector Project
Project Implementation Plan. With respect to the IDA credit, progress reports would be prepared quarterly
and in advance of each IDA's supervision mission. The reports would review progress on financial
execution and studies. The Borrower would submit an Implementation Completion Report to IDA no later
than six months after the closing date of the credit.
3.80   Supervision Plan. IDA staff input into the supervision of the project would take the following
form:
(a)    Portfolio Management. Procurement documents and project-related reports (progress,
final, studies, financial statements) would be reviewed at IDA headquarters.
(b)    Field Supervision. Missions would: (i) review the progress in project inplementation,
execution of civil works and consultants' services; (ii) discuss outcome of the Systematic
Client Consultation to monitor project's impact; and (iii) monitor key project performance
indicators and compare these indicators to agreed targets (Schedule 11).
(c)    Donor Coordination. Every year, IDA will participate in a coordination meeting attended
by sector stakeholders, Government representatives and donors. The objectives of these
meetings would be: (i) to follow up on the implementation of the transport sector reform
program, on compliance with the Letter of Sector Policy and targets established in the
matrix of action; and to agree on necessary adjustments and additional steps; and (ii)
review the execution of the sector budget and investment program and agree on an updated
program financing plan.
A supervision plan for the 1997-2001 IDA fiscal years is proposed in Schedule 12.
3.81   Mid-Term Review. Not later than December 31, 1998, the project coordinator in the Transport
Interninisterial Coordination Unit should prepare and hold a mid-term review of the project execution. The
review would be organized in collaboration with the Administration, public enterprises, IDA's supervision
mission, and representatives of donor agencies involved in the transport sector. The review process would
include progress in meeting project's objectives, overall project perfonmance against established and agreed
key performance indicators. The mid-term review would provide the opportunity for IDA to assess the
Government's continued commitment to the project's objectives and the reform in the transport sector.
During negotiations, the Borrower agreed to the carrying-out of a mid-term review and to its objectives.
ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
Port Rehabilitation
3.82   Environmental protection of the Wouri river which gives access to the port of Douala, of the
Douala port area and coastal waters will be improved by the implementation of an Action Plan for port
environmental protection. Preparation of the plan and implementation of key recommendations are
supported by the IDA credit. A summary environmental assessment was carried out under the Transport
Sector Technical Assistance Project. In addition to the impact of dredging (see para. 3.83), environmental
concerns are related to:
(a)    Pollution of water due to urban wastes. Urban wastes are disposed in the channel and are
the major cause of pollution. This issue should be addressed as part of the rehabilitation
of the sewage system.
(b)    Oil pollution generated by ships, refineries, and oil plants. This issue requires a revision of
the regulation as well as an improvement of the capacity of the institutions (Ministry of



Chapter 3 -Transport Sector Program                                                   35
Environment, Department of Merchant Shipping (DMS) in MINT) to monitor the pollution
and enforce the regulation.
(c)    Fire hazards due to hazardous materials. The port authority is preparing an emergency
plan.
3.83   An environmental assessment of dredging activities did not qualify environmental impacts as
adverse. The following impacts will be monitored as part of the project activities:
(a)    Salinity intrusion. Although salinity intrusion might result from the rehabilitation of the
access channel, which would increase its depth from -5.8m to -7.5m, this has not been a
problem in the past, when the channel depth was at -7.5m.
(b)    Aquatic fauna. Dredging is not expected to create major disturbance in the existing
maritime habitats. The aquatic fauna is already distributed over the estuary according to
the salinity rate and should adapt to the evolution of the rate. Dredging may improve the
quality of the habitats by replacing silt by sand.
(c)    Disposal of dredged materials. No contamination of the silt in the channel has, thus far,
been noted. Should the on-going analysis carried out under the TSTA project validate the
analysis carried out in 1990, dredged materials can continue to be safely dumped in the
deep sea in the outer channel. Refuse and waste generated by Douala and its industries,
which are disposed in the channel and may pollute dredging materials, should be treated as
part of the rehabilitation of the sewage system.
3.84   The IDA credit would provide assistance to the Department of Merchant Shipping (DMS) in
MINT: (a) to revise the institutional framework and the share of responsibilities between DMS and the port
authority; (b) to strengthen DMS's capacity to prepare regulation related to environment and monitor its
implementation. This would include preparation of the signature of the MARPOL convention by the
Cameroonian Government and implementation of the convention.
Road Rehabilitation
3.85   A mitigation plan to address environmental issues in road maintenance is being carried out under
the Transport Sector Technical Assistance Project. The plan will include guidelines for the integration of
environmental considerations in the design, implementation and monitoring of road rehabilitation projects.
A seminar will be organized to disseminate the mitigation plan and the guidelines.
PROGRAM BENEFITS
Poverty Alleviation
3.86   The program will address the issue of inadequate infrastructure, which is one of the key concem to
urban and rural communities identified in the participatory poverty analysis (PPA) carried out in early
1994. The adverse impact of poor transport infrastructure on the poor have been identified in paras. 2.3 to
2.5 above. Appropriate infrastructure maintenance is the third element of the food security strategy which
is aimed at the rural poor and where the key objective is to enhance production and to link more efficiently
produces to markets. The impact of the transport sector investment programn on the poor will be monitored
during project execution through several indicators (number of villagers in the area of influence of the rural
roads rehabilitated, number of markets, health centers, and schools to which the access is improved).
3.87   Labor-intensive methods have many benefits: (a) they provide a cost-effective altemative to
equipment-based methods for appropriate rehabilitation and maintenance tasks, especially since the CFA
devaluation; (b) they generate employment for both men and women; (c) they save in foreign exchange and



36                                                                    Transport Sector Project
inject cash in the local economy; (d) they facilitate the use of local materials; (e) they transfer the
knowledge of road maintenance execution methods to local communities; and (f) they have environmental
advantages.
3.88   The road component of the project should mitigate the short-term impact of the restructuring of
public enterprises and ministries on employment. The increased amount of financing for road maintenance
will create employment opportunities. The promotion of the local construction industry should also have a
favorable impact on the labor market, which has been stagnant since 1987. Development of labor-based
methods will provide employment opportunities for unskilled workers. Emerging SMEs will provide new
opportunities for educated people, for which unemployment has increased from 1.5 percent in 1983 to 30
percent in 1993. The number of person-days generated by the road works included in the program is
estimated at 15.5 million, equivalent to about 10,000 jobs during three years. This is about 2,000 jobs
more than those which are expected to be lost in the transport sector after restructuring the public
enterprises and the ministries. About 3.5 million person-days would be generated by the IDA contribution
to the program equivalent to 2,000 jobs during three years. The number of person-days generated by the
transport sector investment program will be monitored during program execution.
Program Contribution to Improved Efficiency and Sustainable and Coherent Development of the
Transport Sector.
3.89   Road Maintenance. Without the program, road infrastructure would continue to deteriorate and its
worsening condition would aggravate the adverse impact on the poor. Producers' profits would decrease
because of the increase in transport costs combined with the stagnation of produce prices on the local
market due to the economic crisis. The competitiveness of export products would decrease or local
producers would lose their incentive to produce. In the absence of donors' contribution to the road
maintenance program, development of local small and medium enterprises would lack sustainability and the
risk would increase of shifting back to execution of road maintenance by inefficient and unaccountable
force account. Resources would be largely insufficient and would be inefficiently used by giving priority to
costly rehabilitation on a small number of roads or by being scattered all over the network for political
reasons making it impossible in both cases to maintain the road network in a sustainable manner. In
addition, all rural road programs would be canceled, such programs being almost entirely financed by
donors. The on-going programming study will provide a comparison between various maintenance
strategies depending on traffic, road condition, and other parameters. The results will have to be
continuously adjusted thereafter to take into account the budget constraint.
3.90   The fiscal impact of the road maintenance program has not been quantified. Although revenues
from fuel taxes collected from the existing traffic are expected to decrease because of the reduction of
vehicle operating costs due to the improvement of road condition, additional revenues will be generated by
the induced traffic as well as by the economic activities induced by the improvement of road condition. In
addition, it is desirable to reduce the current high level of taxation on road transport which hampers the
overall competitiveness of the economy. This is consistent with the fiscal reform prepared under the SAC
which aims at simplifyring and streamlining the rate structure, broadening the tax base and reducing
distortions. The simplification of the road taxation system (para. 3.11) aims at these objectives as well as
at improving tax recovery.
3.91   Privatization and Liquidation of Priority Public Enterprises. After privatization, CAMAIR,
REGIFERCAM, CAMSHIP and CAMTALNER are expected to generate profits due to a more
autonomous and commercially-oriented management, cost-cutting, and financial restructuring resulting in
greater competitiveness. Subsidies should be stopped resulting in savings for the Treasury. In addition,
after privatization, the enterprises will generate fiscal revenues which they have not done for several years.
Accumulated savings for the Treasury three years after privatization/liquidation compared to the without
privatization/liquidation scenario, would amount to US$60 million, and would be equivalent to the
additional cost borne by the State for the restructuring (table 12, details are in Schedule 2).



Chapter 3 -Transport Sector Program                                                       37
Table 12: Impact on Treasury of Privatization or Liquidation of Priority Public Enterprises
CFAF       US$
(millions)  (million)   %
1994-1995  Impact on Treasury of Restructuring (a)            94,4      171.5
Impact on Treasury without restructuring (b)       62,5      113.6
Net "Investment" in restructuring (c) = (a) - (b)  31,9      57.9
1996-1998  Impact on Treasury of Restructuring (d)            27,3      49.6
Impact on Treasury without restructuring (e)       60,4      109.7
Net payback on investment during 96-98 (f) = (e) - (d)  33,1  60.1
1994-1998  Net payback as % of investment (g) = (f) : (c)                       103.7
Impact on Treasury without restructuring during 94-98  122.9  223.3
US$1=CFAF550 at time of calculation
3.92   Port Restructuring and Rehabilitation. This component of the program aims at improving the
overall competitiveness of the economy. Port tariffs should decrease as a result of the streamlining of the
port authority. Contracting out of dredging would result in better efficiency and increased depth of the
channel would save waiting-time for the ships entering the channel or leaving the port (see economic
justification below). The costs of maintenance dredging would be fully recovered from shipping lines
through a specific port duty.
3.93   Regulatory Framework. Progressive liberalization of maritime transport, simplification of the road
taxation system, revision of the transport component of the price structure for petroleum products, as well
as other measures mentioned above would result in a reduction of transport costs and greater
competitiveness of the country's economy. As an example, in CMte d'Ivoire, liberalization of maritime
transport cut prices of maritime transport for bananas by half.
3.94   Transit. The rehabilitation of the computerized customs declaration system in Douala would
improve customs revenues by reducing fraud. The new procedures to be implemented to accompany the
rehabilitation would make the system more efficient, and save time in the transit of goods through the port.
Implementation of the transport component of the UDEAC Program of Regional Reforms, including the
TIPAC system, would make transit procedures more efficient, and reduce the cost of non-factor services on
transit goods.
Economic Evaluation
3.95   Rehabilitation of Primary Roads. The main benefit of the component would be a more efficient
and cost effective transport system. The maintenance works carried out under the project will reduce
vehicle operating costs and their timely execution will postpone a costly reconstruction. Because there are
no regulatory obstacles in the transport market, road users are expected to pass to shippers and consumers
most of savings they will derive from the improved network.
3.96   In the scenario "with project", the road maintenance strategy is based on several criteria: (a) level
of service of the road; (b) traffic volume; (c) geotechnical aspects (relief, type of soil); and (d)
climatological conditions. To take into account the scarce resources available for road maintenance,
standards and norms of maintenance have been adjusted downwards in departure from the high standards
previously applied in Cameroon. Elements on the strategy, norms and standards, unit prices and cost-
benefits flows are provided in Schedule 13. The rate of return obtained by applying the strategy to the
priority network is well above 40% (Table 13). Such high rates of return are justified because they are
calculated for an overall road maintenance program, including routine maintenance, periodic maintenance
and rehabilitation on roads in good, fair, poor and very poor condition. Results are based on costs before
the January 1994 devaluation. The strategy and its economic evaluation are being updated after
devaluation as part of the on-going road maintenance progranuning study carried out under the Transport
Sector Technical Assistance Project.



38                                                                     Transport Sector Project
Table 13: Economic Justification of the Overall Road Maintenance Program
Economic Rate of Retum
Paved Roads                447%
Earth Roads                107%
All Roads                  262%
3.97   A first-year program of road works was appraised. Roads were chosen within the priority network
on the basis of their national importance and their poor condition. The earth-road program is consistent
and complementary with a program which began in 1993 with EU financing. The rate of return is 74
percent for the overall program, 100 percent for earth roads and 52 percent for paved roads. Details on
the calculation are provided in Schedule 14. Results from sensitivity analysis are shown in the following
table.
Table 14: Economic Justification of the Road Rehabilitation Program
Paved Roads  Earth Roads   Overall Program
Basic Scenario                          52%          100%            74%
Maintenance costs increased by 20%      44%           71%            54%
Vehicle operating costs reduced by 20%  42%           67%            52%
Maintenance costs increased by 20% and  34%           52%            41%
Vehicle operating costs reduced by 20%
Maintenance costs increased by 30% and  27%           36%            30%
Vehicle operating costs reduced by 30%
Maintenance costs increased by 40% and  20%           22%            20%
Vehicle operating costs reduced by 40%
3.98   Rehabilitation of Rural Roads.  Roads included in the project will be detennined after
consultation with the beneficiaries, but will have to be selected within the 10,952 km priority network
agreed by the Government on the basis of the economic justification of the maintenance works. Benefits
calculated in the economic analysis were derived from savings in transport costs, increase in agricultural
production, and reduction of product losses during transport. The average rate of return of the maintenance
works on roads within the priority network is 36 percent (see schedule 15). The economic analysis was
carried out in 1987 and updated in 1990 in order to prepare an action plan for the development of rural
roads. It has not been updated since then because of the difficulty and the high cost to obtain reliable
information on the condition of the entire 28,000 kn-long rural roads network, on the population living
along the rural roads, and on the agricultural production. Consultation with beneficiaries should prevent
major discrepancies between the rural roads included in the program and the most economically important
roads.
3.99   Rehabilitation of the Channel. The benefits of the project are derived from savings in maritime
transport costs resulting from an increased number of turnarounds per ship, reduced waiting time for high
tide to enter the channel, reduced waiting time at berths and reduced costs of ship calls. Schedule 16
provides the assumptions and the outcome of the economic analysis. Five scenarios (channel depth at
-6.5m, -7.0m, -7.5m, -8.0m, -8.5m) were compared to the existing situation (channel depth at -6.0m).
Three assumptions were made for the cost of maintenance dredging after rehabilitation (CFAF2,000/m3,
CFAF2,500/m3, CFAF3,000/m3). Three traffic scenarios were considered:
Table 15: 1995-2010 Average Annual Port Traffic Growth
Scenario Mini Medium Scenario Scenario Maxi
Import Traffic      0.1%             1.2%            1.8%
Export Traffic      1.0%             1.7%            3.1%
Total Traffic       0.6%             1.4%            2.5%



Chapter 3 -Transport Sector Program                                                     39
3.100  The net present value discounted at
12 percent is positive in all scenarios      23 -                        Cost of Maintenance
considered and all sensitivity studies except  1 9s                       Dredging
one, which indicates that the project is   > o                            -4-/CFAF2,0001m3
largely justified. The net present value is   ' as-/CFAF2,6001n3
maximum at a -7.5m depth. The following    U. 8      _                    --CFAF3,0001m3
chart presents the net present value of the   z t  3 0.
benefits generated by the dredging in the   2    2 I                  4
minimum-traffic scenario. The net present      6.6    7    7.5   8    3.5
value at -7.5m  remains positive when                Channel Depth (m)
benefits are reduced by 50 percent assuming
that all benefits gained by foreign shipping lines are not transferred to the Cameroonian economy.
3.101 The rehabilitation of the channel was compared to the construction of dikes which would accelerate
water flows, increase auto-dredging and decrease maintenance dredging requirements. The net present
value is higher for the rehabilitation than for the calibration when the cost of maintenance is CFAF2,000
per cubic meter. It is slightly lower when the cost of maintenance is CFAF2,500 or 3,000 per cubic meter.
The preference given to the rehabilitation is justified by this uncertainty on the cost of dredging and by the
large difference between the investment costs of the two alternatives estimated at US$76 million for the
calibration and US$13 million for the rehabilitation at a depth of -7.5 meters which does not result in a
significant difference between the benefits estimated for both alternatives.
3.102 Other Investments.
(a)    Air Transport: The rehabilitation of the Douala airport was included in a CFD credit
provided to Cameroon to accompany the privatization of management of five major
airports in 1994. The detailed engineering study needs to be carried out to estimate the
cost of the operation. The capacity of the airport management company to service the debt
following this investment will be assessed when the cost is estimated.
(b)    Rail Transport: The feasibility studies for the modernization of telecommunications and
the rehabilitation of the track are to be launched as part of the Transport Sector Technical
Assistance Credit.  Modemization of the telecommunications and rehabilitation of
Yaounde-Kaa are included in two on-going projects financed by BMZ.
(c)    Port: The feasibility study for the modemization of the container terminal was carried out
in 1990. The rate of return of 10 percent was expected to be attained with a container
traffic above 100,000 TEUs (ton equivalent units). The container traffic has continuously
decreased since 1991 and was of 67,285 containers in 1994. The project has been subject
to several revisions and its technical content is not definitive yet. It is financed by a 1987
OECF loan. The rehabilitation of berths, aprons and carriageways and the extension of
the timber storage area have no financing and have not been subject to feasibility studies
yet. The studies should be carried out before the financing of the investments is confirmed.
Investments in equipment have not been subject to an economic analysis but to a financial
analysis (see below).
(d)    Customs: The experience in other countries hints at a significant increase in Govemment
revenues, as well as at a reduction of transport costs due to reduced delays resulting from
inproved procedures. A more detailed assessment of financing requirements than the
estimate provided in this report should be carried out and subject to economic analysis.
The restructuring of customs and the modemization of the computerized management
information system have no financing yet.



40                                                                      Transport Sector Project
ONPC's Financial Perspectives
3.103 A financial evaluation of the port authority (ONPC) was carried out to assess its capacity to
absorb financially its investrnent plan (Schedule 5) and to service the debt. The investment plan includes
on-going projects (purchase of a new dredger and a tug-boat, rehabilitation of the carriageways,
implementation of a computerized management information system, modernization of the container
terminal) as well as new projects (channel rehabilitation; berth rehabilitation; purchase of a service boat;
equipment, building and warehouse rehabilitation; and extension of the timber storage area). The financial
analysis was carried out assuming three traffic scenarios as in the economic analysis, five self-financing
percentages of new investment, two interest rates corresponding to concessional and commercial
borrowing. A sensitivity study assumed a 20-percent increase in the investment cost. Detailed results are
available in the Project File. Schedule 17 provides during the 1995/1996-2010/2011 period the annual
income statement for the base case, assuming a minimum traffic growth of 0.6 percent annually, a 40
percent self-financing, concessional borrowing and the current tariff structure, and cash-flow statements for
scenarios assuming two traffic growths, two self-financing percentages, two interest rates and an increase
in investment costs by 20 percent.
3.104 Under the base case, the port would generate sufficient cash-flow to contribute by 40 percent to the
financing of the investment program. Commercial borrowing would result in a negative net income starting
in 1999 and a negative net cash flow starting in 2006. The outcomes of the financial evaluation in the base
case scenario as well as in the sensitivity analysis, however, evidence the inefficiencies of the current cost
and tariff structure as indicated in para. 2.21. To improve this situation and preserve the financial viability
and competitiveness of the port, the port needs to implement the action plan described in para. 3.32 starting
by completing the implementation underway of the cost accounting and management information system.
PROGRAM RISKS
3.105  Lack of Government commitment is a risk common to the overall transport sector reform program,
and the Government may be inclined to delay implementation of the adjustment measures because of the
risk of social unrest. This risk is mitigated by the adoption of the reform program by the Government and
its internalization during the long preparation process. The absence of such program was among the causes
for the failure of the institutional component in the previous transport projects (para. 4.3). Government is
also aware that delays in the implementation of adjustment measures would have negative consequences on
the recovery of the economy. These consequences would be worsened by donors becoming reluctant to
provide financial support to the Government. Progress in the implementation of the transport reform
program will be closely monitored. Beneficiaries will be consulted during the program implementation to
generate a constituency for reform. Annual meetings will be organized with participation of sector
stakeholders, the Government and donors to assess reform implementation and define action plans in order
to meet reform targets.
3.106 Lack of local resources due to the current financial constraints is also a risk for the program,
should counterpart funds to externally-financed projects be insufficient. In the specific case of IDA's
contribution to the transport reform program, the risk of insufficient counterpart funds will be mitigated by:
(a)    Making a satisfactory macro-economic framework a condition for presentation of the IDA
credit to the Board: The Credit is presented to the Board after an agreement was reached
between the Government, the IMF and IDA and after a new Structural Adjustment Credit
was approved by the Board of the Association on February 8, 1996.
(b)    Improving the resource allocation process: The Government will be requested to deposit
the counterpart funds for any works contract financed from the credit on a project account
in a commercial bank prior to the signature of the contract (para 3.64). This is expected to
reduce the unit prices of the civil works contracts and increase the quantities of works



Chapter 3 -Transport Sector Program                                                     41
which can be carried out with given resources compared to the quantities of works
estimated based on current unit prices, therefore is expected to be an incentive for the
Government to provide the counterpart funds.
3.107 The risk of insufficient resources to finance recurrent costs is a second risk related to the current
financial constraints. This risk will be progressively mitigated in the road maintenance sector by
establishing reasonable and sustainable targets in view of the financial constraints, by progressively raising
these targets, and by linking external donor's financing of road civil works to the Government meeting these
targets (para. 3.25). Timely allocation of funds and execution of maintenance contracts in accordance with
the targets would be a condition for IDA financing subsequent slices of road maintenance works. Improved
planning, a more transparent use of funds resulting from the creation of the Road Maintenance Account,
and a satisfactory macro-economic framework will also alleviate the risk of insufficient resources to
finance recurrent costs. The second risk will be mitigated in the port sector by increasing involvement, in
the management of the port authority, of port users, which have an incentive to maintain the channel, and
by creating a transparent mechanism to collect revenues and to pay dredging maintenance executed by
contract.
3.108 Other risks identified are related to:
(a)    Economic Justification of Investments Included in the Project: To mitigate the risk of
executing investment with a negative net present value, the economic analysis for each
investment will be updated on the basis of cost estimates resulting from the procurement of
contracts. Consistency will be verified between road rehabilitation works proposed in the
program and the outcome of the on-going planning and programming study. Rehabilitation
standards will be reduced if necessary to provide a positive net present value. Annual
traffic counts are included in the TSTA project to provide recent traffic data to update the
economic analysis, the programming of works, as well as assess the project justification
after completion. These arrangements will be included in the program implementation
plan.
(b)    Rural Transport Infrastructure: The risk is that improvement of rural transport
infrastructure will not benefit women although women are responsible for most transport
activities in the household. Load carrying is considered women's work. Entrenched
cultural and attitudinal barriers need to be overcome to prevent this attitude to prevail.
The risk will be mitigated by carefully paying attention to include women into the planning
and consultation process for the establishment of the rural transport infrastructure
program. A sociologist will be included in IDA's supervision team to ensure that
representative groups will be consulted and key target groups will benefit from the training
and sensitization program related to the participation of communities in rural transport
infrastructure management.
(c)    Privatization of PEs: (i) CAMAIR: Some actors in the Government are still reluctant to
accept the proposed restructuring of air services in Cameroon, and have still to be
convinced that new market-based air services will be viable. The proposal to engage an
interim management team to manage airline operations commercially with full autonomy
while a new market-based air service is being set up, constitutes an interim and realistic
solution to avoid a protracted debate with the Government on up-front full liquidation of
CAMAIR. It would satisfy the immediate political objective of maintaining the flag
carrier as a national symbol. (ii) REGIFERCAM: The risk is that potential private
investors might be uninterested in operating the railway. Should privatization appear
impossible, the situation would have to be reassessed in order to agree on the parameters
under which the company could continue to operate with a minimum of subsidies. (iii)



42                                                                  Transport Sector Project
CAMSHIP, CAMTAINER: Several potential investors have expressed interest in
investing in CAMSHIP. Should the privatization be unsuccessful, however, the company
should be given full autonomy as indicated in the Cameroonian Law on Public Enterprises
enacted in 1995 and would have to compete and survive or disappear on a market which is
going to be liberalized as part of the transport sector reform program. Should the
privatization of CAMTAINER fail, the company should be liquidated due to the presence
of private competitors on the market.
(d)    Restructuring of PEs (ONPC, MATGENIE, LABOGENIE): The risk is that the
restructuring be not implemented or that it fail. Implementation of restructuring depends on
the Government commitment (see para. 3.105 above). In the case of ONPC, the second
risk is mitigated by the involvement of private operators in ONPC's Board of Directors.
In the case of LABOGENIE, the impact of failure would be mitigated by the opening of
the market for road laboratory works to private competitors. In the case of MATGENIE,
the risk of failure is mitigated by distributing it among several entities to be progressively
privatized.
(e)    Financing of severance payment: Lack of financing is a risk of delay in the execution of the
restructuring and privatization program mentioned above. Mitigation of this risk is among
the measures to mitigate the risk of failure of the overall adjustment program.
(f)    Transit: The risk is that the transport component of the UDEAC Regional Policy Reform
Program be stalled for several reasons: (i) difficulties for the UDEAC countries to
coordinate a reform program that has to be implemented in several countries; (ii)
obstruction because of the inefficiency or vested interests in customs; and (iii) difficulty to
find the expertise required to support implementation of the TIPAC. These risk can hardly
be mitigated by specific countermeasures. Competition between countries, especially the
reopening of the Congolese itinerary which can be used for the transit of Central African
Republic goods should be an incentive for Cameroon to improve its transit procedures.
This incentive, however, remains weak as shown by the competition between Cameroon
and Nigeria for the transit of Chadian goods which has had no effect on procedures in
Cameroon. The macro-economic incentive is likely to be the stronger for Cameroon, due
to the necessity to restructure and make customs more efficient, which would benefit to the
land-locked countries.
(g)    Environmental Impacts: Although, as mentioned above, no major adverse environmental
impact is expected, a monitoring procedure will be put in place in order to take preventive
mitigation measures when necessary.



Chapter 4 - IDA Assistance Strategy to the Transport Sector                            43
4.  IDA ASSISTANCE STRATEGY TO THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. LESSONS LEARNED FROM PAST EXPERIENCE
4.1    Structural Adjustment. Experience in PE restructuring under the Structural Adjustment Program
(SAP) underlines the importance of State divestiture from PEs in commercial sectors, and implementing a
satisfactory institutional framework to ensure such divestiture. Performance contracts used to restructure
PEs under the SAP failed because of a lack of commitment from both Government and PEs. Privatization
and liquidation operations launched at the same time also failed for the same reason, and because of an
unsatisfactory institutional framework.
4.2    Projects in the Transport Sector. Since 1970, the Bank Group has contributed to transport sector
development in Cameroon, with 13 projects totaling US$500 million equivalent. Projects were mostly in
the highway (75 percent of the amount lent), railway, and port subsectors. Ten projects were audited after
completion. Five transport sector memoranda provided the sector analysis to prepare the projects.
4.3    Although the audit reports observed that the Bank's objectives for the sector had been "consistent,
sound and transparent, improving efficiency and strengthening self-financing operations", it concluded that
while, generally, all physically measurable targets were successfully met, no comparable success was
registered in the areas of financial performance, maintenance activities, and institution building. The audits
attributed the poor institutional and financial performance of the transport sector to the Government's lack
of commitment to genuine change and, more importantly, to the lack of a coherent sector program. The
audits underlined that the Bank had advocated a comprehensive program, and that its absence had meant
that individual subsector operations were neither integrated nor additive. The 1989 audit of the Feeder
Roads, Highway IV, and Railway projects concluded that an overall sectoral approach was overdue, and
recommended preparation of an action program pursuing a coherent approach of sector investment
planning and PE reform, and the adoption of this program by Government and donors as a basis for
integrated sector financing.
4.4    These lessons have led to IDA contributing to the preparation of a Transport Sector Reform
Program, described above, which places transport sector development and investment in a policy-based,
sectorwide framework supported by Government and donors. The preparation of this program was a
critical contribution to Cameroon's efforts to restore the performance of its economy and competitiveness.
The Government and IDA carried out a joint economic and sector work to analyze issues in the transport
sector in order to devise action plans and priorities to restore sector efficiency (Transport Sector
Memorandum, dated June 30, 1993, Report No. 11430-CM). The process for sector analysis, and the
preparation of the Transport Sector Reform Program, aimed at internalizing the rationale for reform and
recommendations by broadly involving Government institutions and staff, private operators and donors. To
marshal the necessary understanding and political commitment needed to implement the proposed reforms,
a Transport Interministerial Group was created to represent all Government organizations involved in the
transport sector. Several seminars were organized to discuss with the private sector the reform in the road
maintenance, port, transit and maritime subsectors. The Government also called several donor meetings to
discuss sector issues and action plans. The Government intends to organize a donor meeting to present its
declaration of policy for the transport sector, the matrix of actions to implement this policy and the
investment plan to support this implementation. MINEFI is coordinating the preparation of this donor
meeting with meetings in other sectors, which could be consolidated in a single Consultative Group
meeting.
4.5    The most recent Implementation Completion Report (Six Highway Project, Ln. 2584-CM)
indicated the following additional lessons:



44                                                         Cameroon - Transport Sector Project
(a)    Road Maintenance Organization: When the sector lacks strong leadership and commitment
to efficiency and accountability, the role of the institution in charge of road maintenance
needs to be concentrated on planning, programming, budgeting and supervising road
maintenance works. Work execution should be contracted-out to achieve better efficiency
and adequacy between the program of works and available resources. Financing of inputs
as done under the Sixth Highway Project should definitely be discarded.
(b)    Project Design and Implementation: To continue in a direction which has become
inappropriate is likely to result in poor implementation and performance and lack of
achievement of the project objectives. In such a case, the project ought to be adjusted or
restructured where necessary.
(c)    Technical Assistance, Capacity Building and Human Resource Development: Technical
assistance should be provided in an environment which is committed to building on the
expertise thus provided. This requires a strong leadership capable of developing and
implementing a human resource development strategy. Capacity building has to be
considered on a long-term basis. Training is most useful when immediately applicable in
the day-to-day work environment.
B. RATIONALE FOR IDA INVOLVEMENT
4.6    The proposed program is consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). The CAS was
discussed by the Board in conjunction with the SAC on February 8, 1996. It is designed to draw Cameroon
out of its current fiscal impasse and to progressively bring the economy onto a path of higher and
continuous growth. The Government and IDA agreed that long-term development can only be achieved by
substantially improving fiscal perfonnance in order to generate additional resources to finance priority
development expenditures and to cover debt service obligations. IDA assistance will thus concentrate on:
(a) stabilizing public finance and improving public sector efficiency; (b) creating an environment conducive
to private sector development; and (c) targeting poverty alleviation. The strategy was based on a Public
Expenditure Review conducted in April 1995, a Poverty Assessment carried out in April 1995, a Private
Sector Assessment to be completed in FY96 and a National Education Forum held in May 1995.
4.7   IDA's participation in the program will help achieve the CAS's objectives by: (a) contributing to
macroeconomic stabilization through divestiture of transport public enterprises aimed at reducing the drain
on the budget caused by subsidies and at increasing fiscal revenues generated by the profit-making public
enterprises after privatization; (b) promoting a favorable environment for private sector development by
revising the institutional framework in the public works' subsector, and shifting road maintenance
execution from force account to contract; and (c) alleviating poverty by developing labor-intensive methods
in road maintenance works and promoting participation of beneficiaries in sector management.
4.8   Four main reasons justify IDA involvement in the transport sector:
(a)    Because of the importance of the transport sector in the economy, the transport reform
program is at the core of adjustment. Therefore, IDA involvement in the transport sector
will strengthen the macroeconomic adjustment supported by the adjustment credit which
was recently approved.
(b)   IDA has built a wealth of experience in all aspects of transport management and services
delivery outside as well as in Cameroon. The Government will benefit from this
experience through IDA involvement in the seftor.
(c)   IDA presence in the sector has been and will continue to be catalytic among the donor
community. Although most donors support the sector-wide approach taken by the



Chapter 4 - IDA Assistance Strategy to the Transport Sector                          45
Government to prepare the transport reform program, this support remains fragile. The
chance of success of the reform program will increase if encouraged by donors coordinated
and committed by culture to the sector-wide approach involving donor coordination.
IDA's withdrawing from the sector would send to other donors active in the sector an
unjustified negative message on the capacity and commitment of the Government to carry
out its reform program.
(d)    The dialogue with the Cameroonian Government would be jeopardized would IDA
withdraw from the transport sector after several years of discussion on the transport sector
reform program and when the Government is committed to the transport sector reform and
expresses financing needs in support of the reform, that cannot be entirely fulfilled by
other donors. IDA's withdrawing would weaken those in the country who support the
reform and reduce the chance of success of the reform.
4.9    Although some Government decisions on the transport sector reform program are still pending, and
the ways some decisions taken by the Government are going to be implemented are still to be established,
the proposed project is justified by an overall satisfactory status of the reform process. Most important
decisions were taken by the Government, such as on the State divestiture of operations executed by public
enterprises. Liquidation of SOTUC shows the Government commitment to the implementation of its
decisions. Several other reforms will be implemented in the short term, such as contracting out the
dredging of the Douala port access channel and sale of public participation in CAMSHIP and
CAMTAINER. Other reforms to be implemented in the longer term are well underway, such as the
privatization of air and rail services. Postponement of the project until additional reforms are implemented
would unnecessarily increase the burden on the economy caused by the poor condition of infrastructure and
put the implementation of the program at risk by not providing the much needed financial relief to
accompany the short-term adverse impact of the reform.
C. IDA's ASSISTANCE STRATEGY TO THE TRANSPORT SECTOR.
4.10  IDA would assist the Government in implementing the transport sector reform program through
several instruments:
(a)    Transport Sector Technical Assistance Credit (Cr. 2703-CM, April 11, 1995): The credit
provided support in policy preparation, institutional development and helped to prepare the
sector investment plan. It finances the financial advisers who assist the Government in the
privatization or liquidation of CAMAIR, REGIFERCAM, CAMSHIP, CAMTAINER and
SOTUC. It will continue to accompany the implementation of the transport sector reform
program through various training activities, seminars, and provide additional technical
assistance to continue to prepare reforms that are going to be implemented on a long-term
period. The project status is summnarized in Schedule 6.
(b)    Transport Sector Project: The project will support the road maintenance component of the
sectoral investment plan and, in conjunction with the Transport Sector Technical
Assistance Credit, reform implementation in the road maintenance subsector.
(c)    Enterprise Divestiture and Competition Credit (FY97): The proposed credit would support
State divestiture of public enterprises including the civil aviation company and the railway
company.
(d)    Social Development Credit (FY98): The proposed credit would support poverty alleviation
through measures to stimulate growth and through a program of targeted interventions
which would include urban labor intensive civil works.



46                                                        Cameroon - Transport Sector Project
5. AGREEMENTS REACHED, COND1TIONS AND RECOMMENDATION
5.1    The following events took place before negotiations:
(a)    The MINTP's and MINT's FY96 Budget and PIP were adopted in consultation with IDA
(para. 3.35).
(b)    The financial advisers to assist the Government in the privatization of air services, rail
services, CAMSHIP and CAMTAINER were appointed (para. 3.4, 3.8, 3,13).
(c)    Services of the urban bus company were stopped and the liquidator was appointed (para.
3.10).
(d)    The Road Maintenance Account was created (para. 3.24).
(e)    A program to transfer progressively road maintenance from force account to contractors
was transmitted to IDA (para. 3.25).
(f)    An action plan for MATGENIE's restructuring was transmitted to IDA (para. 3.29).
(g)    An action plan for LABOGENIE's restructuring was transmitted to IDA (para. 3.31).
(h)    The Government indicated its no-objection to contracting out the dredging of the access
channel to the port of Douala (para. 3.32).
(i)    An action plan to improve financial and operational management of ONPC was
transmitted to IDA (para. 3.32).
(j)    ONPC's investment plan for FY96-00 was transmitted to IDA (para. 3.32).
5.2    The following agreements were reached during negotiations:
(a)    Letter of Sector Policy and Matrix of Action (para. 3.3).
(b)    Road works to be included in the project to have an ERR of not less than 12 percent for
paved and earth roads and 10 percent for rural transport infrastructure (para. 3.108).
(c)    MINTP's and MINT's budget and PIP to be adopted in consultation with IDA (para.
3.35).
(d)    Counterpart funds for any works contract financed from the credit to be deposited on a
Primary Roads Account in a commercial bank prior to the signature of the contract (para.
3.64).
(e)    Funds deposited on the Road Maintenance Account are sufficient for and applied to
financing maintenance of the roads included in the priority network which have been built,
rehabilitated or maintained with external financing since January 1, 1990 (para. 3.25);
(f)    Annual audits of the Road Maintenance Account and the Primary Roads Account be
transmitted to IDA (paras. 3.24 and 3.64).



Chapter 5 - Agreements to be Reached, Conditions and Recommendation                 47
(g)    Procurement, disbursement, accounting and auditing, and reporting procedue,
implementation arrangements, performance targets (paras. 3.50 to 3.61, 3.64 to 3.71, 3.73
to 3.76, 3.79 to 3.80).
(h)    A mid-term review to be carried out not later than December 31, 1998, and a meeting to be
organized every year with participation of sector stakeholders, Govemment and donors
representatives to review progress achieved in carrying out the transport sector reform and
investment program and to set up measures to ensure the efficient carrying out of such
program and the achievement of its objectives (paras. 3.80 and 3.81).
5.3    Conditons of Board Presentation.
(a)    Signature by the Government of the Letter of Sector Policy and the Matrix of Action
(para. 3.3).
(b)    Draft revised institutional and regulatory framework for urban transport tansmitted to
IDA (para. 3.10).
(c)    Funding program of the Road Maintenance Account established (para. 3.25).
(d)    Decree issued for the creation of MINTP's Tender Board (para. 3.33).
(e)    Performance targets agreed to improve financial and operational management of ONPC
(para. 3.32).
5.4    Condtions of Credit Effectiveness.
(a)    New revised institutional and regulatory framework for urban transport enacted (pam.
3.10).
(b)    Primary Roads Account and Road Maintenance Account opened and the inital deposit has
been paid therein. (para. 3.24 and 3.25).
(c)    Five regional directors of MATGENIE appointed. (para. 3.29).
(d)    LABOGENIE's operating expenditures reduced by  30 percent in relaton to
LABOGENIE's FY94 accounts (para. 3.31).
(e)    Reorganization plan for MNP submitted and satisfactory to IDA. (para. 3.33).
(f)    Completion of the Project Implementation Plan (para. 3.76)
(g)    Selection of the project's auditor (para. 3.70).
5.5   Suppkmental Letter. A supplemental letter will be attached to the Credit Agreenet to insure
that: (a) standard procurement times between critical steps are complied with (pan. 3.61); and (b) DGTC
shall have no investment execution responsibilities under the Project, nor any procurent re bilities
except those allowed under the Borrower's procurement code (para. 3.74).
5.6    Condition of Disbursement on the Paved Road Component. Collection of statistics on truck
loads has started at least at two weighing stations on the Douala-Yaounde road (para. 3.12).



48                                                         Cameroon - Transport Sector Project
5.7 Reconmmendation. With the above agreements and conditions, the proposed project is suitable for
an IDA credit to the Govermment of Cameroon of SDR 41.7 million (US$60.7 million equivalent), on
standard IDA termts.



Schedule 1                                                                                49
Schedule 1: Letter of Sector Policy and Matrix of Actions
I/     INTRODUCTION
a)     Cadre macro-economique
Dans le cadre du Programme de Relance Economique, le Gouvemement camerounais a adopte un
nouveau programme de r6formes au niveau des politiques, des institutions et des allocations des ressources,
pour restaurer la comp6titivite de 1'economie et, ainsi (i)inverser son d6clin et celui de la pauperisation de
ses populations de ces huit demi&res ann6es,(ii) r6tablir les equilibres macro-6conomiques, intra-sectoriels
et financiers et (iii) sortir de la crise economique que connait le pays.
Ce progranmme de reformes comporte quatre volets essentiels, A savoir: (i) le realignement de la
parit6 du franc CFA aux fins de ramener le taux de change effectif reel A un niveau compatible avec le
retablissement des 6quilibres macro-economiques et une croissance 6conomique durable; (ii) I'adoption
d'une politique de gestion de la demande interieure qui permette de juguler l'inflation, une fois effectu6s les
ajustements des prix resultant de la d6valuation; (iii) la reduction de l'intervention de l'Etat dans l'economie
et (iv) la poursuite du processus de liberalisation du commerce exterieur et 1'61imination de toutes les
contraintes pesant sur le libre fonctionnement des marches de l'emploi des biens et des services. Ce
programme de r6formes consacr6 dans le memorandum du Gouveonement de Mai 1994, marque un
tournant par rapport aux politiques menees dans le passe et qui, malgre certains progres, n'ont pu sortir le
pays du declin economique dans lequel ii est plonge depuis le milieu des anndes 1980. Il vise aussi a
corriger les desequilibres internes et a restaurer un climat propice au retour a la croissance.
Le programme de reformes a recu l'appui du F.M.I. dans le cadre du 4eme accord de confirmation
de septembre 1995, de la Banque Mondiale avec le cr6dit d'ajustement structurel approuv6 en f6vrier 1996
ainsi que d'autres bailleurs de fonds par des prets A l'ajustement structurel.
b)     Depenses publiques et investissements publics
Le nouveau programme de reformes eablit les priorit6s en matiere de d6penses de fonctionnement
et d'investissement et alloue une plus grande proportion des ressources aux d6penses non salariales et
particulierement aux secteurs cruciaux pour le d6veloppement a long terme A savoir: I'eucation, la sante,
I'agriculture et l'entretien des infrastructures de transport.
A cet egard une plus grande part des investissements publics devra etre financee sur des fonds
exterieurs et &re orientee vers des secteurs porteurs de developpement, s6lectionn6s sur la base de criteres
stricts de rentabilite conomique en consultation avec la Banque Mondiale.
c)     R6forme des entroprises publiques
Le d6sengagement de 1'Etat des entreprises publiques par le biais de la privatisation ou la
liquidation, constitue aussi un element de ce programme.  Les entreprises qui resteraient dans le
portefeuille de l'Etat auront, du fait de ce d6sengagement, une tres grande autonomie de gestion.
d)     Dettes et arrier6s des ontreprises publiques
Les dettes et les arri6r6s des entreprises publiques, d6ja repris par le Gouvernement, doivent etre
traites globalement dans le cadre des accords conclus avec la Banque Mondiale et le F.M.I. Les autres
dettes, y compris les indemnites de licenciement des personnels de ces entreprises, devront 6tro traitees dlans
le cadre de leur privatisation ou liquidation.



50                                                           Cameroon - Transport Sector Project
e)     Mise en oeuvre du Programme de Relance Economigue
Le premiere phase du programme de relance economique vise au retablissement de 1'equilibre
mon6taire et fiscal, a la liberalisation des marches, aux encouragements a la production, pour soutenir la
croissance et reduire la pauvrete.
La deuxieme phase est basee sur des reformes structurelles dans les secteurs productifs,
particulierement l'agriculture, de facon a assurer l'augmentation des exportations dans un nouvel
environnement economique competitif
f)     Traduction du Programme de Relance Econonique dans le Secteur des Transports
Des reformes structurelles et financieres fondamentales doivent etre entreprises dans le secteur des
transports qui est un secteur clef de l'economie, indispensable a la relance.
En effet, le secteur des transports souffre d'une faible perfornance des institutions, d'une politique
privilegiant les investissements a 1'entretien et d'une allocation des ressources inadequate. L'absence de ces
reformes constituerait une contrainte majeure pour le programme de relance.
De plus, les principaux modes de transport presentent une faible efficacite et des couits eleves
resultant: (i) d'un entretien insuffisant des infrastructures et des equipements, et (ii) d'une detdrioration des
perfornances techniques et financieres des entreprises publiques du secteur, ce qui constitue un obstacle
majeur a la competitivite de l'economie et un lourd fardeau pour les finances publiques.
Le Gouvemement adopte la presente strategie pour l'ensemble du secteur des transports, en
coherence avec le programme de Relance Economique.
II/    STRATEGIE DU SECTEUR DES TRANSPORTS
a)     Objectif
L'objectif du Gouvemement est d'assurer une meilleure efficacit6 et un d6veloppement durable et
coherent du secteur des transports pour que celui-ci contribue a la croissance de l'economie du pays, a la
r6duction de la pauvret6 et a la protection de l'environnement.
b)     Strateie
La strat6gie pour atteindre cet objectif est: (a) d'am6liorer la gestion des politiques sectorielles en
redefinissant le r8le de l'Etat pour le desengager des operations transferables au secteur prive et le
concentrer sur les taches de planification, de reglementation et d'laboration des politiques, (b) d'equilibrer
l'allocation des ressources entre investissements prudents et d6penses d'entretien en renfor,ant la capacitd
institutionnelle et en assurant une mobilisation permanente des ressources, (c) d'ameliorer l'efficacite du
secteur par une r6forme du cadre reglementaire visant la liberalisation, une meilleure competitivite et la
mise en place des mecanismes incitatifs de march6s et (d) de mettre en place une politique de protection de
l'environnement.
La strategie pour le secteur des transports est partie integrante et depend des programmes macro-
economiques et financiers y compris la strategie concemant les d6penses courantes, les investissements
publics, le nouveau cadre institutionnel du Gouvemement et le reglement des dettes et des arri6r6s des
entreprises publiques.



Schedule 1                                                                             51
III/ PROGRAMME SECTORIEL DES TRANSPORTS
Pour la mise en oeuvre de cette strategie, le Gouvemement a prepare un programme global, a
moyen terme a executer en plusieurs phases:
La premiere conceme la privatisation ou la liquidation des entreprises suivantes du secteur des
transports aerien, ferroviaire, urbain et maritime (CAMAIR, REGIFERCAM, SOTUC, CAMSHIP et
CAMTAINER), qui ont un grand impact sur l'efficacit6 du systeme des transports et les finances
publiques. Cette phase porte egalement sur la liberalisation du transport urbain.
La deuxieme phase portera entre autre sur:
1-    Un programme de rehabilitation du reseau routier, du chenal d'acces au port de Douala, du
chemin de fer et de l'outil portuaire,
2-    Un programme d'entretien de ces infrastructures de transport faisant recours a une plus
large privatisation de l'execution des travaux, au developpement des techniques a haute
intensite de main d'oeuvre et, pour l'entretien routier, a la definition d'un reseau prioritaire.
3-    Le desengagement de l'Etat du Matgenie et la restructuration du Labogenie et sa mise en
concurrence.
4-    La clarification des missions et la reorganisation des Ministeres charges des routes et des
transports.
5-    La restructuration de l'ONPC pour ameliorer les perfomiances portuaires et assurer les
services au moindre cout.
6-    La redefinition des missions du CNCC dans le sens d'un meilleur appui aux chargeurs.
7-    La liberalisation du transport maritime et du transport aerien.
8-   La facilitation du transport en transit dans le cadre du Programme R6gional de R6forme de
l'UDEAC.
9-    Une mise en coherence des differentes reglementations avec le programme de reformes.
IV/ PLAN D'ACTION
Le plan d'action du Gouvemement pour mettre en oeuvre cette strategie figure en annexe a la
presente declaration.



MATRICE D'ACIIONS DE LA DECLARATION DE STRATEGIE SECTORIELLE DES TRANSPORTS
ow    zw fl     ........................l
I  Ersrs               Rear~ l'eEiact darn enrxia, aeliorer    Liquidation/privdisation,
Pahl_s              hs finances publiques, aur0er l'enddtamet at
(SOThC,            hIaccrnlation darn ui*6ers;
RE GI FERCAM ,
CAMSHIP,
CAMTAINER)         _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                                                                              _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _
1.1    SOTUC              - Lquidation de la SOTUC                       -Accord du Gouvernement suir les modalites de liquidation                  Accord donne                22V02/95
- Cessation das adtivites datla SOTUC                                      Fait                        22V02/95
- Racruta t du liquidateur dt da IAsaiatant Tachinique aupres du Comite da  Fait                       2S104/95
Suivi
- Cloture aalqiato                                                          rcau de    l iquidation  cour  Novernbre 96
12X    CAMAIR             - Reatiruturation Icgale dt fintinciere de     - Recrutemernt d'un Conseiller Fuinancier                                  Fait                        16/02/96
lIqexloitation des services du transport aerien
- Choix da l'option de pnivatisation                                                                   Mau 1996
- Privatisation
_______________________            -Iancamant del'AO. porir la realisation de l'option choisie________                                    AnOti 1996
1.3    REGIFERCAM         -Mise en concession commerciale de             - Recrutaenat d'un Conseiller Financier                                    Fait                        6/12/95
I'exploitation
- Decision du Gouvemanment sur Ic devenir dt lea modalites d'exp,loitation des  Etude en cowrs         Juillet 96
services da transport ferroviaire de voyageurs.
- Lancement datla pres6eledion de t'actionnire de reference da la sociele  Dossier da preselection     Avril 96
conoessionnaire .                                                          pret
- Lancement de l'A.O. pouir le choix de l'actionnaiire de reference        Dossier d'AO. an cours da   Juillet 96
preparation
.                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~- Signature datla convention da concessioni                                                  Odtoore97       
- Entree an vigueur datla concession 
1.4    CAMSHIP            Ddsengaemnent de l'Etat dars kc capitali social  - Rcruztement d'un Conseiller Financier                                  Fait                        23/10/95o
- Misc en venta des actions                                                En cours                    Avril 96               <
..... :                                                                                    ................ ........ .vm  ..iCSH          |
1 AM ND n.t.Ea  t   o    liq.. idation  en..rapport.a.. c..ap.i.a..s....o......a...............
..   ....    .....   ..............   ...   ...    ..   .... .....   .pri..a.i..a.ion. .d a.a..
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __..... ....... . ....... .S.I



_        E           .         ..._'wSrRAThI                                                ACTIONS                                              ETAT
_  i DWACHlt)NS                 OBECflFS_                                                                                                   D'AVANICEMENT   -CALEWIR M
2    Reformes            Amelioration de r.fficacit6. Cltification des
s_t1me             responsabili. Renforanet de la capacite des
ressources humaines
2.1   MINTP               Recentrage des adivites sur la d6finition des  -Etude POE en vue de la reorganisation du Ministere des Travaux Publics  En cours
politiques, la pbnificaton, la progammation et
la budgetisation des inve_tisemenjs routien et    - Mise en oeuvre du POE
_  J~~~~~~~~ii-:vfril                                                                                                                                          |tiav ,~tr  z. Aobt 96
2.2    MINT               Concentrer le MINT sur la planification des    Etude des POE MINT en vue de la rorganisation.                           Recrutement du consuiant   Juillet 96
mvesitssmenAts du secteur, la programmation,                                                                           en cours
1'61aboration, rapplication et le suivi des  - Mise en oeuvre des POE.                                                                             D6cembre 96
politiques et des r6glementations sectorielles_
2.3   Organ         de   Assurer une bonne coordination des activit6s  - Cr6ation du Comit6 Intenninist6riel de suivi des programmes 6conorniques en  Fait
Coordination       d'ajustemnent du secteur des transports      tant qu'organe de d6cision du PST (CIS)
Fait
- Comrit Technique de suivi des Programmes Economiques en tant quorgane de
pr6paration des d6cisions du PST (CTS)
- Poursuite de la concertation technique avec les op6rateurs 6conomiques et les                      Continu
bailleurs de fonds par les autorit6s comp6tentes de l'Etat
- Cr6ation de Ia Cellule de Coordination du PST en tant Secr6tariat pour la
pr6paration et le suivi de son avancenent.                                Fait
3      Ernretien Routier
3.1    Efficacite         - Desengagement de l'Etat et anelioration de  - Privatisation progressive de lentretien routier et promotion des PME   Programne 1997-2000 en
Operationnelle    1'efficacite de l'entreien routier                                                                                      anmexe a la Intrice
- Mise en place dun systhne efficace de suivi, de contr6le des travaux et d'audit
externe                                                                                              Ao&t 96
En couns
- Promotion des techniques HIMO              - Elaboration de programmes sp6cifiques
- Allegernet des procedures de passation des  - Cr6ation de la Conmission Ministerielle des March6s                    A faire dan le cadre du
marchEs                                                                                                                PST                         21/02/96
3.2    MATGENIE           - Disengagement de l'Etat                    - Dinamfage effectif des directions regionales                                                       1DEcembre 1996
- Creation des filiales                                                                              Septenbre 1997
- Signature de la convention de privatisation pour l'unite pilote                                    Decembre 1997
33    LABOGENIE           - Restructuation et misc en concuTence                                                     _____DEcembre 1996



54                                               _Cameroon - Transport Sector Project
t        ~4  10                     
|   3        £1  §        j          
A:;tIi}    *iS   I   L  
Sf {. Ej *II                         :11.  F| 351
I f                       1                      ; 



DOMAINE                          STRATEh0.                                                   ACTIONS                                             ETAT               CALENDRIER 
IYACTIOhS               .           . - OBEC S          .        ___________________ .                                                     ILAVANCEMENT    - ___..___
4      Sou-Secteur 
Transports
T reafetres       _  _  _  _  _   _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _
4.1    1xhdurie    des    Am6liorer refflicacit6 de r'industrie des   - Hannonisation et sinplification de la fiscalite routiere               Reflexdon en cours         Juin 96
transports        transports routiers
- Ehniner les controles routies illegaux                                Suivi des contr8lea en      1996
cours de pr6paration
- Diminuer les coots de transport            - R6duction des tarifs douanieasur les vehicules de transport de marchandises  Refleidon en cours
- Professionnaliser le BGFT et revoir le r6le du CNCC dans cet organisme
- Etablir les conditions d'6galite de concurence
entre le rail et la route                   - Meutre en place le pesage routier
- Prot6ger le patnimoine routier            - Reviser le code de la route pour preciser les normes, gabarit, dimension et
poids de vebicules et leurs 6lements
Loi de protection du      Avril 96
- R6vision du cadre institutionnel pesmettant au MINT de coordonner les actions   patrimomne routier
des diff6wo ntsmervenants
A prendre en compte dans
- Mettre en place un code de responsabilisation en matiere d'accidents de la  le POE
route, de destruction des 6quipements routien de la route
- Renforcement de la securit6 routiere                                                                               Loi de protection du       Avril 96
patrinoine routier
4.2    Transport    de   - Am6liorer et faciliter le transit          - R6habilitation du systEme infonmatique douanier                        Audit du systenme existant
Transit                                                                                                                                 Choix du nouveau systame
en cours
- Mettre en place un systeme de transit inter-Etat des pays de 1UDEAC (TIPAC)   Convention UE signee
______________________________  ___________________________________________ I_ EtuEtudesoututsres enocos
4.3    Transport Urbain    - Dsengagement de l'Etat des op6rations    - Metre en place un cadre r6glernentaire et institutionnel incitatif i I'initiative   Projet  de  cadre   D6cembre 1996
priv6e                                                                  r6glernentaire disponible
- Lib6ralisation des activites                           .



DOMAINE                           STRATEGI           ...                                       ACTIONS                                              ETAVT              CAJENDRIER
LYACT1YONS                        O QBCTIPOB S   :      ::::I:                                                                                  AVA EE
5      Sous-Secteur
Portuaire
Pernmetre          - Amdtioration de l'efficacite               - Dragage d'entretien a 1'entreprises
d'activite
- Disengagement des activites non portuaires  - Cession, gestion des equipements logistique de la peche au secteur privd                           Ddcembre 1996
Organisation       - Mettre en place un organigramme pls        - Reexaminer la delEgation a dormer aux diff6rents paves et adoption de                               Septembre 1996
operationnel et adapte aux mission de l'ONPC  I'organigrammer
!er senwstre 1996
- Amdliorer les circuits d'infonnation
- Lanceent des etudes (resources humais s , gestion operationnelle et
financiere) d mise en oeuvre des reconmmndations:                                                    Decembre 1996
(a) A cour terme                                                                           Juin 1997
(b) Autres reconmmandations
- Redactiver la structure formelle de conceftation au niveau des Directeurs
P6riode du
Investissements    - Rentabilite fmianciere et economique       - Priorites: (a) dragage de rehabilitation (chenal, darse, pieds de quai); (b)                        contrat
restructuration/rehabilitation/rdnovation: (i) defenses d'accostage au port de                       programme
- Preservation de 1'equilibre financier de   Douala; (ii) rehabilitation des chaussees; (iii) restructuration du port de Douala
l'ONPC                                       et autres grosses reparations; (c) ouvrage d'accostage pour navires grumiers; (d)
systeme d'infonnation portuaire; (e) modernisation du terminal a conteneurs; (f)
- Non implication de l'Etat                  ouvrages de calibrage du chenal.
- Rehabilitation et am6lioration de l'existant
1995/1996
Maintenance        - Accroitre le niveau de la qualite des services  - Mise en place d'un programme de maintenance
- Mise en place et suivi d'un budget de maintenance actualis6
- Conventions demandant aux amodiataires d'assurer l'entretien de l'interieur
des magasins
1995/1996N
Charges            - Connaissance de la repartition des charges  - Metre en place une comptabilite analytique                                                         1
d'exploitation
- Reduction des charges                        Adaptation des charges des ports secondaires au niveau du trafic                                    1995/1996           N
Gestion            - Amnliorer les resultats                      Amelioration du controle a posteriori
finandiere 
- Mensualisation du budget
- Constitution des provisions pour charges a repartir
- Renforcement de l'outil informatique (equipement, formation, schema                                                     N
directeur)                                                                                                  r_



Schedule)I                                                         S7
|,1!X~~~ ]                                           i 



58                                          Cameroon - Transport Sector Project
_-I
3RA   _t   a~~
t  811 g 1I 
'  !_w}t _ _~~~



ROUTES RURALES
QTE                           QTE                           QTE                            QTE 
NATURE DES           PREV                           PREV                          PREV                          PREV                                       s
TRAVAUX             (km)        E     CM/E        (km)        E     CMIE         (km)        E     CMIE         (km)       E     CM
97                            98                            99                            2000
ENTRETIEN PERIODIQUE
Rechargementl                1 5                                                                                   1
Rehabilitation                1 500    100%                  2 000    100%n
ENTRETEEN COURANT
Cartonnage Manuel                                                               100                                                         100%
Rep. Rap.                              100%          1                100%           |              100%           |              100%
ROUTES EN TERRE
QTE                           QTE                           QTE                            QTE
NATURE DES    PREV                                  PREV                          PREV                          PREV
TRAVAUX             (km)        E     CM/E        (km)        E     CMIE         (kln)       E     CM/E        (kin)       E     CM
97                            98                            99                            2000
ENTRETIEN PERIODIQUE                        _
Rechargement                   362     100%                  623     100%                   136     100%                  706     100%
Rehabilitation                 362     100%                  342     100%                   190     100%                  184     100%
Rep. comp avec apport          938     100%                  731     100%                  1058     100%                  996     100%
Dforestage                     484     100%                  231      100%                   60     100%                  560     100%
ENTRETIEN COURANT
Cartonnage Manuel            1 652     100%                 1 775    100%                 2 017     100%                1 609     100%                    N
Rep. Rap.                    2 300               100%       3 290               100%      4 109               100%      4 995               100%
Rep./Comp. S.A.                595      50%       50%        482      50%       50%        755       50%       50%        425      50%       50%           O
Actions pontuelles           6 934               100%      6 934                100%      6 934               100%      6 934               100%
ROUTES BITUMEES                          __
97                            98                            99                           2000
E        R                    E         R                   E         R                    E         R
Cartonnage Manuel                      100%                          100%                           100%                          100%
Entretien courant
(chaussee)                                       100%                 25%       75%                  50%       50%                100%
Entretien periodique
(chaussee)                             100%                          100%                           100%                          100%
Interventions d'urgence                100%                          100%                           100%                          100%
d'urgence
Legende: E=Enterprises CMIE = Communaute villageoises/PME   R = Regie



60                                                                            Cameroon - Transport Sector Project
Schedule 2: Benefits Resulting from the Privatization of
Transport Public Enterprises
Impact of State Treasury of Restructuring Vs. Not Restructuring
(Post Devaluation)
US$ Million
1994       1995       Total      1996      1997       1998       Total        Total
1994/95                                    1996/98     1994/98
FOR ALL TRANSPORT SECTOR PEs COMBINED
With Restructuring                        (93.6)      (78.0)    (171.5)   (22.0)    (17.3)       (10.4)      (49.6)      (221.2)
Without Restructuring                     (79.9)      (33.7)    (113.7)   (63.4)    (25.9)       (20.5)     (109.8)      (223.4)
Net Impact on State Treasury              (13.7)      (44.3)      (57.9)     41.4       8.6        10.1        60.1
3 Yr. Payback as a % of Initial Net Restructuring                                                           103.8%
Cost
FOR EACH OF THE FOUR LARGEST PEs OF THE SECTOR
CAMAIR
WithRestmeturing(HighCase)                (25.1)      (38.1)      (63.3)    (3.5)      (2.0)      (2.0)       (7.5)       (70.8)
Without Restructuring                     (20.5)       (9.3)      (29.8)    (9.9)    (10.7)      (12.0)      (32.6)       (62.4)
Net Impact on State Treasuwy               (4.6)      (28.8)      (33.5)      6.4       8.7        10.0        25.1
3 Yr. Payback as a % of Initial Net Restructuring                                                            75.0%
Cost
SOTUC
WithRestructuring (High Case)             (11.3)      (19.4)      (30.8)    (3.1)      (2.7)      (2.6)       (8.5)       (39.2)
Without Restructuring                      (2.6)       (9.4)      (12.0)   (38.8)      (2.7)      (2.6)      (44.1)       (56.1)
Net hnpacton State Treasury                (8.7)      (10.1)      (18.8)     35.7       0.0          0         35.7
3 Yr. Payback as a % of Initial Net Restructuring                                                           190.1%
Cost
REGIFERCAM
WithRestructuring(HighCase)               (33.3)      (24.3)      (57.6)   (10.1)      (7.7)       4.4)      (22.1)       (79.7)
Without Restructuring                     (32.0)      (20.5)      (52.5)   (11.8)      (9.9)      (6.9)      (28.6)       (81.1)
NetlnIpacton State Treasury                (1.3)       (3.9)       (5.1)      1.7       2.2         2.5         6.5
3 Yr. Payback as a % of Initial Net Restructuring                                                         126.0%%
Cost
CAMSHP/SEIAR
CAMSHP
Net hnpact of Restructuring
AlreadylnitiatedbyGovt.                   (21.3)         7.7      (13.6)    (1.0)      (0.8)        1.5       (0.2)       (13.8)
SIMAR (Note 1)
NethnpactofS3lARRestructuring               0.0       (2.2)       (2.2)    (2.2)      (2.1)      (2.1)       (6.4)        (8.6)
Note 1: SIMAR, a 27% real estate subsidiary of CAMSHIP, is insolvent; CAMSHIP is liable for its pro rata share of SIMAR
debt.



Schedule 3                                                                                             61
Schedule 3: Action Plan and Timetable for the Transit Component of the UDEAC
Transport Reform Program
To be implemented from a date to be determined
1st quarter                 2nd quarter                    3rd quarter                       4th quarter
Meeting of the Regional   Starting technical assistance                                Meeting of the Regional Committee
Committee                 provided to the National
Committees
Choice of one or two pilot international
.Agreement on international                                                            itineraries to implement the TIPAC
itineraries                                                                            system on the basis of the outcomes of
.Assessment of National   Analysis of proposals           Choice of the type of logbook    tasks carried out during the third quarter
Committees                                                and guarantee documents,
.Distribution of Manual of
Procedures for TIPAC,                                      Analysis of proposals made by
training and discussion                                   specialized consultants and
technical assistants
Missions of specialized   1.  Facilitation: TIPAC logbook
consultants               2.  Telecommunication           . Adjustment of national
2.1 Definition of messages    regulatory frameworks
2.2 Choice of technical
alternative
2.3 Procedures
3. Preparation of the guarantee
system. Professionals aspects.
4. Implementation of the
guarantee system. Customs aspects
5. Technical agreement of
vehicles
6.  Harmonization of transport
regulatory framework
7.  Road user charge.
5th quarter                  6th quarter                    7th quarter                      8th quarter
Meeting of the Regional                                      Meeting of the Regional Committee
Committee
Assessment for the             Progressive extension to the   . Assessment for the implementation
implementation of the customs   entire UDEAC                 of the customs duty guarantee system
duty guarantee system
.Analysis of the need for
.Timetable for further steps                                 complementary measures
.Study of arrangements to be
included in the UDEAC legal
documents



62                                                          Cameroon - Transport Sector Project
Schedule 4: Action Plan to Overhaul the Customs System
1.    Proposals Concerning Personnel.
*      Organization of a seminar for senior Customs staff, focusing on remotivation and exercise of
leadership. Sensitization to professional ethics, preparation of disciplinary actions. Initiation to
management methods and preparation of performance charts. Participation by external specialists
(IMF, French Cooperation, IDA).
*      Campaign to ensure personnel are informed regarding behavior and its consequences in the
disciplinary arena: general information memorandum distributed to each staff member and
organization of meetings on the topic of discipline in all units, to be addressed by the office and
unit chiefs.
*      Publication in the media of the first results of the discipline campaign, and distribution of an
information memorandum to staff enumerating and detailing the cases considered. Disciplinary
assessment of all staff, both permanent and contract personnel.
*     Training plan for contract staff and for those engaged in surveillance.
2.    Proposals Concerning Organization.
*      tReactivation of supervisory structures; Inspectorate staff must participate in the actual supervision
of the services and propose both technical improvements and disciplinary action for flagrant cases.
*     In the context of the new organization chart of the Customs Directorate, a senior supervisory
officer responsible for "policing" the services should be assigned to the sector chiefs (equivalent to
regional or provincial directors). The first position created should be that of Douala. A temporary
alternative could be to assign members of the Inspectorate staff to detached duty in the sectors, on
the twofold condition that the officers thus detached not be "unwanted rejects" and that they be
provided with the necessary means (vehicles, gasoline, per diem).
*     Review of the draft new organization chart to consider:
* the need for reviewing the organization of the port of Douala (3 or 2 offices?);
* the actual workload of the services;
* the limitation on higher-level positions.
The reorganization project studied should not be viewed as a reduction of services to obtain a
larger number of management positions but as a concentration of resources on the points of
significance in terms of efficiency and budget performance, as regards both available staff (public
service constraint) and means (limited budget of the Customs).
*     Revision of the structure of the Douala services to prevent formation of a bloc outweighing the
Directorate.
Restudy of the port and airport offices' workload as measured by computerized means.
3.    Proposals Concerning Customs Computerization.
In addition to the highly technical proposals presented in the specific report on Pagode by the
technical assistant assigned to the Customs by French Cooperation, the following proposals should
be adopted:



Scheduk 4                                                                               63
Restoration of the terminals and essential links in the port and airport, particularly for manifests
and inspection in the port.
Production of daily statements of the services' activity and uncompleted operations.
Indication of duty and tax rates on declarations (will now be easier with application of the UDEAC
tariff, only four rates).
Progressive introduction of the computer module for selection of declarations, technical study and
choice of goods for streamlined inspection, establishment of a section for inspection guidance
staffed by officers from the inspection service and a section to handle admission on documents.
Progressive elimination of check-inspections and replacement by inspection structures (senior
inspection officer) assigned to the sector chief.
Creation of a task force made up of technicians and Customs officers to come up with proposals
for preparing the services for the new system.
Elimination of waiting time and study of future patterns.
Progressive implementation of the new patterns in preparation for the introduction of the new
computerized system.
Preparation of the specifications for the new computerized Customs clearance system.
Establishment of three or four control units based on the simple principle:
1 item unloaded = 1 manifest line = 1 declaration = 1 payment slip = 1 collection by means of
computerized and manual checking of manifests, by production and checking upon inspection of
declarations which have not yet been inspected or signed off, by verifying the signatures and
payment slips and by confirmation from the Treasury that payment has actually been made
(checking of slips against receipts).
*      Choice of inspection of goods on leaving warehouse or at the port gate; officers will no longer be
assigned to warehouses, which would free up 30 officers for assignment elsewhere; control of
outgoing goods could be based on declaration numbers and possibly computerized.
4.    Proposals Concerning Equipment.
*      In the context of the new computer options and the cost of essential rehabilitation work, transfer of
the services to more suitable premnises available in the immediate vicinity of the port should be
studied.
*      Special multiyear Customs reequipment program, 3 to 5 years, premises and equipment.
Specific effort by Finance Ministry and possibly donors for Douala as a priority, but also for the
most strategic points (major border offices).
*      Selection of data-transfer equipment, with emphasis on mobility of data rather than mobility of
staff.
Establishment of a radio network, provision of fax equipment for the major starting and crossing
points (particularly for transit traffic).



64                                                         Cameroon - Transport Sector Project
Reequipping of officers with weapons, truncheons, etc.
Reequipment with vehicles and motorcycles adapted for off-road use, pooling of vehicles and
surveillance of vehicle and cycle use to prevent private usage.
S.    Proposals for Maximizing Services Received Under the Contract with the Soci9te  Generale de
Surveillance (SGS).
Effective fbllow-up of abnornal cases reported by SGS.
Absolute obligation for inspectors to use at least the value indicated by SGS.
Performance by SGS of an additional random check of 20-39% of dossiers under the value
threshold to ascertain whether there has been excessive subdivision.
Improvement of the monitoring of coffee and cocoa exports by more frequent checks, and
elimination of the provisional declarations for wood.
Cancellation of specific exemptions from SGS checks granted to certain exporters.
Systematic weekly SGS-Customs coordination meetings, with official minutes to the Minister.
Provision of a Pagode terminal for SGS use for supervision of operations (observation without
intervention).
Ensuring security of the taking over of goods by assignment to SGS of the cargo and Pagode
manifests and the Customs clearance statements.
In the extreme case, transfer to SGS of the taking over of goods if the Customs does not
demonstrate its will in the matter within six months.
6     Miscellaneous Measures
Establishment of an emergency procedure for goods in transit to Chad and the CAR, with the aim
of reducing the hold-up time in the port of Douala from the present 30 days to 10 days.
Single bond for warehousing and temporary admission operations. Reduction of releases to banks.
Limitation or even elimination of the free point system, use of appropriate Customs systems.



1995/1996                    1996/1997                    1997/1998                     1998/1999                    1999/2000
Investment         Total   Total  Total  Own   Borrow To be  Total  Own   Borrow To be  Total  Own   Boffow To be  Total  Own   Borrow Tobe  Total  Own   Borrow Tobe
1996- Exere. Res.           sought Exere. Res.            sought Exerc. Res.           sought Exerc. Rcs.           sought Exerc. Res.            sought
2000
Studies                3721  3721   1777    752    305    720   1471    613        58    800    223    165      58             85     85                    165    165
Portresrutunring        200   200      82      82                  118    118
Berthrehabilitation     200   200    120    120                     80      80                                                                                                          0
Dep-sea port           2000  2000   1000    280             720   1000    200            800                                                                                            5
Containerterminal       751   751    335      30    305            208    150      58            208    150     58                                                                     Ca
Port mader's office     220   220                                                                                              70     70                   150    150
Channel rehabilitation  100   100      50      50                   50      50
Other                   250   250    190    190                     15      15                    15     15                    15      15                   15      15       -     
88898  4898    435    435                   2515    830           1685    450      50    400           1448     50    398   1000      50      50                  z4
Container terminal      798   798                                                                400           400            398            398                                        to
Timberstoragesrea       900   900    215    215                    685                   685
Besth reabilitation    1000  1000    220    220                    780    780
Deep-  pot            37000      0
Apr                    2000  2000                                 1000                  1000                                 1000                  1000
Channel rehabilitation   40000   0                                                                                                                                                      °
Other                   200   200                                   50      50                    50     50                    50     50                     50     50
5014  2714    500    500                    125    125                   639    125    514             811    125    686            639    125    514
Container taminal      1714  1714                                                                514           514            686           686            514            514
Port master's office   2300      0                                                                                                                                                      5
Otber                  1000  1000    500    500                    125    125                    125    125                   125    125                    125    125
Equipmad              23795 21782  10300    359   9400    541   1115    200              915   3734    200   3534            4912    200    686           3734    200   3534
Conainer terminal     11780  9767                                                              3534           3534           4712           686           3534           3534
Tug-boat               3000  3000   3000           3000
Dredge                 6400  6400   6400           6400
Scrvice boat            500   500                                  500                   500
Managmern              1115   1115    700    159            541    415                   415                                                                                            e
information system
Other                  1000  1000    200    200                    200    200                    200    200                   200    200                   200    200                   -
Infiasbucure         24310 21630   S548   2798   2250   3500   5900    400   3000   2500    400    400                       3080    400          2680   3702    462            3240    !
Chuael rehabilitation    6000  6000   3500                 3500   2500                  2500                                                                                            A
Driveways              7500  7500   4500   2250   2250            3000           3000
Berth Rehabilitation   5600  3920                                                                                            1680                  1680   2240                  2240   >
Warehouse rehab.        500   500      38     38                   100    100                    100    100                   100    100                   162    162                    1
Equipmentrehab.        1415  1415    415    415                    250    250                    250    250                   250    250                   250    250
Building rehab.         295   295      95     95                    50      50                    50     50                    50     50                    50      50
Other                  3000  2000                                                                                            1000                  1000   1000                  1000   0
Other                  1000  1000    200    200                    200    200                    200    200                   200    200                   200    200
Total                139738 57758 21760   5044  11955   4761  11326   2368   3058   5900   5646   1140   4506               10536   1060   5796   3680   8490   1202   4048   3240
Own res.: Own resources; Borrow.: Borrowing; Rehab.: Rehabilitation



66                                                            Cameroon - Trasnsport Sector Projedt
Schedule 6: Status of Implementation of the Transport Sector
Technical Assistance Credit
Activity                                Status of Implementation
Support to Institutional Development
Strengthening of the unit in charge of privatization in MINEFI  Contract underway
(foreign technical assistant)
Strengthening of the unit in charge of privatization in MINEFI  Terms of reference prepared
(local consultants)
Financial advisor for the privatization of CAMAIR             Contract underway
Financial advisor for the privatization of CAMSHIP and CAMTAINER  Contract underway
Financial advisor for the privatization of REGIFERCAM         Contract underway
Liquidator of SOTUC                                           Contract underway
Assistance to the monitoring committee for the liquidation of SOTUC    Contract underway
Financial and operational management of ONPC                  Contract awarded
Restructuring of MATGENIE                                    First phase completed. Second phase to
be defined based on restructuring plan
Restructuring of LABOGENIE                                    First phase completed. Second phase to
be defined based on restructuring plan
Support to the coordination of road maintenance activities   Completed
Support to the organization and financing of rural road maintenance    To be launched
Support to the restructuring of CNCC                         To be launched
Short-term assistance to the TICU                            To be launched
Assistance to MITh                                            Contact underway
Support to implementation of TIPAC                            Selection of consultant underway
Assistance to regional committees                             To be launched
Assistance to national committees                            To be launched
Institutional Development Studies
Restructuring of MINTP                                        Contract underway
Organization of dredging                                      Selection of consultant underway
Creation of a Road Fund                                       Completed
Simplification and harmonization of the road tax system      Completed
Capability of local transport consultants                     Selection of consultant underway
Operational and financial management audit of CAMAIR          Completed
Institutional study of urban transport                        Completed
Plan of action for road safety                                Completed
Restructuring of MINT                                         Selection of consultant underway
Reduction of Douala port costs                                To be launched
Policy Support
Support to urban transport privatization and liberalization   Completed
Regional logistic costs study                                 Contract awarded
Transport sector review                                       Completed
Revision of the Civil Aviation Code                           To be launched
Legal adviser for the liberalization of maritime transport    Completed



Schedule 6                                                                               67
Activity                               Status of Implementation
Project Preparation
Support to the improvement of the customs computerized information   To be launched
system
Relocation of the customs computerized information system  To be launched
Study of insurance system and organization of the TIPAC    To be launched
Establishment of a programming system for earth road maintenance  Completed
Mitigation plan for environmental issues in road mnaintenance  Selection of consultant underway
Engineering studies of a road maintenance priority program  Selection of consultant underway
Feasibility study of the program of rehabilitation of the railway track    Contract awarded
Feasibility study of the railway telecommunication program  Selection of consultant underway
Continuation of computerization of vehicle certification   Selection of consultant underway
Pilot operation for monitoring loads of trucks             Selection of consultant underway
Engineering study for the rehabilitation of ONPC's dredger  Contract awarded
Study for the relocation of the dry-yard                   Contract awarded
Analysis of dredging materials                             Contract awarded
Audit of transport public enterprises                      To be launched
Establishment of project accounting                        Selection of consultant underway
Project audits                                             Selection of consultant underway
Project accountant in the Transport Interministerial Coordination Unit  Selection of consultant underway
Monitoring of bridges' condition                           To be launched
Creation of a road data base                               To be launched
Detailed engineering studies of airport rehabilitation     To be launched
Establishment of a programmning system for paved road maintenance    Completed
Training and Seminars
Road maintenance initiative                                Completed
Supervision of road maintenance works                      To be launched
Procurement for road maintenance                           To be launched
Environmental issues in road maintenance                   To be launched
Liberalization of urban transport                          Completed
Transport Interministerial Coordination Unit               On-going
Young Professionals Program                                To be launched
Civil Aviation Sector                                      To be launched
Maritime Sector                                            To be launched
Meteo Sector                                               To be launched
Seminar on MINT restructuring                              To be launched
Implementation of TIPAC                                    To be launched



68                                                                                              Cameroon - Transport Sector Project
Schedule 7: Detailed Program Costs
Totals includingcmntingncies     Foreig        Local   Duties                                       Finacng
(CFAF nillimn)            95/96 96/597  97/98 98/99 99/00  Currency Curreacy  kTs:e IDA    UE    BMZ  ADB  CFD  GOVT  to be
Paved Roads
A. New Roads
Bamends-Batibo             1795   4726                          3982    2089                               5464           607
BachuG-Akakgbe-Mamfe       1653    981                          1728      906                              2370           263
Eseka-Lolodarf             2813                                 1846      967                              2532           281
Barnbui-Fundong            4395                                 2884     1511                       4395
B. Spot pavemenlt
Bamenda-Kakar-Nkambe       1095                                  718      376                 1095
C. Rehab. and Penodic maintenance
Financing to besought                          7594  13585    11747    3608    5824                                      5824      15355
DA Financug                                    3076             1705      525      84   1940                             1136
D. Emergency Programn
Kekemn-Bandjoun                          4932                   2734      842    1356  3111                              1821
Douala-Edea-Pourna                       2255                   1250      385      620  1422                              833
Garoua-Maroua                            4227                   2344      721    1163  2666                              1561
E. Structural Adjustment    320                                  141       179                 320
F. Spot ImpraJvement                      439   450    460       604      515      229                                    229       1119
G. Bridges                                727   745    762      1001      854      380                                    380       185.4
H. Studies                   75                 499    494       665      204      199    89                 68           206        706
I. Supervision and control  1181    360    34   907    899      2306      707      368   155   244   206   982            477       1317
J. TA to Pavcd roads Dept.  257    259                           316       97      103                413                  103
Sub-total                 13583   5876 12615 13270  13200    35971    14485   11088  9383  1659  5013 11415             13722      20351
Earth Romds
A. New Roads
Bamenda-Kakar-Nkarnbc      3054                                 1778    1276                  3054
Nditam-Ngambe-Tikar         464                                  270       194                              418            46
K-akar-Sabangari-Sonkolong        10149                         5902    4247                 10149
Beltoua-Garoua Boulai             11072 11295                  12994    9372                 22366
13. Rehabilitation
Nanga Eboko-Bouamn                       2162                   1046      614      502  1444                              717
Garoua Boulai-Meiganga                   1797                    870      511      417  1201                              596
Meiganga-Ngaoundere                      1892                    916      538      439  1264                              628
Bamenda-BclifanS                          681                    329       193     158   455                              226
Belffang-Wum                              148                     72       42       34    99                               49
TKumba-Loum                               796                    385      226      185   532                              264
Nyamboya-Banyo                   .       1524                    738      433      354  1018                              506
Ebolowa.Ambam                            6279  6431             6084    4466    2161                            10550   2161
iMbaridjok-Nanlga Eboko    1000                                  480      350      170          830                        170
IDA Second tranche                             3631             1757    1032       843  2426                             1205
C. Periodic maintenance
Boumnyebel-Bokito           167                                   97       70                   167
Yaoundc-Kikot               244                                  142      102                  244
Foumbarl-Jakini             167                                   97       70                   167
Ayos-Bonis                 2443                                 1422    1021                  2443
Fownban-Nyamboya            222                                   129      93                  222
Rtmnaining of the priority Iroads        2255  4237             3141      1845    1506 4338                              2154
D. Disenclavement ofrural areas
Mbalmayo-Eseka              244                                   142      102                 244
Remainingof the network                  1507  2271   2320      18U4    3177    1037                                      1037      5062
E. Bridges                  281           651   738    754      1123      936      364                      253           392       1778
F. Road maintenance        3020   4865  6193                   13223      854                             12670          1408
equipment
G. Supervision and control    1169   1594  2232  1286    137    4502     1382      533  1222  3538          193   623    554         287
Sub-total                 12474  27680 39411 18594   3211    59525   33144    8701 13999 43424            13533 11173  12114        7126
Ruml Roads
A. Government Program
Disenclavement ofrural area   1601    744   127   778           1458     1239      552                                   3249
Spot rehabilitation         739    620   316   519               984      837      373                                   2194
Ayos-Nguelermendouka                248         259              227      194       86                                    507
B. Program STABEX          4547   6986                          6710    4823                 11533
C. IDA Prograrn                          1808  1851   1839      2688     1576    1288  4264                              1288
D. CFD Program                     3722  3801                   2326    3918    1279                             6244    1279
F. Training and sensitization       l18   242   248   1987        82      40-4    121   486                                121
G.Studies and supervision   761    920   451    92       94     1150      969      198   220  1327                572      198
Sub-total                  7648  13358  6744  3746   1987    1562,4   13960    3898  4970 12860                  6815   8837



Totals inudng couttingencies      Foeign  Local   Duties                                                                             Finmcg
95/96 96/97  97/98   98/99 99/00  Currency Cumrency &        IDA  UE   BMZ ADB  CFD  FAC OECF UN  AGCD   BEN  GOVT   to be
Taxes                                                           EF.            sought
AiUr -t t
ARehabilitatimofDoualsairport     1810    4305  2772             5013    2363    1511                           7376                             444    1066
B. EquipnentMuDua-Salak    285                                    195       12      78                                                                    285
C. Equint Yde-Nsimalen       69                                    47        3      19                                                                     69
D Airsafety ndmeteo         292    288     246   300              421      479     225                                            451                     674
Sub4otal                    646   2097    4551  3072             5676    2858    1832                           7376              451            444    2094
Ranl Transport
A Lociomoves                      5741                           3929      250    1562                                                    4180           1562
B.Teleonmmications                3192    6501  6658            11188      716   4448              11904                                                 4448
C. Dibaba bridge                          4328                   2347    1245      736                          3592                                      736
D. Rehbiihtation of Yaounde-Kaa   4850    8409                   7194    3811    2254              11005                                                2254
E. RehabilitaionKaa-Belabo   -                 16464  16836    18067    9572    5661                                                                    5661      27639
Sub-total                        13784   19238 23121  16836    42725   15594   14660               22908        3592                      4180          14660     27639
Port Authority
A Tug-boat                        3643                           2358    1285                       3643
B. Dredger                        7M                             5029    2742                       77
C. Seviceboat                              585                    400      26      159                                                                    159       426
D. Rehabihtation of                       5565  3799             5077    2695    1592                                                                    1592       7M
carrigewsys
E. Chsmel rehabiltation           4002    4079 4177  4273        9168    2816   4546                                                           11984    4546
F. Contsinertemuinal                      5299 9050   3700       9789    5192    3068                                      12733                2247    3068
G. Berthrehabihtation       265    946    2077 2837              3322    1761    1041                                                           1005    1041       4079
El Aprons                                 1237          1295     1374     728    430                                                                     430       2101
1. Tinber stor4e area                      266   880              621     330      195                                                                    195       951
J.MIS                       846    506                            184     898     270                                                            152     270        929
Sub-total                  1111  16868   19106 20743   9268    37322   18472   11302               11415                   12733               15389   11302      16258
Ministry of Public Works
InstitutionslDevelopment            49     126   119    80        203      95       75   298                                                              75
Equipinent                   35     76      59    36              135       15      56    47                                                              159
Studies                     121    136     140   143     16        75     369      111    48                                                             507
Trainingandseminars                122     124   127    130       309      95      101   403                                                              101
Buildings                   209    210     215   220              391     317      145                                                                   854
Sub-total                   364    594     663   645    226      1113      891    488   797                                                              1695
Ministry of Tranport
Institutional Development   129    222     357   365    167       646     345     248   572                           420                                248
Studies                                     45    46     47        19      92       28   110                                                              28
Trainin and sminars                149     220   207    140       228     345      143   573                                                              143
Equipment                   160    607     489   311     61      1114       71    443   444                                                              1185
Buildings                   246    247     316   323              519     421      192                                                                   1132
Sub-total                   534   1226    1426  1253    415      2526    1274    1054  1699                           420                               2736
PPRT                       1590   3769    4403  2450             7249    3078    1885  5222  3719   268              1119                                1885
Customs and Transit
A TIPAC                                     95    43     22        98       30      32   128                                                              32
B. Customs
Institutional Development                  147  372    354        535     164      175                                                                   175        699
Trainil4                                    37    99     27        99      31       32                                                                    32         130
Equipment                                        493    505       683      44      272                                                                   272        727
Sub-total                                  279  1007    908      1415     269      511   128                                                             511       1556
TOTAL                     37951  86150  108435 87901  49050   209147  104924  55418 36197 62563 39604 24948 28957 1539 12733  451    4180 15833   69554           72929



70                                                                                              Cameroon - Transport Sector Project
USSn5million              Tots including contingencies        Foreign   Local    Dutis                                          Financing
95/96 96/97  97/98  9S/99  99/00  Cwmsny CWency   Tas IDA  UE   BMZ ADB  CFD  GOVT  to be
Paved Roads
A New Roads
Banends-Batibo             3520   8384                            7808    4096                              10714          1190
Bachuo-Akagbe-Mamfe        3241   1923                            3388      1776                             4648           516
Eseka-Lolodarf             5516                                   3620      1895                             4964           552
Bsnbui-Fundong             8617                                   5655    2962                         8617
B. Spot pavement
Bamenda-Kakar-Nkambe       2146                                   1409      738                 2146
C. Rehab. and per maintenance
Fiancingtobesought                               14890  26638    23033    7074   11420                                     11420     30107
IDA Financing                                    6031             3343     1029    1658  3804                              2227
D. Emergency Propn
Kekem-Bandjoun                            9670                    5361      1650    2659  6100                             3571
Dousla-Edea-Pouma                         4421                    2451      754    1216  2788                               1632
Garoua-Marous                             8289                    4595      1414    2279  5223                             3061
E. Structural Adjustment    628                                    277      352        0         628
F. SpotImprovement                         861    882    902       1184     1011     450                                    450       2195
G. Bndges                                 1426   1461   1493      1962      1674     745                                    745       3636
H. Studies                   147                  978    969       1304     401      389   174                132            404      1384
I Supervision and control  2315    706      67   1778   1763      4522      1386     722   304   479   404  1925            936       2583
J. TAtoPavedroadsDept       504    508                             620       190     202                810                 202
Sub-total                 26634  11522  24734  26019  31764    70531    28401   21741 18398  3254  9830 22383             26905      39904
earth Reads
A New Roads
Bumends-Kskwr-Nkambe       5988                                    3486    2502                  59S8
Nditarn-Ngmnbe-Tikar        910                                     530      380                              819             91
Kakar-Ssbangri-Sonkolong          19900                           11573    8327                 19900
Bertoua-Groua Boulai              21709  22146                   25479   18376                 43855
B. Rehabilitation
Nanga Eboko-Bouarn                        4239                    2051      1204     983  2832                              1407
GarouaBoulai-Meirg                        3524                     1705     1001     818  2355                              1170
Meignga-Ngoundere                         3710                     1795     1054     861  2479                              1231
Bamenda-Belifang                          1335                      646      379     310   892                              443
Belifing-Wum                               290                      140       82      67   194                                96
Kuriba-Loum                               1561                      755     443      362  1043                               518
Nymboya-Banyo                             2988                     1446      849     693  1997                               992
Ebolowa-Ambam                            12313  12610             11929    8757    4237                           20686   4237
Mbandjok-NanpEboko         1960                                     941      686     333         1627                        333
IDA Second tanche                                7120             3445    2024    1652  4758                               2363
C. Periodic mAintenance
Boumnyebel-Bokito           327                                     190      137                  327
Yaounde-Kikot               479                                    279      200                  479
FouwIan-Jakiri              327                                     190      137                  327
Ayos-Bonis                 4791                                   2789    2002                  4791
Fouban-Nyamnboya            436                                    254       182                 436
Remainingoftheprioritylroadi              4421   8308             6159    3617    2953  8505                               4224       9925
D. Disenclavement of rnal ma
MbImayo-Eseka               479                                    279      200                  479
Remaing of the network                    2954   4454   4549      3694    6230    2033                                     2033
E. Bridges                  551           1277   1446   1478      2202      1836     714                      496            769      3487
F. Road maintenance        5921   9539  12143                    25928      1675                            24842          2760
equipment
G. Supervision and control    2292   3126   4377   2521    267    8828    2710    1045  2396  6937            378  1222   107         562
Sub-total                 24459  54274  77277  36460   6295   116714   649S8   17061 27450 85144            26536 21908  23753       13973
Rumi Roads
A Governmet Progant
DisenclavementafrWalxea   3139   1459    248   1525               2858    2430    1083                                     6371
Spotrelibilitation         1449   1216    620   1017              1929     1642      731                                   4302
Ayoo-Ngaclemendouki                 486            508             446      380      169                                    995
B. PRormSTABEX             8917  13697                           13157    9457                 22614
C. IDA Prognm                             3544   3630   3712      5270    3091    2526  8361                               2526
D. CFDPrcn                         7298   7452                    4561     7682    2508                            12243   2508
E Studies andsupervman     1492   1803    884    180   14        2256      1900     388   432  2603                1121    388
F Traing   sensitization            232    474    485               161      792     238   953                              238
Sub-totl                  14997  26192  13223   7345   3896    30637   27372    7643  9745 25216                  13363  17327



Totad iOuig cmingscic               Fcrei    Local   Duties                                                                              Financing
95/96 96/97  97/98  98U9   99/00  Cncy  CuencY & Taxes IDA  UE               BMZ  ADB  CFD  FAC OECF UN  AGCD  BENEF GOVT to be tou&
Air b
A Reaab. dD wsba airpc             3548   8442   5435              9827    4634    2962                             14463                               871   2091
B.EqUimD.EMrouM,Sala&    559                                        383       24     152                                                                        559
C. Eqwpnat Yda-Nsimala    134                                        92        6      37                                                                        134
D.Airsift mdmeteo           573    564    481   57                 826      939     441                                                885                    1322
Subtotal                   1267   4112   8923   6023              11130    5604    3592                             14463               885             871   4107
RIl Tranat
AL Locraotve                      11257                            7704      491    3062                                                       8195           3062
B. Tdelxm icatioc                  6259  12748  13054            21937      1404    8721               23341                                                   8721
C. Dibunhbe,biie                          t486                    4602    2442    1443                               7044                                     1443
D.Rebabilitgticrnof Yacmdc-Ka      9511  16488                    14107    7472    4420                 21578                                                 4420
E.RdwabilitatjnKaBclabo                         32282  33012    35425    18768   11100                                                                        11100       54193
Sub-total                         27027  37722  45336  33012    83774   30577   28745                  44919         7044                      8195          28745        54193
Pwt Atrlty
A Tug.oa                           7143                           4623    2521                           7143
B.Drdw                            15239                            9862    5377                         15239
C. Serviceboa                             1146                      784       50     312                                                                        312         835
D. Rabjlitationao                        10911   7450              9956    5284    3121                                                                       3121        15239
E. C_el  iahlithiia               7t46   7997   8190   8379    17977    5522    3913                                                                          8913
F. Catainertamial                        10390  17745   7255    19194   10130    6016                                           24967                 23499   6016
G. B   rebabilitatim        520   1855   4074   5562              6514    3454    2042                                                                 4406   2042         7998
H Ap=                                     2424           2539      2693     1427     844                                                               1971    S44         4120
I.Tiubediapam                              521   1726              1218      647     332                                                                        332        1865
. MIS                      1659    991                              360     1760     530                                                                299    530         1821
Subtotal                   2178  33074  37463  40673  18173    73131   36220   22160                   22382                    24967                 30174  22160        31878
Mbistrry efPub  Ww
Itnal Developnmet                    95    246    233    156        399      186     146   584                                                                  146
Equip2mt                     68    149    115       71              264       30     110    92                                                                  312
Studies                     237    268    274    280       31       147      724     218    95                                                                 994
T umingadsan                        239    244    250    256        605      186     198   791                                                                  198
Bildina                     410    412    421    431                767      622     285                                                                       1674
Sub-total                   714   1164   1300   1265    443       2183      1747     956  1562                                                                3323
Mish"*fTr _npet
Inzibtal Dvelvonmit         252    436    699    716    328        1267      677     496  1121                              824                                486
Studies                                     88      90     92        37      179      54   216                                                                   54
Trainingnd ninas                    292    432    406    274        447      677     281  1124                                                                 281
Eqlipnent                   313   1191    958    610    120        2185      140     S69   870                                                                2323
Builinp                     482    4S5    619    634               1018      825     377                                                                      2220
Sub-total                  1047   2404   2796   2456    814       4953     2498    2067  3330                               824                               5364
PPRT                       3118   7389   8633   4804              14214    6036    3696 10239   7293   525                 2193                               3696
Custom  Nd Trant
A TPAC                                     186      85     43       192       59      63   251                                                                  63
B. Cusois
Instittica   Develoiminmt                 289    730    695       1048      322     343                                                                       343         1371
Trailnig                                    72    193      52       194       60      64                                                                         64         254
Equipnt                                            967    990      1340       86     533                                                                       533         1425
Sub-total                                  547   1891   1780      2774       527    1001   251                                                                1001         3050
TOTAL                     74414 167157 212619 172356  96177   410092  203969  108662 70974 120890 77655 48918 56778 3017 24967  885   8195   31045 136381                142999



72                                                        Cameroon - Transport Sector Program
Schedule 8: Outline Terms of Reference of Technical Assistance
A. Establishment of a Planning Mechanism in MINTP
1.    The objective is to assist MINTP in the use of the planning and programming mechanism
established under the paved road maintenance programming study financed by Germany and the earth road
maintenance programming study financed by IDA in 1995. The consultant will carry out short-term
missions to adjust the mechanism on the basis of new data collected by MINTP, to assess users' capacity
and define training requirements, to evaluate the outcome of the mechanism and the consistency between
the road maintenance budget and the planning and programming strategy used to establish the mechanism.
Four two-week missions of a transport economist will be necessary per year during three years.
B. Improvement of Human Resource Management in MINTP and MINT
1.    The consolidation and sustainability of the gains attained through the other reform measures will
largely depend of complementary achievements in the area of personnel management. An improved
personnel management system, that ensured appropriate hiring, promotions, discipline and retirements
within a framework of appropriate training and resource usage, is required to ensure efficiency and
effectiveness. The consultant will undertake the following tasks:
(a)  to assist the Director of General Administration (DGA) to computerize personnel records;
(b)  to assist the DGA in reconciling its computerized personnel records with the Treasury
payroll data;
(d)  to support the design and implementation of a personnel management infornation system;
(e)  to review the organizational and administrative structures and procedures for personnel
management at the DGA with a view to identifying the need and scope for, inter alia: (i) the
decentralization of the personnel management function; and ii) the establishment of a
management audit section in the Division of Personnel Management services.
f)  to support the design of a feasible implementation program for developing a managerial
culture in the civil service.
C. Execution of a Plan to Improve Road Safety
1.    Revision of the Legal Framework. The objective of the technical assistance will be: (a) to
inventory and update the legal documents; (b) to prepare the legal documents to implement the Highway
Code; (c) to prepare a simplified Highway Code understandable by illiterate people.
2.    Creation of a Data Bank. The objective of the technical assistance will be: (a) to collect and
analyze existing data; (b) to revise the form filled by the police agents at the location of accidents; (c) to
identify a first program of dangerous spots and recommend measures to improve road safety at these spots.
3.    Information and Sensitization Program. The objective of the technical assistance will be: (a) to
launch a media campaign to inform and sensitize road users on road safety issues; and (b) to define a
teaching program for schools.
4.    Training. A training program will be carried out aimed at: (a) MINT's agents responsible for
monitoring the use of the road network (compliance with rain barriers, truck overload regulation, dangerous
spots); (b) establishment of a training program for teachers on road safety; and (c) MINT's agents
responsible for the collect and treatment of data.



Schedule 8                                                                                 73
D. Detailed Engineering Studies for Road Rehabilitation and Supervision of Civil Works Execution
5.     The objective of the technical assistance is: (a) to carry out the detailed engineering studies for the
second year of the road rehabilitation program to be financed under the project; (b) to prepare tender
documents; (c) to assist MINTP in the procurement process; and (d) to assist MINTP in supervising works
execution. Detailed terms of reference are available in the project files.
E. Training and Sensitization Program to Involve Beneficiaries in Rural Roads Maintenance
A. Sensitization
This subcomponent is intended to promote the program. The objectives are as follows: (a) encourage people
to participate, to stimulate competition; (b) create a positive attitude towards community participation on the part
of Government leaders and techicians; (c) prepare the conmunity to take over maintenance; and (d) prepare the
cormunity to plan priorities.
The sensitization process is designed to encourage the rural commnunities involved to participate in managing
the routine maintenance of their road system. This is accomplished as follows: (a) By conducting a local
prornotional campaign centered on the opportunities available to rural communities to obtain outside financing
and the criteria goveming eligibility for it. (b) An NGO that is well established in Cameroon and offers a wide
range of activities to local participants (missions, projects, existing groups, communities...) will be selected for
this promotional campaign. (c) Government experts from subdivisions of pilot zones will be included in the taget
groups to demonstrate the uniqueness of the content of the stategy.
-  By setting up and organizng local road maintenance commitees (CLER) as an expression of community
interest, so that they may receive technical and management training from the "operator-desiger" NGO, through
its representatives. Local road maintenance committees will set up their own organization, including statutes,
operating procedures, and so forth. They will advise the 'Vtrainer/sensitizer" NGO of the proposed roads for
which they are requesting outside financing.
Details on the target groups involved, information channels, primauy messages to convey, and an estimate of
the cost for promotional activities are provided in the project files.
R Traning
B.1.       General Description
Training should involve the heads of the road subdivisions designated for the "rural roads" component and
local participants responsible for road rehabilitation and  int ae, in that order.
The training component, including promotion, will be managed by a training unit, through a "specialized
opeator-designer" NGO. Iniially, and for the first three (3) months, the work will involve preparation of
teachig aids and organization of courses. This will lead into an initial program for training the prsm   actually
performing the construction and the comnniies responsible for mainteae, as part of the management cycle of
each '"project."
The information and training unit will comprise at least the following technical staff (a) one road ngineer;
(b) two trainers in labor-intensive works; (c) four persons in charge of community promotion activities, one per
pilot zone; (d) one person in charge of logistics; (e) one graphic designer and illustrator of promotional materials
and manuals. The description of these positions is available in the project's files.



74                                                        Cameroon - Transport Sector Program
B.2.      Activities and Schedule of lmplementation
A detailed description of the 12 major information and training activities is provided in the project files. The
timetable for the execution of the inmfonnation campaig and training program is prested in Schedule 10.
C. Strengthening of the Merchant Shipping Department
1     Services required under this component will include:
(a)    seminar on the UDEAC Code of Merchant Shipping adopted by the UDEAC countries in
1994;
(b)    Training on the MARPOL convention and legal assistance to prepare its implementation;
(c)   training on environmental issues in the port and maritime sector.
D. Preparation of an Action Plan to Develop the International Trucking Industry
D.1. Vehicle Rehabilitation Study
3.     Objectives. The study targets trucks owned by operators engaged in regional transport to land-
locked countries.
5.    Scope of Work. The scope of work is as follows:
(a)   to document the mechanical condition of the vehicles owned by the private operators
engaged in regional transport;
(b)   to provide a general census of the vehicles in operational condition, discriminating by
makes and model groups which could be earmarked for rehabilitation according to one of
the following criteria:
(i)    cost of rehabilitation below 20% of CIF vehicle cost for a similar new vehicle, and
(ii)   number of similar specifications examined;
(c)   to estimate the need for components and spare-parts for rehabilitation of selected makes,
models taking into account the TIPAC criteria for vehicle specifications;
(d)   to outline preliminary procurement specifications for the components and spare-parts
selected;
(e)   to prepare cost estimnates for rehabilitation works discriminating between capital costs
(spare-parts and components) and labor costs;
(f)   to select, for project purposes, a number of vehicles from the above census, which could
meet Cameroon demand for regional transport, within the lowest rehabilitation cost.
D.2. Workshop Capacity Study
4.     The objectives of the workshop capacity facilitation program are:
(a)   to encourage cost-effective workshop  capacity through encouragement of small
entrepreneurs in automotive maintenance;
(b)   to provide the ground-rules for workshop capacity investments in coordination with the
credit intermediation program;
(c)   to complement the vehicle rehabilitation and training sub-components of the trucking
component of TIPAC by providing low-cost capacity for vehicle rehabilitation; and
(d)   to encourage human resources deployment in technical skills.
5.    Scope of Consulting Seruces. The scope of work is as follows:



Schedule 8                                                                              75
(a)   to documents the coverage, cost and shortcomings of the automotive repairs and vehicle
maintenance industry;
(b)   to analyze the impact and cost of (a) above in the trucking industry and in vehicle
operating costs in general;
(c)   to assess the capacity for vehicle rehabilitation (as described in the vehicle rehabilitation
terms of reference); of the present facilities and the advantages of encouraging small
entrepreneurs;
(d)   to assess the human resource base engaged in the automotive repairs and maintenance
industry; and to assess the need for training in mechanical skills, the schools and/or
institutions supplying mechanical skill training; and in general the present environment,
availability and quality of mechanical skill training.
6.    The above analyses and assessments should lead to preparation of a set of proposals concerning the
following specific areas:
(a)    human resource existing in the automotive repair and maintenance industry;
(b)    regulatory environment of the automotive distribution, spare-parts dealership, and
automotive repair and maintenance industry; adequacy, shortcomings and proposals for
improvement;
(c)   technical proposal to encourage participation of small enterprises in industry development
and access to financing and training;
(d)    general workshop capacity facilitation, liberalization, and encouragement in the light of the
findings of the financial intermediation and vehicle rehabilitation studies and in the light of
the proposals for training contained in the terms of reference for preparation of the TIPAC
initiative.
G.3. Manpower Training Assistance
3.    Identification of the type and scope of assistance needed will be necessary at the inception of the
manpower training and assistance program. The identification should be part of the technical assistance for
manpower training and should materialize in a short study of manpower and training needs as a first step to
organizing the delivery of assistance.
4.     The end product of the training assistance should be a private sector oriented program complete
with manpower targets, types of training, institutions involved, types of curriculum and cost estimates
aimed at encouraging private sector skills in trucking, mechanical workshop capacity and freight-
forwarding.
D.4. Terminal Facilities Study
3.     Objectives. The purpose of the Freight Facility Study is to assist in the analysis of proposed
investments and financial prospects of the transport industry in Cameroon, with particular reference to
operations, revenues, costs, management, and administration of possible low cost freight facilities in
Douala and Ngaoundere. To this end, the study shall provide:
(a)    forecasting of commodity movements, domestic and international;
(b)    operational, economic and financial analyses of possible freight facilities;
(c)   liaison with the workshop capacity study; and
(d)    determination of recovery mechanism for the proposed investments.
4.    Scope of Consulting Services. The study should have the following scope:



76                                                             Cameroon - Transport Sector Program
(a)    assess current transport services, for domestic and regional transport investigating the
possibilities for consolidation and unitization of cargoes, for operating regional door-to-
door freight-forwarding services and, for developing transit storage services (containers);
(b)    determine the needs for simple low-cost freight centers providing services to the trucking,
shipping and transport industries, identifying the necessary investments and
complementary measures required for its economic and financial justification.
(c)    conduct economic and financial analyses to determine the appropriate scale of the freight
consolidation centers;
(d)    draw the technical plans for establishment of the freight consolidation centers up to the
preliminary engineering stage, and prepare the terms of reference, estimates and technical
specifications for the final engineering;
(e)    formulate an organization plan for the management of the facilities and elaborate terms of
reference for a subsequent management contract as required;
5.     The Consultants' recommendations shall include but not be limited to the following aspects:
(a)    cargo handling methods;
(b)    transfer facilities required at Douala and at inland locations, including container facilities,
inland clearance depots, etc.;
(c)    workshop facility requirements (if any); the consultants will liaise with the mechanical
engineer carrying out the workshop capacity study.
6.     A financing plan and a work program will be prepared. The financial cost estimate for all the
works pertaining to the solution recommended will be broken down to show local and foreign exchange cost
components.



Schedule 9                                                                            77
Schedule 9: Training
A. Support to Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs)
Available Experience
1.    A training program of SMEs was carried out under the Road Maintenance Program financed by
the European Union. This program consisted of:
(a)    Enterprise management and determination of prices during the period where bids were
prepared: The training was provided by a consulting firm.
(b)    Execution of civil works: The training was provided by the consulting firm supervising the
execution of the works.
2.    The use of foreign expatriates made the cost of training very expensive and unsustainable on a long
period. Therefore, a different approach is proposed:
(a)    A local training firm would be appointed to prepare a training program based on short
units (for example half an hour per theme).
(b)    The program would be prepared in consultation with the SMEs to determine the training
needs. It would be extended on the basis of new requirements identified by SMEs.
(c)    Training would be open to all SMEs and not only SMEs which have been selected to
execute works. SMEs would have to contribute to the cost of training.
(d)    Training would be carried out at a decentralized level. Regional NGOs would be appointed
to provide training to SMEs.
(e)    The local training firm would coordinate training activities carried out by NGOs. The
training firm would receive assistance from local consultants highway engineers.
(f)    A Steering committee would be created to monitor the implementation of the training
program. The committee would consist in representatives of the private sector (Syndicate
of civil engineers, private banks among others) and the public sector (Ministry in charge of
SMEs, Ministry of Public Works). The committee would be supported by short-term
experts (training specialist, highway engineer).
B. Restructuring of Customs
The project would include training of customs' agents both in technical computer-related skills and
in the new customs administration procedures being introduced in conjunction with the new computer
system. The training would focus on on-the-job training to improve capacity of customs' agents in overall
customs administration and operations, as well as enable customs' agents to participate in and assume
progressive responsibility in computer administration and operations, software maintenance and
enhancements, and communication management.
The information technology training would include:
(a)    project management, system analysis;



78                                                         Cameroon - Transport Sector Project
(b)    hardware and system software operations, remote diagnostics, file back-up, network
configuration and management;
(c)    application software modalities and operations, programming logic and structure,
maintenance, and enhancement techniques;
(d)    database management; and
(e)    computer-based auditing techniques.
The following table describes the type of training on information technology to be provided and the
employees targeted.
Type of training                Target                      Duration
Users training on customs   Managers, supervisors and    3 weeks per type of application
computerized applications   terminal operators
Technical training on customs   System administrators, data  3 weeks per type of application
computerized applications   base administrators, system
analysts, programmers, facility
operations staff, business
systems trainers, infornation
center specialists
Executive computer awareness  Freight forwarders, port   2 days
managers
Office automation           Managers, analysts and       I week per type of application
(spreadsheet, word processing,  clerical staff
text retrieval)
Project management (including  Senior staff              3 weeks
team leadership)
System analysis             System analysts              6 weeks
Programming (3rd and 4th    Programmers                  6 weeks per type of language
generation language)
Computer operations         Computer operators           3 weeks
Technical support (hardware,   System programmers and    3 months
communications, operating   database administars,
systems)                    hardware engineers



Schedule 10                                                                                   79
Schedule 10: Project Implementation Schedule
a      .................. ..... .. ..................... ....... ............   ..
a
e'a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
-                                                                             I
0EL 
C4                                                                              0 .
a                                                   .I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
a   a
E
aama                                                                       IL~~3
IP
I6
z~~IIiiI
a  C 0.
Ij  Ia IA I   I                            '



80                                                           Cameroon - Transport Sector Proiect
X.__-
4i
.N    ..           ...       ....                  ...    ..
0
E  -                                           
;<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
U.a
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Acnc
I                                 Am
m ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~           
a~~~~~~~~~~InI;I   nI   -t 



Republic of Cameroon
Transport Sector Program
Implementation Schedule of the Road Maintenance Component
1996             I1996                                       1199719899
1D    Task Name                                      0       03     04101           020Q3          04      01      Q2     03      Q4   Q1         02     03 0T     4     Qi      Q2     03
I    PROGRAM FY96I
2        Selection of consultants 
3            Preparation of coi and tors
4            Launching of bkids17
5            SubmIssion of bids
I            Bid opening and award of contract
7SIgninig of contrac
9        Detailed enginering study
3survey on roads cornditin
10            Preparation of bidding documients
I1       Tender of works
12            Launching of bids13
13            Submission of bids
14            Bid opening and award of contract
15           signing of contract
16       Earth roads
17            Execution of warks
is            Supervision
19       Paved roads
20            Executlon of wvork
21            SupervIson3
22
Task                                    Summary                                  Rolled Up Progress
Project: RBI                          PorsRoldUTakSm ryprogress
Date: 4/13138Pors                                                               ole   pTs                                umr
Milestonie                              Rolled Up Milestone (



Republic of Cameroon
Transport Sector Project
Impementation of the Rural Transport Infrastructure Component
l       1996        1        1997         1       1998                 1999                 20
ID   Ta*Nne                                   Q40 Q1 I Q2I Q3IIQ4   QI Q2  03I Q41 Q1I Q2  Q3I Q4.1 i                   QI  Q3rQ4I     QI 00Q2
I    RURAL ROAD PROGRAM
2        Selection of sponwr                       yE
3            Preparation of loi and tors
4            Launching of bids                              714
5            Submission of bids
6            Bid opening and award of contract
7            Signing of contract
3        Training and Sensitization
9            Execution of training and sensitrzatio
10       Tender of works
11           Preparation of bidding documents
12           Launching of bids
13           Bid opening and award of contract
14           Signing of contract
16       Works
16           Execution of works
17           Supervision
13   Training and Sensitization                                                                           _
19       Execution of training and sensitization
Task                                  Roled Up Task
Project: Rural RoadComponent         Progress                               Rolled Up Milestone <2>
Date: 4/13196                        Milestone                              Rolled Up Progress
Summary



Republic of Cameroon 
Transport Sector Project 
Implementation of the Rural Transport Infrastructure Component
1996                    1997                  1998                 1999                 20  
ID   TaskNarne                                Q4   Q1   Q2  Q3   Q4   Q1   02   Q3   Q4   Q1   Q2   Q3   Q4   Ql  Q2  Q3   Q4  01  Q2
20   Tender of works
21       Preparation of bidding documents
22       Launching of bids
23       Bid opening and award of contract
24       Signing of contract
26   Works
26       Execution of works
27       Supervision
Task                 _        _        Rolled Up Task
Project: Rural RoadComponent          Progress                               Rolled Up Milestone                                                             co
Date: 4/11396                        Milestone                               Rolled Up Progress
Summary



84                                                         Cameroon - Transport Sector Project
Schedule 11: Program Performance Indicators
Transport Sector Reform Program: Indicators in accordance with the targets m the matrix of action attached to
the letter of sector policy.
Investment Program
Overall Program: Rate of execution.
Road Maintenance
Financed by IDA      Paved roads           Earth roads
rehabilitation       rehabilitation
FY97                 300 km                615 km
The FY98 and FY99 program for rehabilitation and periodic maintenance will be determined on the basis of
the road maintenance programming studies underway.
Port: Channel of the port of Douala rehabilitated and maintained at -7.5m.
Management performance targets as agreed before Board presentation.
Project Implementation
Road Maintenance: Average overrun on cost of road maintenance contracts and on delays in contract
execution.
Rural Roads:-Degree of satisfaction of beneficiaries. Level of involvement of beneficiaries in rural road
maintenance.
Sector Monitoring Indicators (The reference indicators for FY95 and before will be provided in the Project
Implementation Plan)
Road Maintenance
Kilometers of roads maintained or rehabilitated. Average cost of road maintenance by contract.
Road maintenance budget execution. Funds allocated to the Road Maintenance Fund, deposited on the special
account and disbursed. Traffic on roads maintained or rehabilitated under the project.
Number of road maintenance contracts signed with local small and medium enterprises and number of men-
days generated by these contracts.Distribution between foreign and local contractors of resources allocated to
road maintenance. Number of employees in MINTP.
Port                                         Rail
Volume of traffic. Characteristics of ships calling at Volume of traffic.
Douala. Cargo handling perfornance. Waiting time  Equipment availability and productivity.
at buoy. Berth occupancy rates/Financial     Financial ratios.
ratios.Tariffs/Productivity of employees.    Productivity of employees.
Airports                                     Civil Aviation
Volume of traffic/Financial ratios/Tariffs.  Volume of traffic/Share of traffic between
CAMAIR and local private operators.
Financial ratios/Tariffs/Productivity of employees.



Schedule 12                                                                                           85
Schedule 12: IDA Supervision Plan
Timing                        Main Activities                          Skills Required       Staff Weeks
12/96      Project launch workshop:                                 Project management      3
Review of all key procedures of project executing agencies,  Financial analyst   2
procurement, disbursement, statement of operating expenses,  Highway engineer    2
compliance with credit covenants, monitoring of environmental   Sociologist      I
impacts and systematic client consultation
4/97       Major Supervision:                                       Project management      3
Review of implementation status:                        Financial analyst        2
(a) contractor's performance                            Highway engineer         2
(b) progress and outcome of studies; performance of consultants   Sociologist    I
and counterparts;
(c) execution of action plans;
(d) monitoring of environmental impacts and systematic client
consultation
9/97       Donor meeting                                            Project management      2
(a) review overall progress of each component; identify issues  Highway engineer  2
and agree on follow-up actions;
(b) review and reach agreement on arrangements for training
4/98       Major Supervision:                                       Project management      3
Review of implementation status:                        Financial analyst        2
(a) contractor's performance                            Highway engineer         2
(b) progress and outcome of studies; performance of consultants   Sociologist    I
and counterparts;
(c) execution of action plans;
(d) monitoring of environmental impacts and systematic client
consultation
9/98       Donor meeting                                            Project management      2
(a) review overall progress of each component; identify issues  Highway engineer  2
and agree on follow-up actions;
(1,) review and reach agreemnent on arrangements for training
4/99       Major Supervision:                                       Project management      3
4/00       Review of implementation status:                         Financial analyst       2
4/01       (a) contractor's performance                             Highway engineer        2
(b) progress and outcome of studies; performance of consultants   Sociologist    I
and counterparts;                                       Environmental specialist   I
(c) execution of action plans;
(d) monitoring of environmental impacts and systematic client
consultation
9/99      Donor meeting                                            Project management       2
9/00      (a) review overall progress of each component; identify issues  Highway engineer  2
9/01      and agree on follow-up actions;
(b) review and reach agreement on arrangements for training
4/02      ICR mission                                              Project management       3
Financial analyst       I
Highway engineer        2
Sociologist             I
Enviromnental specialist   I



86                                                        Cameroon - Transport Sector Project
Schedule 13: Economic Evaluation of the Overall Road Maintenance Program
1.    The costs and benefits of the road maintenance program are presented in table 1. The road
maintenance strategy and the unit costs for maintnance are summarized in the subsequent paragraphs.
Table 1: Cost-Benefits Flows of the Road Maintenance Program (CFAF billion)
Paved Roads
Savings on Vehicle   Savings on Road   Total Benefits
Operating Costs    Maintenance Costs
Year 1                    -              -12.9         -12.9
Year 2                 61.7               -2.8          58.9
Year 3                 59.3               -6.1          53.2
Year 4                 56.9               -1.9          55.0
Year 5                 49.6                  -          49.6
Year 6                 51.8                  -          51.8
Earth Roads
Savings on Vehicle   Savings on Road   Total Benefits
Operating Costs    Maintenance Costs
Year 1                    -              -13.8         -13.8
Year 2                 23.4              -13.8           9.6
Year 3                 30.7               -9.3          21.4
Year 4                 30.3               -6.9          23.4
Year 5                 29.7                  -          29.7
Year 6                 29.7                  -          29.7
A. Paved Roads
2.    Cost of operations have been estimated dependmg on the transversal profile of the roads, the type
of carriageway and the geo-climatic area. The distribution of the network according to these criteria is
available in Project files..
3.    Full Maintenance.  Six maintenance operations will be carried out on paved roads: (a)
cantonnage; (b) signaling; (c) repair of bridges, ditches and culverts; (d) cleaning of shoulders; (e)
patching; and (f) periodic maintenance. The unit cost of maintenance operations are available in Project
files.
4.    Simplified Maintenance. Four maintenance operations will be carried out on paved roads: (a)
cantonnage; (b) signaling; (c) repair of bridges, ditches and culverts; (d) and patching. The unit cost of
maintenance operations are available in Project files.
B Earth Roads
5.    Full Maintenance.  Eleven maintenance operations will be carried out on paved roads: (a)
cantonnage (C); (b) light reshaping (RR); (c) grading with compacting without addition of material (RSA);
(d) grading with compacting with addition of material (RAA); (e) regravelling; (f) rehabilitation; (g)
cleaning of shoulders; (h) starting cantonnage; (i) signaling; (j) rain barriers; and (k) repair of bridges,
ditches and culverts. Costs of operations have been estimated depending of the transversal profile of the
roads and the geo-climatic conditions. All details on engineering design and cost of operations are in Project
files.



Schedule 13                                                                         87
6.    Simplified Maintenance. Six maintenance operations will be carried out on earth roads and link
roads: (a) cantonnage (C); (b) light reshaping (RR); (c) reshaping with compacting without addition of
material (RSA); (d) spot regravelling; (e) rain barriers; and (f) repair of bridges, ditches and culverts. Road
lengths according to transversal profile and geo-climatic area and cost of operations are available in Project
files.
C. Vehicle Operating Costs (CFA per vehicle-Idlometer)
Road surface  Type of vehide             Road condition
Good     Fair    Poor   Very Poor
Paved        Privatecar            81       87      97
Taxi                 84       94     117
Pick-up             185      206     256
2-axle truck        349      395     446
3 -axle truck       469      550     639
Minibus             304      339     421
Earth        Private car          100      133     165         169
Taxi                 109     155     201         203
Pick-up             242      308     374         385
2-axle truck        424      604     734         756
3-axle truck        632      786     940         966
Minibus             393      469     544         562



88                                                                     Cameroon - Transport Sector Project
Schedule 14: Economic Evaluation of the First-Year Road Maintenance Program
1.      The economic evaluation was carried out using the H1DM  Model set up by the World Bank. For
each year of the economic analysis period, the model calculates the road deterioration due to the traffic and
the maintenance strategy applied to the road, the cost of the maintenance, and the vehicle operating costs
based on the new road condition. The model compares the total costs, including rehabilitation costs,
maintenance costs and vehicle operating costs, in the with- and without-project scenarios. Table 1 presents
the maintenance strategy in the with-project scenario. Table 2 presents key parameters of the economic
analysis and provides the Economic Rate of Retum and the Net Present Value for each road in the
program. Table 3 presents the cost-benefits flows. Table 4 presents the results of the sensitivity studies.
Table 1: Road maintenance Strategy in the With-Project Scenario
Earth Roads                                  Paved Roads
Road                 Rehabilitation   Regravelling   Reshaping without    Reshaping    Rehabi-  Periodic
addition of material  with          litation   Maintenance
addition of
material
Nanga Eboko-Bouam   1996 and 2006   every 3 years   once a year           once a year
Garoua Boulai-       1996 and 2006   2000          twice a year
Meiganga
Meiganga-            1996 and 2006   2000          twice a year until 2000   once a year
Ngaoundere                                         and once a year after    after 2000
Ebolowa-Gabon        1996 and 2006   every 4 years                       twice a year
Bertoua-Batoun       1996 and 2006   every 3 years                       twice a year
Batouri-Ngoura       2006           1996 and                              twice a year
1996 and 2006   every 4 years
Bamenda-Belifang     2006           every 8 years                         once a year
Belifang-Wum         1996 and 2006   partial every                        once a year
4 years
Kunba-Loumn                         2000           twice a year until 2000   once a year
and once a year after  after 2000
Garoua-Maroua                                                                          1996      every 10 years
Douala-Edea-Pouma                                                                       1996     every 6 years
Kekem-Bandjoun                                                                          1996     everv 7 years
Table 2: Key Parameters of the Economic Analysis
Road                    Length   Traffic      Percent        Average          Total        Economic     Net
(kIn)   (AADT)  Heavy Traffic  Rehabilitation    Rehabilitation   Rate of    Present
Cost            Cost         Retum       Value
Nanga Eboko-Bouain         145       139           60.0           10.3               1.5      143%        8.8
GarouaBoulai-Meiganga      115        68           39.7           10.8               1.2       29%        0.9
Meiganga-Ngaoundere        152       130           36.1            8.6               1.3       79%        4.6
Ebolowa-Gabon              108       144           18.0           10.3               1.1       37%         1.2
Bertoua-Batouri             90       220           62.7           11.7               1.1      311%       14.3
Batouri-Ngoura              21        47           57.4            5.0              0.1       104%        0.4
Bamenda-Belifang            49       229            4.8            9.7               0.5       14%        0.0
Belifang-Wum                17       149            2.0            6.0              0.1        18%        0.0
Kunba-Loum                  47       288           24.3           11.7               0.5       23%        0.3
Garoua-Maroua              150       599           16.0           20.0               3.0       22%        3.1
Douala-Edea-Pouma           80      2975           21.5           20.0               1.6       90%       14.6
Kekem-Bandjoun              70      1650           13.0           50.0               3.5       62%        4.3
AADT: Average Annual Daily Traffic
The average rehabilitation cost is expressed in CFAF million per km. The total rehabilitation cost is
expressed in CFAF billion. The net present value is expressed in CFAF billion discounted at 12 percent.



Schedule 14                                                                                         89
Table 3: Annual Costs-Benefits Flows (CFAF million)
Earth Roads
Nanga    Garoua   Meiganga Ebolowa Bertoua  Batouri Bamenda Belifang  Kumba    Total
Eboko    Boulai  Ngaoundem  Front.  Batouri  Ngoura  Belifang   Wum    Loum       Earth
Bouam   Meiganga             Gabon                                                Roads
1996       -1,493    -1,242    -1,307  -1,112   -1,053  (0,105)  (0,475)   -1,102  (0,550)   -7,439
1997        2,418     0,471     1,255   0,537    3,361   0,118    0,011    0,031    0,149    8,351
1998        1,874     0,415     0,961   0,520    3,093   0,117    0,032    0,023    0,124    7,159
1999        0,879    0,352      0,709   0,311    2,559   0,114    0,115    0,025    0,133    5,197
2000        2,779   (0,315)    (0,174) (0,319)    3,326  (0,037)    0,117    0,024  (0,140)    5,261
2001        2,050     0,836     2,161   1,069    2,594   0,154    0,118    0,019    0,449    9,450
2002        0,984     0,731     1,477   0,689    1,979   0,132    0,120    0,019    0,286    6,417
2003        2,930     0,543     1,367   0,423    3,498   0,108    0,122    0,019    0,173    9,183
2004        2,128     0,385     1,359  (0,299)   2,749   0,099  (0,163)    0,019    0,132    6,409
2005        1,088     0,306     1,381   1,120    2,128   0,100    0,576    0,019    0,126    6,844
|ERR         143%      29%        79%     37%    311%    104%       14%      18%      23%     100%|
Paved Roads
Garoua   Douala   Kekem    Total                       Total    Total    Total
Maroua    Edea   Bandjoun  Paved                       Paved    Earth   Program
Pouma              Roads                     Roads   Roads
1996    -3,000    -1,600    -3,500   -8,100            1996   -8,100   -7,439  -15,539
1997     0,282     0,939    2,348    3,569             1997    3,569    8,351   11,920
1998     0,354     1,390    2,709    4,453             1998    4,453    7,159   11,612
1999     0,456     1,977    2,580    5,013             1999    5,013    5,197   10,210
2000     0,551     2,440     1,993    4,984            2000    4,984    5,261   10,245
2001     0,645     2,678     1,321    4,644            2001    4,644    9,450   14,094
2002     0,748     1,253     0,543    2,544            2002    2,544    6,417    8,961
2003     0,870     4,564   (0,994)   4,440             2003    4,440    9,183   13,623
2004     1,012     4,790   (0,341)   5,461             2004    5,461    6,409   11,870
2005     1,170     4,920   (0,084)   6,006             2005    6,006    6,844   12,850
2006   (0,759)    4,814   (0,087)   3,968              2006    3,968              3,968
2007     2,229     4,106   (0,090)   6,245             2007    6,245              6,245
2008     2,529     0,176   (0,093)   2,612             2008    2,612             2,612
2009     2,762     2,400   (0,096)   5,066             2009    5,066              5,066
2010     2,584     0,428    -1,159    1,853            2010    1,853              1,853
2011     2,030   (0,349)     0,852    2,533            2011    2,533             2,533
2012     1,398   (0,360)     0,087    1,125            2012    1,125              1,125
2013     0,658   (0,371)   (0,109)   0,178             2013    0,178              0,178
2014     0,087    -1,832   (0,112)  -1,857             2014   -1,857             -1,857
ERR          22%       90%       62%     52%              ERR       52%     100%     74%
Table 4: Sensitivity Studies
Basic   Investment  Benefits  Investment +20%   Investment +30%   Investment +40%
Scenario    +20%      -20%      Benefits -20%    Benefits -30%    Benefits -40%
NangaEboko-Bouam          143         115       110           88               66              47
Garoua Boulai-Meiganga     29          19        18            9                1              <0
Meiganga-Ngaoundere        79          62        59           45               31               18
Ebolowa-Gabon              37          26        23           13                0              <0
Bertoua-Batouri           311         255       244          199              156              119
Batouri-Ngoura            104          78        73           52               31              11
Bamenda-Belifang           14           7         5            2              <0               <0
Belifang-Wum               18           7         3           <0              <0               <0
Kumba-Loum                 23          14        12            5              <0               <0
Total Earth Roads         100          71        67           52               36              22
Garoua-Maroua              22          19        18           15              12                9
Douala-Edea-Pounia         90          78        76           56               56              46
Kekem-Bandjoun             62          47        45           18               18              <0
Total Paved Roads          52          44        42           27              27               20
Total Program              74          54        52           30               30              20



90                                                              Cameroon - Transport Sector Project
Schedule 15: Economic Analysis of the Rural Transport Infrastructure Program
1.     Three benefits were quantified in the economic analysis: (a) value added in new agricultural
production; (b) reduction in product losses during transport; and (c) savings in transport costs for both
normal and induced traffic other than resulting from (a) and (b). Several benefits were not quantified, such
as enhanced food security and enhanced ease of access to health services, extension and teaching.
2.     The first benefit is the most important in quantitative terms, as it represents about three fourths of
the benefits that the rural infrastructure program is expected to generate. Restricted access to areas of
agricultural production to inadequate infrastructure has three consequences: (a) during all seasons of the
year, but especially during the rainy season, farmers cannot conveniently access to their fields and are
unable to fully harvest their crops which are left to perish; (b) in areas where transportation has to be head
loaded, the quantities that can be taken out of the fields are limnited, which hamper on any desire to expand
production; and (c) the quality of the produce which reaches the markets is lower because produce was not
harvested in time or because of deficient transportation. The study assumed that the country's food
production would increase by 1.6 percent per annum without the program and 3.1 percent per annum with
the program. The percentage of value added per type of agricultural product and per type of road condition
is given in table 1.
Table 1: Value Added on Agricultural Products (%)
Road impassable     Road impassable      Road impassable during    Road passable
at any season    during the rain season    part of the rain season  at any season
Food crops         75                  60                       50                    25
Cotton             60                  40                       20                    0
Cacao              50                  25                       0                     0
coffee             50                  25                       0                     0
3.     Induced traffic benefits account for an additional 15 percent of total program benefits. Induced
traffic is generated by increased non-farm earnings. As the mobility of small holder farming households
and small scale businesses increases through the availability of cheaper transportation and higher level of
transport services, added value will result from increased supply and demand of goods and services.
Demand for non-farm services which are important to the rural poor and are especially provided by women
include food processing, such as cooked snacks, processed roots, beverages, palm oil extraction, brewing,
and manufactured produce, which have low investment requirements. Also, demand for wage labor for
weeding, planting and harvesting, and fbr field leveling, ridging and preparation, should increase. So will
demand for farm inputs.
4.     Average Economic Rates of Return (ERRs) are provided in Table 1 per region and type of works
for the priority rural transport infrastructure network.
Table 1: Average ERRs (%) per Region and Type of Works
Work  Adamaoua Centre  Est  Extreme  Littoral  Nord   Nord   Ouest    Sud    Sud Ouest   Total
type                        Nord                  Ouead
RA     43.2    58.7  30.1   45.6    42.0   50.0   72.8    72.5    25.9      25.3     48.9
TL     13.0   56.7                  43.9   57.0   31.2    48.4             .51.7     41.1
RM      19.9   42.0         37.9    56.1   20.0   47.5    47.0    24.7      33.5      35.6
OU                                                        24.0                        24.0
Total   21.3    48.4  30.1   43.3    53.9   24.0   52.3    56.0    24.9     34.5      39.9
RA: Light Reshaping; RL: Reconstruction; RM: Heavy Reshaping and Compacting; OU: Reopening



Schedule 15                                                                                                          91
Table 2: Sensitivity Analysis for a Sample of Roads
Road                             nitial   Invesmt   Invedmnt -   Tranmport   Transport      Agicual          Agricultural
ERR       +10%          10%        benefits    benefits   banfits +10%      benefits -10%
+10%        -10%
Doundera-Kobossi                  47.4        44.8         50.2        48.5        46.3           49.1            45.6
Gazi-Inter NI-Gbatoua-Godole      26.6        24.8         28.9        28.2        25.0           27.1            26.2
Nkolfoulou-Elat                   36.6        33.7         39.9        37.4        35.9           39.5            33.8
Sa'a-Int D48-Polo-Eyene-Int P13   45.6        42.6         49.1        46.2        45.0           48.2            42.9
Inter P7-Assok-Akomndong          23.5        21.7         25.7        24.6        22.5           24.6            22.4
Mbanga-Mombo                      99.1        90.9        109.2       101.2        96.9          105.7            92.4
Ebonsi2(IntN9)-Oveng             124.1       112.5        138.6       125.3       123.0          135.2           113.1
LoumGare-Loum Chantier           124.5       113.5        137.9       127.3       121.6          134.1           114.8
Koutaba-Massiessier               25.4        23.3         27.3        25.7        25.2           27.5            23.2
BatchamChef-Barnkui              194.4       178.3        214.0       200.0       193.1          200.0           177.8
Kwakwa-Bai Banya                  43.3        40.1         47.1        43.8        42.8           46.3            40.3
Inter 101-Inter 121               53.2        49.3         58.0        54.0        52.5           56.8            49.6
Djottin-LAssin                    54.2        50.2         59.0        55.7        52.7           57.0            51.4
Guilekong-Foreke-Dschang          43.0        39.5         47.3        43.5        42.6           46.5            39.4
Bangangle-Sanya                   46.5        42.8         50.7        46.9        46.0           50.0            42.9
Modeka N8-Mungo River             46.2        42.9         50.1        46.7        45.6           49.2            43.1
Sensitivity studies were carried out only for a sample of roads and not on the entire 10,000 km priority
network which comprises about 800 roads.



92                                                              Cameroon - Transport Sector Project
Schedule 16: Economic Evaluation of the Rehabilitation of the Access Channel
to the Port of Douala
1.     Benefits expected from the rehabilitation of the channel are the following:
(a)    for cargo ships, an increase in the average freight transported to and from Cameroon
resulting either in a reduced number of ships or in an higher occupancy ratio of ships, both
resulting in a reduction of the average maritime transport cost per ton of freight;
(b)    for tramps, an increase in the size of the ships resulting in a reduction of the average
maritime transport cost per tone of freight;
(c)    reduced waiting time bome by the ships when entering the channel or leaving the port;
(d)    reduced waiting time for berths.
2.     Key parameters of the economic study are:
(a)    Traffic: Three scenarios were considered.
Tons                  Annual Growth Rate
Scenario          1995        1995-2000      2000-2005     2005-2020
Export        Mini             1,780,931        1.5           0.9            0.9
Medium          1,789,779        2.5            1.5           1.5
Maxi            1,822,974        5.0            2.6           2.6
Inport        Mini             1,876,980        0.1           0.1           0.1
Medium          1,878,145        0.9            1.0           1.3
Maxi            1,882,379        1.5            1.8           1.9
Total         Mini             3,657,911        0.8           0.5           0.5
Medium          3,667,924        1.7            1.3           1.4
Maxi            3,705,353        3.3            2.2           2.3
(b)    Ships characteristics. 18 types of ships were considered.  Their characteristics vary
depending on the channel depth. The evolution between characteristics is progressive
depending on the type of ships. Detailed data are in the Project Files.
(c)    Transport costs: Costs were estimated at sea and at berth, depending of the size of the
ships. Detailed data are in the Project Files.
(d)    Waiting time for high tide and for berth. Detailed data are in the Project Files.
3.     Dredging costs include the rehabilitation cost and the annual maintenance cost. Quantities were
estimated on the basis of a physical model to simulate the channel.
Rehabilitation                 Maintenance
Channel depth    Quantities        Cost         Quantities       Cost
(m)          (103 m3)     CFAF million    (103 in3)    CFAF million
6.0                        0                0        1,916           3,170
6.5                     947             1,840        2,120           3,540
7.0                    2,581            4,292        2,320           3,880
7.5                   4,215             6,744        2,600           4,400
8.0                    7,104           11,154        3,020           5,180
8.5                    9,992           15,565        3,758           6,600
4.     The net present value and the rate of return of the rehabilitation are provided in the following
tables.



Schedule 16                                                                        93
Net Present Value of the Rehabilitation of the Access Channel to the Port of Douala
(Discounted at 12 percent - CFAF million)
Cost of dredging                    Channel Depth (meters)
Traffic     CFAF/m3          6.5          7.0         7.5          8.0          8.5
Mini         2,000          4,497        6,853       22,631       19,767       9,623
2,500          3,900        5,710      20,653       16,537        4,113
3,000          3,309        4,573       18,681      13,313       -1,390
Medium       2,000          5,168        8,108       24,597       22,170       12,141
2,500          4,571        6,965      22,619       18,940        6,631
3,000          3,980        5,829      20,648       15,717        1,128
Maxi         2,000          5,836        9,416       27,916       26,110      16,404
2,500          5,239        8,273      25,939       22,880       10,894
3,000          4,648        7,137      23,967       19,657        5,391
Rate of Return of the Rehabilitation of the Access Channel to the Port of Douala (%)
Cost of dredging                    Channel Depth (meters)
Traffic     CFAF/m3          6.5          7.0         7.5          8.0          8.5
Mini         2,000           49           37           61          38           21
2,500          44           33           56          33           16
3,000          39           28           52          29           11
Medium       2,000           52           39           62          39           23
2,500          47           35           58          35           18
3,000          42           31           53          31           13
Maxi          2,000          55           41           65          42           25
2,500          50           38           61          38           20
3,000          45           34           57          34           16
Net Present Value of the Rehabilitation of the Access Channel to the Port of Douala
(Discounted at 12 percent - CFAF million)
Benefits reduced by 50 percent
Cost of dredging                    Channel Depth (meters)
Traffic     CFAF/m3          6:5          7.0         7.5          8.0          8.5
Mini         2,000            327         -564        4,678       -1,016      -12,406
2,500           -270       -1707        2,700       -4,246      -17,915
3,000           -861       -2,844         779        -7470      -23,419
Medium       2,000            663           64        5,661         186       -11,147
2,500             65       -1,079       3,683       -3,045      -16,656
3,000           -525       -2,216        1,712      -6,268      -22,160
Maxi         2,000            996          718        7,321        2,156       -9,015
2,500           399         -425        5,343       -1,074      -14,525
3,000           -191       -1,562       3,372       -4,298      -20,028



94                                                      Cameroon - Transport Sector Project
Rate of Return of the Rehabilitation of the Access Channel to the Port of Douala (%)
Benefits reduced by 50 percent
Cost of dredging                    Channel Depth (meters)
Traffic     CFAF/m3          6.5          7.0         7.5          8.0          8.5
Mini         2,000           15           10           22          11           <0
2,500          10           5            18           6           <0
3,000           3           <0           14          <0           <0
Medium       2,000           17           12           23          12           <0
2,500          13           8            19           8           <0
3,000           8           4            15           4           <0
Maxi         2,000           19           14           26          15           4
2,500          15           11           22          11           <0
3,000          11           7            18           7           <0
Flows of Benefits and Costs (CFAF million)
Traffic mini - Cost of dredging: CFAF2,000/m3 -- Depth of Channel:-7.5m
Year    Investment  Maintenance   Benefits     Total
1996       6,744            0          0     -6,744
1997           0         1,230     5,294      4,064
1998           0         1,230     5,378      4,148
1999           0         1,230     5,464      4,234
2000           0         1,230     5,548      4,318
2001           0         1,230     5,580      4,350
2002           0         1,230     5,612      4,382
2003           0         1,230     5,643      4,413
2004           0         1,230     5,674      4,444
2005           0         1,230     5,705      4,475
2006           0         1,230     5,900      4,670
2007           0         1,230     6,098      4,868
2008           0         1,230     6,297      5,067
2009           0         1,230     6,500      5,270
2010           0         1,230     6,107      5,477
2011           0         1,230     6,762      5,532
2012           0         1,230     6,817      5,587
2013           0         1,230     6,869      5,639
2014           0         1,230     6,923      5,693
2015           0         1,230     6,977      5,747
2016           0         1,230     7,043      5,813
2017           0         1,230     7,111      5,881
2018           0         1,230     7,177      5,947
2019           0         1,230     7,244      6,014
2020           0         1,230     7,309      6,079
2021           0         1,230     7,309      6,079
2022           0         1,230      7,309     6,079
2023           0         1,230     7,309      6,079
2024           0         1,230     7,309      6,079
2025           0         1,230     7,309      6,079
2026           0         1,230      7,309     6,079



Schedule 17                                                                           95
Schedule 17: Financial Evaluation of ONPC
1.    The following tables assess ONPC's financial capacity to support its 1995/1996-2009/2010
investment plan. Three traffic scenarios were considered as in the economic study. Two rates of interests
were considered corresponding to concessional and commercial borrowing. Five assumptions were made
for the percentage of self financing (40 percent, 50 percent, 60 percent, 70 percent and 85 percent). Port
tariffs are those of 1994 kept constant during the entire period of analysis. Table 1 presents the annual
income statement during the investment period in the minimum traffic scenario assuming concessional
borrowing and a 40-percent of self financing. Table 2 presents the annual net cash-flow assuming a 40
percent and 85 percent self financing, concessional and commercial borrowing, and a minimum and
medium traffic. An additional sensitivity study was carried out assuming a 20 percent increase in the
investment cost.
2.    In addition to the investment plan provided in Schedule 10, investments executed after 2000 consist
in the completion of berth rehabilitation started in FY99, construction of a new building for the harbor
master CFAF2.3 billion) and construction of dikes to calibrate the channel (CFAF40 billion). The income
statements are extrapolated from the FY94 data. They are conservative and do not assume any significant
reduction of the charges.
3.    The financial analysis was carried out with maintenance dredging costs for the optimum depth of -
7.5 meters estimated in the economic analysis. Maintenance dredging is expected to start in 1998. The
cost of dredging the channel including along the quays is estimated at CFAF4,768 million, CFAF2,373
mnillion above the operating cost of the dredger Youpwe used by ONPC to maintain the channel at its
current depth of -5.8m. The income statements do not take into account the impact of the reevaluation of
the assets to take into account the January 1994 devaluation of the CFA franc, as well as the impact of the
recent modification of the fiscal regime which suppress ONPC's tax exoneration and require ONPC to pay
a 16.5 percent tax on its revenues. If necessary, tariffs will have to be adjusted to reflect these
modifications. The debt service does not include current arrears estimated at CFAF5.3 billion. It is
assumed that after compensation of cross-debts between ONPC and the State, the remaining balance will
be affected to the capital.



Table 1: Cameroon -- National Port Authority. Income Statements
(Basic scenario: Minimum Traffic Scenario-40 percent Self Financing-3.5 percent Interest Rate; CFA million)
Expenses         1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005   2006   2007   2008   2009   2010
Materials                1985   2001   2018   2034   2050   2067   2084   2101   2112   2122   2133   2143   2154   2165   2176   2188   2199   2211
Services-Transport       1494   2117   2117   2000   2000   2000   2000   2000   2000   2000   2000   2000   2000   2000   2000   2000   2000   2000
Other expenditures        442    500    550    600    600   2973   2973   2973   2973   2973   2973   2973   2973   2973   2973   2973   2973   2973
Salaries                 4077   4000   3900   3850   3800   3800   3800   3800   3800   3800   3800   3800   3800   3800   3800   3800   3800   3800
Others                      0       0      0    424    423    542    543    544    544    545    545    546    546    547    547    548    549    549
Tax                        21      50     50     50     50      50     50     50      50     50     50     50      50     50     50      50     30     50
Interest                 1603   1470   1235   1543   1511   1701   1713   1655   1516   1349   1214   1116   1870   1769   1666   1565   1477   1394
Depreciation incl.       6245   5581   5488   6512   6890   7037   7369   7414   7288   6994   6701   6851   7002   6325   5504   5210   4816   3962
Provisions
Revenues         1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005   2006   2007   2008   2009   2010
Duties on freight        4048   3909   3905   3914   3924   3934   3945   3955   3963   3971   3979   3988   3996   4005   4013   4022   4031   4040
Dutiesonships            9178  14753  14952  15170  15398  13649  13126  13258  13311  13424  13533  13587  13658  13775  13893  13959  14034  14094
Leasing                  2645   2667   2690   2711   2732   2754   2777   2801   2814   2828   2842   2857   2871   2886   2901   2916   2931   2947
Othernon-portrevenues    1331   1346   1357   1367   1377   1387   1398   1409   1415   1421   1428   1435   1441   1448   1455   1462   1469   1477
1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005   2006   2007   2008   2009   2010
Operating income         1335   6956   7546   6149   6108   1555    714    886   1220   1811   2366   2388   1571   2485   3545   4024   4621   5618
Non-operating income      -509   -500   -500   -500   -500   -500   -500   -500   -500   -500   -500   -500   -500   -500   -500   -500   -500   -500
Netincome                 826   6456   7046   5649   5608   1055    214    386    720   1311   1866   1888   1071   1985   3045   3524   4121   5118
Cash generation          7071  12037  12534  12161  12498   8091   7583   7800   8008   8305   8567   8739   8072   8310   8549   8735   8938   9081
1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005   2006   2007   2008   2009   2010
Reimbursement of capital   3192   3696   2787   2643   2196   2213   2212   2044   6682   6458   6459   8263   8388   8388   8389   9689   9334   9335
Self-financing                          5430   5430   5430   5430   1236    790    790    790    790   5965   5965   5965    790    790    790    790
Cumulated net cash-flow                 4317   8404  13276  13724  17859  22825  23361  24418  25736  20246  13966   7923   7293   5549   4363   3319
N
X



Table 2: CAMEROON -- National Port Authority. Net Cash Flow (CFAF million)
1994   1995    1996    1997   1998    1999   2000   2001   2002    2003    2004    2005    2006    2007    2008    2009    2010    2011 
Traffic mini       Percentage of self-financing:       400% Interest rate:    3.5%             BASE   CASE
Net Income             826   6456   7046   5649   5608    1035    214           386     720    1311    1866    1888    1071    1985    3045    3524    4121    5118 
Cash Generation       7071  12037  12334  12161  12498   8091   7383   7800   8008    8305    8567    8739    8072    8310    8549    8733    8938    9081
Net Cash Flow                         4317   8404  13276  13724  17859  22825  23361   24418   25736   20246   13966    7923    7293    5549    4363    3319
Percentage of self-financing:      40%1 Interest rate:     9.0yo
Net Incomec            826   6456   7046   4880   4565    -486  -1578   -1508   -1122           -462      196      337   -1700    -660        527    1133    1856    2979
Cash Generation       7071  12037  12534  11391  11455   6551   5791   5906   6165    6532    6896    7188    5302    5666    6031    6343    6672    6941
Not Cash Flow                         4317   7635  11463   10370  12713   15785  14479   13762   13410    6370   -2682  .11369  -14517  -18653  -22104  -252S88
Percentage of self-financing:      85% Interest rate:      3.5%
Net Incomec            826   6456   7046   6017   6106    1790    1069    1290    1592    2146    2647    2609    2393    3247    4247    4666    5203    6139
Cash Gencration       7071  12037  12534  12528  12996   8827   8438   8704   8879    9140    9348    9460    9395    9572    9751    9876   10019   10101
Net Cash Flow                           -10    119   1161   -1981  -5512        358   2465    5305    8805    -453   -9808  -18983  -16691  -15572  -13955  -12256
Percentage of self-financing:      85% Interest rate:      9.0%
Net Income             826   6456   7046   5824   5845    1405    621           817    1118    1686    2204    2192        1700    2586    3617    4068    4636    5604
Cash Generation       7071  12037  12534  12336  12735   8442   7990    8230   8406    8679    8904    9043    8702    8911    9121    9278    9453    9567
Net Cash Flow                           -10     -74    708  -2820  -6799   -1402        232    2611    5667   -4008  -14055  -23894  -22229  -21708  -20657  -19494
Traffic median     Percentage of seLf-fnancing:        40%1 Interest rate:    3.5%
Net Income             826   6516   7194   6014   6150    1715   1034    1427   2010    2647    3348    3560    2944    4007    5261    5998    6832    8067
Cash Generation       7071  12097  12682  12526  13040   8752   8403    8840   9298    9641   10048   10411    9945   10332   10766   11208   11649   12030
Net Cash Flow                         4.465   8917  14331  15439  20395  26401  28227   30619   33419   29601   25193   21172   22759   23489   25013   26918
Percentage of self-financing:      40%01 Interest rate:    9.0%1
Net Income             826   6516   7194   5244   5107          175   -758    -467      167      874    1677    2009        173    1362    2743    3606    4567    5927
Cash Generation       7071  12097   12682  11756  11997   7211   6611   6946   7455    7867    8378    8860    7175    7687    8247    8816    9383    9890
Net Cash Flow                         4465   8147  12518  12086  15249  19361  19345   19964   21093   15724    8546    1880                  949    -714   -1454   -1690
Percentage of self-financing:      85% Interest rate:      3.5%
Net Incomfe            826   6516   7194   6381   6648   2451   1890   2330   2881    3482    4128    4281    4266    5269    6463    7139    7914    9088
CashGecneration       7071  12097  12682  12893  13538   9487   9259   9744  10169   10476   10829   11132   11268   11594   11967   12350   12730   13050
Net Cash Flow                          138    631   2216    -266  -2976   3934   7331   11506   16488    8902    1420   -5736   -1225    2368    6696   11343
Percentage of self-financing:      85% Interest rate:      9.0%1
Nct Inxome             826   6516   7194   6189   6387   2066    1442    1857   2408    3021    3685    3863    3573    4608    5834    6541    7347    8553
Cash Generation       7071  12097   12682  12700  13277   9102   8811   9271   9695   10015   10386   10715   10575   10933   11338   11752   12164   12515
Net Cash Flow                          138    439    1763   -1104  -4263   2174   5097    8812   13350    5347   -2828  -10644   -6764   -3769                   -7    4105
Inveasnkent+F20%  Percentage of self-financing:     400% Interest rate:     3.5%
Not Inoome             826   6456   7046   5288   5077         373    -625    -534    -227       373      941      889    -172       834    2016    2512    3145    4269
Cash Generation       7071  12037  12534  12063  12365   7895   7355   7559   7774    8079    8354    8542    7720    7974    8229    8430    8649    8808
NetCash Flow                          3231   6134   9787   8953  12612  17179  17137   17557   18130   10816    2531   -5501   -7068   -9733  -11825  -13759
Percentage of self-financing:      40%1 Interest rate:     9.0%1
Net Income             826   6456   7046   4364   3825   -1476  -2776   -2807  -2438   -1755   -1064    -972   -3497   -2339   -1006    -359                    426     1702
Cash Generation       7071  12037  12534  11140  11113   6046   5204   5286   5562    5951    6350    6681    4395    4800    5207    5560    5930    6241
Nct Cash Flow                         3231   5211   7612   4929   6438   8732   6478    4770    3339   -5836  -17446  -28651  -33240  -38776  -43586  -48087                      NJ4



98                                                      Cameroon - Transport Sector Program
Schedule 18: Documents in the Project File
1. Project Preparation
1.1   Projet Sectoriel des Transports. Mission de preparation. April 5, 1992
1.2   Rapport de mission de pre-6valuation du Projet Sectoriel des Transports. February 24, 1993.
1.4   Projet sectoriel transport. Rapport d'evaluation. Documents annexes composante routiere.
World Bank - June 1993.
1.5   Transport Sector Adjustment Credit.  Aide-memoire.  Appraisal Mission.  World Bank.
October-Novemer 1994.
1.6   Transport Sector Technical Assistance Project.  Credit 2703-CM. Memorandum  of the
President (Report No. P-6559-CM, March 23, 1995) and Technical Annex (Report No. T-6559-CM,
March 23, 1995).
1.7   Transport Sector Project. Aide-memoire. Reappraisal mission. World Bank. May-June 1995.
1.8   Transport Sector Technical Assistance Project. Project Implementation Manual. September
1995.
1.9   Programme d'entretien routier FED. Formation de PME et des cadres du MTP. Pingat
Ing6nierie. September 1994. (Four volumes).
2. Road Maintenance
2.1   Etude de preparation du Projet Sectoriel des Transports.  BCEOM. July 1992.  (Three
volumes).
2.2   Plan d'action pour le developpement des routes de collecte. BCEOM. July 1992. (Two
volumes)
2.3    Ministere des Travaux Publics et des Transports - Assistance technique a la Direction de
l'entretien routier. Sixieme Projet Routier. Rapport de fin de mission. - BCEOM - November 1992.
2.3   Projet sectoriel des transports Cameroun - Composante routiere, Mission de pre-6valuation
1993. Document recapitulant les analyses techniques relatives aux standards, aux specifications, aux
fr6quences d' intervention pour les travaux et aux couts unitaires et globaux de ces travaux. Non
official draft document of February 1993. A. Garaud.
2.4   Equipe Stabex/BCEOM - Programme de rehabilitation et d'entretien des routes de collecte et
des itin6raires de d6senclavement. Document de travail pour la preparation pratique du programme
CEE/Stabex pour l'execution de la phase experimentale. July 1993.
2.5   Parc National de Materiel de Genie Civil (MATGENIE). Etats financiers. Ann6es 1988,
1989, 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 et 1994.
2.6   Laboratoire de Genie Civil (LABOGENIE). Etats financiers. Annees 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991,
1992, et 1993.
2.7   Etude de faisabilite pour la restructuration de MATGENIE. SEGMENT. March 1995.
2.8    Rapport d'actualisation des couts des travaux d'entretien routier. A. Garaud. March 1995.
3. Railways
3.1   Etude du statut institutionnel de la REGIFERCAM. Eurexcel Associates. October 1995.
3.2   Etude des perspectives de transport de voyageurs a la REGIFERCAM. CATRAM. December
1993.
3.3   IDC - Financial Restructuring of REGIFERCAM, 30 septembre 1993.
3.4   Etats financiers. Annees 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1992, et 1993. REGIFERCAM.
3.5   Suivi du plan de redressement financier de la REGIFERCAM.  Caisse Frangaise de
D6veloppement. April 1992.
3.6    Assistance technique a la rehabilitation de la voie d'un troncon de la ligne TRANSCAM. DE-
Consult. September 1994.
98



Schedule 18                                                                        99
3.7   Plan strategique d'entreprise. Avant-projet. AFCA-SIPCA. December 1993.
4. Civil Aviation and Airport
4.1    Aeroports de Paris - Contrat d'assistance pour la constitution et la mise en oeuvre d'une societe
autonome de gestion des principaux aeroports du Cameroun. Rapport definitif.
4.2    Audit Cameroon Airlines, Assessment and Recommendations. Documentation de synthese et
Annexes. MACH 2000. June 30, 1993.
5. Maritime Transport
5.1   Services maritimes dans les pays de l'Afrique de l'Ouest et du Centre. Table Ronde de
Cotonou. CMEAOC and World Bank. September 1993.
5.2   Etude diagnostique et propositions de restructuration des entreprises para-publiques du secteur
maritime. Port Autonome du Havre. March 1991 (Four Volumes).
5.3   IDC - Financial Restructuring of CAMSHIP - CAMTAINER - CNIC - August 27, 1993.
5.4   Rapport final du  Comit6  de  Suivi des  recommandations  de  la  Table  Ronde
CNCC/Chargeurs/Banque Mondiale tenue les 22 et 23 juin 1993.
6. Port
6.1    Douala Port Cargo Flow Study.  Final Report.  Netherlands Economic Institute (NEI).
October 1992.
6.2   Plan d'actions pour le secteur portuaire. NEI. January 1994.
6.3   Etude de protection environnementale du port de Douala, du Chenal d'acces et des eaux
c6tieres. Version provisoire. NEI. August 6, 1993.
6.4    Office National des Ports du Cameroun - Plan d'entreprise 1993/1988.
6.5    Amenagement du chenal interieur du port de Douala. Evaluation 6conomique et financiere.
SOGELERG. Juin 1995.
6.6   Projet de contrat de performance Etat/ONPC 1994-1998.
6.7    Office national des Ports du Cameroun. Diagnostic. Caisse Fran,aise de Developpement.
March 1995.
6.8   Port de Douala.  Ouvrage de calibrage de la riviere Wouri.  Rapport d'etude d'impact.
SOGREAH. May 1995.
6.9   Systeme d'information portuaire. Sch6ma directeur. Africa Ing6nierie.
6.10   Etude des accds du port de Douala.  Rapport d'ensemble. OCCR Inter G-LCHF-Port
Autonome de Rouen. September 1987.
6.11   Douala Port Container Terminal Modernization Project. Review and Reassessment Report of
Feasibility Study. Ocean Consultant-Nippon Koei-SOCEI-LABOGENIE. November 1990.
6.12   Etude diagnostique et propositions de restructuration des entreprises para-publiques du secteur
maritime. Port Autonome du Havre. March 1991 (Four Volumes).
7. Transit Transport
7.1   Regional Policy Reform Program Transport Component - The Customs Union of Central
African States (UDEAC) - Volume I (Executive Summary and Main Report) - Volume II. April 30,
1993.
99






MALI          NIGER
t                    10k~~oe Thod      SUEi                                                       \       *
BUBR7NA                              CHAD                           The~ANp  hmo benk p m re
FASO                                                                   T The Wold Bonk Gw,'l
G\  IN          /                    RERUBLIC    K            unYof  dand n  f  fm   A   loe                 rk
NIGERL4~~~~~                           r4e,aa~Wwl  .n o The WoddkBan
NIGuol  ThERIA                                               don dn wl                   FYoI        ° °    Go117HA
.nd lb. bwandana daa
CENTRALAFRICAN               oo of The %ddBonkna,
REPUBI                   "ny nonrd a  eb
GoII of  AJv~~~~~~~~~EROON  ~ ~   ~      ~      .  b.Wn                                                            CHAD
NA           CONGO              ZAIRE                                                                         I.
ATLANT(C OClAN     GABN          f                     aLME    a  20  640 so     0n 120 140 1       /0
_  us o    20   .o         s      uo   =>M <¢            NORD       u
CAMEROON                                                                            0 o
PRIORITY ROAD NETWORK                                                                                                on
EARTH ROADS                                                                        Or _                _
EARTH ROADS:                         o      SELECTED TOWNS
-   JORITY 1I          )     PROVINCE CAPITALS               e
PRIORITY 2            6      NATIONA CAPITAL                      !
FRIORlTY 3                   EARTH ROADS our OF PRIORITY NETWORK  |
PAVED RDADS                                                              Dernodu 
RAILROADS                                                                 Tro
RIVERS                                    t               oo        | NORD                           i
-----   PROVINCE ROUNDARIES                        .    ontcho
-     -    INTfERIN'ATIONAL BOUNDARIES           !*
*1                           G+AOUNDERE                           /         -
_-OU          Skaa,bn    -   , oo           Ia/ be                     Meigango
NIGERIA                                                                                                         doug /
Cmes / tibeX \ KuGiW v / J \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Assom  ,_ 
-             5           J            9 NdO  !n  N                                          Nko              \            CENTRAL
'\ Dschdag            foumban /  Ndhonn                        \ /n  Nd,k,Yo                 ¶             AFRICAN
/   Ng.      -RfSSAb.                               CENTRE                    f        \                                    REPUBLIC
, uT/   r--LLL E T
J     ndnob          fJ5i  /'                  /m
GUITNJEA            ~,ib                    EBO       kOWAW;Afi Sonyd;
J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A Ak(   o           lm,7ng. 
ATLANrTC               (Cnp                          AIo                 i nkoo 
r CEAN  c..6/~                                                      m p                 t           . - niko.2 r, _ * MoloondoJ 
QUATORIALEQUATORIAL                                                   GABON                           CONGO
UINEA                               GUINEA BOLO






h4ALI     2                       /                   ,                           17                                     \   _.          Loke Chad
NIGER                               c                                     
Lake Cbond        |SUDAN\
BUBKIyIAxl     / ~ ~ ~~               1v     CHAD             D                   Ths rep hts bean  prepared
FASO A                                      CHAD                                by The  Worldd BanW stof
oefers  or h  coneece \-d.\
BEIlIN                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~int-rna or,e of 'Thei Wodd Bank  Fotokol
o X    /     NIGERIA                                                        Gro-pTbe denomintions used
and  the boundaries shoc.-
0                     CENT~~~~~~~I AFRICAN              no~~~~~~~~~. this reap do not a.ply, on he
| 9 g /   X   CENTRAL AFRICAN  prf of The World Bank rGop, 
GHANA                                               REPUBLIC                      any o.d?-ent on the egot                                   I    Or-
tAAEROO                                               end- ionnameat ory terOy or ac y epoaSn
Gu0ot                  M                                                   sunkboundories.                                           p                     CHAD
EQUATORLAL       I
GUINEA                 ON             ZAIRE
OTLANTtC OCEAN                   CONGO            ZAIE G         KIOMETrtS  0  70  40  60  E0  100 120 1i0 600
MILES 0     20    40    60    00    00       J          doro      iu
i   \           r~~~'M47ga \
CAMEROON                                                                                 .        ooio 0         Bogo
AROUA        g0
PRIORITY ROAD NETWORK                                                                                   ,   - -                           Yaoo\
PAVED ROADS                                                                                  dGr er                                !
*          ,..     FAtSi,
PAVED ROADS:                                a       SELECTED TOWNS                                    -,                   \uu
PRIORIPTY I              G3       PROVINCE CAPITALS                             -'&ROUA
PRIORITY 2               69       NATIONAL CAPITAL                            !                                    .
PRIORITY 3                        UNPAVED ROADS                              ||'
Goibjiba
l  . /   <,bii                  Dlemod'o.'
-            RAILROADS                                                                               Tchoy0 R
RIVERS                                           /
RrdERs                      P'. .~~*          Foro              NORD
.--.   PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                 O                   _ Foro|o
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                            !           G-                                               0 -
/    \Tigneef
Tign&e           .~IGAOUNDERE   "-
I             AiAMAOUA               t 3            ERE-Aj
r   NORD-                                                                  I'
'    LI0ST[Fb N ambe                  Bn,    <   Baayo\0aIa                        Meigongo               j
NIGERIA            ,.           Wo7                )                 /                                                             eidou[ou
i "'                     Jd,hbeng.i B  ENDA                   '
./ymjk     '                          O9 '°JECT / Z|                                           /                          .6
0Fyoreojob     l- "         I          -           -                                                                  Garouc,                   CE T A
yAyuk\  tkp SJiu ban.                     '  g   \          Ndoknyo      .                     CENTRAL
o  {' - DsehgngO                        |               \'''v~~^ \            9   -   (                     AFRICAN
!   sI DNgutlf  ,-   -aBAFOUSSAM            ,            CENTRE!                    ,                 -                /                 REPUBLIC
Ct)IJ[ST   up I~e           oIaekg ongangf   /                          /                               
*/  \1Mndereba          1/   NM'egsareba                                                                  o  Nngo0bo  ;'*   ,' 
.   Kumbn +   v   ,  _     i        tinB,B'   Ebobo                                    BERTOUA I 
Idenoow               )                                                                                                             6i\u   >        
Limbe ' LITTORAL  _MoaafIA                                                                                                       \mona
r  \ , _ , 5 5 i4;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~bng                                                                           NdelIb  Imbul
DOUALA            Ed                              YAOUNDE                                                                       ---cMbcng n -
fia                E\ AbokvInga                                      Es.
1^      _       Mba>ayo .                   N i yN                                                      . 
EQUATORIAL                          </   )- 'L  8/omi                                                                                                                      <
GUINEA                                ?Kib          E8L W_~              gmb2Imcri,~ -> 10{'                                                                   1              1
\~~~~~~~,e )in._'  *-*.  _--                                                  -               I I
im         LTTOKL    ---AL         1m                                               b                                       \ 6O -boul8              .
EQUATORIAEUA                                                                        GA1,N                                CONGO                                            _
i    GUINEA                                                                                                                                        Co






IBRD 24029
UDEAC
REGIONAL POLICY REFORM PROGRAM
TRANSPORT FACILITATION COMPONENT
Infrastructure Communication Links
MO ROCHAD                     C
/ 9 w ~~N'Djameno /
' oOm g %R~~~~~~~~~IC                  NBLIC 
DoAlD                                     ITNIA BONDAIES
EQ. T  NE,
Librevill3        
Pori tf              C     GO 
Gentil iz        ~        I     r
N.1',191i NorNo                                                              1
MAJOR ROADS        (          NATIONAL CAPITALS
*RAILROADS                  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
RIVERS                     MAJOR PORTS
November 1992









IMAGING
Report No:      15550 CM
Type: SAR



