Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2869 CM
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(Transport Sector Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 10, 1996
CREDIT NUMBER 2869 CM
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 10, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON (the "Borrower") 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the "Association").
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received letters, dated April 16, 1996, and May 
28, 1996, from the Borrower, describing a program of policies, goals and actions 
designed to achieve an adjustment of the Borrower' s transport sector (the "Program") 
and declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program;
(B)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Page  2
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the "General Conditions") constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
 
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the 
territories of any country which is not 
a 
member of the Association or for 
goods produced in, or services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) 
for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any import 
of 
goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited 
by a 
decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII 
of the Charter of 
the United Nations."
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"CFA Franc" or "CFAF" means Franc de la Communaute Financire de l'Afrique 
Centrale, the currency of the Borrower;
(b)
"DMS" means the Directorate responsible for Merchant Shipping of MINT (as 
hereafter defined);
(c)
"LABOGENIE" means Laboratoire National de Genie Civil, an etablissement 
public caractre industriel et commercial established and operating under the 
Borrower's Decree No. 80/251 of July 10, 1980;
(d)
"MATGENIE" means Parc National de Matriel de Genie Civil, an 
etablissement public  caractre industriel et commercial established and operating 
under the Borrower's Decree No. 85/1243 of September 18, 1985;
(e)
"MINEFI" means the Ministry of the Borrower responsible for economy and 
finance;
(f)
"MINT" means the Ministry of the Borrower responsible for transport;
 
(g)
"MINTP" means the Ministry of the Borrower responsible for public works;
 
(h)
"PIP" means a three-year rolling Public Investment Program encompassing 
all public investments during each successive three-year period;
(i)
"Primary Roads Account" means the account referred to in Section 3.04 of 
this Agreement and to be opened in accordance with Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement;
(j)
"Priority Road Network" means the network composed of all paved roads and 
of important unpaved roads which has been identified by the Borrower;
(k)
"Project Implementation Plan" means the plan referred to in paragraph 1 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(l)
"Road Maintenance Account" means the account referred to in Section 3.05 
of this Agreement and to be opened in accordance with Section 6.01 (c) of this 
Agreement; and
(m)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
Page  3
various currencies equivalent to forty one million seven hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 41,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
CFAF a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the "Accrual Date") to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the Accrual Date or at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be
applied from the next payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
February 15 and August 15 commencing August 15, 2006 and ending February 15, 2036. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on February 15, 2016 shall 
be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and
each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 Dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and  outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
Page  4
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through
MINTP, MINT and MINEFI, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial and engineering practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purpose of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
(a)
open and maintain until the completion of the Project an account (the 
"Primary Roads Account") in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association;
(b)
deposit into such Account an initial amount equivalent to CFAF1,000,000;
 
(c)
thereafter, prior to the signature of any works contract under Part A (1) 
of the Project, replenish such Account by any amount required as the Borrower's 
counterpart funding for such contract which is not otherwise financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit; and
(d)
ensure that the amounts deposited into such Account are utilized 
exclusively for the Borrower's financing of expenditures under Part A (1) of the 
Project.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:
(a)
open and maintain until the completion of the Project an account (the 
"Road Maintenance Account") in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association;
(b)
deposit into such account an initial amount equivalent to CFAF1,000,000;
 
Page  5
(c)
thereafter, replenish each year such account with any sum (additional to 
the Borrower's counterpart funds under the Project) allocated in MINTP's budget for 
the maintenance of the Borrower's Priority Roads Network;
(d)
ensure that the amounts allocated under paragraph (c) of this Section for 
each year are sufficient for and applied to, the financing of the maintenance of the 
roads included in the Borrower's Priority Roads Network which have been built, 
rehabilitated or maintained, with external financing after January 1, 1990; and
(e)
ensure that the maintenance works on roads referred to in paragraph (d) 
of this Section are not carried out by the use of force accounts.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and 
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower 
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the 
report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association 
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit 
Account or payment out of 
the Special Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that 
the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall:
Page  6
(a)
have the records and accounts of the Primary Roads Account and Road 
Maintenance Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors;
(b)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, a certified copy of the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall have reasonably requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Primary 
Roads Account and Road Maintenance Account and the audits thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
The Borrower has adopted a Project Implementation Plan satisfactory to 
the Association;
(b)
the Primary Roads Account has been opened and the initial deposit has 
been paid therein all in accordance with Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement;
(c)
the Road Maintenance Account has been opened and the initial deposit has 
been paid therein all in accordance with Section 3.05 (b) of this Agreement;
(d)
the Borrower has submitted a reorganization plan for MINTP satisfactory 
to the Association;
(e)
the Borrower has appointed five regional directors of MATGENIE;
 
(f)
the Borrower has presented evidence satisfactory to the Association that 
LABOGENIE's operating expenditures have been reduced by 30 percent in relation to 
LABOGENIE's 1994 accounts;
(g)
the Borrower has enacted a new institutional and regulatory framework for 
urban transport satisfactory to the Association; and
(h)
the Borrower has selected, in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, an auditing firm acceptable to the Association for 
the purposes of Section 4.01(b) of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Ministry of Economy and Finance of the Borrower is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
Page  7
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy and Finance
Yaounde
Republic of Cameroon
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINEFI
8260 KN
Yaounde
With copy to:
Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement
Yaounde
Republic of Cameroon
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
By /s/ Jerome Mendouga
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Page  8
                            Amount of the
                                Credit             % of
                              Allocated        Expenditures
                            (Expressed in         to be
Category                   SDR Equivalent)       Financed
(1)  Civil works
     (a)  paved roads        11,000,000          75%
          under Part A (1)
          of the Project
     (b)  unpaved roads      15,400,000          80%
          under Part A (1)
          of the Project
     (c)  under Parts A (2)   5,200,000          90%
          and A (3)
          of the Project
(2)  Goods                      690,000          100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures and
                                                 75% of local
                                                 expenditures
(3)  Consultants'                                100%
     services
     (a)  under Part          1,170,000
          B (1)
          of the Project
     (b)  under Part          2,540,000
          B (2)
          of the Project
(4)  Training,                2,130,000          100%
     surveys and
     seminars under
     Part B (3) of
     the Project
(5)  Unallocated              3,570,000
                     TOTAL   41,700,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another 
country from the territory of which the goods and services are supplied, expenditures 
in such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign 
expenditures".
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above no withdrawals shall be made 
in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
 
(b)
under Category 1 (a) of paragraph 1 above, until the Borrower has 
presented evidence satisfactory to the Association that at least two weighing stations 
Page  9
on the Douala-Yaounde road have begun collecting statistics on truck-loads.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for works under contracts not 
exceeding $100,000 equivalent and for goods and services under contracts not exceeding 
$50,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are:
(a)
to support: (i) road maintenance; (ii) the preservation of road assets; 
and (iii) road safety;
(b)
to support the Borrower's gradual retrenchment from the execution of road 
maintenance by: (i) promoting the participation of small and medium enterprises; (ii) 
transferring public equipment rental activities; and (iii) developing the use of 
labor-intensive methods; and
(c)
to revise the institutional framework of the Borrower's transport sector 
by: (i) restructuring MINTP and shifting its role in road maintenance from the 
execution by force accounts into subcontracting of works, planning and supervision; 
(ii) restructuring MINT and focusing its role on planning, policy development and the 
regulation of transport; and (iii) increasing private and beneficiary participation in 
transport management.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Road Maintenance and Safety
 
1.
Carrying out of a three-year rehabilitation and maintenance of roads and bridges 
program, determined in accordance with the criteria set forth in Annex 1 to this 
Section for the primary roads included in the Priority Roads Network.
2.
Carrying out of a rehabilitation and maintenance program determined in 
accordance with the criteria set forth in Annex 1 to this Section for about 1,500 km. 
of the Borrower's priority rural roads.
3.
Construction of two weighing stations: on the RN3 near Douala and on the RN1 
between Maltam and Kousseri, respectively.
Part B:
Training and Technical Assistance
 
1.
Provision of training and technical assistance for the reorganization of MINTP 
and MINT, the acquisition of computers and the rehabilitation of office space related 
thereto.
2.
Carrying out of studies, design and implementation of programs and provision of 
training: (a) to improve road safety; (b) to improve the Borrower's capacity to 
supervise the execution of civil works in the transport sector; (c) to involve 
beneficiaries in rural road management; (d) to develop the Borrower's international 
road transport industry; (e) to strengthen the capabilities of the DMS in 
environmental issues; and (f) to prepare further phases of the Program.
3.
Carrying out of surveys and seminars related to the Borrower's transport sector.
 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002.
ANNEX 1 TO SCHEDULE 2
Page  10
Economic and Environmental Criteria for the Primary
and Rural Road Network Programs
Rehabilitation and maintenance works to be carried out under Part A (1) of the 
Project shall have an economic rate of return of not less than 12% and rehabilitation 
and maintenance works included in Part A (2) shall have an estimated rate of return of 
not less than 10%.  Such rate shall be calculated by generally accepted economic 
methods and shall be limited to vehicle operating costs savings and maintenance and/or 
reconstruction cost savings, unless other benefits can be clearly attributed to the 
proposed works and quantified with reasonable accuracy.  Main input data for the 
aforementioned calculation shall be: (a) existing road conditions (as determined by 
visual inspection, road roughness and road deflection measurements and borings); (b) 
the economic cost of works; (c) existing traffic (on the basis of traffic counts of 
MINTP or its consultants) and traffic projections (growth of existing traffic and 
diverted traffic); and (d) vehicle operating costs for roads in good conditions and 
differentials for inferior road conditions (as estimated by MINTP or its consultants).
Rehabilitation and maintenance works under Parts A (1) and (2) of the Project 
shall be selected on the basis of criteria for the protection of the environment, with 
special emphasis on environmentally sensitive areas, as set forth in the Project 
Implementation Plan.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
General
 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 1 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January 1996 (the "Guidelines") and the following 
provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Unpaved road rehabilitation works estimated to cost $500,000 equivalent 
or less per contract, and $1,700,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate; (b) works 
under Part A (2) of the Project estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or less per 
contract; and (c) goods estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or less per contract, 
and $ 208,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate; may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Procurement Planning
 
Prior to the issuance of any invitation to pre-qualify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Page  11
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
 
With respect to each contract for the procurement of works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $200,000 or more and with respect to each contract for the procurement 
of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth 
in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the "Consultant Guidelines"). For complex, time-based assignments, such 
contracts shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services 
issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the 
Bank.  Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, 
other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in conformity with a Project 
Implementation Plan which shall contain, inter alia, the procurement, disbursement, 
accounting, financial management and other implementation arrangements for the Project 
as well as a Project monitoring and evaluation system including performance monitoring 
indicators.
2.
The Borrower shall:
 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Program, the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; said procedures to provide, inter alia, for the submission of 
progress reports in advance of each supervision mission by the
Association, and in any case prior to June 30, September 30 and December 31 of each 
year;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about March 31 of each year: (i) a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant 
to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program 
and the Project during the preceding year and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Program and the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof during the following year; and
(c)
review with the Association, by June 30 of each year, or such later date 
as the Association shall request, the documents referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, promptly thereafter: (i) make such revisions as may be appropriate, 
having due regard to the comments emanating from such meetings; and (ii) take all 
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Program, the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the report referred in paragraph (b) (i) of this Section and the 
Association's views on the matter.
3.
The Borrower shall take all necessary action to ensure that its respective 
annual budgets presented for legislative approval shall reflect budgets and PIPs for 
Page  12
the civil works and transport sectors satisfactory to the Association.
4.
The Borrower shall conduct, not later than December 31, 1998, jointly with the 
Association, and based on performance indicators acceptable to the Association, a 
mid-term Project  Implementation review: (i) to monitor progress in the carrying out 
of the Program and the Project; (ii) to assess the Borrower's continued commitment to 
the Program and to the objectives of the Project; and (iii) to exchange information 
among staff responsible for Project implementation, to devise solutions to current 
issues and to ensure the efficient continuation of the Project.
5.
Not later than six weeks prior to the Project implementation review under 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association for its 
review and comments a report in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request, including: (i) an evaluation of progress achieved in the implementation of 
the Program and the Project; and (ii) a draft action program for the future operation 
of the Project.
6.
Promptly after completion of the review under Section 4 of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall carry out the recommendations arising out of said review as agreed by 
the Borrower and the Association, or such other actions as shall be necessary as a 
result of the review referred to above, to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Program and the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) to (4) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
CFAF250,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to 
an amount equivalent to CFAF125,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from 
the Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 1,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence 
Page  13
required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for 
the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account 
and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to 
have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective Eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the Eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the Eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied 
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible
Expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, 
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
Page  14
