                                Document of
                           The World Bank




                                                      Report No:ICR-000127




   IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                             (MULT-50956)

                                  ON A

          GRANT IN THE AMOUNT OF US$19.9 MILLION

                                    TO

                         WEST BANK & GAZA

                                   FOR

          Emergency Municipal Services Rehabilitation Project




                          September 26, 2006




Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
West Bank and Gaza
MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA REGION

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                        ( Exchange Rate Effective 05/01/2006 )
                             Currency Unit = ILS
                                  ILS 1.00 = US$ 0.22
                                  US$ 1.00 = ILS 4.53


                                     Fiscal Year
                              January 1 to December 31




                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AFD   Agence Francais de Developpement
CAS   Country Assistance Strategy
CDP   Community Development Project
CIDA  Canada International Development Agency
DANIDA Danish International Development Assistance
EC    European Commission
ED    Executive Director
EMP   Environmental Management Plan
EMSRP Emergency Municipal Services Rehabilitation Project
EPA   Emergency Program Assistance
ERSP  Emergency Responses Program
ESSP  Emergency Services Support Project
EU    European Union
GIS   Geographic Information System
IBRD  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB   International Competitive Bidding
ICR   Implementation Completion Results Report
IDA   International Development Association
JSC   Joint Service Council
LG    Local Government
LGUs  Local Government Units
LTC   Long-Term Consultant
M&E   Monitoring and Evaluation
MDLF  Municipal Development and Lending Fund
MIDP  Municipal Infrastructure Development Project
MNA   Middle East and North Africa
MOF   Ministry of Finance
MOLG  Ministry of Local Government
MOPIC Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation

NBF  Not Bank financed
NCB  National Competitive Bidding
NGO  Non Governmental Organization
PA   Palestinian Authority
PCU  Project Coordination Unit
PIP  Project Implementation Plan
PSC  Project Steering Committee
QBS  Quality Based Selection
QCBS Quality and Cost Based Selection
TA   Technical Assistance
WBG  West Bank and Gaza




                          Vice President: Daniela Gressani

                        Country Director: A. David Craig

                         Sector Manager: Hedi Larbi

                    Project Team Leader: Ibrahim Khalil Dajani

                                                WEST BANK& GAZA
                      Emergency Municipal Services Rehabilitation Project




                                                         CONTENTS




1. Basic Information............................................................................................................ 1
2. Key Dates........................................................................................................................ 1
3. Ratings Summary............................................................................................................ 1
4. Sector and Theme Codes ................................................................................................ 2
5. Bank Staff ....................................................................................................................... 2
6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design................................................... 3
7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .................................................. 7
8. Assessment of Outcomes.............................................................................................. 12
9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome............................................................. 17
10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ....................................................... 17
11. Lessons Learned.......................................................................................................... 22
12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners............. 22
Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis............................................................................. 24
Annex 2. Restructuring (if any) ........................................................................................ 29
Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing.............................................................................. 30
Annex 4. Outputs by Component...................................................................................... 32
Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis)...... 37
Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes................. 38
Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance...................................... 41
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any) .................................................................. 42
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any).......................................... 45
Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR....................... 53
Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders......................... 54
Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents ........................................................................ 55
Map ................................................................................................................................... 56

1. Basic Information
                                                                  Emergency Municipal
Country:               WEST BANK& GAZA Project Name:              Services Rehabilitation
                                                                  Project
Project ID:            P078212             L/C/TF Number(s):      MULT-50956
ICR Date:              09/30/2006          ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                  PLO FOR BENEFIT
Lending Instrument:    ERL                 Borrower:              OF PALESTINIAN
                                                                  AUTHORITY
Original Total
                       USD 20.0M           Disbursed Amount:      USD 19.9M
Commitment:
Environmental Category:B
Implementing Agencies


Ministry of Local Government
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners


European Commission
DANIDA
Italian Cooperation Department
Belgian Consulate


2. Key Dates

      Process            Date          Process         Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                           Date(s)
Concept Review: 09/18/2002        Effectiveness:     01/22/2003       01/22/2003
Appraisal:         10/01/2002     Restructuring(s):
Approval:          12/17/2002     Mid-term Review:                    04/30/2004
                                  Closing:           06/30/2005       03/31/2006


3. Ratings Summary
3.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                    Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                 High
Bank Performance:                            Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                        Satisfactory




                                          1

3.2 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
 Implementation Performance       Indicators    QAG Assessments (if any)        Rating:
Potential Problem Project at any
                                 No           Quality at Entry (QEA):         Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):
Problem Project at any time
                                 No           Quality of Supervision (QSA):   Satisfactory
(Yes/No):
DO rating before                 Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:         Satisfactory


4. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                             Original         Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Sub-national government administration                                85                85
Other social services                                                 15                15
                                                        Original Priority Actual Priority
Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Social safety nets                                       Secondary         Secondary
Access to urban services and housing                     Primary           Primary
Municipal finance                                        Secondary         Secondary


5. Bank Staff
                        Positions                            At ICR        At Approval
Vice President:                                        Daniela Gressani Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:                                      A. David Craig    Nigel Roberts
Sector Manager:                                        Hedi Larbi        Hedi Larbi
                                                       Ibrahim Khalil
Project Team Leader:                                                     Majed El-Bayya
                                                       Dajani
                                                       Ibrahim Khalil
ICR Team Leader:
                                                       Dajani
                                                       James Victor
ICR Primary Author:
                                                       Pannett




                                             2

6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)
6.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country macroeconomic and structural/sector background, rationale
for Bank assistance)


The Emergency Municipal Services Rehabilitation Project (EMSRP), approved by the
Board on December 17, 2002, was designed against the background of severe
deterioration of social and economic conditions and public service delivery, etc, triggered
by the Intifada, closures, curfews and curtailment of more than 50% of workers
commuting from West Bank and Gaza (WBG) to Israel.                 EMSRP was consistent
with the Bank's evolving assistance strategy at the time, which was subsequently
formalized and approved by the Board on December 18, 2003, which aimed, inter alia, to
support the strengthening capacities for and financing the delivery of basic services to the
poor through the development of efficient and transparent institutions in five key
Palestinian "institutional domain" - the PA ministries, the municipalities, etc.

At the Local Government (LG) sector level, and despite the fact that Municipalities have
legal responsibility for public service delivery covering 22 different functional areas,
their revenues have never been adequate to fulfill these functions. Municipal
revenues have been unreliable and fund allocation was completely ad hoc. As a matter of
fact, Municipal revenues dropped by 19% in the West Bank and 26% in Gaza while
expenditures declined by 18% and 29% respectively during the period of 2001 and 2005.
While, Municipal arrears increased by 149% from US$15 million to US$37
million between 2000 and 2002. These shortfalls of funding together with the wide
spread destruction to both physical and institutional infrastructure in the WBG, estimated
at over US$1.7 billion in 2002, resulted in dire consequences for public service delivery
such as water and electricity supply, solid waste management and sanitation.              In
particular, damaged roads were not repaired nor maintained, garbage was not collected,
sewage pipes were clogged and infrastructure was not maintained.

Nationally, the Real Gross National Income (GNI) had declined by 35% between 1999
and 2002 while per capita real income declined by 50% due to restriction in movement,
while the share of the population living in poverty - defined as those consuming less than
US$2.1 of goods and services per day - has tripled during the Intifada, to about 60% of
the population. By the first quarter of 2003, employment in Israel and Israeli settlements
dropped from 128,000 to less than 49,000 jobs while domestic jobs dropped by 143,000
(or 29% of pre-Intifada domestic employment).

Institutionally, the Palestinian Authority's (PA) management of the local government
sector was weak. The PA was unable to sort out the role of the Palestinian Economic
Council for Development and Reconstruction (PECDAR) from that of the Ministry of



                                              3

Local Government (MOLG) and the Municipalities. PECDAR had been established by
the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) to coordinate initial donor technical
assistance and to implement the first "Oslo" reconstruction/rehabilitation projects. Lack
of clarity regarding areas of responsibilities and the channeling of funds through
PECDAR resulted in inefficient allocations which did not directly correspond to local
priorities. MOLG, on the other hand, had limited capacity to lead the development of the
municipal sector while the Municipalities which preceded the MOLG had limited
incentive to comply with the 1997 LG Law that supposedly guided their operations. Part
of the Municipal resentment to comply was attributed to the decades of autonomous
operations with no central oversight other than the Israeli Civil Administration. Much of
the donors' assistance in the sector was often channeled directly to Municipalities or other
agencies with neither clear prioritization of local needs nor equity or transparency in
application.

In response to the economic crisis and institutional inconsistencies, the Bank approved
EMSRP and restructured a number of active projects in the portfolio to inject additional
funds to the Local Government Units (LGUs). EMSRP focused on providing emergency
assistance for maintaining service delivery, repairing essential infrastructure and creating
temporary job opportunities, as well as developing a more coherent and transparent
process and institutional mechanism to coordinate and manage donors' assistance to
LGUs. The reallocated funds from five of the restructured projects (the First and Second
Municipal Infrastructure Development Projects, the Bethlehem 2000 Project, the
Community Development Project and the Solid Waste and Environmental Management
Project) focused on creating temporary jobs through utilizing labor-intensive methods
for repair of damage to essential infrastructure and other construction activities.


6.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)


The project's objectives were to:
      (i) help mitigate further deterioration in the quality and coverage of essential
           municipal services by providing budgetary support for non-wage municipal
           operating costs;
      (ii) create temporary labor-intensive employment opportunities; and
      (iii)introduce a mechanism to link central and local government budgetary planning
           processes to strengthen Palestinian emergency response capacity, enhance
           mobilization of donor assistance, and improve the efficiency and equity of
           resource transfers to local governments.

6.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators (as approved by original approving authority), and
reasons/justification


The objective was not revised.



                                             4

6.4 Main Beneficiaries, original and revised
(briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD and as captured in the
PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected to benefit from the
project)

The primary target groups were:

     (i) Local Government Units with a population of over 1,000 which would receive
          support for improved public service delivery;
     (ii) the Palestinian population, directly, through the creation of temporary jobs and
          also as recipients of improved municipal services; and
     (iii)the Ministry of Local Government which would institute a mechanism to link
          central and local government budgetary planning processes as well as more
          efficiently channel emergency assistance from both the central government and
          the international community to the local Municipality level.


6.5 Original Components (as approved)


The Project had three components:

Component 1: Emergency Program Assistance. (Bank financing US$18.5 million). This
component was to finance:
      (i) local government expenditures for essential service provision such as water and
          wastewater, solid waste, road rehabilitation and maintenance and electricity
          services, including operating costs, goods and services,
      (ii) temporary labor-intensive employment generation micro-projects, and
      (iii) repair of damaged local government facilities and service infrastructure.

Component 2: Municipal Fund Design, Management & Performance Monitoring. (Bank
financing US$1.10 million). This component was to finance:
      (i) the establishment of a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) with two offices ­ a
          main one in West Bank and a branch office in Gaza, and
      (ii) the recruitment of Management Agent (MA) to be contracted to design and set
          up the Municipal Development Fund (MDF) and monitor the PCU's
          management on behalf of the Project Steering Committee/Fund Commission
          (PSC/FC). Under this contract, the MA was to be also responsible for:
             (a) establishing a Municipal Financial Information System, whereby program
                activities would be more systematically monitored;
             (b) developing the operating guidelines and procedures for the MDF;
             (c) helping the PCU to coordinate and scale up donors' emergency program
                assistance to the MDF; and
             (d) assist the PCU to monitor the performance of the MDF.




                                             5

    Component 3: Technical Assistance and Technical Assistance and Capacity Building.
    (Bank financing US$0.40 million). This component was to finance            consultant
    services for technical support, training, and capacity-building among the LGUs, as
    well as the design of labor-intensive temporary employment projects.             The
    component was also to finance contracts for local NGOs to provide feedback on
    community participation activities linked to the preparation of emergency assistance
    programs at the local level.




6.6 Revised Components


Project components were not revised.


6.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)

There were no significant changes in project design and scope and the implementation
schedule was on track. The emergency operating situation required that implementation
targets to remain flexible and responsive to an evolving situation.     Two examples of
such flexibility during implementation were as follows:

(i) During the first six months of the project, it was estimated that 400,000 person-days
would be created under Component 1 (ii) "temporary labor-intensive employment
creation". By the Mid-Term Review, it was recognized that financing of basic service
delivery was extremely needed and that other parallel operations could effectively deliver
on the employment creation objective (e.g. the Bank-sponsored MIDP-1 with some
245,000 person-days, Bethlehem 2000 with 38,000 person-days, MIDP-2 with 81,000
person-days, and the major parallel financier of EMSRP the EC's Emergency Municipal
Support Project with 66,500 person-days, etc). Hence, a decision was taken at the mid-
term review to switch EMSRP's allocation (US$1 million of US$3 million) for
employment creation to concentrate on service delivery after it had created 270,000
person-days of temporary jobs.

(ii) Despite the Bank's reservations, the PA insisted, for obvious social and political
reasons, on extending the project to cover a total of 485 LGUs instead of the 260 LGUs
envisaged at project appraisal. While appearing more 'equitable', spreading the resources
so thinly over 485 LGUs resulted in the project's inability to respond to needs more
effectively especially in heavily populated urban areas where service deterioration posed
greater health and safety risks to the population. For example, in larger municipalities,
the significantly small allocations towards job creation in the first half of the project
period resulted in a relatively insignificant impact on the local unemployment situation.
Although extending the geographical coverage of LGUs responded to political priority
and social equity considerations, the additional effort of covering the additional 225


                                              6

LGUs was not commensurate with the 4% increase in population coverage that these
smaller and more remote LGUs represented.

7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
7.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)


This ICR endorses QAG's "Satisfactory" rating of Quality at Entry. The ICR review
meeting have also note the following:

Project objectives were appropriate to the circumstances.               The project addressed
emergency municipal needs as well as developed the basis for medium-term
development of institutional capacity by providing LGUs with much needed support to
maintain service delivery. It also established the MDF, an ambitious task in the difficult
operating environment, which nevertheless succeeded in providing incentive for the
LGUs to reform, streamline their institutional procedures and strengthen their operating
capacity as well as their compliance with the LG Law ­ this was a significant change.

Central level project oversight successfully strengthened attention to LGU needs and
financing requirements. The Project Steering Committee (PSC) which oversaw EMSRP
implementation was chaired by the Minister of Local Government and included the
Deputy Ministers of Planning and Finance. This strengthened central government
commitment to serving the LGUs and addressing their immediate and medium term
needs. These three agencies also constituted a Technical Committee which helped the
Project Coordination Unit (PCU), established to assist MOLG in implementing this
project, through the processes of decision-making, budget allocation and submission of
financing proposals.

The project was ready for implementation and effective in record time. The project had a
Project Implementation Plan (PIP) and Operational Manual ready by Board presentation.
A positive list of subprojects frequently requested by the LGUs was prepared and
evaluated by a qualified consulting firm and provided input into the Environmental
Management Plan (EMP) which was ready by Negotiations. Monitoring indicators were
set out to guide implementation although the uncertain operating environment precluded
the setting of specific targets. In the rush to deliver emergency services as demand
increased baseline indicators were not adequately set up.         The three-month preparation
time (from Project Concept to Board) with effectiveness achieved one month later made
EMSRP one of the fastest projects successfully prepared and delivered in the MNA
region.




                                                7

7.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and
actions taken, as applicable)


Factors outside Government control:

        Political situation. The political and security instability, closures and checkpoints
        along major and secondary roads curtailed access to LGUs and greatly impeded
        movement within Gaza and West Bank, affecting implementation as follows:

        (i) Impediments to staff movement. The capacity building and technical assistance
        support benefited only those staff from MOLG in district offices and LGUs who
        could access the training locations;

        (ii) Higher transaction costs.     The cost of spare parts, and other externally-
        sourced goods that are essential to improving service provision were considerably
        increased;

        (iii) Higher operating costs. The efficiency of managing and monitoring of such
        a large number of sub-projects in all LGUs was severely affected. For example,
        the cost of funding supervision provided by private sector consultants increased
        by 25%, from US$0.40 million to US$0.50 million;

        (iv)   Delayed Donor assistance. As a result of the outcome of the elections in
        2005/06 a number of donors suspended or froze their on-going and held back
        additional commitments to most sectors including the municipal sector; for
        instance, the Bank's appraisal of EMSRP's successor project was delayed by 5
        months, as was the Euro 15 million pledged by AFD.

Factors generally subject to Government control:

        (i)    Significant delays in Setting up the MDF. the lengthy recruitment process
        of the Management Agent (MA) led by MOLG; the lengthy period that took the
        PSC to agree on the structure, mandate, functions and powers of the MDF,
        leading to delays in its design and set-up. This all led to amending the Trust
        Fund Grant Agreement to reflect an extension of the Grant closing date by 9
        months;

        (ii)   Impact of political conditions on project targets. Political pressure,
        especially during the local elections fever, imposed on the PSC resulted in a
        decision to increase the number of project LGU beneficiaries from 260 to 485
        LGUs. This decision affected the project in two ways: first, it delayed the



                                               8

      decision on the 'second cycle allocation' until a firm decision on who should
      become eligible for such allocations; second, the increase in number of
      participating LGUs effectively reduced the size of project allocations to each
      LGU, thus preventing individual municipalities from undertaking larger service
      delivery type projects;

      (iii) Inadequate information about Government processes.             The Central
      Government failed to make available to the MA/PCU timely details of transfers to
      LGUs; this delayed them from fully understanding how the fiscal transfers were
      affected and hence delaying their work on designing the formula for
      implementing performance and incentive-based transfers. According to MOF,
      such data was not easily accessible and any attempt to improve the data recording
      structure would have required MOF to have a major overhaul in their systems
      which they were reluctant to do. Progress in this direction is deemed essential to
      establish a sound and transparent structure that allows easy access to the needed
      data by the Bank and donors active in the LG sector and to enable MOF to
      accurately report on such transfers.

Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

      (i) Initial failure to follow financial guidelines. During the first year of the
      project and in an attempt to speed up disbursement, the PCU failed to adhere to
      the financial safeguards when it issued advance payments in the amount of US$2
      million to all LGUs regardless of their financial management capabilities. As a
      result, the project team agreed with the PCU that replenishment of the project
      Special Account (SA) will be temporarily stopped. Disbursements resumed four
      months later and after the PCU had provided the Bank with satisfactory
      documentation on the eligibility of the expenditures used from the advances;

      (ii) Failure to follow procurement procedures. Some LGUs staff did not fully
      apply the training received on procurement procedures, resulting in some
      inconsistencies in the procurement process. For example, their files did not
      include copies of invitations for bids or Bank's clearance to cancel the bidding
      process and call for another one. These errors were identified during post reviews
      and rectified by PCU and supervision missions;

      (iii) Despite the PCU's efforts to manage the MA deliverables in term of quality
      and timeliness, few firm decisions were not made in timely manner to rectify the
      delays experienced. Project achievement was also affected by the MA's three-
      month delay before it finalized the design and establishment of the MDF. The
      project, therefore, was unable to execute a 'dry run' of the MDF's operation and
      provide the necessary training by the end of the project period.



                                           9

7.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization


The Results Framework designed at preparation is presented in Annex 1.        Two sets of
indicators were established, including: (i) PDO indicators and (ii) Intermediate outcome
indicators.

The PDO-related outcome indicators were not wholly related to outcomes, but more to
outputs.    For instance: the objective "Introduce a mechanism to strengthen PA
emergency response capacity, enhance mobilization of donor assistance and improve the
efficiency and equity of resource allocations" was to be measured by the indicator
"Establishment and operationalization of a Municipal Fund".         It would have been
appropriate to go beyond this and more critically establish some measures of what the
Fund would do to achieve the targeted improvements in capacity, response and
efficiency. (As it turned out, however, the Fund was not able to become fully operational
within the project period, so the appropriate indicators would not have been measurable
in any case).

The five Intermediate Outcome Indicators were a mixture of outcomes (for example,
reduction in shortfalls of water supply or electricity services) and outputs (number of
new connections, increased amounts of solid waste collected, numbers of garbage
collectors hired, etc). This mixture of indicators of outcome and outputs is appropriate in
this emergency context, but it would still have been useful to attempt to develop some
creative measurements (even if they were qualitative and anecdotal) pertaining to how
small businesses could effectively increase their hours of operation as a result of better
electricity and water supply, any effects on how households saved time and energy or
reported less social or health problems as a result of improved water supply, hygiene,
sanitation, etc.

Beneficiary Assessments. The success of the project was confirmed by two beneficiary
assessments, one conducted after the first project cycle, completed in 2004, and the other
at the end of the second cycle, completed in 2005. The use of these assessments is
particularly important for this project because they became the only real way to assess
the project's impact on the population.        The use of surveys and focus groups in
conducting the assessments produced useful information for future projects in the
WBG with strong community participation. For example, the assessments commented
on how beneficiaries participated and how local businesses were informed about small
local projects.

Implementation

The PCU successfully and consistently monitored all the indicators listed in the



                                            10

Project Technical Annex and reported on achievements throughout the project life. The
PCU also succeeded in producing a single consolidated report covering donors
contributions within its trust; this is exemplary and a first in the WBG municipal sector
portfolio. The quarterly reports were comprehensive, reflected the complementarity of
the various contributions and helped to identify additional financing gaps. They also
included information about donors who were in the process of making contributions,
which facilitated discussions between the PA and donors and improved synergies with
existing contributions to the LG Reform Agenda. The PCU is commended for being able
to maintain its data collection on all the project implementation indicators, despite having
a rudimentary system in place. The beneficiary assessments were also carried out as
planned.

Utilization

The monitoring indicators and beneficiary assessments proved to be invaluable in
assessing the project's progress and impact and more importantly, to inform timely
decision-making by project authorities and to steer the project. The second project cycle
was only to commence upon the completion of the first beneficiary assessment, the
lessons from which were incorporated into the second stage. The project also made good
use of monitoring data produced under the several Bank projects (EMSRP, MIDP-I & II,
Bethlehem 2000 and the PEACE Facility) as well as other donors projects (EC's
Emergency Municipal Support Project (EMSP)) to influence decision-making, resulting
for instance, in the appropriate modification of the focus of the project from temporary
job creation to a heavier emphasis on service delivery (as discussed in section 6.7 above).

7.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)


Please see explanation above in Section 7.2, Paragraph (i) "Factors generally subject to implementing
agency control".


7.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)


The Bank's assistance strategy to WBG included plans for a follow-on operation which
would continue the work started under EMSRP on institutional capacity-building (mainly
the operation of MDF and continued linkages between planning and budgeting processes
and financial flows between the PA/MOLG and LGUs) and priority service delivery to
local inhabitants. This successor project, the EMSRP-2 is currently under preparation and
planned to be presented to the Board by mid December 2006 and expected to start
operation in January 2007.



                                                11

8. Assessment of Outcomes
8.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)


The Project development objectives were clear, addressed the emergency needs at the
time and were in line with the need for timely intervention in the delivery of essential
public services. It responded to the "Trust Fund for Gaza and The West Bank: Status
Report and Strategic Considerations", presented to the Board in lieu of a CAS on
February 28, 2001.         In terms of designs and implementation, EMSRP fully
complemented two ongoing Bank projects (MIDP-II and Bethlehem 2000) in the urban
sector and two other parallel emergency projects (Emergency Services Support Projects I
and II) which focused on mitigating the deterioration of basic social services. EMSRP
was also consistent with the CAS which emphasized emergency reconstruction programs
pertaining to the construction and rehabilitation of essential infrastructure, employment
creation and institution building.

8.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 4)

The overall assessment of the project's performance of the PDO is "Moderately
Satisfactory".    This is due to the shortcoming experienced in Objective (iii) of the
project related to the MDF. The three parts of the PDO are assessed as follows:

(i) to help mitigate further deterioration in the quality and coverage of essential
municipal services by providing budgetary support for non-wage municipal operating
costs;

    Achievement of this objective is "Satisfactory". Given the urgency of program
    implementation in a rapidly deteriorating environment, baseline information was not
    established nor would it have had much validity in light of the large budgetary
    support element, which is inherently difficult to measure as an impact on the ground.
    Given this, success was measured in terms of the rapidity of response to alleviate the
    most serious shortages and needs, the amount of work done and the feedback of local
    residents which helped to reset the work plan targets for the next period of activity.
    Over 2,200 subprojects in water and sanitation, roads, electricity and solid waste
    were implemented in 485 LGUs (as discussed in Section 7.3 above).             Between
    December 2005 and March 2006, institution building gained momentum with the
    completion of the By-Laws for the MDF, Operational Manual, Financial
    Management System as well as the Project Management Information System.

    The two Beneficiary Assessments registered substantial beneficiary satisfaction and
    provided feedback and timely guidance for program evolution and implementation.


                                                12

     The result of the first beneficiary assessment, completed in December 2004, showed
    that 80% of respondents in Gaza thought that EMSRP had played a vital role in
    improving services, 45% of Southern West Bank (Ramallah, Jericho, Bethlehem,
    Jerusalem and Hebron) believed EMSRP improved services and 60% of Northern
    West Bank (Salfit, Nablus, Tubas, Tulkarem, Qalqilia and Jenin) agreed that the
    project supported their service delivery.      The second assessment, completed in
    December 2005, showed that 83% of surveyed beneficiaries thought that the
    subprojects supported by EMSRP were relevant to their needs.             The assessment
    further confirmed that from the perspective of both the communities and Municipal
    officials, most of the implemented projects were priorities.               Specifically,
    Municipality officials commented that "the implemented projects:

          · provided services that were much needed;
          · provided facilities for their jobs, such as roads that helped farmers to reach
              their lands;
          · facilitated their relation with their communities through improving services
              and improving the municipal staff performance;
          · resulted in cleaner streets;
          · facilitated students' access to schools;
          · increased the citizens' willingness to pay their (utility) bills".

    The survey also found that the number of complaints received by the Municipalities
    decreased considerably as a result of the implemented projects, compared to the
    situation before the project. The communities also expressed satisfaction with the
    new infrastructure projects directly implemented by the Municipalities (e.g. the roads
    in Al Shuyuh, Halhul and Rafah) in comparison to other roads previously constructed
    by other agencies.

(ii) to create temporary labor-intensive employment opportunities;

    Achievement of this objective is "Moderately Satisfactory". The project created over
    270,000 person-days of work over the first project cycle. Although this is short of
    the 400,000 person-days estimated during the first project year), the estimate was
    revised at mid-term from a conscious decision by the project team to focus on service
    delivery rather than job creation. By that time, it was apparent that other projects
    being implemented by the Bank and donors, primarily the EC and Italy, had placed a
    strong focus on the employment creation objective. Compared to other projects (see
    Section 6.7), EMSRP has performed quite well, generating 270,000 person-days of
    employment over one and half years.

(iii) to introduce a mechanism to link central and local government budgetary planning
processes to strengthen Palestinian emergency response capacity, enhance mobilization
of donor assistance, and improve the efficiency and equity of resource transfers to local
governments.

    Achievement of this objective is "Moderately Satisfactory". This rating is based on



                                              13

    the account of the delays in setting up the MDF and making it fully operational
    during the project period. This would have enabled a full scale testing of the
    new institution's setting in WBG. However, EMRSP succeeded in creating the MDF,
    which is now legally established and has staff capable of managing donor funds. For
    instance, it is currently managing a Danish Grant in the amount of DKK 56 million
    (equivalent to US$10 million), a contribution targeting capacity building at the
    central and local levels. To date, the performance of the MDF is deemed satisfactory
    by the PA and the donors, however, the effectiveness and efficiency of the new
    systems in place to manage physical subprojects has yet to be assessed and
    possibly to be fine-tuned under the upcoming EMSRP-2.

    EMSRP has succeeded in mobilizing additional resources to the LGUs. For example,
    the PA increased its transfers of shared revenues from US$2.2 million in 2002 to
    US$8.8 million in 2003 and US$6.8 million in 2004. The PA has also committed to
    allocate US$20 millions to the MDF from its annual budgets. Moreover, EMSRP
    mobilized some US$84 million in parallel donor financing, US$34 million more than
    was envisaged at project preparation. Moreover, EMSRP, played a vital role in
    harmonizing donor support to the LG sector during critical emergency period.

Finally, the PSC and PCU have successfully managed and administered Bank funds with
transparency and efficiency while smoothly coordinating and guiding the various
interventions towards achieving the Local Government Reform Agenda approved by
MOLG and the Cabinet in June 2004.

8.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)


Economic analysis was not done at preparation for the following reasons:

(I) The project was designed as a quick-disbursing operation primarily to finance
emergency and short-term measures to alleviate desperate local circumstances and
restore essential infrastructure services in the most effective and least costly ways. It was
not designed as a development project with regular investments which economic viability
should be assessed;

(II)  Although project funds were allocated for repair and maintenance of essential
infrastructure (roads, water supply, electricity connections, waste collection and disposal
and sanitation), these were lump sum allocations without specific targets. It was not
possible at preparation to know how much and which intervention would be financed and
implemented, hence economic analysis of possible outcome was not possible.

Economic analysis was also not done at the ICR stage due to the nature of the project
investments and its geographical spread over the project period. These extensive
fragmented investments were relatively small made in different localities but had the


                                              14

intended effect of "Mitigating further deterioration of the quality and coverage of
essential municipal services (from the PDO) but did not lend themselves to a proper
economic analysis of benefits and outcomes for a consolidated investment in any
particular location. Moreover, to attempt an economic analysis of this would require
estimating the economic benefits accruing to the local population which may not be
feasible under such distrupted living conditions.

8.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Please see sections 8.1 and 8.2 above.

8.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development


The project's temporary labor-intensive employment generation sub-component focused
directly on poverty reduction, generating a total of 270,000 person-days of work. In the
December 2005 beneficiary assessment, 73% of the workers gave positive feedback
about their experience. Some respondents stated that beyond finding temporary jobs,
they gained other benefits such as newly-acquired skills, though only 29% of them
thought that these new skills would help them find a new job and the remaining 71%
thought they would not find a new job due to the overall weak economic situation. Some
67% of the new engineering graduates who had been recruited to supervise small
infrastructure projects in their communities gained substantial experience on the job by
participating in the structured training sessions, management, supervision, and
monitoring work that they were exposed to.

Although the project did not focus specifically on gender aspects, employment
generation benefited women as well as men. Women also benefited from the provision
of public services (water supply, electricity, solid waste removal and sanitation) as these
definitely improved living and work conditions and public access for the women who
managed the household chores. Road improvements also made public movement more
accessible and safer for women and children. Socially, the services provided under the
project made significant improvements to the quality of life for local residents where the
extensive damage to physical and economic infrastructure and livelihoods was starting to
be untenable.


(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)


The institutional development impact of the project is rated as "Substantial". The creation



                                               15

of MDF has laid a solid foundation for a transparent and effective intergovernmental
transfer system and a tool to empower the MOLG to enforce the LG Law. As mentioned
before there has been an impact on the LGUs submitting their budgets to the Ministry -
something which previously did not happen at satisfactory rate. Furthermore, the MDF is
a legally established institution, vetted through all political screenings in which its
criteria for further releasing funds to LGUs is conditional on further compliance with the
Law. The MDF enjoys the support of the donor community and has also become a
channel for which donors can coordinate their funds. A survey of 6 governorates
completed in May 2004 by a qualified consulting firm contracted by the MDF, indicated
that 83% of LGUs were encouraged by EMSRP to be timely and responsive with regards
to financial matters.

The MDF staff is capable of efficiently mobilizing significant resources and monitoring
their application through the use of indicators. In terms of fund management capacity,
under EMSRP the PCU/MDF staff progressed to the point where they were able to
prepare high quality joint quarterly reports on all donors activities, a first in the donors'
experience in WBG's municipal sector. The LGUs were also positively affected by the
project by implementing their own projects using unified procurement guidelines. While
there is still much to learn, all sub-project contracts were completed within the original
project timeframe and budget.

The evidence indicates that the sustainability of the project outcomes will be "High",
based on the following:

(i) The MDF is a legally independent entity with by-laws, organizational structure,
operational manual and capable key staff in place;

(ii) PA support is clearly indicated by the US$20 million it had earmarked as its
budgetary contribution to the MDF ­ until the current fiscal crisis escalated;

(iii) The Bank's follow-on EMSRP-2 Project, costing about US$15 million, is anticipated
to be effective in early 2007 and will consolidate EMSRP achievements to date;

(iv) Another US$42 million has been pledged from Germany, France, and the
Netherlands for the MDF;

(v) LGUs and JSCs have embraced the need to comply with LG law regarding budget
planning and submission to obtain funds; this is demonstrated by the increase in eligible
LGUs and the JSCs applying for funds;

(vi) Community's commitment to contribute towards local sub-projects, in cash or kind,
has always been strong.




                                             16

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)


An unintended impact on the LGUs was that even LGUs which were too small to be
eligible for funds found an innovative way, by grouping into the JSCs to have access to
the grants. They not only got together to have enough citizen mass, but subscribed to the
legal and financial management criteria of having to be compliant with Local
Government law.

8.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)


Please see Annex 8 for the Executive Summary of the Community Assessment,
December 2005, prepared by the MDF and Annex 9 for Minutes of the EMSRP's ICR
Stakeholder Workshop, held in May 2006.

9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: High

The risk to the Development Outcome is High given several critical factors in the
operating environment:

        (i)       the March 2006 political crisis after the formation of the current
        government wherein major donors suspended most of the financial aid they had
        earlier committed to WBG;
        (ii)     Israel's suspension of much-needed VAT revenues that it was to have
        transferred to the PA;
        (iii)    Israel's deduction from VAT revenues for outstanding municipal water
        and electricity bills owed by Palestinian users to private suppliers in Israel;
        (iv)     donors' focus on humanitarian assistance versus rehabilitation/damage
        repair and development; and
        (v)       the current stagnation in the political peace process with deteriorating
        security conditions which affects program implementation.

The PA is currently unable to pay public servants and operating costs since March 2006.
The security situation has impeded and suspended many international transactions and
movement, leading to situations such as the one where MDF has been unable to finalize a
contract with international consultants.

10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)
10.1 Bank
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry



                                                17

(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Satisfactory

The project received a Quality at Entry (QAE) review rating of "Satisfactory" for being
"well balanced between emergency and medium term objectives, with practical
consideration given to how to get things done" and Bank inputs and processes were rated
"Exemplary".

The project preparation is rated Satisfactory. In response to the emergency situation,
EMSRP was developed to complement other parallel Bank operations in infrastructure
rehabilitation, maintenance and development. The project was prepared in a short period
of time (3 months from identification to Board approval), and was highly responsive to
the emergency and development needs of the client. The project preparation team was
well balanced and had the necessary knowledge to assess the PA needs and design an
operation that immediately responded to the emergency situation and the deterioration of
the economic activities which resulted from the outbreak of the Palestinian Intifada in
September 2000. The team consisted of both HQ and locally based staff which enriched
the team s understanding of the political environment and key challenges facing the local
reform and institutional capacity of the LG sector.

The project design was responsive to LGUs emergent needs in providing immediate
assistance to municipalities and village councils with financial and technical support to
enable them to sustain the delivery of essential services to their communities. This was
done taking into account partnership with other donors who agreed to establish the
Donor Coordination Forum (DCF) laying the ground for other donors involvement.
Moreover, the project also focused on technical assistance to provide financial support to
the PA, represented by the PSC, to recruit an international firm to help in the design and
the establishment of a mechanism to link the central and local government budgetary
planning processes to: (i) strengthen the Palestinian response capacity, (ii) enhance
mobilization of donor assistance, and (iii) improve the efficiency and equity of resource
transfers to local governments. However, given the benefit of hindsight, the Bank's
appraisal team did not correctly assess the PA's capacity to manage an international
contract; an issue that became evident while tracking the delays in MA contract
implementation. A recommendation would be to allow more time for the Grant Recipient,
who is in a post-conflict situation, to absorb and implement changes and new
intergovernmental procedures.




(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Satisfactory




                                                18

The project supervision is rated Satisfactory.

The project also received a QSA review and was rated "Highly Satisfactory" with a
balance of emergency and medium development goals evident in design/monitoring,
fiduciary/safeguards and pursued relationship with the MOLG. The ICR team concurs in
part with QAG's rating. The project team, comprised of field, HQ staff and consultants,
was resourceful and responsive throughout the project life. In addition to the day-to-day
follow up by the field based members, semiannual structured supervision missions were
organized which featured team members from West Bank,Gaza and HQ. This ensured the
mobilization of a multi-disciplined team much needed to oversee this project. However,
the team did not push forward to collect baseline indicators to enable a full project
evaluation, and for this reason alone the ICR team has downgraded the Bank performance
at supervision to satisfactory.

The field presence of the Bank supervision team was essential in maintaining continuous
dialogue with the client especially with the changing leadership half way through the
project. This presence was also essential in maintaining effective coordination and
guidance to donors, who often looked for Bank's advice and direction. This has resulted
in a strong buy-in from a number of donors including the European Commission, Italy,
Denmark, France and Germany. The request by the Government of Denmark in 2004
from the Bank to administer their contribution to the LG sector is one example. Donor
coordination by HQ based members has also resulted in the teaming up of the Bank's
upcoming       MMSDP        (now    EMSRP-2)      planned     to  be   cofinanced    with
France, Germany and the Netherlands.

Safeguard policies were also monitored closely and were timely addressed. For example,
procurement was constantly monitored with periodic post-reviews as part of the
supervision missions' activities, as well as immediate delivery of training/support to the
client when needed. FM monitoring and environmental safeguards were also monitored
in the field. The team also reacted swiftly, and correctly, to address the disbursement
problem (see section 7.4). In terms of reporting, the team used M&E indicators to justify
the ISR ratings throughout the project's life, and reports to management were focused on
achieving the Development Objectives. Although the team worked proactively to solve
some problems, for example alerting management early, at midterm, of the need to
extend the project, other times, such as resolving the slow procurement of the MA
contract, the ISR did not portray a complete picture of the situation, possibly preventing
management assistance and guidance to solve the issues more expediently. Another
shortcoming of the ISR reporting was in not revising downward the job creation target to
reflect the change in focus towards service delivery.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory




                                             19

Given the comments above, the overall bank performance is rated satisfactory.

10.2 Borrower
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The Government, represented by the Ministries of Local Government, Planning and
Finance, implementation is rated as Satisfactory. The establishment and monthly
meetings of the Project Steering Committee (PSC) aided by the Technical
Subcommittee have yielded faster decision making process especially related to the
Component 1 of the project.

The MOLG did not do so well in securing internal consensus on the MDF concepts (as
noted above in Section 7.2). The process featured disruption especially with the change in
government and ministers of LG. This was not new to the Bank's team as it was
envisaged in the project design under Risks to project implementation "In addition, with a
Cabinet reshuffling in process and local elections scheduled for next year, there is a
possibility that the priorities of the political leadership may change and not necessarily be
in line with the reforms that serve as a basis for this Grant." However, the new
leadership was brought up to speed with the objectives and benefits from establishing
such mechanism rather quickly.

The quick Cabinet's decision to establish the MDF has presented strong commitment to
the MDLF. This was also important especially in MOLG's promotion of the MDF as a
venue for channeling donors support to municipalities. Once again, one should not
underestimate the competing institutions especially those who managed and benefited
from donors' assistance to the local government sector, including PECDAR, certain
departments within MOLG, MOF, larger municipalities who had direct relationship with
donors, and NGOs active in this sector.

During the past few years, MOLG shown greater leadership in the sector. Chairing the
Municipal Sector Working Group (with the EC as the co-chair and the World Bank as the
Technical Secretariat) made it possible to attract donors to finance the LG Reform Action
Plan approved in June 2004. Denmark was the pioneer to commit US$10 million towards
this Plan with fund administration given to the Bank. Moreover, this leadership yielded
good results in terms of directing donors to specific priorities so while the Bank's
EMSRP focused on maintaining municipal service delivery, other donors such as the EC
focused on damage repair and infrastructure rehabilitation, at the same time, the Italians
on infrastructure and private sector participation, and the GTZ and Denmark on capacity
building. Even USAID was brought on board in their early 2006 municipal infrastructure
program by adopting the MDF's performance/incentive based allocation principles.




                                                20

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory


Implementing
                 Performance
Agency
                 The implementing agency performance is rated as Satisfactory. The PCU,
                 established by MOLG to administer EMSRP, implemented the project
                 well. Although the closing date was extended for three months to allow
                 for the completion of the institutional component (US$1.1 million), the
                 physical component (US$18.5 million) was completed in accordance with
                 the original schedule. The PCU has also succeeded in establishing good
                 rapport and cooperation with the LGUs which was essential to implement
                 the some 2,200 sub-projects. Most importantly to ensure compliance with
                 guidelines and procedures. The process was considered transparent and
                 equitable.

                 Despite a sluggish start with their compliance with financial safeguards,
                 the PCU capacity progressed significantly under the project. For example,
Ministry of      the PCU was limited in number and capacity but quickly grew to assume
Local            leadership of not only the Bank's funds but also with other donors (as
Government       mentioned above) over the life of EMSRP. Moreover, their knowledge
                 and experience qualified them to enter into dialogue with donors in
                 promoting principles of performance/incentive based allocations to LGUs.
                 Their reporting skills was sharpened and expanded from reporting on
                 EMSRP's accomplishments to cover multi-donor contributions.

                 The PCU's management of the international firm (MA) is somewhat
                 mixed. On the one hand, the PCU had a sound monitoring
                 structure/system with qualified staff to oversee and document compliance
                 with the contract and agreed assignments; on the other hand, the unique
                 type of concept introduced with limited efforts from the MA to mobilize
                 more experienced consultants hindered the learning process. As a result
                 the Bank team had to mobilize additional Bank staff to rectify this issue
                 and provide guidance to both the PCU and the MA.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Given the issues discussed above, the overall borrower performance is rated as
satisfactory.




                                             21

11. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

1. The EMSRP experience confirms that it is possible to incorporate modest institutional
reform agenda even in "emergency projects", provided that there is close supervision,
effective policy dialogue and adequate time to develop and implement the institutional
activities. In the case of EMSRP, delays in making MDF fully operational within the
project period meant that there was insufficient time to fully implement this program,
Fortunately, however, EMSRP will be immediately succeeded by a second project to
build on the ground work already achieved to date.

2. While the preparation of emergency projects on a fast track may be lauded as
demonstrating high responsiveness to immediate needs on the ground they may also
suffer in terms of not focusing in sufficient depth during project preparation to important
matters like the design of impact monitoring indicators; this could compromise the
project and ICR's opportunity to assess project impacts.

3. Even in emergency operating situations, it is important to be pragmatic in determining
the extent to which funds should be allocated without detriment to the overall outcome.
An example of this is the decision to virtually double project coverage of LGUs which
diluted the efforts that were to have been concentrated on 94% of the population, while
bringing less than commensurate payback in terms of the additional 4% of the
beneficiary population covered.

12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies


An Unofficial Translated Summary of the Letter Sent by Mr. Hani Kayed, Director
General of the Projects Directorate at the Ministry of Local Government, to the Bank
(Attached in Annex 10)

In his letter, Mr. Kayed reflected on the overall benefits of EMSRP, its administration
and suggestions for future interventions of similar nature. His comments were:

1. Allocation of Funds: The allocation of funds to all LGUs with population of 1,000 or
greater may need to be revised. This single population criteria used for allocation caused
the distribution of the limited funds over a wide range of LGUs causing the allocation to
be as small as US$5,000 in certain cases which had limited measurable impacts. In some
cases, the contribution did not solve the severe financial deficit many LGUs are
experiencing.

2. Simplified Procedures: The procedures and application forms which were used by the
PCU were too detailed and beyond the technical capacity of most smaller LGUs. This as



                                             22

result, forced them to seek consultants services to assist them in preparing their priorities
and project documents. This has required them to make financial commitments and
investments which in some cases could not afford. He suggested that simplified
procedures are adopted with heavy communication and awareness carried out by the MF
staff in an effort to provide all needed information and clarification on how to complete
the forms and prepare all necessary supporting documents.

3.Cooperation between Agencies and the MDF: Mr. Kayed spoke highly of the
cooperation between the MDF and the MOLG and its regional offices and the attempt to
engage them to the utmost in the project life cycle. While he noted the need for more site
visits from the MDLF staff to the municipalities for effective communication and
understanding of procedures, he noted the important role the regional MOLG offices
could play, if provided with the necessary training.

4.Capacity Building and Training: Mr. kayed suggested that training of LGUs staff is
required especially at the preparatory stage and training workshops with fewer
participants in order to have fewer distractions and more interaction between participants
and presenters. He valued the opportunities that EMSRP provided the LGUs to identify,
prepare, tender and supervise their own projects. This allowed LGUs staff to gain more
practical experience that they can apply in the future.

Finally, he stressed the need to finance larger type projects to have visible and tangible
benefits while he notes the limited impacts smaller projects have on the communities.


(b) Cofinanciers




(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                             23

Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The project's objectives were to:
(i) help mitigate further deterioration in the quality and coverage of essential municipal
services by providing budgetary support for non-wage municipal operating costs;
(ii) create temporary labor-intensive employment opportunities; and
(iii) introduce a mechanism to link central and local government budgetary planning
processes to strengthen Palestinian emergency response capacity, enhance mobilization
of donor assistance, and improve the efficiency and equity of resource transfers to local
governments.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

The objective was not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)


                                         Original Target    Formally     Actual Value

  Indicator      Baseline Value      Values (from approval  Revised      Achieved at

                                          documents)        Target      Completion or
                                                            Values       Target Years
              Number of local governments supported through emergency assistance
Indicator 1 : service support allocations;
                                     All LGUs with                  All LGUs with
Value                                population of 1,000            population over
(quantitative                        or greater and Joint           1,000 and pooled
              N/A
or                                   Service Councils               JSCs were eligible
Qualitative)                         where pooling of               (total 557). 485
                                     funds is agreed.               received funds
Date          01/22/2003             03/31/2006                     12/30/2005
achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 : Generating temporary employment opportunities
                                     400,000 person-days
                                                                    Just over 270,000
Value                                of temporary
                                                                    person-days of
(quantitative                        employment are
              NA                                                    temporary
or                                   estimated to be
                                                                    employment were
Qualitative)                         generated by project
                                                                    generated.
                                     close out.


                                            24

Date
              01/22/2003             03/31/2006                      12/30/2005
achieved
Comments      Decision taken during implementation to transfer employment generation to
(incl. %      other donors and Bank to concentrate on service delivery.
achievement)
              Introduce a mechanism to strengthen PA emergency response capacity,
Indicator 3 : enhance mobilization of donor assistance, & improve the efficiency and
              equity of resource allocations.
                                                                     Municipal
                                                                     Development Fund
              Absence of an                                          established.
              intergovernmental                                      Decision to appoint
Value         framework/             Establishment and               Board taken by the
(quantitative mechanism to channel Operationalization of             PA Cabinet of
or            equalization transfers a Municipal Fund                Ministers. Transfer
Qualitative)  or emergency                                           mechanism with
              assistance grants                                      different criteria
                                                                     developed but not
                                                                     yet calibrated.
Date
              01/22/2003             03/31/2006                      03/31/2006
achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4 : .
Value
(quantitative
              .                      .                               .
or
Qualitative)
Date
              01/22/2003             03/31/2006                      03/31/2006
achieved
Comments
(incl. %      .
achievement)
Indicator 5 : .
Value
(quantitative
              N/A                    N/A
or
Qualitative)
Date
              01/22/2003             03/31/2006
achieved


                                             25

Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 6 : .
Value
(quantitative
              .                     .                             .
or
Qualitative)
Date
              01/22/2003            03/31/2006                    03/31/2006
achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)


                           Original Target Formally

  Indicator      Baseline    Values (from    Revised    Actual Value Achieved at
                  Value        approval      Target    Completion or Target Years
                              documents)     Values
Indicator 1 : Water Supply Improvement
                                                    reduction in shortfalls 60
                                                    days/week new household
Value                                               connections 2,820 rehabilitation
(quantitative
              N/A          N/A                      of existing connections 982
or                                                  .Reduced amount of water
Qualitative)                                        supplied by tankers to non-
                                                    network communities 98,844
Date achieved 01/22/2003   03/31/2006               12/30/2005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 : Solid Waste Service Improvement
                                                    Increased volume of solid waste
                                                    collection is 3,880 ton/week
Value                                               Increased number of garbage
(quantitative
              N/A          N/A                      collectors 2,149 Increased
or                                                  number of solid waste bins 730.
Qualitative)                                        Reduced no. of uncontrolled
                                                    dumpsites 905.
Date achieved 01/22/2003   03/31/2006               12/31/2005



                                           26

Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 : Electricity Sector
                                                   Reduction in shortfalls 98
                                                   days/week new household
Value                                              connections 3,755 Rehabilitation
(quantitative
              N/A            N/A                   of existing network 76 km
or                                                 Reduction of hazards caused by
Qualitative)                                       dangerous installations in the
                                                   public domain 6,516
Date achieved 01/22/2003 03/31/2006                12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4 : Road Rehabilitation/Constructed
                                                   Rehabilitation of existing roads
Value                                              115km Newly constructed roads
(quantitative                                      42km #Sidewalks maintained/
              N/A            N/A
or                                                 constructed 60 km Households
Qualitative)                                       served by newly constructed/
                                                   maintained roads 25,350
Date achieved 01/22/2003     03/31/2006            12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5 : Sanitation
Value                                              new household connections
(quantitative                                      1,848. Rehabilitation of existing
              N/A            N/A
or                                                 networks 1,525km rehabilitation
Qualitative)                                       of existing connections 1,537
Date achieved 01/22/2003     03/31/2006            12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
              LGUs' compliance with the Local Government Law (in particular related to
Indicator 6 : budget submittal).
Value
(quantitative
or



                                            27

Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 7 : No. of donors participating in this program
                                                        4 donors are co-parallal financing
Value         Two (the EC US$70 million                 EMSRP including EC,
(quantitative + Belgian    in total                     Governments of Belgium,
or            Govt)        financing.                   Denmark & Italy. US$84m have
Qualitative)                                            been committed to date.
Date achieved 01/22/2003   03/31/2006                   03/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 8 : PA's contribution in emergency assistance to LGUs.
Value
(quantitative US$3                                      US$1.5 million in VAT
                           US$3 million
or            million                                   exemption on procured goods.
Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/22/2003 03/31/2006                     03/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




                                            28

Annex 2. Restructuring (if any)


Restructuring   Board       ISR Ratings at Amount Disbursed        Reason for

  Date(s)      Approved     Restructuring  at Restructuring in Restructuring & Key
             PDO Change      DO       IP        USD M            Changes Made




                                       29

Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)


                                              Appraisal
               Components                  Estimate (USD      Actual/Latest   Percentage of

                                                 M)         Estimate (USD M)   Appraisal

EMERGENCY PROGRAM
                                                    18.50              17.80         96.22
ASSISTANCE
MUNICIPAL FUND DESIGN,
MANAGEMENT & PERFORMANCE                             1.10               1.60        145.45
MONITORING
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND
                                                     0.40               0.50        125.00
CAPACITY BUILDING
                     Total Baseline Cost            20.00              19.90
Physical Contingencies                               0.00
Price Contingencies                                  0.00
                      Total Project Costs           20.00
Project Preparation Facility (PPF)                   0.00               0.00          0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                                   0.00               0.00          0.00
               Total Financing Required             20.00              19.90



(b) Financing


                                                  Appraisal
       Source of Funds             Type of                      Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                  Cofinancing   Estimate (USD
                                                     M)      Estimate (USD M)   Appraisal

 Borrower                          Cofinancing           3.00             1.50       50.00
 DENMARK: DANISH
INTL. DEV. ASSISTANCE              Cofinancing           0.00           10.00
(DANIDA)
 EC: EUROPEAN
                                        Parallel       30.50             32.00      104.92
COMMISSION
 BELGIUM, GOV. OF
(EXCEPT FOR MOFA -                      Parallel         7.20             7.20      100.00
DGIC)
 ITALY: DEV. COOP.
                                        Parallel         0.00           30.00
DEPARTMENT (MOFA)
 FOREIGN SOURCES
                                                         9.30             0.00
(UNIDENTIFIED)



                                             30

                                   IDA Special
  SPECIAL FINANCING                                         20.00                19.90   99.50
                                     Financing


(c) Disbursement Profile




                        Note: The graph is in currency of the loan/credit/grant.




                                               31

Annex 4. Outputs by Component

Component 1: Emergency Program Assistance ($18.5 million, $ 17.9 million actual)

This component is rated satisfactory. The project supported just over 2,200 sub-projects.
In the first phase of the project the number of eligible LGUs receiving funding for
projects was 349, exceeding the planned 260. The PA revised their fund eligibility rules
allowing smaller village councils to work collaboratively through Joint Service Councils
(JSCs) to group together. Accordingly, the total number of eligible LGUs rose to 557
during phase II of the project s implementation, with 85% of those eligible LGUs
receiving funds for projects during the second phase. At the time of project completion,
water and sanitation subprojects established 2,817 and 1,598 new household connections
and rehabilitated 982 and 1,525 connections respectively, compared to 25 and 20 the year
before the project was effective. Solid waste collection increased by 3,881 tons/week,
introducing 730 new waste bins and 2,149 new garbage collectors. Electricity connected
3,755 new households, rehabilitated 76.1 km of network and 381 street lights. 114.8 km
of roads were repaired and maintained, compared to 2.5 km before the project. 42.3 km
of road extensions, serving 25,350 households, were constructed. At the end of the first
phase of the project a community assessment was conducted to verify project
satisfaction. The results indicated satisfaction rates of: 92% in Gaza, 96% Southern West
Bank and 97% Northern West Bank. Near the end of the project a new beneficiary
assessment was conducted. Beneficiaries and stakeholders were still satisfied with the
projects; 83% of beneficiaries considered the implemented projects to be relevant. The
survey also showed the indirect help these projects gave; by having roads and water and
wastewater citizens were able to reach their agricultural land and invest in agriculture
projects.

Specific examples of development impact are:

1. Jericho Municipality Construction of stone retaining walls on one hand generated
work and on the other hand secured the area (Wadi Al-Qilt) from the environmental
impact of aridness. The municipality purchased and installed lighting fixtures which
contributed to reducing accidents in these areas. The funds also enabled the municipality
to complete the construction of the city public library, consequently affecting the
educational and cultural fields.

2. Ramallah Municipality installed lighting fixtures in newly constructed roads, thus
reducing the feeling of insecurity for the residents, reducing accidents in these areas, and
generating work opportunities of 1,032 person-days.

3. Nablus Municipality rehabilitated and constructed retaining walls, rehabilitated
internal roads, and updated its GIS unit. According to the Municipality Engineer, this
facilitated and secured access to some abandoned neighborhood areas, enabling residents



                                              32

to reach their homes quickly and safely with fewer accidents especially in winter which
were previously caused by sliding on un-asphalted roads especially for pedestrians, as
well as expanding development to these areas. Also, the purchase of IT equipment and
digital camera for the municipality GIS Dept enabled them to establish and develop a
solid basis for a comprehensive database of the GIS system for the municipality, which is
expected to enhance the capacity in project preparation, preparation of studies and
service provision.

4. Salfeet Municipality constructed a storm water pipeline. This impacted the
surrounding environment and reduced pollution. They also rehabilitated the low pressure
electricity network and provided lighting to most of the city streets.

5. Hebron Municipality The implemented projects in the city reduced the level of
unemployment and poverty by providing job opportunities to the workers who were
unable to work in Israel. The total number of person/days in Hebron governorate was
8,634. The project also contributed to solving one of the city's serious health problems by
improving the sewage system by providing 325 household connections.

6. Gaza Municipality 22,661 person-days of work were created. The project tackled the
serious environmental problem caused by the accumulation of solid waste inside several
residential areas. The average amount of solid waste collected increased from 3,850 to
4,902 tons/ week, i.e. 27% of the accumulated amount, and reduced the uncontrolled
dumpsites by 55 by increasing the garbage collectors number by 8, and the solid waste
bins by 690. The EMSRP also contributed to reducing the shortfalls in electricity in
certain areas by 4 days/week.

7. Beit Hanoun Municipality the city received lighting in its main entrance for the first
time.

8. Beit Lahia Municipality through the construction of water wells, the municipality
reduced water shortfalls in specific zones. Further, water has been pumped to new zones,
thus reducing shortfalls by 2-3 days/week.

9. Rafah Municipality better municipal service delivery through improved information
system in the revenue collection department. This also enabled the municipality to create
job opportunities through subprojects implemented in the solid waste sector, thus the
provision of tools and materials for the cleaning department on one hand improved the
services delivery, and on the other hand created around 14,000 person-days.

This component fulfilled its employment creation objective by ensuring service or
damage repair jobs had a 50% minimum labor content (as opposed to a conventional 20-
25%). 271,000 cumulative person-days of work were created for 17,019 workers
distributed throughout 16 Governorates. While the estimated target was 400,000 person-



                                            33

days of work, during implementation the Bank and Borrower agreed that the focus of the
second project cycle should focus on service delivery rather than employment generation,
as the latter could be address by other Bank and donor projects. The job creation was
very much appreciated because it also allowed new graduates the opportunity to gain
experience in monitoring, supervising and managing projects. However, it should be
noted that there was skepticism among the community members regarding the selection
process, and many felt there was insufficient advertisement, with 57% finding out about
the work through family and friends.

Component 2: Municipal Fund Design, Management and Performance Monitoring
($1.1 million, $ 1.6 million actual)

This component is rated moderately satisfactory. The Municipal Development and
Lending Fund (MDF) was legally created on September 22, 2005 and the by-laws
approved by Cabinet of Ministers on October 20, 2005. The MDF board approved the
organizational structure, by-laws, human resources and operational manual in early 2006.
At the time of project closing the MDF was still finalizing the Human Resources (HR),
Financial and Accounting, Project Management Information System (PMIS). The MDF
is already operational with most of key positions filled. It should be noted that although
the full set up of the MDF was not completed under the project as expected due to the
incomplete fulfillment of the MA contract, an obverse effect has been capacity building
and greater ownership of the MDF by the PA. With few deliverables not fully completed,
the PCU/MDF staff took it upon themselves to complete the necessary steps to have a
fully functional organization. For example, upon not receiving the PMIS from the MA
they completed and tested it with support from local consulting firm financed by
EMSRP. This is particularly significant given the starting point of the project where a
weak MOLG capacity was to rely heavily on consultants to design and oversee the
implementation of the MDF. Other donors have shown great interest in channeling their
funds through the MF/MDF. During project implementation, EMSRP was able to
leverage about US$84 million from the EC, Belgium, Italy and Denmark, and future
funding from the Netherlands, Germany, and the Agence Franciase de Developpement
(AFD).

From a ministerial oversight point of view it is important to highlight that this project
enabled, for the first time, the Ministries of Local Government, Finance and Planning to
jointly implement a policy. The temporary set up of the Project Steering Committee
(PSC), supported by the Technical Committee, consisting of these three ministries, to
oversee the EMSRP and EC's contribution was an initial step towards establishing a
mechanism (MDF) that is responsive to LGU's needs ensured by MOLG. Moreover, it
ensures greater harmonization between national and local development agendas led by
MOP which is responsible for drafting the Palestinian Development Plans. And finally, it
was also geared towards more involvement of MOF to ensure financing projects that




                                             34

could address the local government arrears.

Under the second project cycle, project implementation demonstrated that LGUs are
willing to comply with the LG law to obtain funds (289 LGUs submitted budgets
compared to 163 in the West Bank before EMSRP) demonstrating the idealized concept
of improving fund management and building capacity at the municipal level does work in
the case of WBG. Today, the MDF is established and committed to following a
transparent set of criteria for assistance allocation. It is based on an agenda that stresses
LGUs capacity development that promotes a LGU graduation into credit worthiness
status and can tap locally available financial resources and private investments. However,
given the full objectives of the project, this component is not fully fulfilled since the
MDF has not yet been simulated or tested to verify the validity or practicality of the MA
proposition. Further complication is the limited Technical Assistance (TA) delivered for
MDF operation meaning a steeper learning curve for the MDF staff.

Component 3: Technical Assistance and Capacity Building ($0. 4 million, $ 0.5
million actual)

This component is rated moderately satisfactory. The Long term Consultants (LTC)
provided technical support and oversight with respect to the administration of the LGU's
emergency administration. The initial estimate of 260 eligible LGUs ballooned to 557
with the allowance of smaller village councils agreeing to work collaboratively through
JSCs to group together as a collective unit. By the end of the project, out of these 557,
485 LGUs met the conditions necessary for the second phase of fund allocation. 85% of
the LGUs submitted their budgets on time, up from 20% in the West Bank (Gaza was
already 100%) from the project outset. While there is much room for progress in terms of
the quality of the budgets and reports (which would be addressed in the follow-on
project), given the circumstances there was a change in mindset of the LGUs in that they
need to comply with the law. Also, for the first time under a donor-financed program the
LGUs implemented their procurement processes. For example in Gaza, LGUs
capabilities were remarkably improved in the areas of purchasing and tendering
procedures, technical, and financial management. MOLG regional offices improved their
priority identification and emergency plans. An assessment conducted at the end of the
project showed a varying degree of community participation in identifying local priority
needs. While there was a general satisfaction to all implemented projects, in many cases
community participation was not a priority of the municipalities. While there was a good
emphasis on the community participation at project preparation through engaging local
NGOs, the capacity and time limitations in community consultation seems to have been
overlooked, together with a lack of clear guidelines of how to engage the community in
decision making.

To respond to MOLG adopted Local Government Reform Agenda, in June 2004, the
Danish Government approved the Local Government Capacity Building Project


                                              35

(LGCBP), DKK 56.5 million aimed at helping the MOLG with a preparatory foundation
to implement the reform and institutional development agenda.




                                           36

Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the
analysis)

Not prepared due to the emergency nature of this project which aimed at sustaining
municipal service delivery from further deterioration.




                                           37

Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members


       Names                  Title              Unit   Responsibility/Specialty
Lending
                     Sr Financial
Ayman Abu-Haija                             MNACS       Sr Fin Mgmt Specialist
                     Management Specia
Hadi Abushakra       Chief Counsel          LEGMS       MNA Country Lawyer
George Nasri Awwad Consultant               MNSIF       Operations Officer/Proc
                                                        Consultant/Municipal
Ahmed Basti          Consultant             MNSIF
                                                        Fund
Mohamed Arbi Ben-
                     Sr Social Scientist    AFTS1       Senior Social Scientist
Achour
Jacques Bure         E T Consultant         AFTU2       Consultant
                     Senior Program
Tuyet N. Chuppe                             MNSRE       Program Assistant
                     Assistant
                     Senior Operations
Ibrahim Khalil Dajani                       MNSIF       Operations Officer/Env.
                     Officer
Majed El-Bayya       Sr Procurement Spec.   MNAPR       Task Team Leader
Karim Violeta E.     Senior Program
                                            MNSIF       Program Assistant
Gigler               Assistant
Samira Ahmed Hillis  Operations Analyst     MNSHD       Administrative Assistant
Stephen George Karam Sr Urban Economist     MNSIF       Senior Urban Specialist
                     Director, Network                  WBG C Prog
Nicholas J. Krafft                          HDNOP
                     Operations                         Coordinator
Frederick P. Kranz   Consultant             QAG         MNA Proc Advisor Rep
Hisham Labadi        Consultant             MNSIF       Consultant/Proc
                                                        Urban & Trans Sector
Hedi Larbi           Sector Manager         MNSIF
                                                        Mgr
Thao Le Nguyen       Senior Finance Officer LOAG2       Disbursement Officer
Alfred H. Nickesen   Director               EAPCO       OPCS Representative
                                                        MNA Op Quality
Aloysius Uche Ordu   Manager                MNAOS
                                                        Advisor
                     World Bank's
Kanthan Shankar                             ECCKO-DIV   Environmental Specialist
                     Representative in
Huda Mazen Skaik     Team Assistant         MNC04       Team Assistant
Supervision/ICR
Afaf Khalil Abbasi   Procurement Spec.      MNAPR       Procurement



                                           38

Ayed A. Abu Ramadan E T Consultant              MNAPR         Procurement
                       Sr Financial
Ayman Abu-Haija                                 MNACS         FMS
                       Management Specia
Khalida Seif El-Din
                       Program Assistant        MNC04         Program Assistant
Al-Qutob
Abdallah Awad          Information Officer      MNC04         Information Systems
George Nasri Awwad Consultant                   MNSIF         Procurement
                       Sr Financial
Siaka Bakayoko                                  MNAFM         FMS
                       Management Specia
Sahera Bleibleh        Consultant               MNSIF         Municipal Specialist
Antonio J. Cittati     Consultant               MNAPR         Procurement
                       Senior Operations
Ibrahim Khalil Dajani                           MNSIF         Infrastructure/Env Engr
                       Officer
Akram Abd El-Aziz      Sr Financial
                                                MNAFM         FMS
Hussein El-Shorbagi    Management Specia
Elena Gagieva-Petrova Program Assistant         FPDVP         Program Assistant
Samira Ahmed Hillis    Operations Analyst       MNSHD         Operations/Disbursement
Stephen George Karam Sr Urban Economist         MNSIF         Institution Building
                       Senior Infrastructure
Mihaly Kopanyi                                  SASEI         Municipal Finance
                       Speciali
Hisham Labadi          Consultant               MNSIF         Procurement
                       Financial Management
Adel Fahed J. Odeh                              MNC04         Disbursements
                       Analyst
                       Senior Program
James Victor Pannett                            MNAOS         ICR Author
                       Assistant
Ai Chin Wee            Sr Operations Off.       MNSRE         ICR Co-Author
Azeb Yideru            Program Assistant        MNSIF         Program Assistant


(b) Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs


No.    Date ISR                                               Actual Disbursements
       Archived                IP                    DO             (USD M)
1   02/07/2003         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                        2.00
2   09/12/2003         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                        2.29
3   03/31/2004         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                        8.69
4   07/21/2004         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                       10.64
5   01/07/2005         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                       12.05
                       Moderately             Moderately
6   04/05/2005                                                                   13.71
                     Satisfactory           Satisfactory



                                             39

                       Moderately        Moderately
7   12/02/2005                                                                 19.15
                     Satisfactory     Satisfactory
8   05/02/2006         Satisfactory      Satisfactory                          19.37


(c) Staff Time and Cost
                                            Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

            Stage of Project Cycle                                USD Thousands
                                            No. of staff weeks  (including travel and
                                                                  consultant costs)
Lending
                    FY02                                      2                16.93
                    FY03                                     24                88.89
                    FY04                                                        0.00
                    FY05                                                        0.02
                    FY06                                                        0.00
                    FY07                                                        0.00
                                    Total:                   26               105.84
Supervision/ICR
                    FY02                                                        0.00
                    FY03                                      6                14.88
                    FY04                                     28                94.76
                    FY05                                     41               115.85
                    FY06                                     35                61.21
                    FY07                                      2                 2.00
                                    Total:                  112               288.70




                                        40

Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

        Bank                    Ratings        Borrower             Ratings
Ensuring Quality at
                        Satisfactory      Government:       Satisfactory
Entry:
                                          Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                        Satisfactory
                                          Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                              Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                        Satisfactory
Performance:                              Performance:




                                         41

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)

Municipal Fund: Executive Summary for Community Assessment, December 2005

1. Community Participation : Seven focus groups were conducted with community
members, and groups of officials in seven Municipalities were interviewed. The
evaluation team asked the interviewees about their opinions of the impact of the
implemented projects, community participation in the design, budgeting and satisfaction
of the implemented projects. The following summarizes their opinions.

1.1 Community Participation in Project Description and Design: Municipalities
reported that about 50% to 60% of the community residents were aware of the projects.
However, those people were not reached by formal ways, they knew about the projects
through their friends, relatives working in the municipalities, or through chatting. Some
of the Municipalities priorities were identified based on strategic development plans.
Interviewed Mayors asserted that their communities participated in such plans through
many workshops conducted with different stakeholders in the communities. Women and
youth didn't have active role in such activities.

However, the communities thought that these projects were donors' initiatives and
municipalities did not share communities or even announce about these projects, and the
main actors were the municipalities' boards and staff. These projects came to the
communities without any active role of municipalities or community members.
Nevertheless the communities wanted to see the implementation of projects that improve
their living standards. The effect of some projects was not large enough to cover the
community's need. In some cases the municipalities selected the projects based on the
available budget provided by the donors.

Community participation played active role in solving problems occurred during
implementation, such as helping Municipality to convince people to allow a new road to
pass through their own lands.

1.2 Community Awareness and Participation in Budget Planning: According to the
communities involved, the announcement for the projects happen after its planning and
approval and in most cases they knew about the projects when they go to the
Municipality to pay the electricity and water bills or even when the project
implementation start and the contractor put the sign for it. The involved Communities did
have a serious role in budget planning.

1.3 Community Satisfaction of Projects Regarding Quality and Sustainability: In
general, the surveyed Communities were satisfied with all implemented projects mainly
those serving direct needs of residents. To show their satisfaction with the implemented
projects, some communities contributed with lands needed for project implementation,



                                             42

and in other cases the communities contributed by paying money. In Hebron the
community contribution reached 15% while in Al Shuyukh it was 70% and Halhul 80%,
depending on the nature of each project. From municipalities point of view communities
were satisfied because the implemented projects provided services that they needed.

2. Socio-Economic Impact

2.1 Temporary Job Creation: Workers Assessment: Samples of 50 workers from
different geographic locations were interviewed: 27 workers from Hebron, 14 workers
from Halhul and Yata and 9 workers from Rafah and Al-Naser. Also, samples of 6
subcontractors were interviewed. Also, six Mayors were interviewed. The average years
of schooling were 9 years for the respondents, the average age was 34.6 years, 94% of
the respondents were male and 4% female, while average number of dependents of each
worker was 7.3 individuals.

Efficiency: The average number of working days of each respondent was 231 days
which is relatively high period. The average daily wages was 38 new Israeli Shekels.
80% of the respondent workers got 40 NIS or less per day. Daily wages ranged from 17
to 70 NIS. Only 16% gave positive evaluation, while 56% felt that their wage was way
less than what they put in terms of effort. Also 90% of the respondents covered half of
their needs by wages they received from the project. The overall coverage was about
44%, and it ranged from 5% to 100%. Around 98% believed that the positive impact of
wage will not continue.

Fairness: Only 22% of the respondents knew about the project through ads in local
newspapers or ads in public places in the community. About 57% knew about the jobs
through friends and relatives, and 19% knew by chance. Also, 50% of the respondents
said they were selected by a nomination from a friend or a party. 46% of those selected
on a competitive basis thought the process of selection was fair and transparent. 67% of
the respondents thought that they acquired new skills while the remaining 33% did not
acquire any skills. Those who acquired skills reported several areas of new skills
including: installation of pipes and power networks, mechanics, wall building and
maintenance, pruning trees, psychotherapy, building sidewalks, infrastructure works, etc.
About 29% of them thought that it will help them find new jobs, and 71% thought the
newly acquired skills will not help due to the overall weak economic situation.

Relevance: The majority of workers (73%) positively evaluated their experience, 17%
gave a negative assessment and 10% could not assess their experience. Also, 83% of the
respondents thought that the projects were relevant to the community's need in the first
place.




                                            43

2.2 Subcontractors' Assessment: The evaluation team was able to interview only six
subcontractors.

Fairness: All the interviewed subcontractors agreed that the selection mechanism was
fair. Also, 80% of interviewed subcontractors thought that the bidding processes were
open to all subcontractors regardless of their size.

Local Content: It was found that domestically made supplies contributes largely to
many projects. The share reached up to 100%. The ratio varies depending on the nature
of supplies needed. In some case (like spare parts) the local content was zero.

Relevance and Sustainability: Five subcontractors thought that the implemented
projects were relevant and useful to all stakeholders including the community,
individuals, suppliers, and subcontractors. Five out of six thought that their experience
with the projects implemented under the EMSRP will improve the competitiveness in
future biddings.

2.3 Mayors' Assessment: The evaluation team interviewed six mayors (Hebron, Halhul,
Al-Shuyukh, Rafah, Al-Naser, and Al-Shokeh). The Mayors were asked to assess the
overall socio-economic impact of the projects implemented in their communities under
the EMSRP.

Impact: It was found that the implemented projects had a varying impact on poverty and
unemployment in the targeted communities. In Hebron, the implemented projects
lowered poverty by 5% and lowered unemployment by 30%. Five of the interviewed
mayor though that the implemented projects helped beneficiary workers and
subcontractors to acquire new skills that will boost their chances in the labor and bidding
markets.

Relevance and Sustainability: Five of the interviewed Mayors thought that the
implemented projects will have lasting positive effects. Also, all the interviewed Mayors
insisted that the implemented projects were chosen in consultation with the concerned
community.




                                            44

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)

Emergency Municipal Services Rehabilitation Project

Implementation Completion and Results Report Preparation

Minutes of Stakeholder's Workshop

Introduction:

The EMSRP stakeholder workshop was held on May 29, 2006 at the World Bank field
office, Al-Ram, West Bank, to evaluate the Project's objectives and outcomes, lessons
learned and how to improve the design and implementation of similar projects in the
future. The workshop was attended by representative from ministries of Local
Government, Planning, Municipal Development Fund, and a number of beneficiary
municipalities. Due to travel restrictions between West Bank and Gaza, a video
conference connection between the Bank and the MOLG was done and representatives
from MOLG, MDF, and municipalities in Gaza were able to participate and contribute to
the evaluation.

Mr. Ibrahim Dajani, EMSRP Task Team Leader, as the chair of the workshop, welcomed
the participants and thanked them for attending this workshop to enrich the discussion.
Mr. Dajani highlighted the fact that EMSRP was prepared based on the municipalities
request to the Bank to make a special municipal fund for LGUs to better perform their
main services. However, the Bank in less than 4 months had prepared the US$20m. This
quick respond is the message on how much interested the Bank is in support providence,
in significantly short time, in coordination with other donors such as the EC, Belgium,
and Italy. He also explained the main objectives of the EMSRP in securing urgent
support to LGUs, as well as establishing the Municipal Fund (MF). Though, the MF idea
had been discussed with the MOLG in early 1996, it was not feasible at that time due to
MOLG fresh capacity in leading the LG sector. In addition, the Israeli closure at that
time and its impact on employment, made the focus of the PA and the donors to respond
to the emergency and the damage repair needs. Moreover, EMSRP objectives were
structured to balance between the emergency needs as well as the long term development
objectives. Mr. Dajani also highlighted that the Bank is now preparing another operation
with USD15m, in coordination with other donors, where this workshop can serve as a
good forum to discuss the EMSRP impact on municipalities in order to consider in this
forthcoming operation.

The workshop attendances in West Bank and Gaza introduced themselves.

Mr. Hani Kayyed, Directorate General of the MOLG Project Department, thanked the
World Bank and expressed his appreciation for the Bank support, and listed the following


                                            45

points:
· That he had participated in the EMSRP in its first steps, and he is glad now to
   evaluate with the Bank this project after 3 years, hoping that the situation will turn to
   be better to sustain the donors' funds.
· That the Bank, EC, and other donors' projects had contributed in enhancing almost all
   485 LGUs and WB and 25 LGUs in Gaza, still the demand is much greater than the
   available support.
· Highlighted the earlier agreement between the Bank and the MOLG was to distribute
   the grant between the emergency and development, and that the idea of establishing
   the MF started before the first Intifada, however, the MOLG was still developing in
   its staff and capabilities, and that no policies were yet in place for the LG sector
   development. The MF idea was raised once again in early 2001, to provide support to
   municipalities to sustain their service providence. Mr. Kayyed remembered when he
   worked with the Bank team on the EMSRP drafting and structuring on phone due to
   restriction on movement and inability of reaching the Bank, until the Technical
   Annex was finalized.
· The EMSRP population criteria to provide finance to LGUs with 1000 inhabitants
   and over, was not enough. The good approach may either to choose number of LGUs
   suffering much deteriorated situation the impact will be more significant, or to focus
   on one or more sectors of priority. This does not mean that EMSRP was not a good
   project; on the contrary, the figures showed that it was a god one thus its impact is
   not tangible. However, focusing on number of LGUs would not be a problem in Gaza
   due to less LGUs than the WB.
· The level of coordination between the Project Coordination Unit (PCU), the MF
   after, and the MOLG staff was distinguished; this should be further enhanced and
   invested in the future as team work is the key to success. Also, the coordination
   between the MF, LGUs, and MOLG district offices staff. The EMSRP main objective
   is to develop services and to raise the performance quality of the individuals, thus the
   PCU had succeeded in developing the MOLG district offices staff working in
   technical and financial procedures. Moreover, the coordination and experience
   exchange between the PCU, MOLG, and municipalities had helped the LGUs in good
   approach to determine on their projects in using the EMSRP fund, although the
   amounts were small thus affecting the end result of the provided fund.
· The MOLG role is project monitoring rather than its implementation taking into
   consideration the LGUs different capabilities. This needs to be considered in future
   projects through the MF, where the main role should be monitoring and providing
   technical assistance, leaving the implementation role to LGUs. The MF should
   consider arranging field visits to project sites, mainly at the final stage for monitoring
   and supervising its finalization and handing over.
· The procedures used in EMSRP were the same without distinguishing between
   small/big projects, where there were so many requirements. This needs to be
   considered in future Bank projects by putting a threshold to such procedures to avoid
   such "complications" to save time and effort in order to make balance between the


                                            46

   grant value and the consumed effort.
· The continuous discussion, and this meeting, is very important to enhance
   performance of MOLG, MF, municipalities and the Bank in the future, although all
   parties had put remarkable effort in almost impossible situation.

Mr. Sufian Abu Samra, Directorate General Deputy of the MOLG Project Department,
completed the picture from Gaza, where he thanked the World Bank for the
comprehensive project, and listed the following points:
· The EMSRP was prepared and implemented in crucial situation, and managed to help
   municipalities and people in improving services and job creation. Almost all
   municipalities felt the positive change in services, environment, and transport after
   the completion of the project.
· The designed allocation criteria based on population sounded good as the more the
   inhabitants are the more municipalities need resources to be able to provide its
   services.
· The EMSRP contributed to improving the municipalities' managerial skills, where the
   utilized system through EMSRP had helped them in managing their fund. Therefore,
   the MF needs to have a unified and procedures in dealing with different donors' fund
   to facilitate and support both municipalities work flow and building its institution.
   However, the adopted system needs to consider the different LGUs capabilities in
   order to give chance to all LGUs to benefit and be introduced to such system.
· The PCU management and commitment to the Grant Agreement conditions had
   supported LGUs in carrying out the EMSRP implementation.
· The reduction of most municipalities revenues differs from one municipality to
   another based on its performance and efficiency in collecting such revenues,
   therefore, all municipalities are encouraged to develop its performance in
   approaching its communities to pay its dues to enable municipalities sustaining its
   services.

Dr. Mohammed Sarsour, MDF Executive Director, thanked the World Bank for this
meeting and giving him this introducing opportunity to be familiar with the participants
as a new assigned ED. Also, Dr. Sarsour thanked the Bank and all who had participated
in establishing the MF and making it succeed, and listed the following points from a
conceptual perspective rather than technical, as this is the specialty of those who
participated in EMSRP preparation:
· The total fund the PA had received in the last 9 years reached US$9 billion, therefore,
   the fund need to be considered in terms of creating systems for expenditure
· Institutions creation and operation to provide certain service is one of the PA
   responsibilities, and donors can help the PA in this process
· The MF establishment is very important to help municipalities functioning, though,
   the population criteria for fund distribution should have been considered in a different
   way to be able to make difference, where some LGUs share was too small to plan any
   project.


                                             47

· EMSRP contribution towards the MF establishment is a pioneer idea which could
    efficiently support the LG sector. However, the available enormous experiences on
    this idea may contribute to the MF successfulness.
· The MF is an institute that shall provide its services and advice to LGUs on scientific
    basis, consequently, would function based on three scientific approaches: (i)
    infrastructure support based on simulated transfer mechanism taking into
    consideration the different financial and technical LGUs capabilities, (ii) raising the
    LGUs capacity building and to be able to respond to MOLG legal and procedural
    requirements in terms of preparation and implementation of budget planning, and (iii)
    emergency programs within a well designed and studied mechanism taking into
    consideration the real need.

Ms. Sahera Bleibleh, Bank Municipal Specialist, gave PP presentation on the EMSRP
storey outlining the workshop objectives in terms of its development objectives,
achievement, various beneficiary communities, obstacles and challenges and expected
outcomes and lessons learned, thus, laying the principles for issues that need to be
considered for discussion and feedback in the workshop.



Municipalities Feedback on EMSRP:

Dr. Iyad Rammal, MDF Operations Director, led the discussion on the project
components building on the presentation and asked each municipality to present its
implementation experience of EMSRP sub-projects, lessons learned, gained experience
and the impact of provided fund on improving their service providence.

BeitLayia Municipality: Beit Layia Municipality representative, the Financial Manager,
thanked the World Bank and all parties involved in the EMSRP which had supported the
municipality in specific and Gaza in general during urgency circumstances, and listed the
following points:
· The EMSRP concept had positively considered the deteriorated situation, as it had
    improved the municipal service providence sector in financing all different sectors,
    and helped the municipality budget to endure during such conditions. Therefore, any
    future operation needs to build on this project concept for further development.
· The EMSRP allocations distribution based on population criteria was single
    insufficient unfair one, as it has to be linked with the geographical area of the
    municipality. For example, Beit Lahyia inhabitants according to the PSBC records
    are 47,000, now 67,000 inhabitants, with comparatively expanded and dense
    geographical area, which has been further stretched with new housing projects, thus,
    affecting the cost of providing its services within such expanded area. The refugee
    camps are not considered in the municipality inhabitants calculations, and are under
    the UNRWA responsibility, however, some of the services provided by the
    municipality.


                                            48

· The good cooperation relationship with PCU had actively strengthened the
    municipality capacity in carrying out the needed technical and financial requirements.
    However, to reduce the cost and facilitate/unify specifying needs items, procurement
    of goods for the purchasing of similar materials could to be considered through the
    PCU/MDF.
· The EMSRP contribution in the municipality general budget was between 20%-30%
    on cash basis, which represents approximately 10%-12% of the operational budget.

GazaMunicipality: Gaza Municipality representative, the Municipality Director,
thanked the World Bank and emphasized on all the above mentioned, nonetheless,
stressed on the following points:
· The EMSRP allocations distribution based on population criteria was insufficient.
    For example, Gaza inhabitants according to the PSBC records are 500,000
    inhabitants, but this figure doe not consider the university students, ministries, and
    different embassies.
· The emergency situations requires flexibility in procurement procedures and
    disbursements processing, mainly in supporting the municipality decision for fund
    reallocations
· The EMSRP contribution in the municipality general budget was between 30%-35%
    including the employees' salaries.

RafahMunicipality: Rafah Municipality representative (RMR), the Financial Manager,
thanked the World Bank and emphasized on all the above mentioned, nonetheless,
stressed on the following points:
· The EMSRP allocations distribution based on population criteria was insufficient and
    needs to be considered in parallel with other criteria to avoid injustice distribution.
· The emergency situation requires flexible procedures and less paper work.
· Gaza municipalities badly need operational fund for their operational expenditure to
    be able to sustain their service providence. However, in responding to an inquiry on
    the municipality action to reduce and mange its operational expenditures in such
    difficult situation, RMR added that Rafah municipalities had reduced the number of
    mobiles with its employees, stopped 15 machines to reduced fuel consumption, and
    instructed its employees who can not reach the municipality to take vacations to safe
    the transport cost.

JerichoMunicipality: Jericho Municipality representative, Head of Project Planning,
thanked the World Bank, MOLG and the MDF staff for all efforts during EMSRP,
nonetheless, emphasized all what had been mentioned and highlighted the following
points on Jericho:
· For a city like Jericho, as boarder entrance and tourism area, EMSRP allocations
    distribution based on population criteria is insufficient as the provided services are
    much greater than the real inhabitants' due to increasing visitors number which has
    impact on the municipality employees thus, affecting the needed salaries budget.


                                            49

· There is too much focus on procurement issues in EMSRP; however, municipalities'
    needs in emergency situations are beyond procurement where more attention should
    be given technical and financial issues as well as studies preparation.
· Joint committees of municipalities, MOLG, and MDF may be established for needed
    advice and follow up on projects' preparation and implementation. This approach
    may fill the gap of insufficient performance of the local technical consultant during
    EMSRP.
· Jericho Municipality considers in its budget planning the road maintenance as an
    asset.

Al-BirehMunicipality: Al-bireh Municipality representative, City accountant, thanked
the World Bank for the successful project within professional criteria. In addition to what
had been mentioned, emphasized on the following points:
· Al-Bireh population according to the PCBS records is 68,000 inhabitants, with 68
    international institutions, in addition to being the government centre which had an
    impact on increasing the internal immigration seeking for employment from the north
    and south. This means the EMSRP allocations distribution based on population
    criteria is insufficient and should be reconsidered. Moreover, all mentioned
    institutions are excused from paying their expenditures as per the PA laws.
· The main municipality revenue recourse is the fees collected for properties and crafts,
    however, municipalities need support to be further enhance its revenue collections
    and be able to sustain service delivery.
· EMSRP had enabled the municipality to pay its electricity bills, build side walks,
    maintained its water network, and install street lightening.

NablusMunicipality: Nablus Municipality representative, City Engineer, thanked the
World Bank and all involved parties in EMSRP. In addition to what had been mentioned,
emphasized on the following points:
· In emergency situation, fund allocation criteria have to be associated to the damages
    level according to different affected sectors, and the services provided by each
    municipality.
· Different donors' procedures need to be incorporated in agreed procedure through the
    MDF.
· The MDF needs to be clearly identified and introduced to all municipalities.
· EMSRP had enabled the municipality to respond to the emergency needs as well as
    development needs through the job creation component and the establishment of its
    GIS unit. However, municipalities need to prepare its development plans based on its
    community's needs identification rather that list of projects. Besides, balance should
    be made between all provided funds to complement end results.

SalfeetMunicipality: Salfeet Municipality representative, City Engineer, thanked the
World Bank and all involved parties in EMSRP. In addition to what had been mentioned,
emphasized on the following points:


                                             50

· Any project which contributes to infrastructure development is important.
· The main municipality revenue recourse is the fees collected for building licensing,
   garbage collection, water and electricity bills, however, Salfeet municipality is
   providing neighboring LGUs with garbage collection service.
· The current closures and roads division add restrictions on transport and movement,
   thus affecting the service cost, i.e. Salfeet governorate is divided West JSCs and East
   JSCs
· EMSRP had enabled the municipality to purchase garbage collection equipment.

RamallahMunicipality: Ramallah Municipality representative, Head of Accounting
Department, thanked the World Bank and all involved parties in EMSRP. In addition to
what had been mentioned, emphasized on the following points:
· The municipality current efforts to enhance its service quality through other donors'
   project such as the one implemented by GTZ in capacity building and modernization
   of its technical and financial systems.
· EMSRP had enabled the municipality to purchase lightening fixtures and to create
   jobs to install street lightening in newly constructed roads, thus eliminating the
   dangerousness feeling of people living in the surrounding neighborhoods.

Al-Ram Local Council: Al-Ram Local Council representative, Executive Manager,
thanked the World Bank and all involved parties in EMSRP. In addition to what had been
mentioned, emphasized on the following points:
· The Local council had established public works unit staffed and equipped to
   rehabilitate its internal roads.
· The relation between the MOLG and LGUs needs to be strengthened with emphasis
   on decentralization.
· EMSRP had enabled the municipality to purchase lightening fixtures and to create
   jobs to install street lightening in newly constructed roads, thus eliminating the
   dangerousness feeling of people living in the surrounding neighborhoods.

Remarks on Procurement:
Mr. George Awwad, the Bank Procurement Specialist presented remarks on EMSRP
procurement based on independent procurement review.

Concluding Remarks and Lessons Learned:
· EMSRP was responsive to the municipal needs during a period of heightened conflict
   and political uncertainty, however, the emergency situation continues with current
   political impasse and halt of international aid;
· Consensus amongst participants that the single population criterion is not sufficient
   for financial assistance allocation. Consideration should be given to number, types
   and quality of services municipalities are providing, willingness of municipalities to
   improve services based on well structured development plans;
· Expanding EMSRP's assistance to smaller municipalities and village councils have


                                             51

  contributed to a wider spread of the project resources while reducing the allocations
  to larger municipalities to carryout larger projects;
· There was general municipal readiness to comply with local government law, rules
  and regulations as prerequisite to financial assistance as well as commitment for
  institutional reform if technical assistance is provided;
· Allocations should be significant to enable the municipalities to carryout projects of
  significant value and greater impacts realized by the communities;
· Procedures to tap Donors assistance should be simple, realistic and unified; It was
  agreed that the MDLF would test the procedures as stipulated in the operational
  manual to ensure adequacy and easy use by the municipalities;
· Municipalities should be entrusted and empowered to impose and collect more taxes
  to improve municipal financial resources;
· Donors are encouraged to consider financing productive and income generating
  projects to expand the municipal revenue pool.




                                            52

Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------




                                                              53

Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders




                                    54

Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents

1. Trust Fund for Gaza and the West Bank: Status Report and Requirements for Additional
Funds; December 2001


2. Trust Fund for Gaza and the West Bank: Status, Strategy and Request for Replenishment;
Report No:27094-GZ; December 200 3


3. Palestinian Authority Ministry of Local Government: Special Purpose Audit of Selected
Municipalities; May 2005


4. Memorandum and Recommendation of the President for the West Bank and Gaza Emergency
Municipal Services Rehabilitation Project; Report No. P7569; November 2002


5. EMSRP - Community Assessment Report; prepared by Municipal Fund contracted
consultants, December 2005


6. West Bank and Gaza Infrastructure Assessment; June 2004


7. West Bank and Gaza Intergovernmental Fiscal Relations & Municipal Finance Policy Note;
Report No. 36519-WBG; June 2 006


8. EMSRP - Scaling Up to a Municipal Finance & Management Project; presentation; February
2005


9. Municipal Finance Issues in West Bank & Gaza; presentation; May 2006


10. Implementation Status Reports (ISRs)


11. EMSRP Client Progress Reports


12. Bank Supervision missions Aide-Memoires and Midterm Review Report




                                              55

