Document of
The World Bank
Report No: T7569
TECHNICAL ANNEX FOR A PROPOSED TRUST FUND GRANT
OF US$20 MILLION
TO
WEST BANK & GAZA
FOR AN
EMERGENCY MUNICIPAL SERVICES REHABILITATION PROJECT
NOVEMBER 22, 2002



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(Exchange Rate Effective October 1, 2000)
Currency Unit = ILS (New Israeli Sheqalim)
ILS I =US$.211 USS
US$ I = 4.73 ILS
FISCAL YEAR
January to December
Abbreviations and Acronyms
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CDP           Community Development Project
CIDA          Canadian Intemational Development Agency
DANIDA        Danish Intemational Development Assistance
ED            Executive Director
EMP           Environmental Management Plan
EMSRP         Emergency Municipal Services Rehabilitation Project
EPA           Emergency Program Assistance
ERSP          Emergency Responses Program
ESSP          Emergency Services Support Project
EU            European Union
FC            Fund Commission
IBRD          Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB           Intemational Competitive Bidding
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
IDA           International Development Association
ILO           Intemational Labor Organization
IMF           Intemational Monetary Fund
LG            Local Govemment
LGUs          Local Govemment Units
MA            Management Agent
MF            Municipal Fund
MIDP          Municipal Infrastructure Development Project
MNA           Middle East and North Africa
MOF           Ministry of Finance
MOLG          Ministry of Local Govemment
MOPIC         Ministry of Planning and Intemational Cooperation
NBF           Not Bank financed
NCB           National Competitive Bidding
NGO           Non Govemmental Organization
OM            Operations Manual
OP            Operational Policy
PA            Palestinian Authority
PCBS          Palestinian Central Bureau of Statistics
PCU           Project Coordination Unit
PEACE         Palestinian Economic Assistance and Cooperation Expansion
PIP           Project Implementation Plan
PSC           Project Steering Committee
QBS           Quality Based Selection
QCBS          Quality and Cost Based Selection
TA            Technical Assistance
TAU           Technical Assistance Unit
TFGWB         Trust Fund for Gaza and the West Bank
WBG           West Bank and Gaza
Vice President:      Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:    Nigel Roberts
Country Coordinator.  Nicholas Krafft
Sector Director:     Emmanual Forestier
Sector Manager:      Hedi Larbi
Task Team Leaders:   Majed El-Bayya and Stephen Karam



EMERGENCY MUNICIPAL SERVICES REHABILITATION PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
Table of Contents
Page
Section A. Background & Donor Response Strategy                       1
Section B. Bank Response and Strategy                                 5
Section C. Detailed Project Description                               7
Section D. Studies and Technical Assistance                          12
Section E. Institutional Arrangements and Project Implementation     13
Section F. Financial and Economic Justification                      27
Section G. Action Plan                                               27
ANNEXES:
1. Summary Financing and Cost Tables
2. Responsibility Matrix
3. Chart Depicting Project Institutional Arrangements
4. Phase I to II Transition Chart
5. Process Flow Chart
6. Logframe with Key Performance Indicators
7. Action Plan






1
SECTION A. BACKGROUND AND DONOR RESPONSE STRATEGY
1.    With the launching of the Israeli-Palestinian Peace Process in September 1993, the hope
of resolving one of the past centuries' most intractable conflicts was set in motion. An ambitious
reconstruction effort was initiated with broad donor economic support to underpin the political
process and jump-start the Palestinian economy. Because of its still unresolved political status,
however, the Palestinian governance framework remains undetermined, allowing for very limited
Palestinian control of land, and lack of control over water, transport of goods and people or
access to external markets. Since the Oslo agreements, the Palestinian Authority has begun to
acquire jurisdiction in varying degrees, in the small areas under its control, for delivery of public
services, law enforcement and legislative power. It has not, on the other hand, the full attributes
of a state and is limited in its ability to authoritatively allocate or mobilize resources.
2.     Reemergence of Conflict Sets Back Development & Economic Growth. The outbreak
of the Palestinian Intifada in September 2000 and subsequent imposition of closures and curfews
by the Government of Israel on the West Bank and Gaza have caused many of the development
gains achieved over recent years to suffer significant setbacks. The nature of the conflict has
been one of low-level but protracted violence that has continued over a span of more than two
years. The Palestinian economic recovery that began in 1998 came to an abrupt halt with the
outbreak of violence, as political instability and security concerns have driven investors away,
while closures and curfews have imposed significant transaction costs on Palestinian businesses
that have eroded their competitiveness. Correspondingly, Palestinian incomes have witnessed a
sharp decline. Per capita real income in WBG declined by 12 percent in 2000 and by a further 19
percent in 2001. Unemployment is now estimated by the Bank to be just under 50 percent, and
this does not include that portion of the labor force that has ceased looking for work due to
depressed economic activity.
3.     Fiscal Crisis. Since September 2000, PA fiscal accounts have deteriorated markedly,
causing a severe fiscal crisis. There are essentially three main causes of the present fiscal deficit.
First, there has been a sharp decline in PA revenue collections associated with the decline in
economic activity and the disruption of tax administration; second, tax revenue collected on the
PA's behalf by the Government of Israel have been suspended' during the period December 2000
- June 2002, having resumed in July 2002 only on an irregular basis; and third, expenditures
associated with the emergency have increased over the past two years. Central government
revenue fell from a monthly average of US$83 million in 1999 to US$23 million by the First
Quarter of 2002 and further declined to US$15.7 million in the Second Quarter of this year.
Domestic tax revenue collection has shrunk to half the pre-Intifada monthly average and, with the
exception of transfers made since June 2002 clearance revenue, which had averaged US$45
million per month prior to the crisis, has been withheld. Despite the severe cutback in non-wage
expenditures (Second Quarter 2002 non-wage spending was 63 percent the level of the First
Quarter, and 46 percent when compared with monthly non-wage spending in 2001), the PA was
running an average monthly deficit of approximately US$20 million, even after taking into
account donor-provided budgetary support. This has been managed through a combination of
accumulating arrears to suppliers, borrowing from domestic banks, and delaying the payment of
salaries and pensions. Since July 2002, the Ministry of Finance has further reduced the PA
'Three transfers in the amount of NIS 70 million each have been made in July, August and October for a
total of NIS 210 million since June. However, no formal agreement has been reached to resume transfers
on a regular basis and to reinstate the pre-existing transfer system.



2
austerity budget of US$90 million to US$70 million per month to reduce the further accumulation
of arrears.
4.     By the end of June 2002, the PA had accumulated US$527 million in arrears, of which
US$295 million is due to suppliers and US$232 million in wages (including pensions). This level
of arrears has had a pernicious impact on the private sector, resulting in an acute liquidity
shortage, mounting non-performing loans in the banking system, and increasing cases of
insolvency2. Vendors have felt compelled to continue providing credit, but many have reached
the point where they are no longer willing or able to do so. Settling these arrears is a matter of
top priority for the PA once Israel transfers the withheld clearance revenue (estimated by the IMF
to be US$681 million in gross terms owed as of end-June 2002) and resumes regular transfers.
5.    Impact of the Crisis. Following nearly 18 months of protracted exchanges of violence,
the conflict intensified in the West Bank at the end of March, 2002, causing severe damages to
physical and institutional infrastructure, including housing, public facilities, as well as water,
wastewater and electrical networks, particularly in the northern region of the West Bank. This
was coupled with a tightening of movement restrictions on the Palestinian population. A Damage
Assessment was conducted with broad-based donor support immediately following the intensified
violence in March-April and developed an estimate of damages to infrastructure and institutions
of over US$330 million; this is in addition to an estimate of damages of US$300 million,
prepared by the Bank, that were incurred prior to March, between September 2000 and December
2001. In addition, tightened closures have increased travel time, which has multiplied by at least
two times the average prior to the Intifada when closures and mobility restrictions were first
imposed. Correspondingly, travel costs have also dramatically increased during this period, as
transport routes have been segmented within and between areas.
6.     Vulnerability of the Palestinian People. Closures and movement restrictions have had a
profound impact on the lives and livelihoods of the Palestinian people. Monthly household
income decreased by 50 percent in the first 18 months of the Intifada, placing 66 percent of
Palestinian households below the poverty line of US$2 per day. According to the Palestinian
Central Bureau of Statistics as many as 84 percent of Gaza households are now estimated to be
below the poverty line. Nearly 55 percent of households lost more than 50 percent of their
income during the first half of this year compared to 47 percent by March 2001, signaling the
deepening nature of the crisis. More than 55 percent of the population has decreased the quantity
of food consumed since the beginning of the Intifada. This has invariably had its impact on the
health status of vulnerable segments of the Palestinian population. A nutritional assessment
carried out under the auspices of Johns Hopkins University in July 2002 estimates the current rate
of malnutrition among children under the age of 5 to be about 20 percent, which is deemed an
emergency in most parts of the world. The study also found high levels of anemia among young
children and women in reproductive ages.  Food security is not only threatened by the
population's lack of resources - 65 percent of households that cut back on food consumption
reported lack of money as the reason - but also by shortages of supplies in Palestinian shops. The
Johns Hopkins study found that movement restrictions have severely disrupted the availability of
key high protein foods like meat and dairy products, and in particular infant formula and
powdered milk.  Palestinians have come to rely on informal social safety nets during
economically depressed periods, as most assistance is being provided by family, relatives or
neighbors (60 percent of food assistance and 11 percent of cash assistance). Many families have
resorted to selling gold and other household assets to endure the difficult times. But coping
2 See Fifteen Months - Intifada, Closures and Economic Crisis: An Assessment, The World Bank, March
2002.



3
strategies such as these, which have been relied on for the past two years, are unsustainable and
quickly being exhausted.
7.    Impact on Local Government Finances & Service Delivery.     With widespread
unemployment and the precipitous decline of a majority of Palestinian households into poverty,
local government revenues, generated largely from service and user fees, have suffered dramatic
declines. World Bank survey data indicates that between September 2000 and June 2002, local
government revenues have declined on average by just under 44 percent.  While local
governments, particularly municipalities, were accumulating significant liabilities initially, as
they attempted to sustain services by deferring payments, they are now resorting to reducing
expenditures on services (an average decline of 41.5 percent for the same period) in order to avert
accumulation of further arrearages.
8.     Service quality and coverage has deteriorated markedly as a result of the reduction in
municipal expenditures. In Gaza City, solid waste collection has been reduced to one shift per
week from two or three shifts prior to the crisis. Moreover, because of closures of some areas,
many landfill sites are no longer accessible. Municipalities in northern Gaza, including Jabalia,
Beit Lahia, and Beit Hanoun, for example, are forced to use a landfill site at Juhr Al-Deik (south
of Gaza City) as a temporary solution. But this arrangement increases hauling distances and
involves the use of unpaved roads to gain access to the sites, accelerating the depreciation of
already worn-down vehicles. Temporary transfer sites are also being used but because of the
random and uncontrolled manner in which they are set up health hazards are increasing, in
addition to the risk of negative environmental impacts. Road safety is impaired because many
municipalities lack the funds to maintain street lighting, either because of the cost of repairing
damaged lights or because they simply do not have resources to pay for the electricity.
9.     Reduced expenditures on services will also have a longer term impact, as routine
maintenance activities are being deferred. Many water wells and wastewater pumping stations
are operating at sub-optimal levels because of a lack of spare parts. Electricity shortages have led
to an overuse of standby diesel generators at water and wastewater stations, increasing the
operating costs to municipalities and often causing damage to sensitive equipment due to frequent
power surges and cuts. The depreciation of roads throughout WBG is accelerating, as they are no
longer being properly cleaned and maintained because of municipal revenue shortfalls and the
need to focus expenditures on only the most essential services.
10.    Several meetings with key representatives from the Palestinian Authority, municipalities
and village councils, and key NGOs have taken place in the past three months. Some informal
consultations have also been conducted through discussions with school principals, heads of
health clinics and hospitals and key figures in the service sectors. One of the top priorities
identified was the need for a mechanism that can provide an equitable and transparent basis for
intergovernmental transfers, whether from the central government or from donors, to LGUs to
support the continued provision of essential municipal services, including operational costs for
water and electricity supply, waste collection and disposal, and other public related services.
Other priorities include (i) the need to create employment opportunities for the many unemployed
Palestinian workers who lost their jobs in Israel and those who are unable to access work
opportunities in the West Bank and Gaza due to closures and mobility restrictions, and (ii) the
repair of damaged infrastructure necessary for the provision of essential municipal services.
11.   Collective Donor Response to the Emergency. A number of initiatives are underway to
assist the PA, and local governments in particular, in responding to the emergency. An elaborate
donor aid coordination structure was already in place and was revived in response to the crisis.



4
Regarding damages caused in March-April 2002, most donors began reallocating funds to finance
infrastructure and building repairs, as well as other emergency assistance to restore institutional
capacity and the provision of essential services both nationally and locally. This exercise was
informed by a coordinated donor-PA Physical and Institutional Damage Assessment completed at
the end of May in which several donors assumed responsibility for gathering data in different
segmented areas of the West Bank. The findings of this Assessment have helped guide the PA
and donors in reallocating financing toward prioritized emergency needs, while avoiding
duplication of effort.
12.   A Political Roadmap to Peace. Although it is premature to consider any new political
initiative an indicator of a future outcome, there has been some movement on the diplomatic
front. The Quartet, a newly-established apex-level political coordination mechanism comprised
of the US, the European Union, Russia, and the United Nations, met on September 17 to agree on
a plan which in three phases would lead to the establishment of a Palestinian State. The first
phase, which runs until mid-2003, includes Palestinian security reform under US and regional
auspices; an Israeli military withdrawal to positions held in September 2000; and support of "free,
fair and credible elections" early next year in the Palestinian areas. The Second Phase, which is
scheduled to begin in mid-2003, "should focus on the option of creating a Palestinian State with
provisional borders and based on a new Constitution." The Final Phase, proposed to be
implemented from 2004 to mid-2005, includes permanent status talks and a final peace agreement
between the two sides. In parallel a Task Force on Palestinian Reform was established to which
the Bank provides vital analytical support, particularly in three areas of focus: (i) civil service
reforms, (ii) local government reforms, and (iii) financial accountability reforms.
13.   A Renewed Focus on Palestinian Reforms. The Palestinian Authority is in the midst of
a broad-based reform movement which was launched in June with a cabinet reshuffling and the
announcement of a Palestinian 100 Day Reform Program. Supporting this reform effort is a
newly formed Task Force on Palestinian Reform, which includes an active role for donors. The
Bank is deeply involved in two sector areas - Local Government Reform and Public
Administration/Civil Service Reform. The most notable reforms to date have been initiated at the
Ministry of Finance (MOF) by its newly appointed minister. Since June, MOF has:
i.     Adopted a more disciplined approach to the budget with a reduction of budgetary
expenditures to about US$70 million per month, down from an average expenditure
level of US$90 million, in part to avoid further accumulation of arrears;
ii.    Consolidated all PA revenues, including those of the PA petroleum and tobacco
agencies, into a single Treasury account;
iii.  Installed controls to prevent issuance of checks without adequate cover;
iv.    Resumed transfers of civil servant contributions to the Government Pension Fund in
Gaza, which were previously accumulating as arrears; and
v.     Consolidated the payroll function in Gaza at the Ministry of Finance to exert tighter
controls over civil service recruitment.
14.   In addition to these reforms, MOF has also initiated central transfers due to local
governments based on their share of revenue from traffic fines and vehicle licensing fees. The
first such transfer of NIS 15 million was made in September, representing a renewed attempt to
realign intergovernmental fiscal transfer practices with the local government law.  This



5
represents a significant step forward in terms of intergovernmental fiscal relations, as previously
shared revenues were withheld by MOF and used to cover accumulating local government arrears
to foreign creditors. However, in making the September transfer, MOF also informed LGUs that
it was in the process of assessing cross arrears and that when this assessment is completed it
would begin to reschedule municipal debt to the PA.
SECTION B. BANK RESPONSE AND STRATEGY
15.   In the absence of a CAS, the Executive Directors approved on February 28 the "Status
Report to the Board on the Trust Fund for Gaza and the West Bank and Strategic Outlook." This
document outlines the Bank's proposed strategy in WBG for 2002, which aims to continue laying
the institutional foundation for statehood through knowledge-based analytical and policy work,
and operations that encourage the development of sound governance institutions at the central and
sector levels; and, in the context of the current crisis, continue providing analytical and
programmatic leadership to the collective donor effort to cope with the emergency, while
initiating multi-donor operations to support the delivery of essential social services and the
maintenance/recovery of private sector activity.  The proposed Project supports the latter
objective by assisting municipalities in delivering essential services, providing a mechanism to
better coordinate donor assistance, and strengthening Palestinian central and local institutional
capacity to more ably respond to emergency needs.
16.   As its contribution to the collective donor response, the Bank carried out a
comprehensive portfolio review in May-June 2002 and reallocated US$19.9 million from its
active portfolio, of which US$12.9 million was reallocated for emergency purposes, while a
further US$7 million was cancelled from one project and returned to TFGWB for future
emergency or development assistance. This assistance, comprising the Bank's most immediate
response, is now under implementation through existing project implementation mechanisms. In
addition, the Bank prepared an Emergency Services Support Project (US$20 million), which
became effective in March 2002 to provide budgetary support to line ministries to sustain
essential health, education and social services in response to the widening PA revenue-
expenditure gap. This operation has leveraged over US$45 million in co-financing from seven
donors and has proven to be an important instrument in mobilizing donor assistance and in
leveraging the Bank's contribution.
17.   Rationale for the Bank's Involvement. The Bank has considerable global and WBG-
specific experience in designing and implementing emergency operations in response to natural
disasters and emergencies arising in conflict-affected settings, and, in WBG in particular, is often
relied upon to lead such efforts. The first three operations implemented by the Bank in WBG4
were all emergency in nature and benefited from simplicity in design, while contributing toward
the establishment of Palestinian implementation capacity in the absence of such capacity at the
outset. Moreover, the Bank has demonstrated an ability to respond rapidly to emergency needs
through its US$12 million contribution to the Emergency Response Program5, launched in
December 2000 - only two months after the start of the Intifada -- in which the Bank and five
4Emergency Rehabilitation Project I and II (November 1994 and May 1996 respectively) and the
Education and Health Rehabilitation Project (February 1998).
5The Bank's contribution to the Emergency Response Program (ERSP) channeled a contribution of US$12
million through the Bank-administered Holst Fund and leveraged a further US$25 million in joint co-
financing through the PEACE Facility in support of emergency job creation through infrastructure micro-
projects.



6
other donors provided over US$37 million to create temporary employment opportunities through
small-scale infrastructure microprojects. Furthermore, the Bank's ability to mobilize resources
and to contribute by providing a framework for other donor assistance is illustrated by the
Emergency Services Support Project, which has mobilized over US$45 million in donor
cofinancing. Similarly, the proposed operation has been prepared in close coordination with the
European Commission and the Government of Belgium, among other donors, and would leverage
at its inception over US$37 million in parallel cofinancing, with other donor cofinancing expected
to follow once the Municipal Fund is established. In addition, the Bank's Country Office is
staffed with highly skilled and experienced national and international staff - both in West Bank
and Gaza - which enables it to more effectively administer and supervise emergency programs
than many of the smaller bilateral donors. This is the principal reason - in addition to the
leveraging effect -- that many bilateral donors have sought the Bank's assistance in administering
their cofinancing.
18.   Lessons Learned from Previous Similar Operations. A major lesson learned from
recent emergency operations supported by the Bank is that developing countries are becoming
increasingly aware of the need to put in place measures to prevent or reduce risks arising due to
crises. The past ten years have seen an increase in the number of Bank-supported emergency
recovery projects, and also a steep learning curve in the Bank's own understanding of how to
operationalize sustainable interventions.
19.   With respect to Bank experience in WBG, ESSP I demonstrated that centralization of
service administration and delivery can result in implementation delays. In addition, ESSP I was
designed to rely on line ministry staff to administer their components of the Project, which proved
to be difficult and slow-moving at MOLG due to capacity weaknesses and overburdened staff.
For this reason, the municipal component of ESSP I has been spun off and restructured separately
in the proposed operation, allowing for focused attention on emergency assistance, sector
dialogue, and reform at the local government level. Implementation would be managed on a day-
to-day basis by a fully staffed PCU based at MOLG with branch offices in Gaza and the West
Bank in order not to overburden MOLG staff. To ensure project flexibility and responsiveness to
different community needs and to circumvent prevailing mobility restrictions, the design of
EMSRP is based upon a demand-driven arrangement and decentralized implementation, whereby
local governments, in consultation with their communities, would determine their own emergency
assistance priorities and would implement projects at the local level, including preparation of
emergency programs, tendering, contracting and supervising implementation. This approach has
been highly effective in other WBG programs, e.g. Community Development Projects I & II, and
would be supported by four regionally-based teams of technical consultants. Moreover, MOLG
would be authorized to make 30 day advance transfers to local govemment accounts for up to 10
percent of their emergency allocation against which funds could be disbursed quickly. In
addition, streamlined Bank procurement procedures would be used to facilitate the flow of funds.
20.    Another key lesson learned from ESSP I and other related emergency operations is the
importance of maintaining close coordination with other donors. In the preparation of EMSRP,
every donor providing assistance to the local government sector was consulted to inform the
Project's design. Agreement was reached to design the Municipal Fund with maximum
flexibility to take into account other donors' financing requirements as well their respective
comparative advantages. It was further agreed with the two identified EMSRP donor co-
financiers - the European Union and the Government of Belgium - that a common Project
Steering Committee (and in the second year, the Fund Commission) would serve as the PA
counterpart for decision-making and overall project guidance. In addition, a Donor Consultative
Forum (DCF) is in the process of being established, which both the EU and Belgium Government



7
have agreed to join, to strengthen partnerships and coordination in programming interventions. It
is expected that the DCF will expand in membership as other donors consider channeling
contributions through the Municipal Fund once commitments can be made in subsequent donor
aid commitment cycles.
21.    Considerable learning has also taken place through a recent review of donor-financed
emergency employment creation programs in WBG; this exercise was financed by the Bank and
carried out in coordination with all donors providing this form of assistance through the Sector
Working Group on Employment Generation. Many such programs have relied on conventional
works-based, largely capital intensive project designs to create temporary employment
opportunities and placed much of the burden on contractors to find ways of ensuring maximum
labor content. However, because these sub-projects by design are not labor intensive, many of
the subprojects featured labor content of no more than 20 percent, thus limiting impact. In
response, the PA, the Bank and other donors have agreed to adopt a labor-intensive approach in
the design and implementation of these projects in the future. Informed by ILO and technical
consultant recommendations in the referenced review report, an employment generation
component of the proposed Project would be designed to support subprojects implemented by
local governments with a minimum labor content of 50%. Technical assistance in project
identification, selection, preparation and implementation would be supported through training
workshops and capacity building as further detailed under Component I of the proposed Project.
SECTION C. DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
22.    Project Objectives and Development Outcomes. The main objectives of the proposed
Project correspond to those expressed in the Palestinian Authority's request for Bank assistance
and are aimed at: (a) mitigating further deterioration in the quality and coverage of municipal
services, particularly solid waste collection, electricity, water and sanitation services; (b)
generating temporary employment opportunities for unemployed workers who have lost jobs
inside Israel or due to the economic contraction in WBG; and (c) introducing a mechanism - a
Municipal Fund - to link central and local government budgetary planning processes to
strengthen Palestinian emergency response capacity, enhance mobilization of donor assistance,
and improve the efficiency and equity of resource transfers to local governments.
23.    Project Components and Estimated Costs6 The total cost of the proposed Project is
currently estimated to be about US$70 million, out of which US$20 million is proposed to be
financed by TFGWB. A two year Emergency Recovery Grant would include the following
components: (a) Emergency Program Assistance; (b) Municipal Fund Design and Performance
Monitoring; and (c) Technical Assistance and Capacity Building, as further detailed below.
24.    Component 1: Emergency Program Assistance. (Total component cost: US$68.0 million,
IDA financing US$18.5 million).  This component would finance (i) local government
expenditures for essential service provision, including operating costs, goods and services, (ii)
temporary labor-intensive employment generation micro-projects, and (iii) damage repair to local
government facilities and service infrastructure, as further described below:
6 Project costs are estimates as of October 2002. A summary project cost table is attached under Table D in
Annex 1.



8
Local Government Service Expenditures. (Total sub-component cost: US$31.5
million, IDA financing US$14.5 million) This sub-component would finance local
government operating costs, goods and services related to municipal service
provision over a period of two years. Because this subcomponent is designed to
respond to local government defined priorities, the following is an indicative list of
prospective financing requirements and is intended to illustrate the types of activities
or expenses that are likely to be financed, based on prior consultations with LGUs.
a) Water and wastewater services. Maintenance and rehabilitation of existing water
and sewerage networks, wells and reservoirs; provision of chemicals for water
purification; repair and maintenance of equipment, such as pumps, generators,
vacuum tanks, and vehicles; purchase of spare parts, goods, vehicles and fuel;
payment of water and wastewater bills, and equipment;
b) Solid waste services. Service contracts for solid waste collection, as well as
labor, dumping fees, solid waste containers, tools and trucks, spare parts for solid
waste trucks, fuel, vehicle lubricants, insurance, equipment, materials, and other
related running costs;
c) Road rehabilitation and maintenance services.  Goods and works for
maintenance, rehabilitation and reconstruction of existing internal roads,
including traffic signs, road line demarcations, safety rails, traffic signals, street
lighting, sidewalks, fuel, vehicle insurance and road maintenance tools and
equipment;
d) Electricity services. Supply and replacement of transformers and electrical
panels, electrical cables and poles, accessories, spare parts, maintenance tools
and equipment, vehicle insurance, fuel, vehicle lubricants and electricity bills.
This financial support will take the form of a transfer from the central government
and would be allocated to LGUs serving 1,000 or more inhabitants in amounts
corresponding to their share of the population in WBG, or approximately 260 LGUs.
Coverage would extend to 96 percent of the population through this allocation
formula. Smaller LGUs would become eligible for emergency program assistance
provided they work through joint service councils or other mechanisms to jointly
represent village clusters with an aggregate population of greater than 1,000.
Allocations would be linked to the annual budgetary preparation cycle and would be
based on the submission of emergency programs prepared by LGUs in consultation
with their communities. Standard forms would be used to prepare LGU emergency
program submissions and LGUs would be required to prepare their programs in
consultation with the communities they represent.  US$7 million of IDA's
contribution would be allocated in the first year under this sub-component with the
balance disbursed in the second year. IDA's contribution would finance non-wage
service-related expenditures, including goods, services and operating costs.  A
portion of this sub-component -- US$10 million (equivalent) -- would be provided by
the EU through an integrated allocation mechanism that could finance either wage or
non-wage expenditures.
Labor-intensive Empioyment Creation. (Total sub-component cost: US$ 4.2 million,
IDA financing US$3.00 million). This sub-component would finance labor-intensive
temporary employment sub-projects that are identified and implemented by LGUs in
coordination with locally-based community groups. Past experience has shown that
pre-designed schemes often lack ownership and acceptance at the community level,
due to different local circumstances, customs and practices, among other factors.
Funds would be made available to regions based on their relative share of



9
unemployment (annualized data), thus targeting those areas in greatest need of
assistance with a greater share of resources. Distribution of grant proceeds would be
linked to the annual budget preparation cycle in which US$2 million would be made
available under the proposed grant in year I of the Project and US$1 million in year
2. Based on past experience, it is expected that this sub-component would mobilize
other donor co-financing to leverage the Bank's contribution. To be eligible for
financing made available under this subcomponent, LGUs would be required to
complete a section of the Emergency Assistance Program application form, which
has been prepared and is included in the Project Operations Manual. Allocations
would be designated for regions based on a ratio of regional share of unemployment
to population, against which applications would be reviewed by the PCU. To
become eligible, project designs would need to ensure a minimum of 50% labor
content. Sub-projects in a variety of sectors, including agriculture, NGO-based
services, etc., would be eligible for financing, provided they meet the labor intensive
criteria. A list of model projects with high labor content would be provided as
guidance to LGUs in making choices, based on the recommendations of the Bank-
financed assessment of donor-financed emergency employment creation programs.
Assistance to LGUs in preparing their sub-projects would be provided by specialized
consultants, possibly including support from the ILO, and would include preparation
of simplified standard bidding documents, training and public awareness regarding
labor-intensive project design and implementation. Financing for this technical
support would be provided under Component 3 of the proposed Project. The
Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation (MOPIC) is responsible for
coordinating donor-financed responses to employment creation needs and has agreed
to support implementation of this sub-component through its planning, monitoring
and evaluation department. The approach adopted under the Project is in line with
MOPIC's emergency employment creation strategy. Implementation would be
coordinated with the Ministry of Labor (MOL).
iii.  Damage Repair to Facilities & Infrastructure. (Total sub-component cost: US$ 32.3
million, IDA financing US$1.00 million) As part of its assistance to local
governments for damage repair and upgrading facilities and public infrastructure, this
central government allocation would complement the other two sub-components
through a parallel but linked allocation mechanism. For the EU portion of the
assistance (US$20 million equivalent), allocations would be made for sub-projects
identified and managed within a project database agreed upon by LGUs.  After the
first year of implementation, it is expected that this sub-component would be fully
integrated with the other two through the Municipal Fund instrument.
25.    Component 2: Municipal Fund Desig'n. Management & Performance Monitoring. (Total
component cost: US$1.10 million, IDA financing US$1.10 million. This component would
finance the cost of a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) with two branch offices - one in West
Bank and one in Gaza - for the duration of the proposed Project and the contract of a
management agent, who would be responsible for designing the Municipal Fund (MF) and
monitoring the PCU's management of it on behalf of the PSC/FC. The contract of the
Management Agent is expected to cover a period of 18 months.
i.    Project Coordination Unit (PCU). (Total sub-component cost: US$0.3 million, IDA
financing US$0.3 million). The PCU would operate throughout the duration of the
Project and would have the principal implementation responsibility on MOLG's
behalf. It would be composed of two branch offices (one in Gaza and one in the



10
West Bank), which exist at present and serve as PCUs for MOLG emergency
employment creation projects that are financed by Bank-administered donor
cofinancing trust funds. During appraisal, these PCUs were reviewed in terms of
their capacity and adequacy for the proposed Project and deemed acceptable. The
PCU's main functions in Phase I would be to disseminate information regarding the
Emergency Program Assistance mechanism and application forms to be prepared by
LGUs. The PCU would review applications, assisted by four regionally based
technical consulting units who would be responsible for pre-screening applications
and assisting LGUs in filling applications according to prepared guidelines, and
would make technical recommendations to the Project Steering Committee, to whom
they are accountable. In Phase II (the Project's second year), the PCU would retain
responsibility for implementing the Project but would be supported by a Management
Agent as the Emergency Program Assistance is expected to evolve to a Municipal
Fund. While in Phase I the PCU would be responsible for implementing the Bank's
contribution, as well as donor cofinancing, in accordance with standard procedures, it
is expected that the Municipal Fund will mobilize additional donor financing and
require a streamlined mechanism for managing a number of different donor
contributions. The role of the Management Agent regarding design of the Municipal
Fund and monitoring the PCU's performance in managing the Fund is further
detailed below. The PCU operating costs, including consultant services, office
supplies, utility costs, rent, communication costs, local travel, equipment and
furniture would be financed under this component.
ii.   Municipal Fund Management Agent Contract. (Total sub-component cost: US$0.8
million, IDA financing US$0.8 million). The Management Agent (MA) is expected
to be contracted by July 2003 and would be responsible for designing and setting-up
the Municipal Fund. The MA would be contracted by MOLG and would report to
the Project Steering Committee, which is chaired by MOLG. The Management
Agent would review the performance of the allocation mechanism and process in
Phase I and make recommendations regarding any necessary regulatory actions
needed to enable the Municipal Fund to function effectively.  The Management
Agent would also propose the institutional arrangements necessary to establish the
Fund Commission, the governance body, and the Municipal Fund, and would make
recommendations regarding any necessary regulatory actions needed to ensure
effective management of the Fund. It would also be the Management Agent's
responsibility to: (i) establish a Municipal Financial Information System to include a
database with budgetary and actual expenditure and revenue data collected from
LGUs as a requirement for eligibility to receive funds in Phase II of the Project; (ii)
develop the operating guidelines and procedures for the MF; (iii) provide capacity
building to the PCU in scaling up the Emergency Program Assistance to a Municipal
Fund, and (iv) monitor the performance of the PCU in managing the MF, including
reporting to the Fund Commission and to donors on aspects of financial management
and internal controls employed in administering the Municipal Fund.
26.    Component 3: Technical Assistance and Capacitv Building. (Total component cost:
US$0.90 million, IDA financing US$0.40 million). This component would finance the costs of
consultant services necessary for technical support, training, and capacity building, primarily
targeting small municipalities and village councils. Recognizing implementation limitations
caused by movement restrictions, delivery of assistance would be decentralized through three
regionally-based technical consultant teams in the West Bank and one in Gaza. The technical
consultants would assist LGUs in preparing emergency programs, facilitate processing by pre-



11
screening emergency program applications, and provide assistance in tendering and contracting
small goods, works and service contracts. In addition, this component would finance local
financial consultants to assist LGUs in preparing financial statements and in preparing their 2004
budgets in order for them to meet eligibility requirements for funding in Year 2 of the program.
Support for the design of labor intensive temporary employment projects would be provided
through a separate contracting arrangement involving the ILO or other specialized technical
consultants under this component. Financing would also be made available for locally-based
NGOs to foster community participation and to conduct surveys in order to obtain community
feedback on the process and the effectiveness and transparency in which the process is
administered by LGUs.
27.    Environmental Aspects. This proposed emergency Project, prepared in accordance with
OP 8.50, would contribute to environmental improvements by increasing municipal service
quality and coverage, including solid waste collection and management and wastewater services,
among other local community identified priorities. A limited number of micro civil works sub-
projects are expected to be financed under the Project, depending on demand, similar to those
implemented under previous projects in WBG, including the Emergency Services Support
Project, Municipal Infrastructure Development Project, Emergency Response Program, and
Community Development Projects I and II. Given that most of the likely investment activities
would support rehabilitation and improvements to existing infrastructure and service delivery
with a sub-project value that may not exceed US$150,000 and would not require land acquisition
or resettlement, the Project has been placed in environmental screening "Category B" in
accordance with World Bank Operational Policy 4.01 (January 1998) and requires preparation
and implementation of an Environmental Management Plan (EMP). In order not to jeopardize
quick project preparation and implementation to respond to the needs of affected populations, as
allowed under OP 8.50, the Project would not be subject to clearances or disclosures before
appraisal. However, the Bank team, as best practice recommends, will assist the client in
preparing an EMP prior to negotiations. The EMP will be prepared by the client in close
coordination with the Environmental Quality Authority (EQA) and will be monitored through
Bank supervision missions and reviewed during the Project mid-term review. The EMP will give
general guidance on environmental issues, as well as on site assessments and designs that will be
prepared for infrastructure sub-projects to be rehabilitated and improved under this Project. The
EMP will also elaborate potential environmental impacts and recommend mitigation measures.
The need for mitigation measures is likely to be limited. If any, the costs would be financed out
of the allocation provided to local government units through their EPA allocations.
28.    Social Aspects.  The increased tightening of closure, movement restrictions and
unpredictable curfews imposed on urban areas for indefinite periods have severely impacted
Palestinian society. As a result, many Palestinians have been denied access to essential services
and sources of emergency and development assistance.
29.    The proposed activities that would be financed through the EPA would be determined on
a demand-driven basis and be prepared by LGUs in close consultation with their communities.
Impact is expected to be quite broad, as over 260 communities constituting 96 percent of the
population would directly and indirectly benefit from the proposed Project, based on a PA
determination to allocate resources to all LGUs with populations of 1,000 or more. This is
consistent with the PA's existing transfer allocation criteria. Although other Bank and donor-
financed projects are aimed at addressing the needs of very small villages, such as the Integrated
Community Development Project, provision is made under the proposed Project to assist these
LGUs as well provided that they combine efforts and organize themselves in village clusters Joint
Service Councils or other means to



12
30.    As an emergency Project financing mainly service-related operating costs, potential
adverse social impacts are likely to be few, if any, under this operation. However, as a means of
ensuring appropriate safeguards are in place, regionally-based Technical Consultants (3 in the
West Bank and I in Gaza) will be staffed with one part-time social assessment specialist who will
screen all emergency program assistance requests and identify any that may have a potential
adverse social impact. Appropriate mitigation measures would be designed to address these and
implementation of them would be monitored by the social assessment specialist.
31.    Building on past and current experience and work financed through the Bank in WBG, it
is assumed that no negative social impacts would be encountered.  This has been well
documented through Bank projects including: the Municipal Infrastructure Development Project,
the Emergency Response Program, the first and second Community Development Projects, and
the Emergency Services Support Project which all contributed in various ways to the
rehabilitation and improvement of basic infrastructure services and other essential municipal
services.
32.    Key Project Performance Indicators7. The Project Implementation Plan describes the
process of monitoring the outcomes and outputs of the Project. The sector indicators (setup of a
Municipal Fund, increase of center/local transfers, increased donor aid mobilization and
coordination, and improvement of essential services coverage) will be monitored during Bank
supervision missions The Development Objective performance indicators (e.g., feedback from
the local communities, quality and environmental surveys, equitable allocation of funds, level of
dialogue between the LGUs and PA, and use of labor-intensive techniques) will be monitored
based on more specific surveys conducted during the Project period. There will be reports issued
on (i) impact of public awareness training and the community consultation process through social
impact surveys, (ii) environmental impact surveys, (iii) surveys on the impact of the Project on
quality of service delivery. PCU reports, supervision missions and an ICR will complement this
process. As for the Output indicators, a MIS system including a project database will be in place
to gather information on the improvement of service delivery, municipal finances, and
employment generation (e.g., reduction of shortfalls, new household connections, rehabilitation
of existing connections, cost of O&M, reduced number of uncontrolled dump sites, status of solid
waste management plans, and number of direct and indirect man-days generated).
SECTION D. STUDIES & TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
33.    While the majority of the proposed Project's financing is aimed at providing assistance to
LGUs in sustaining essential services, there would also be support in establishing the Municirza!
Fund and in strengthening central and local government implementation capacity. In addition,
the Bank is preparing to undertake analytical work in parallel with this proposed Project to
support and inform the municipal reform process and to ensure appropriate linkages are
established with the proposed-Project. This work would be undertaken in partnership with other
donors. DFID has already expressed its interest in working with the Bank on a policy note
addressing key decentralization and governance issues. In addition, a Bank team has applied for
financing from a donor-financed Consultant Trust Fund to carry out a comparative assessment of
local government finance and governance issues in three regional countries. Complementing this
analytical work, the Project would finance the services of a specialized entity responsible for the
design and setup of the Fund Commission and the Municipal Fund. Given the need to draw on
7See Project Logframe with key performance indicators under Annex 5



13
global experience, the PA has expressed an interest in engaging a Management Agent with
sufficient expertise to assist it in this task. The Management Agent would propose criteria for (i)
allocation of funds, (ii) eligibility, (ii) project submission forms and all additional necessary
mechanisms. The Management Agent would propose the institutional arrangements for the
Municipal Fund and for the Fund Commission including an MIS, rules and regulations,
procedures, staffing and training. In addition to financing the Management Agent contract, the
Grant would finance regionally-based technical consulting units that will support LGUs in
implementing their programs. The Grant would also finance NGOs and other community-based
institutions in conducting service delivery surveys and to promote community participation in the
preparation of LGU emergency programs. For the employment creation sub-component, a
consultant would be contracted to raise awareness about labor-intensive design approaches to job
creation, prepare template bidding documents and contracts and to organize training sessions and
workshops targeting LGU officials, contractors, NGOs and other agencies likely to play a role in
implementing this component of the proposed Project.
SECTION E. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS & PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
34.    Though there are about 440 LGUs in WBG (including municipalities, village councils
and small hamlets) with a total population of about 3.2 million, key stakeholders agreed that the
proposed Project would provide financing to LGUs with populations of 1,000 and over, which
represent just over 260 communities. It was further agreed that this criteria would be realistic, fair
and transparent since it covers about 96% of the total population and since allocations would be
made to each LGU on the basis of its share of the population.8
35.    There are four government entities whose mandate directly or indirectly affects the local
government sector. These are the Ministry of Local Government (MOLG), the Ministry of
Finance (MOF), the Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation (MOPIC), and Local
Government Units (LGUs). MOF oversees the setup of the inter-governmental transfer system
and monitors overall resource allocation at the local government level; MOPIC has the dual
responsibility for overall planning and donor coordination, and plays a central role in
coordinating emergency assistance planning under the current circumstances.
36.    MOLG has overall regulatory responsibility for the sector and provides policy guidance
and support, as well as coordination among donors active in the sector, including monitoring and
evaluation of donor-financed programs. In accordance with the Local Government Law, MOLG
also receives and reviews annual budgets prepared by LGUs. Because of the absence of a well-
functioning intergovernmental financial transfer system in the past, however, only 60 percent of
LGUs actually submit annual budgets, anticipating that submission would have a little or no
impact on transfers, as no regular, systematic transfer system has ever been put in place. As a
result, most LGUs have come to rely on service charges and user fees to cover their operating
expenses. In the past, only 30 percent of LGUs submitted fiscal year financial statements for the
same reason. Enabling the setup of an intergovernmental transfer system through the Municipal
Fund will provide MOF and MOLG with an important instrument to ensure LGU compliance
with the law, as eligibility for Phase II financial support through the Municipal Fund would
require these submissions. With a higher percentage of LGUs submitting this information,
' In the absence of expenditure data for services provided by all LGUs, population, as an allocation criteria,
was deemed to be an appropriate proxy based on a strong correlation between population and service
expenditures (.98), as determined by the Bank mission using Bank survey data from a sample of LGUs.



14
MOLG and MOF will be in a better position to analyze revenue and expenditure data and provide
advisory support to those LGUs who need to better manage costs related to service provision.
This would be enabled under the proposed Project by the establishment of a Municipal Financial
Data Information System.
37.    Project Steering Committee. In light of the complementary roles performed by the
different governmental bodies involved in the sector and recognizing the need for coordination at
the central government level, a Project Steering Committee (PSC) was formed by the Minister of
Local Government in October 2002 comprised of MOLG, MOF and MOPIC to ensure a
coordinated programmatic response to emergency assistance needs at the local government level.
The Project Steering Committee would provide overall policy guidance and direction in the
administration of the proposed Project and would authorize allocations based on a technical
review and recommendation prepared by the Project Coordination Unit (PCU). The PSC would
not be involved in day-to-day implementation issues, as this will be handled by the PCU.
However, it would be responsible for ensuring that guidelines are adhered to and would be
accountable to donor financiers regarding overall Project performance, either as Emergency
Program Assistance or through the Municipal Fund. The PSC would serve as the governance
body responsible for both the proposed Project and for the EU co-financed Emergency Municipal
Support Project. During implementation of Phase I, a Management Agent would be contracted to
review the performance of the PSC and recommend measures needed to be taken to
institutionalize the body as a Fund Commission in Phase II. Establishment of the Fund
Commission is intended to support a more programmatic approach to intergovernmental fiscal
relations and the administration of financial transfers in particular. Other ministries (e.g., the
Ministry of Public Works, through its involvement in the EU-financed project) would serve as
adjunct members dealing with specific issues regarding their respective sectors. In its oversight
capacity, the PSC would: a) ensure proper implementation of the Project in accordance with the
provisions of the proposed Project's legal agreements, the PIP and the Project Operation Manual;
b) ensure that effective monitoring and evaluation of project activities takes place; c) review the
technical recommendation of the PCU regarding LGU submissions; and d) approve LGU
emergency programs against budgets established based on the population allocation criteria.
38.    Project Coordination Unit. Day-to-day implementation would be the responsibility of a
Project Coordination Unit (PCU) at MOLG. Implementation would take place in two phases over
a two year period starting on January 1, 2003 and completing on December 31, 2004 . The first
phase would be implemented in the first calendar year of the Project and would be linked to the
budgetary preparation cycle, as would the second phase, which would be implemented over the
second year. Two existing PCUs, housed in MOLG (one in Gaza and one in the West Bank), and
responsible for implementing other Bank-administered projects, would be merged into one PCU
with two branch offices and designated the task of implementing the proposed Project. The
present responsibilities of these two PCUs are expected to be completed by the end of 2002,
ensuring a dedicated commitment to implementing the proposed Project. The staff of the two
PCUs were recruited in accordance with IDA Guidelines for the selection of consultants and have
gained valuable experience in administering previous Bank-financed operations. The merged
PCU would be comprised of three key staff at the Gaza Branch office, including a Project Branch
Manager, a Deputy, and one Accountant, while the West Bank Branch, where the FMS would be
established to manage the Special Account, would be comprised of a Project Branch Manager, a
Financial Officer, and two assistant accountants. A Project Director is in the process of being
recruited to ensure appropriate linkages are established and coordination in implementation and
reporting to the PSC/FC and to donors. All PCU staff that are not financed under other projects,
9 See Annex 4 for a chart illustrating the Project's transition from Phase I to Phase 11.



15
would be paid under the Project. Two other technical staff will be seconded to the PCU by
MOLG to assist in LGU proposal screening, monitoring and reporting. MOLG engineers in
district offices would also have a role in monitoring and evaluating implementation of LGU
activities.
39.    The PCU would be responsible for all project accounting, disbursement, monitoring and
evaluation, and would ensure timely implementation of Project activities, reviewing LGU
proposals, and makings recommendations to the PSC regarding approval of LGU emergency
programs. The PCU would also be responsible for the selection of consultants and preparation of
contracts for the local/international technical consulting firms/consultants, as well as procurement
of PCU goods and equipment. The PCU would be required to submit quarterly progress reports
for IDA review. These reports would cover the status of physical progress in implementing LGU
programs and would include updated commitment/disbursement data and variation orders, and
the status of direct and indirect temporary employment created in man-days, noting deviations, if
any, from the implementation plan. The quarterly progress reports would also highlight key
issues and constraints, mitigation measures planned and taken, updated LGU financial data and
updated assessments of the quality of service delivery at the participating LGUs. The PCU would
prepare a detailed midterm report that will serve as the basis for a Project Mid-Term Review in
December 2003. The PCU would also prepare and submit an Implementation Completion Report
(ICR) to IDA within four months of the closing date of the Project.
40.    The PCU would be assisted by MOLG district technical staff (DTS) in evaluating and
monitoring implementation of LGU programs. DTS would report to the MOLG project
department heads, copying the PCU. DTS would coordinate fully with the PCU in conducting
their monitoring and evaluation of LGU programs. Local consulting firms will be recruited by
the PCU according to IDA Guidelines for Selection of Consultants to monitor implementation of
LGU programs, provide pre-screening of proposed LGU emergency programs, advise LGUs on
procurement and improvement of quality of work, report on employment generation, provide
environmental screening of sub-projects and conduct social assessments, as necessary. To further
clarify implementation arrangements, a detailed responsibility matrix was prepared as shown in
Annex 2. A chart depicting institutional arrangements and another one depicting process flow are
provided in Annex 3 and 4 respectively.
41.    Local Government Units. Participating LGUs would be responsible for a) consulting
with their communities in order to identify priority public service needs to include in the LGU
emergency program; b) submitting program proposals using standardized forms; and c)
implementing their approved programs directly, including preparation of bidding documents,
tendering, receiving, opening and evaluating bids, and requesting no objections from the PCU for
projects subject to prior review. They would also be responsible for awarding and signing
contracts with suppliers and contractors, supervising execution of their sub-projects, receiving
requests for payment from vendors and contractors, reviewing them and issuing payment
certificates. LGUs would also be responsible for reporting back to the PCU on work progress,
accounting for and providing status reports on the use of financial allocations from the project
proceeds.
42.    Management Agent. A Management Agent (MA) would be recruited to design and
establish the Municipal Fund. The main value added of the MA would be in helping to scale up
the Emergency Program Assistance provided to LGUs into an institutionalized mechanism for
intergovernmental financial transfers. The MA is expected to be contracted and mobilized by
July 2003 and would review the performance of the Project over its first year and take into
account these observations in proposing arrangements for the transition to a Municipal Fund. The



16
MA would also propose the structure, functions and legal basis for the establishment of the Fund
Commission, as it transitions from a Project Steering Committee. The MA's proposed MF design
and institutional arrangements would be reviewed by IDA and discussed with the PSC at length
during this period. Following this review, the Bank would undertake a more detailed assessment
at the Project's Mid-Term review (toward the end of 2003) at which time a decision would be
made as to whether the institutional basis was in place to support the transition to Phase II.
However, anticipating possible difficulties in successfully identifying and mobilizing the
Management Agent, including a possible escalation of violence, the Project structure would
remain intact and the PSC and PCU would continue implementing the Project in the second year
essentially along the same lines as it did in the first year. This arrangement recognizes the need
to be flexible in the Project's design, providing an option to scale up, as a means of supporting
longer-term institution building, while acknowledging that the circumstances in WBG are highly
unpredictable, thus requiring alternative implementation options.
43.   If advancement to Phase II is feasible, the Management Agent (MA) would be
responsible for providing capacity building to the PCU in administering the Municipal Fund,
including establishment of sound internal financial controls and reporting systems. This would
include establishment of a Municipal Financial Data Management System to enable better
monitoring and tracking of LGU financial data so as to improve responsiveness to emergency
assistance needs. This System would also make available to MOLG comparative data on service
delivery expenditures by different LGUs, which it can in turn share with interested LGUs seeking
alternative service delivery options to improve efficiency. The MA would also act as the Fund
Commission's agent in the Project's second year by monitoring the Fund's performance and
supporting the Commission in its efforts to report to donor contributors on the uses and impact of
the assistance they have provided.
44.    PA-Donor Coordination. A Donor Consultation Forum would be formally established
prior to the launch of the proposed Project to coordinate international assistance provided as
transfers through the Municipal Fund and will liaise with the PSC periodically. The European
Commission and Government of Belgium, as donors providing co-financing to the proposed
Project, have agreed to participate in this Forum and view it as an essential means of
coordinating donor interventions in the sector. It is expected that other donors would join as they
make commitments to the Municipal Fund, which is expected to take place in the coming year in
conjunction with the next round of donor assistance consultations and commitments agreed with
the PA. The PCU would prepare for these meetings and quarterly reports would be distributed to
donors in advance of the meeting.
45.    PA-LGU Consultations.   On a bi-annual basis, MOLG would meet with LGU
representatives to exchange information on project implementation and to discuss measures
required to strengthen processes. The PCU would prepare for these meetings. Briefings of the
main issues discussed at these meetings and recommendations reached would be reported in the
next quarterly reports to the Bank and other donor cofinanciers.
46.    Project Implementation Plan (PIP) & Project Operation Manual (POM). A draft
Project Implementation Plan was prepared by MOLG and discussed during appraisal. Its purpose
is to detail how the Palestinian Authority intends to carry out the Project to its completion. The
PIP complements the MOP and Technical Annex and expands on important implementation
arrangements. It is seen by the PA as a flexible implementation tool that will be reviewed
periodically and adjusted when warranted. The PIP describes MOLG as a focal point, fully
accountable for Project oversight and coordination. It details the responsibilities of MOLG, the
Project Steering Committee (that will evolve into a Fund Commission in the second phase of the



17
Project) and the Management Agent during the two phases of the Project. Staffing and key staff
positions for all the units involved in implementation are described in the PIP. The PIP also
describes the role of the other participants in the process (municipalities, communities, various
ministries and donors), as well as the coordination mechanism between these various actors. To
streamline and facilitate implementation of the Project, a Project Operational Manual (POM) has
been prepared in draft form and will be finalized by the conclusion of Negotiations. The POM
would include procedures for submitting proposals by LGUs, screening proposals, fund allocation
criteria, as well as guidelines relating to disbursements, accounting, procurement, reporting and a
detailed responsibility matrix.
47.    There will be a Project launch workshop organized within one month after the Project is
declared effective. Bank supervision staff are located in the field for close monitoring of the
Project and to provide timely assistance to the client. Supervision missions will take place
according to Project requirements. The Project midterm review is scheduled by December 2003,
when the first phase of the Project will come to an end. At that time, all arrangements regarding
the Municipal Fund and the Fund Commission should be in place and the Municipal Fund ready
to be operational for the second phase of the Project (a dated covenant under the Project). The
penultimate supervision mission (June-July 2004) will be used to launch with the PA the
preparation of the ICR.
Major Benefits and Risks
48.    Benefits. The principle benefit of the Project will be improvements in the delivery of
essential municipal services including solid waste collection, water supply and sanitation
services, and electricity supply to a significant portion of the Palestinian population. Improved
service coverage and quality would help mitigate deteriorating health and sanitary conditions,
reducing health risks while generating some economic activity. In addition, targeted assistance to
communities with higher incidences of unemployment and poverty through labor-intensive
temporary employment generation activities would ameliorate some of the harshest effects of the
economic contraction.  The process of preparing municipal emergency programs through
participatory methods involving communities would signal the desire of local governments to
respond to urgent community needs, while strengthening the social compact with their
constituents. Establishment of a Municipal Fund will, in the short term, provide a mechanism to
better mobilize emergency assistance, improve targeting and allow for greater equity in the
allocation of resources at the local government level. As such, the Municipal Fund would serve
as an important instrument in facilitating central-local coordination in response to emergency
needs in the future. At the same time, it would provide an important institutional foundation
linking central and local budgetary planning processes and facilitating improved resource
allocation.
49.    Risks.  Project risks include a volatile political and security situation that could
jeopardize smooth implementation, particularly if closures and curfews remain in place for an
indefinite period of time. In addition, with a Cabinet reshuffling in process and local elections
scheduled for early next year, there is a possibility that the priorities of the political leadership
may change and not necessarily be in line with the reforms that serve as a basis for this Grant.
This risk is widely acknowledged by the donor community and is addressed in part through the
Task Force on Palestinian Reform. The Bank's active participation in this reform effort, with
particular focus on municipal reforms, should serve to mitigate this risk. The proposed operation,
in turn, would provide an operational vehicle to translate agreed reform actions into meaningful
change. Specific risks include: (i) Logistical constraints: Curfews and closures that impede
movement within Gaza and West Bank, thus limiting the impact of capacity building and



18
technical assistance support, and increased transaction costs and delays in the delivery of essential
equipment, spare parts and other externally-sourced goods that are essential to improving service
provision; (ii) Prolonged political stalemate: Delayed progress in achieving a political settlement
will have a determining effect on the ability of the Project to contribute toward long-term reforms
and institution building; and (iii) Delays in mobilizing the Management Agent or inability to
identify a suitably qualified Agent would impact the transition to Phase II. As a mitigation
measure against this risk, Phase I is designed to continue as the Project implementation structure
through Phase II. Moreover, the general risks to the Project are manageable with sustained donor
commitment to support emergency needs and improve coordination, in particular through the
Municipal Fund established under the proposed operation, through close supervision and
decentralized delivery of technical assistance and capacity building support, as proposed under
this operation. Where international expertise is needed, firms would be encouraged to form
partnerships with local organizations and to rely on the relatively strong human resource base in
WBG to take responsibility for implementation at the local level.
Procurement Arrangements
50.    The Project will finance, services, goods, operating costs and civil works. Procurement
will be conducted in accordance with IDA guidelines for "Procurement under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits", January 1995 (revised in January and August 1996, September 1997, and January
1999); as well as those for "Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers," January 1997 (revised September 1997 and January 1999, revised May 2002). The
components not financed by IDA would be procured in accordance with PA regulations or
guidelines of co financing institutions. A General Procurement Notice (GPN) would be issued in
"United Nations Development Business" (UNDB) prior to the publication of the first Specific
Procurement Notice (SPN) and bidders who have expressed an interest would be notified directly
by the PCU.
51.   Procurement Responsibilities.  The PCU    would bear    overall procurement
responsibility during all phases of the project. The Municipal Fund Design and Management
component and the Technical Assistance and Capacity Building component would be procured by
the PCU at the MOLG. Procurement of the Emergency Program Assistance component
(US$17.5 million IDA financing) would be decentralized to LGUs, as was the case under ESSP
I and PEACE Facility co-financing trust funds (which were administered by the Bank), to
expedite the implementation of this emergency Project. Building on the experience under the
PEACE facility, technical assistance on procurement from locally-based consulting firms (three
in the West Bank and one in Gaza) and from MOLG's regional offices would be provided to the
LGUs. The consulting firms would report directly to the PCU on their review of procurement
process at LGUs and advise on timely corrective measures, if any, to be taken to avoid faulty
procurement decisions at the level of LGUs. With the assistance of these consultants, LGUs
would prepare bidding documents, tender, receive bids, evaluate bids, award and sign contracts
with the lowest evaluated bidders. For those contracts subject to prior review, LGUs would
request a 'no objection' from the PCU before signing contracts. The PCU would review the
recommendation and provide its 'no objection' to the requesting LGU. If required by the TFA,
the PCU would first seek IDA's 'no objection' to award the contract. A copy of all contracts,
purchase orders and bid evaluation reports would be retained and filed at the PCU. An Project
Operational Manual (POM) has been prepared which includes detailed information on
procurement with samples forms, bidding documents, bid evaluation forms and sample
communications letters. The POM would be finalized by negotiations.



19
52.    Because of the emergency nature of the Project, simplified procurement procedures will
apply. Simplified bidding documents (in Arabic language) will be used to procure small civil
works and goods, and simplified NCB and shopping procedures will be used to procure goods.
53.    Procurement Methods.    The procurement arrangements described below  are
summarized under Table A. Thresholds for procurement methods and prior review arrangements
are summarized under Table B.
54.    Civil Works (US$2.0 million).  Bid packages with an estimated contract value of
US$100,000 equivalent or more, would be procured using NCB procedures and documents and
advertisements in at least two local newspapers. NCB contracts would be open to eligible foreign
bidders if they wish to participate. Bid evaluations would be submitted on IDA's Standard Bid
Evaluation Forms for Procurement of Goods and Works of April 1996. Works contracts
estimated to cost below US$100,000, up to an aggregate amount of US$1,000,000, would be
procured in accordance with simplified bidding procedures acceptable to IDA, including
simplified bidding and contract documents with a basic description and specifications of the
required small works and incidental material and labor, posting invitation to bid in a public place
within the community, transparent procedures for accepting sealed bids, public bid opening, bid
evaluation and contract award to the lowest evaluated responsive bid price offered by a bidder
with the necessary skills and equipment and other proper resources to complete the contract
satisfactorily. Works contracts estimated to cost less than US$10,000, up to an aggregate amount
of US$200,000, would be procured by obtaining three competitive proposals from capable local
contractors and awarding the contract to the contractor offering the lowest price. Under
exceptional circumstances requiring IDA's prior clearance, these very small works may be
carried out by Government Forces, as per paragraph. 3.8 (Force Account) of IDA Guidelines.
55.    Goods (US$9.0 million). Goods, such as solid waste collection containers and vehicle
spare parts, necessary construction materials, i.e. cement, reinforcing steel rods, base course,
asphalting material, tiles and other materials, water and sewage pipes and fittings, electric cables
and transformers, street lighting poles, electrical bulbs, etc., fuel, lubricants, office equipment and
furniture would be financed out of the Emergency Program Assistance Component. To the extent
possible, goods would be grouped together in lots of similar items. Packages with an estimated
contract value of US$100,000 or more would be procured using National Competitive Bidding
(NCB) procedures and documents acceptable to the Bank. These contracts would require
advertisement in at least two local newspapers. NCB contracts would be open to eligible foreign
bidders if they wish to participate. Goods contracts estimated to cost less than US$ 100,000 up to
an aggregate amount of US$3,500,000 would be procured using National or International
Shopping (NS/IS) procedures and would require soliciting, receiving and evaluating competitive
quotations from at least three qualified suppliers. Goods costing less than US$5,000 up to an
aggregate amount of US$500,000 would be procured through direct purchase from the nearest
available source.
56.    Services (US$5.0 million). For services costing US$200,000 or more the Quality and
Cost Based Selection (QCBS) method would be used and would require advertisement of an
Expressions of Interest in UN Development Business and the use of IDA's Standard RFP and
Evaluation Report. For services costing less than US$200,000 up to an aggregate amount of
US$500,000, the selection method would be QCBS or QBS. For services provided by firms
costing less than US$50,000, up to an aggregate amount of US$500,000, the selection method
would be Consultants' Qualifications (CQ).



20
57.     For individual consultant contracts estimated to cost US$50,000 or less, the selection
method would be based on Section V. of World Bank Guidelines for Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, published in January 1997 and revised in September
1997, January 1999, and May 2002. Single Source Selection (SS) would be used under
exceptional cases and require IDA's prior review and 'no objection'.
58.     Contracts for non-intellectual and advisory services, such as payments for labor-intensive
service providers including solid waste collection, cleaning contracts, painting, operations and
maintenance of public facilities and infrastructure, laboratory tests, etc. would be procured using
procurement for works and goods procedures.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method'
Expenditure Category      ICB           NCB           Other          N.B.F.        Total Cost
1. Works                  0.00          0.60            1.40          6.00            8.00
(0.00)        (0.60)         (1.40)         (0.00)         (2.00)
2. Goods                  0.00           5.00           4.00          21.3           30.30
(0.00)        (5.00)         (4.00)         (0.00)          (9.00)
3. Services               0.00           0.00           5.00          0.00            5.00
(0.00)        (0.00)         (5.00)         (0.00)          (5.00)
6. Operating              0.00           0.00           4.00          22.70          26.70
Expenditures and          (0.00)        (0.00)         (4.00)        (0.00)          (4.00)
Maintenance
Total                   0.00          5.60          14.40          50.00           70.00
(0.00)        (5.60)         (14.40)        (0.00)         (20.00)
1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to befinanced by the Bank All costs include contingencies. Because of the
emergency and demand driven nature of the Project, the allocated amounts are tentative.  During Project
implementation, flexibility in reallocation between the different categories would be exercised to ensure smooth
Project implementation.
2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national/international shopping, direct purchase, direct
contracting of consulting services, auditing cost, services of contracted staff of the Project Coordination Unit,
training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to solid waste disposal fees, rent,
utility charges, communication costs, travel costs, labor and office supply and equipment.
59.     Prior Review. (Table B provides information on all prior review arrangements). Th._
first three contract packages in each category and each procurement method (works, goods and
services), irrespective of the estimated contract value, would be subject to IDA's prior review, in
accordance with the applicable guidelines. Thereafter, all contracts for works with an estimated
contract value above US$200,000 equivalent and any contract for goods with an estimated
contract value above US$100,000 equivalent would be subject to IDA's prior review. All Force
Account works would be subject to IDA's prior review. Contracts with individual consultants in
excess of US$50,000 equivalent and with consulting firms in excess of US$100,000 equivalent,
as well as all single-source contracts will be subject to prior review. All other contracts would be
subject to post-review on a random basis during supervision missions and procurement audits.



21
Table B. Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract Value                               Contracts Subject to
Expenditure          Threshold            Procurement             Prior Review
Category        (US$ thousand)             Method                (US$ million)
1. Works               >= 100,000               NCB              First three contracts and
then each contract above
200,000
<100,000            Simplified NCB         First three contracts
<10,000               Shopping             First three contracts
2. Goods               >=100,000                NCB                   All contracts
<100,000                NS/IS              First three contracts
<5,000             Direct Purchase           All Contracts
3. Services
Firm:                  >=200,000                QCBS                All contracts
<200,000              QCBS, QBS            First three RFPs and
<50,000                  CQ            contracts and then all TORs,
evaluation reports and
contracts
Individual:
>=50,000            see section V of          All contracts
Guidelines
<50,000             see section V of       First three contracts
Guidelines
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:            US$10.00 million
60.    Overall Procurement Risk Assessment: High.
61.    Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every four months
(including special procurement supervision for post-review/audits) in the first year and six
months thereafter. This frequency is based on the procurement assessment report. Staff would be
trained under the Project in procurement planning.
62.    Procurement Planning. For items to be procured by the PCU, the PCU would prepare a
procurement plan for the first year prior to Effectiveness. The procurement plan would include
information on main procurement steps (date of advertisement, bid document date, bid evaluation



22
date, awarded bidder, estimated and actual cost, progress to date versus planned).  The
procurement plan would be revised on a quarterly basis.
63.    Summary of Procurement Assessment. Since it was established, the MOLG has been
working bilaterally with a number of donor countries and international agencies including the
Bank. It has capable and experienced staff who have carried out and performed procurement
processes in accordance with different donor rules and regulations. The capacity of LGUs to
manage procurement processes vary. Large LGU's have been working bilaterally with the Bank
and other donors, and have experienced staff capable of managing procurement, while some of
the very small LGU's have little experience with donor procurement policies and procedures.
Nevertheless, under the Project these LGU's would be assisted by regionally based technical
consulting firms and by the PCU or MOLG staff to implement procurement. At the same time,
Procurement training will also be provided for LGUs, in order to build up their long-term
capacity in support of future decentralization of procurement. It is worth mentioning that all
LGUs in Gaza and a very large number of LGUs in the West Bank have acquired procurement
experience under Bank-financed or administrated projects such as ESSP I, ERSP, PEACE facility
cofinancing trust funds, and MIDP I. Several workshops were conducted in Gaza to train LGU
staff on procurement procedures based on IDA procurement guidelines. A more detailed
procurement assessment is in the Project files.
64.    Procurement Training. To strengthen procurement capacity at the LGUs, the PCU
would arrange for procurement training during the first quarter of the first year to help those
LGUs which are not familiar with Bank procurement guidelines. The training would include
preparation of bidding documents and bid evaluation reports for goods, works and services. The
training could be conducted by local universities or experienced training consultants. During the
Project launch workshop, the basic principles of procurement methods and IDA guidelines would
be discussed with the participating LGUs. At the same time, their training needs would be
addressed in a training schedule prepared by the PCU. The PCU would also draft standard
bidding documents, sample specifications for commonly procured goods and templates of
evaluation reports. These documents would be distributed to LGUs to use in administrating their
procurement processes. Based on the result of Midterm review and the post review in the first
year, the PCU would assess the sufficiency of training provided to the LGUs and its beneficial
effects on procurement capacity. If necessary, training of the LGUs would be increased until their
capacity has reached a satisfactory level. Procurement coaching in the form of continuous
dialogue between the PCU and the LGUs would be assured during the life of the project. The
PCU would also be encouraged to have a plan to train the trainers on procurement for future
sustainability.
Financial Management
65.    MOLG, through the two existing Project Coordination Units (PCUs) in its branch offices
in West Bank and Gaza, will have the responsibility for project implementation as well as all
aspects of financial management. Both of the PCUs are already established and they will be
responsible, inter alia, for the project's overall financial administration, including accounting,
monitoring, and reporting throughout the duration of the project. In Phase II, the Management
Agent (MA), if successfully identified and mobilized, will provide technical advice and support
to upgrade the financial management arrangements where appropriate in anticipation of the
increased volume of donor assistance flows through the Municipal Fund. The financial
management system (FMS) of the accounting unit at MOLG was assessed according to IDA
guidelines for the purpose of determining compliance with IDA minimum requirements



23
OB/BP 10.02 and the ability to generate reliable quarterly financial monitoring reports (FMR).
The assessment concluded that the FMS is adequate for presenting the Project to the Board.
66.    The Project Accounting Unit at MOLG will play a key role in the financial management
of the Project being responsible for accounting within the PCU. It is well structured and staffed
(staff salaries are being paid under other Bank projects and would continue to be financed under
the proposed Project). It has a computerized accounting system (Audit) developed by a local
software company. The system can accommodate several on-going projects and has a reliable
built-in security log-in system. It also has flexible reporting tools which, with minor modification
and setting of the proper chart of accounts, would allow generation of FMRs.. The system also
facilitates proper budgeting as it links budgeting with accounting and shows movements on
budget lines. The accounting unit is adequately staffed with three qualified accountants. Another
accountant would be located in the Gaza branch office who would assist the PCU. The
accountant is professionally qualified and has experience with IDA financial and disbursement
procedures (he is the accountant for the DANIDA cofinanced project administered by IDA under
the PEACE facility). The PCU-Gaza branch has an accounting system already established by
an international accounting firm and a computerized accounting system (Asseel) developed by a
local software firm. There is a properly documented accounting procedural manual and clear
segregation of duties among all incompatible functions. Dual check signatory arrangements are
already in place. The PCU-Gaza branch will report on financial matters to the PCU West Bank
branch. The PCU will prepare annual financial statements, which will be audited by a qualified
independent auditor acceptable to IDA. Quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports will be prepared
by the PCU and sent un-audited to IDA within 45 days from the reporting period end date.
67.    Financial Management Assessment. The financial management assessment conducted
for the MOLG/PCU revealed that the financial management systems in place are adequate and
meet the minimum requirements of IDA. The operational manual of the project provides an
adequate level of segregation of duties and clear division of authorities and responsibilities. Also,
the FMS is capable of producing reliable project financial statements and FMRs in a timely
manner.
68.    Accounting System. The project's primary accounting responsibility will be based at the
PCU - West Bank branch office, while the PCU - Gaza branch office will follow on all
accounting aspects related to the operations in Gaza and prepare monthly reports for the PCU
West Bank office for review and consolidation of the project accounts. The PCU's accounting
responsibilities will include maintaining all accounting records, supporting documents, undertake
bookkeeping of all financial transactions, prepare monthly bank reconciliation for the Special
account quarterly FMR, prepare annual financial statements, examine supporting documents for
the purpose of replenishing the LGU advance or sending payments to contractors and third
parities, verify cash replenishment requests from LGUs and process such requests, and transfer
funds from the Special Account. Accounting for the project will be on a cash basis in line with
PA and LGU accounting practices. However, year-end adjustments for accounts payable and
accounts receivable will be properly made as required under intemational accounting standards.
69.    The PCU would maintain supporting documentation for expenditures on activities
managed under the Project. Books of accounts will be maintained on double-entry bookkeeping
principles for the activities under the Project. Each LGU would provide the PCU with a monthly
summary statement of expenditures based on the books of accounts, along with other information
and documents, to enable proper accounting for these expenditures. Each participating LGU
would maintain separate books and records in respect of transactions for activities under the
Project. They should not be commingled with transactions not related to the Project. Project



24
records should be kept in auditable condition all the time. For those expenditures made at the
LGUs level, the original invoices would be maintained at the PCU whereas copies of the invoices
will be kept in files at the LGUs.
70.    Each LGU would establish a separate bank account for the purpose of the advance
account and will send monthly bank statements to the PCU to allow proper monitoring. The PCU
will be responsible for the Special Account and would facilitate preparation of bank
reconciliation and check accuracy and completeness of transactions incurred. Detailed accounting
and disbursement procedures, as well as procurement, will be part of the project operation
manual.
71.    Budgeting System.  The budgeting system is in place and is separate from the
government budgeting system. The PCU would prepare an annual budget plan and update it on
quarterly basis to reflect actual implementation and latest forecasts. Where feasible, LGU
proposals for funding would be accompanied by a proposed budget. This would facilitate better
planning and control. These plans would be periodically reviewed and updated along with the
progress of the project.
72.    Procedures of Internal Control. The Internal Control Procedures in place at MOLG are
based upon the governmental system as set by applicable laws and the regulations, and are
accepted by the Bank and do not present any issue of authorities or of responsibilities. Current
policies and procedures have been set already in MOLG to provide reasonable assurance of (a) a
proper authorization of transactions; (b) access to and use of assets and records; and (c)
separation of custody of cash from authorization and record keeping, and separation of
authorization from record keeping. For the objectives of the project, the project operation manual
will define the procedures of control and the relation between MOLG, LGUs and the PCU, which
is in charge of the financial management of the project.
73.    Flow of Funds. MOF will establish a Special Account at a commercial bank according
to IDA's terms and conditions. The PCU under the authority of the PSC/FC will be responsible
for managing the Special Account, including preparation of applications for withdrawal,
reconciliation of the account to IDA's records, cooperate with IDA's supervision missions and
coordinate with external auditors. The PA is providing a US$3.0 million contribution to the
Project in the form of central transfers to local government units. At the same time MOF has
agreed to apply zero VAT invoicing to the Project, and local service providers will be exempt
from income taxes for payments made to them from the Project. As a result, the PA contribution
would not be used for payment of any portion of any activity financed with IDA's funds under
the Project.  Disbursement would be on transaction-based disbursement methods using
applications for direct payment, reimbursed to the Special Account accompanied by SOEs and/or
summary sheets with full supporting documents. Each participating LGU and the PCU/MA will
maintain all supporting documents for year-end auditing and supervision missions reviews. All
documents would be kept for at least one year after the completion of the Project.
74.    Financial Monitoring  Reports  (FMR).      The  PCU   would   prepare the
Financial Management Reports and would send them non-audited to IDA within the 45 days
following every end-of-quarter. The Financial Management Reports would include (a) a general
progress report about project implementation, (b) the cost by component for the quarter, (c) the
costs incurred by type of expenses, (d) the project balance sheet, and (e) the acquisitions incurred
on contracts under the established threshold. The project statement of accounts would be put in
place to facilitate the automatic generation of the reports of financial controls. The contents and
the format of the reports are already prepared by the PCU and would be agreed during



25
negotiations. The FMR will be reviewed by the project team and the financial management
analyst in the Country Office, and would form the basis for the Country Office's periodic review
of the project's financial management activities.
75.    Audit. The project accounts and the annual financial statements (project balance sheet,
the flow of funds, and the statement of the Special Account) would be subjected to an annual
audit, while expenditures incurred under Statement of Expenditures (SOE) would be audited on a
semi-annual basis as the associated risk with SOEs is higher. The Audit would be conducted in
accordance with international standards, by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA, and under
terms of reference acceptable to IDA. The audit would examine all sources of funds of the
project, including the IDA grant. In the same way, it would also examine all incurred expenses
including those related to the statements of the expenditures (SOEs) by ascertaining their
conformity with the Grant Agreement. An auditor would express an opinion on the project
financial statements. In addition, the auditor would supply a separated viewpoint on the eligibility
of all incurred expenses that are included in the SOEs. The Audit report should be sent to IDA
not later than four months after the end of the year. In addition to extemal auditing, SOEs at the
PCU and a sample of LGUs would be reviewed by supervision missions and by the FMA at the
IDA Country Office to substantiate adequate supporting documentation and accuracy and to
ensure consistent and efficient application of the financial management system.
76.    Risks.  The project's financial management risk is considered moderate. This
consideration is mainly the result of the following: (a) involvement of large number of LGUs in
the project implementation (up to 260 LGUs), where some smaller LGUs lack adequate FM
capacity, (b) a large number of transactions with relatively small amounts which requires
intensive review and auditing, (c) using advance payments procedures for selected LGUs, and (d)
assurances needed that services or goods were supplied at the agreed quality/quantity and to
intended beneficiaries. These risks would be mitigated through (i) centralization of financial
management of the project at the PCU level, which is well established with two branch offices
with adequate FM systems (each participating LGU would have a separate ledger account and
files); (ii) using the one-month cash advance system by LGUs is voluntarily, and it would be
available only for LGUs with an acceptable FM system; (iii) the PCU would determine eligibility
of LGUs to receive cash advances based on criteria established in the operational manual
approved by IDA; (iv) PCUs will conduct regular visits to LGUs to ensure continuity of
satisfactory performance; (v) SOE reviews will be conducted twice a year; and (vi) the audit
scope will explicitly include ensuring satisfactory delivery of services and supplies as planned.
Also, in addition to regular supervision missions, the financial management analyst at the
Country Office will review the quarterly FMR, periodically review a sample of SOEs and
conduct visits to the PCUs. The PCU would maintain supporting documentation for expenditures
on activities. The overall financial management risk of the Project is considered moderate. The
Project will be properly supervised by the financial management analyst in the country office who
will also provide technical support and explanation to the PCU and provide assistance with
disbursements. Also, the Project will be supervised through regular supervision missions by a
financial management specialist from HQ.
Disbursement
77.    Disbursements would follow transaction-based disbursement methods using applications
for direct payment, reimbursement and replenishment to the Special Account accompanied by
SOEs and/or summary sheets with full supporting documents. To facilitate implementation, each
eligible LGU will receive maximum of 10% as an advance payment of its expected expenditures.
The advance payment should be settled within one month following agreed-upon procedures



26
stipulated in the operation manual. Eligibility of LGU to receive advance payments will be
determined by the PCU based on transparent criteria. Ineligible LGUs (or those not interested to
receive advances) will remain entitled to conduct their own procurement; however, payments to
contractors and suppliers would be made by the PCU based on proper supporting documentation.
78.    Retroactive Financing. IDA would make available retroactive financing of up to US$
1.0 million out of the Grant proceeds effective September 1, 2002 (to be finalized during
negotiations). Under the retroactive financing clause, payments made by the participating LGUs
and by the PCU out of its own resources before the date of the signing of the Grant Agreement
but after September 1, 2002 are eligible for financing under the proposed Grant. The funds
available under retroactive financing could be used for reimbursement of payments of eligible
expenditures incurred by participating LGUs and by the PCU, and which have been procured in
accordance with IDA procurement guidelines.
79.    Disbursement Arrangements. The proposed Grant of US$20.0 million equivalent
would be disbursed over a period of two years, starting January 1, 2003 and up to the closing date
of December 31, 2004. Table C below describes the allocation of the Grant proceeds according
to each expenditure category. Retroactive financing would be available for eligible expenditures
incurred after September 1, 2002, up to a maximum of US$1.0 million equivalent.
Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds
Expenditure Category          Amount in US $ million   Financing Percentage
1. Works                                 2.0                   100%
2. Goods                                 9.0                   100%
3. Services                              5.0                   100%"
4. Operating Costs(""                    4.0                   100%
Total Grant Costs                       20.00
(i) Consulting services financing percentage was set at 100% based on a letter from MOF dated
November 18, 2002 indicating that an income tax waiver would be applied for all contracts financed
under this Project.
(ii) Operating costs would include: municipal services operating costs such as fuel, solid waste
dumping fees, office supplies, equipment and goods, vehicle insurance, utility bills, rent, laboratory
tests, communication costs, travel costs, labor, etc.
80.    Use of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). Disbursement from the Grant Special
Account would be fully documented for all contracts for works with values above US$200,000,
goods and consulting firm contracts with values above US$100,000, and individual consultants
contracts with values above US$50,000. Disbursement for all other expenditures would be made
against SOEs with supporting documentation retained at the PCU premises and made available
for IDA's review during supervision. SOEs would be subject to an annual audit and semi-annual
review by an independent auditor, as well as periodic review by the Financial Management
Analyst at the Country Office.
81.    Special Account. One SA will be opened by the MOF at a commercial bank acceptable
to IDA in order to facilitate disbursements against eligible expenditures under the Grant. The SA
will be operated by the PCU under terms satisfactory to IDA. IDA will, upon request, make an
authorized allocation of 10%  of the Grant.  This percentage will be reviewed once
implementation has commenced for a possible increase depending on the speed of disbursement.
82.    To further facilitate disbursement by LGUs and to mitigate potential delays in payment
due to closures or other mobility restrictions, LGUs would be eligible to open municipal accounts



27
for the exclusive purpose of managing funds advanced by the PCU. After informing the PCU and
verifying that the account setup complies with Bank guidelines, the PCU would then be in a
position to make a 30 day advance of an amount not to exceed 10% of the given LGU allocation.
LGUs will be required to disburse these funds within 30 days of their receipt. All supporting
documentation would be sent by the LGU to the PCU for review before further replenishment of
the municipal account could be made.
83.    The SA replenishment applications will be documented according to IDA guidelines,
including a bank statement of the SA and a reconciliation bank statement of the SA against IDA
records. Replenishment applications would be submitted regularly (preferably bimonthly, but not
less than monthly).
SECTION F. FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION.
84.    The proposed emergency Project is being prepared under emergency recovery assistance
procedures (OP 8.50). Time limitations and limited availability of economic data prevent more
detailed analysis, a recognized constraint in preparing such operations. However, the main
justification for the Project is that it will prevent the outright collapse of local governments, while
enabling them to sustain the provision of essential services to their communities. The increased
quality and coverage of services enabled through this operation is expected to improve the health
and living conditions of a vast majority of the Palestinian population. In addition, introduction of
an intergovernmental financial transfer system through the Municipal Fund will help to realign
and reinforce central-local government emergency response capacity in the short-term. It would
also establish a mechanism to more effectively gather and analyze key local government financial
data, enabling knowledge sharing and optimization of service delivery through identification of
the most cost effective methods of service provision. Thus, the Project is justified in terms of its
contribution to immediate as well as long-term improvements in living conditions of people and
efficiency and economic sustainability in the provision of municipal services.
SECTION G. ACTION PLAN.
85.    Other than the standard condition concerning the provision of a legal opinion by the PA,
there are no conditions of negotiations, board presentation and effectiveness for the proposed
Grant.
86.    The Palestinian Authority agreed that the following documents would be prepared by the
Palestinian Authority and submitted to IDA. The Project Implementation Plan (PIP) and Project
Operations Manual (POM) have already been prepared in solid draft form, and it was agreed that
they would be completed to the satisfaction of IDA by December 15, 2002. An Environmental
Management Plan (EMP) was submitted to IDA on November 14, 2002 and determined to be
acceptable. has been prepared in draft form and submitted to IDA; it would be completed to the
satisfaction of IDA by the conclusion of Negotiations. While no conditions of effectiveness have
been agreed, a dated covenant and agreements noted in the Minutes of Negotiations have been
included. Among the most important ones is a covenant requiring the establishment of the
Municipal Fund and the Fund Commission by January 31, 2004 in order to proceed with
implementation in the second year (Phase II) of the Project.
87.    Action Plan. The PCU will first focus on contracting four regionally-based technical
consultant firms to help the LGUs in preparing their programs, and to prescreen them to facilitate
approvals by the PCU. Two other parallel assignments would be contracted shortly after project



28
effectiveness, the first of which would be to launch the technical assistance support for the labor
intensive employment creation sub-component, and the second would be to contract firms to
support LGUs in preparing their budgets and financial statements to become eligible for Phase 11
financing. The PCU will also contract consultants or locally-based NGOs to facilitate community
participation through advocacy, public information dissemination, and implementation of
community feedback surveys. By June-July 2003, the Management Agent (responsible for the
design of the Municipal Fund and for the setup of the Municipal Fund and Fund Commission)
will also be selected. A detailed Action Plan is attached as Annex 7.



Annex 1
Page 1 of 3
TABLE A: PROJECT SUMMARY COST
US$ Million
Project Component                 Local    Foreign    Total
1. Emergency Program Assistance                   14.50     4.00     18.50
2. Municipal Fund Design, Management & Monitoring  0.30      0.80      1.10
3. Technical Assistance & Capacity Building        0.30      0.10      0.40
Total                                             15.10     4.90     20.00
TABLE B: FINANCING PLAN BY PROJECT COMPONENTS (US$ Million)
Total    TFGWB      Other        Central     Financing
Project Component              Cost      Grant     Donor      Government      Gap
Grants       Transfers
1. Emergency Program Assistance  68.00   18.50     37.20          3.00        9.30
2. Municipal Fund Design,      1.10       1.10      0.00          0.00        0.00
Management & Monitoring
3. Technical Assistance &      0.90      0.40       0.50          0.00        0.00
Capacity Building
Total                         70.00      20.00      37.70         3.00         9.30
TABLE C: ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENT
US$ Million                2002         2003
Annual                     8            12
Cumulative Total           8           20.0
Percent Total          40%          100%



Annex 1
Page 2 of 3
Table D: Summary Project Cost Estimate
Estimated costs  IDA funding
Sub-componentsUSmilo
US$ million
1. Emergency Assistance Program
Non-wage Municipal Service Costs            18.50           14.50
Wages for Municipal Service Departments     13.00            0.00
Employment Generation Subprojects            4.00            3.00
Infrastructure/ Facilities Damage Repair    32.50            1.00
Sub-total: Emergency Assistance Program         68.00           18.50
2. Municipal Fund Design/Management
PCU Operating Expenses                       0.30            0.30
Management Agent Contract                    0.80            0.80
Sub-total: Municipal Fund Design/Management      1.10            1.10
3. Technical Assistance & Capacity Building*
Consultant services                          0.40            0.20
LGU Capacity Building                        0.40            0.10
NGO Participation Support                    0.10            0.10
Sub-total: T.A. & Capacity Building              0.90            0.40
GRAND TOTAL                                       70.00           20.00
* This component includes the budget for strengthening, inter alia, all activities related to environmental
management and social assessments, and procurement training.



Annex 1
Page 3 of 3
Schedule/Table: Timetable of Key Project Processing Events
Timetable:
Sequence                                Timing
Time taken to prepare and process the project  4 months
Identification and preparation mission  July 2002
Appraisal                               October 2002
Negotiations                            November 2002
Board Presentation                      December 2002
Planned Effectiveness                   January 2, 2003
Planned Closing Date                    June 30, 2005
Names of staff/consultants who worked on the project:
Name              Function
Majed El-Bayya    Task Team Leader
Stephen Karam     Co-Task Team Leader, Urban Economist
Jacques Bure      Consultant
Ibrahim Dajani    Operations Officer, Environmental Engineer
George Awwad      Operations Officer, Procurement
Ayman Abu-Haija   Senior Financial Management Specialist
Hisham Labadi     Consultant, Procurement
Ahmed Basti       Consultant, Municipal Fund Specialist
Hadi Abushakra    MNA Country Lawyer
Thao Le Nguyen    Disbursement Officer
Kanthan Shankar   Environmental Specialist
Arbi Ben-Achour   Senior Social Scientist
Tuyet Chuppe      Program Assistant
Karim Gigler      Program Assistant
Samira Hillis     Administrative Assistant
Huda Skaik        Administrative Assistant
Ad Hoc Advisory Committee:
Name             Function
Hedi Larbi      MNA Urban and Transport Sector Manager
Majed El-Bayya  EMSRP Task Team Leader
Nicholas Kraffl  WBG Country Program Coordinator
Aloysius Ordu    NNA Operations Quality Advisor
Fred Kranz      MNA Procurement Advisor Representative
Hadi Abushakra   WBG Country Lawyer
Alfred Nickesen  OPCS Representative



Annex 2
Page 1 of 3
EMSRP
Responsibility Matrix
PSC
MOLG               /                              Tech
(PCU)    MOF      FC    LGU    Bank     Audit   Consult
ACTIVITIES                                           =        =      =      =       =_=_=
FINANCE, ACCOUNTING, MONITORING,
1.00   REPORTING
1.01   Open Project Special Account (SA)             N        E       N      _      N       N
1.02  Open Municipality Accounts                     N               S       E              N
Establish Accounting, Reporting & Auditing
1.03   Procedures                                    E                R      E      R       N
Transfer Funds, max. 10% of LGU approved
1.04  allocation to municipality accounts            S               E      N               N
1.05   Appoint Project Auditor                        S       E       N      N      R        N        N
1.06   Appoint Project Technical Consultants         E                N      N      R
Request replenishment of/withdrawals from the
1.07   SA                                             S       E*      E             R        R
1.08   Transfer Funds from IDA to SA                 N        N       N      N       E       N
Fund Allocation and Project Selection
Establish Fund Allocation Criteria &
1.09   Procedures for Phase II                        S       N       E      N      R        N        N
1.10   Establish Project Selection Criteria           S       N       E      N      R        N        N
Assign Fund Allocation to LGUs based on
1.11   population                                     S               E      N      N        N        N
Establish Local Project Preparation,
Implementation, Technical Monitoring &
1.12   Reporting Procedures                           S               E      N      R        N        N
Request No objection from PCU on list of sub-
1.13   projects and method of procurement            R                N      E      N        N        N
Request No objection from IDA on list of sub
projects and method of procurement for those
1.14   sub-projects subject to Bank prior review     E                N             N
Issue No objection to PCU to proceed on LGUs
1.15   list of projects that subject to Bank prior review  N          N          _  E
Consult with local Workers Council and MOL
1.16   and prepare list of unemployed workers        N                       E
2.00    Sub Project ID Preparation & Implementation
Consult with local community on their priority
2.01   needs through workshops etc.                  N                       E
2.02   Prepare an Emergency Program with brief       N                N      E



Annex 2
Page 2 of 3
PSC
MOLG             P                               Tech
(PCU)    MOF     FC     LGU    Bank    Audit   Consult
=______ description                                                         =
2.03   Submit Emergency Program to PCU              N              N       E           _
2.04   Review LGU program for Implementation        R               A      N                        N
Prepare projects data sheets and brief appraisal
2.05   report                                       N                      S                        E
Detailed Selection and Implementation
Emergency Program Identification in
2.06   consultation with community                                         E
2.07   Preliminary Emergency Program Estimate                              E                        R
2.08   Preliminary Preparation, design and drawings                        E                        S
2.09   Review Designs and Drawings                                         E                        S
Ensure consistency with overall strategy,
2.10   guidelines and selection criteria            S                       S                       E
Undertake Technical, Economical and Social
2.11   Appraisal                                    N                      S                        E
2.12   Final check for sub projects documents proposal                     E                        S
2.13   Approval of projects selection               S               E      N              N         N
Prepare Standard bidding and contractual
2.14   documents                                    E                      N      R       N         S
Invite Bids/quotes through local
2.15   newspapers/invitations/Force Acc./Direct. Co.  N                    E              N         N
2.16   Evaluate Bids                                                       E                        S
2.17   Award Contracts and sign contract            N        N             E              N         S
2.18   Send copy of contract to PCU                 R                      E
Work/Goods delivery Authorization to
2.19   contractor/vender                            N                      E                        N
2.20   Daily Site Supervision                                              E
2.21   Overall Monitoring                           S               E                      S        S
Project Finance, Accounting, Monitoring
and Reporting                                                     _
2.22   Preparation of certificates for payment      N                       E                       S
2.23   Review of claims and payment Authorization                           E              S        N
Payments within 10 working days of receipt of
2.24   claim                                        N                      E                        N
send documentation to PCU within max. 30 days
2.25   from transfer of fund to municipality account                       E
2.26   Monitor payments with regards to time        E                       S                       E
2.27   Accounting                                   E                       S                       N
2.28   Monthly Reporting (Technical, Financial)     E       N               S     N                 S
3.00   Financial Monitoring Reporting and Auditing
3.01   Review LGUs Fund Allocation                  E       N              N               S        S
3.02   Review LGUs Procurement Procedure            E                      N               S        S
3.03   Prepare monthly LGUs Financial Reports       S                      E



Annex 2
Page 3 of 3
PSC
MOLG              P                               Tech
(PCU)      MOF    FC    LGU    Bank    Audit    Consult
3.04   Prepare Quarterly program Financial Reports    E       N       R      S      R        S
3.05   Conduct Annual Program Audit                   R       R       R      S      R        E
Technical Monitoring, Reporting and Auditing
3.06   Review LGUs Program                            E                      N                        S
Review LGUs Technical Documentation,
3.07   Contractors Budgets and work programs         N                       E                        s
3.08    Review Employment Generation Estimates       N                       S               N        E
3.09   Review Technical Quality of work              N                       S                        E
Advise on techniques to increase labor content
3.10   in job creation projects                      S                       N                        E
Review Numbers and categories of workers
3.11   Employed.                                     N                       S               N        E
Where necessary recommend to managers to
improve implementation procedure, quality of
3.12   work and job creation                         N                       N                        E
Conduct Monthly Technical, environmental and
3.13   Social Audits                                  R                      S                        E
3.14   Prepare Detailed Monthly Report                R                       S      R                E
3.15   Prepared brief monthly Reports for WBG         E               R      S       R       S         S
Publish Monthly Summery Report in local
3.16   newspapers                                     E               R              R
3.17   Weekly site visits to sub projects/LGUs                               N                        E
Prepare a combine quarterly progress report for
3.18   WBG                                            E       N       R       S      R                 S
3.19   Spot site visits to sub projects/LGUs          E               S      N       E
R = Review/Clear; E = Execute; E* = Sign replenishment applications within 72 hrs; N = Notified; S =
Support; A = Approve.
PCU: Project Coordination Unit; MOF: Ministry of Finance;
PSC/FC: Project Steering Committee / Fund Commission; LGU: Local Govermnent Unit;
Audit: Financial Auditor; Tech Consult: Technical Consultant



Annex 3
Page 1 of 2
EMSRP Organizational Chart
First Phase
Project Steering
Donor                   Committee
Consultation            MOLG (Chair),                   Adjunct Members
Forum                  MOPIC, MOF
PCU Project Manager
PCU        PCU
Gaza     West Bank
Auitors         -B ranch               Branch
MF Special Account
Technical
Consultants
(program pre-
screening and
zzz  zi LZ] [~~] LGU   technical
EE- LGU               _    ] LGU           _    I      L      GU _ LGU | LGU_support to
LGUs in West
Bank and
Advocacy, public information community feedbacks                           Gaza)
and cross-programming, (consultants/NGOs based)



Annex 3
Page 2 of 2
EMSRP Organizational Chart
Second Phase
Donor Consultation Forum                Fund Commission (FC)              . .
(DCF)                       MOLG (Chair), MOPIC, MOF                Adjunct Members
(to be determined)
contributing to the MF                * Provides overall policy             PA line ministries and
* Convenes regularly to discuss           guidance                          . agencies consulted on
program performance                   * Responsible for approving              as-needed basis
* Reviews Reports submitted by          allocations                           regarding relevant
FC                                                                               sector issues
MOLG PCU reports
Management Agent (MA)                    up on MF
* Supports MOLG PCU in administering MF
* Serves as FC agent in monitoring MFfinancial/
programmatic performance against guidelines
agreed in Phase I
* Prepares Quarterly Monitoring Report for FC      FC authorization
and DCF                                          decisionflows down
Municipal Fund (MF)
* Administered by MOLG PCU through branch offices                 Conical
in West Bank and in Gaza, including Special Account            Consultants
External Auditor        * Provides overall guidance to LGUs regarding                   4 regional field-
eligibility, process andproceduresfor assistance               based units in
* Conducts technical review ofsubmissions and                   WBG, providing
recommends decision to FC                                      pBGr pre-
* Establishes Municipal Finance Database with                    program pre-
support of AIA                                                screening, data
collection and
i                                management
Funds flow down                               Accountability flows up  advice/support to
LGUs
| G           G LGU           G |LGU   GU |I | LGUZ
* Responsible for preparing emergency program submissions on forms
provided by MF, assisted by Technical Consultants
* Responsible for holding community consultations, responding to community-
prioritized needs, and publicizing MF budget allocation
* Responsible for implementing subprojects and reporting on uses offunds
* Responsible for submittingfinancial statements and nextyear annual budget
to be eligible for MFfinancing
Advocacy, public information, community opinion surveys, and cross-
programming support provided by community-based NGOs in
cooperation with LGUs



ANNEX 4
EMRSP Project Transition Chart
Trlansitioinal IlemlIent          lPlhase I                      Phia:se 11
C;aleniidar Y'ar* 21003       C:lendiar Ye^ear 20014
Project Steering Committee         Fund Commission
The PSC has already been      The Fund Commission would be
established, including MOLG,  established to institutionalize
Governance Responsibility  MOF and MOPIC, and would     multi-sector coordination at the
serve on a temporary basis as the  central government level. It would
main policy level/decision-making  serve as the main interlocutor with
body and counterpart to donors.  donors regarding coordination of
assistance provided to local
governments.
Project Coordination Unit      Project Coordination Unit
Responsible for day-to-day    Retains responsibility for day-to-
Implementation       administration, management of the  day administration of the Project
Responsibility      Special Account, andproviding  but is assisted by the Management
support to LGUs through technical  Agent in managing the Municipal
units established at the regional  Fund and setting up the Municipal
level.                        Financial Data Management
System through capacity building
support.
Emergency Program Assistance         Municipal Fund
The EPA would provide financial  In parallel with Bank financing
support to LGUs in the firstyear,  channeled through the Special
Financing Instrument    along with other donor co-    Account, the MF would provide a
financing administered in parallel.  mechanism for mobilizing,
managing and reporting on other
donor assistance at the local level
through a common framework.
Design of Municipal Fund &     Monitoring Municipal Fund
Fund Commission
Management Agent      Assists the Project Steering   Contracted by the Fund
Committee in designing the     Commission to monitor
Municipal Fund and in         performance of the Municipal
establishing the Fund Commission  Fund, ensuring transparency and
consistent with appropriate laws  accountability, and providing
and regulations                capacity building support to the
PCU



ANNEX 5
EMSRP Process Flow Chart
Allocation                              ALLOCATION
based on ~ ~ ~    ~    ~   bse o
population                           p
\  ak financing  || Other Donor Financing 
Employment      oService            Employment          Servn
Generation  J    Suppr          r   Generation  __      Suppr
\                           0Allocation
MUNICPbased on
\                 ~~~~~~population
Allocation per
region, depending
s tfl ron unemployment
t              (D   S      QO     O 
|-> l~~> ;m | MUNICIPALITIES



Annex 6
Page 1 of 5
Key Performance Indicators
Narrative Summary          Key Performance        Data Collection Strategy  Critical Assumptions and
Indicators                                            Risks
Sector-related WBG        Sector indicators:        Sector / country report:  (from Goal to Bank
Assistance Strategy Goal:                                                     Mission)
1. Encourage the          - Intergovernmental fiscal  - Bank supervision mission  - Continued commitment of
development of sound      transfer mechanism        reports, midterm review and  the PA, MOLG, MOF,
governance institutions at  established (Municipal  ICR; PCU Progress Reports; MOPIC and local
the central and sector levels.  Fund) to ensure greater  Management Agent     governments to reforming
equity, efficiency and    quarterly reports.        intergovernmental systems;
transparency in resource
allocation within the sub-                          - Failure of the new
national sector.                                   regulatory system to ensure
long term financial
2. Continue providing     - Donor Consultative Forum  - Midterm review by Dec.  sustainability of municipal
analytical and programmatic  established, linked to the  2003, once the first phase of  Service provision;
leadership to the collective  Municipal Fund to serve as  the project is completed
effort to cope with the   a programmatic framework  (end of first fiscal year);  - Favorable political climate
emergercy, while initiating  for mobilizing and     - ICR by the end of the   and continued commitment
multi-donor operations to  coordinating donor       second fiscal year.;      of donors to support the
support delivery of essential  assistance to local  - MOPIC quarterly donor   Palestinian people.
social services.          governments;              aid reports;
- Increased intergovern-  - Project database;
mental transfers and      - Users surveys.
increased donor aid
mobilized through the
Municipal Fund;
- Improved service
coverage.



Annex 6
Page 2 of 5
Project Development       (outcome / impact         (projects reports)        (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                indicators)
1. Mitigating further     - Percentage of surveyed  - Report on public        - Level of violence does not
deterioration in the quality  people reporting satisfactory  awareness campaign and  escalate and mobility of
and coverage of Municipal  and highly satisfactory  social impact surveys;    staff and workers allow
services.                 improvements in service   - Report on environmental  implementation of the
delivery;                 improvement following     project;
- Percentage increase in  investments measured
coverage (number of people  through surveys;        - Non-domestic goods and
served) and services      - Report on surveys to    construction material are
delivered;                assess the impact on quality  able to enter Gaza and the
- Avg. increase in revenue  of service delivery;    West Bank;
collection for municipal  - PCU quarterly reports,
services;                 supervision missions and  - Gradual improvement in
- Improved health and     ICR;                      the economy to enable
environment conditions.   - Municipal revenue,      incremental increase in
expenditure, and service  payment for services.
delivery data compiled in
Project database.
2. Generating temporary   - Number of man-days of   - PCU quarterly reports   - Same as above
employment opportunities;  temporary direct and
indirect employment created
(it is expected that increased
use of domestic goods will
generate indirect
employment)
3. Introduce a mechanism to  - Number of local      - Bank supervision and    - Sufficient resources at the
link central and local    governments supported     Management Agent          government and donor level
government budgetary      through service support   quarterly reports;        to support municipalities
planning processes and    allocations;              -MOPIC quarterly report on  through the Municipal Fund
strengthen municipal cost  - Number of donors and   aid mobilization;         - PA commitment to adopt
management.               amount of cofinancing being  - Annual Statistics of the  sound governance
channeled through joint   Palestinian Central Bureau  arrangement for the setup
mechanism;                of Statistics             of the Municipal Fund and
- Amount of additional    - Report on representation  Fund Commission.
assistance provided to areas  of the LGUs at the Fund
most affected by          Commission
unemployment and
economic hardship through
unemployment generation
targeting mechanism;



Annex 6
Page 3 of 5
Outputs for each         Output indicators:        Project reports:         (from Outputs to
component:                                                                  Objective)
1. Emergency support to  Water supply:            - Sanitary reports;       - MF established and
improve municipal service  -Reduction in shortfalls  - User survey reports;  implementation progressing
coverage and quality     C%);                      - PCU / Management Agent  smoothly; violence does not
through contracting and  -New household            quarterly reports;       escalate; sub-projects will
labor-intensive employment  connections _% of total);  - Bank supervision mission  have positive impact on the
generating activities.   -Rehabilitation of existing  reports;              quality and coverage of
connections (-% of total);  - LGU progress reports;  infrastructure and quality of
-Amount of water supplied                         living in the West Bank and
by tankers to non-network                          Gaza.
communities                                        - Donor financing made
available on time and
Sanitation:                                        allocated to LGUs based on
-New household                                    transparent criteria and
connections _% of total);                          according to MF guidelines.
-Rehabilitations of existing
connections (-% of total);                         - Need to train adequately
LGU staff to run annual
Solid Waste:                                       budgeting exercise.
-Increased volume of solid
waste collection (tons);
- Increased number of
garbage collectors (-%);
-Reduced number of
uncontrolled dumpsites.
Electricity:
-Reduction of shortfalls
UK);
-Reduction of hazards
caused by the presence of
dangerous installations in
the public domain;
Temporary employment:
- Number of direct and
indirect man-days
generated;
- Increased labor content
over conventional physical
works project (amount);



Annex 6
Page 4 of 5
2. Improved capacity of   - Duration of various stages  - PCU / Management Agent  -Participating LGUs take
LGUs to prepare municipal  of programming, appraisal,  quarterly reports;     their responsibilities
budgets and to program,   preparation, tendering,   - Municipality evaluation  seriously and are willing to
appraise, implement and   awarding, and             reports and progress report;  accept technical assistance;
manage sub-projects and   implementation of sub     - Bank supervision mission  - Coordination and
delivery of municipal     projects;                 reports and ICR.          assistance leveraged through
services                                                                      field-based technical
-Degree to which                                    consultants and regional
implementation is leveraged                        institutional mechanisms,
and coordinated through                             e.g. Joint Services Councils,
regional institutional                              Micro-regional planning
mechanisms, e.g., Joint                             units, etc.
Services Councils, Microl
Regional Planning Centers
etc;
- Rate of physical progress;
- Frequency and quality of
community consultation and
degree to which joint
programming exercises ares
implemented with local
NGOs;
- Degree to which O&M
cost management is
introduced in LGU-planning
and implementation.
3. Improved efficiency,   - Municipal Fund          - Management Agent        -Management Agent
equity and transparency in  established with guidelines,  quarterly reports; Bank  engaged in a timely manner;
allocating resources to the  including mobilization of  supervision mission reports  MF design completed
sub-national sector.      donor co-financing;       and ICR                   swiftly; processes and
- Municipal Fund project                            guidelines involving
database established to   - Data collection by the  emergency program
improve targeting of the  PCU / MA and management   submissions clear and easy
areas affected by         of a database regarding   to follow.
unemployment and to       average cost for essential
improve donor coordination; municipal services.     - LGUs willing to cooperate
- Degree to which capacity                          and share experience.
weaknesses at local
govemment level identified
and targeted for
strengthening through
technical assistance;
- Effective cost management
achieved for essential
services delivery. MOLG
knowledge sharing based on
best practices.
-Increased percentage of                            _____________



Annex 6
Page 5 of 5
budgets / annual financial
statements submitted by
LGUs to MOLG
Project Components/Sub-   Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:          (from Components to
components:               component)                                          Outputs)
1. Emergency Program      - US$68 million           - PSRs;                   - Participating LGUs are
Assistance / Municipal Fund  (IDA: US$18.5 million of  - Midterm review;      able to plan, design,
which US$14.5 million for  - ICR                    procure, and implement sub
Budget Support to 260                               projects;
LGUs, US$3 million for                              - Goods and construction
Labor-intensive                                     material are available
employment creation, and                            locally, at reasonable cost
US$1 million for                                    and on a timely basis;
infrastructure/facilities                           - Workers and staff are able
damage repair.)                                     to travel to project site;
- Substantial donor co-
financing leveraged through
Municipal Fund framework;
2. Municipal Fund Design,  - US$1.1 million         - PSRs;                   - Hiring of management
Management & Monitoring   (IDA: US$ 1.1 million)    - Midterm review;         agent on time and with
- ICR                     qualified experienced staff;
- Timely engagement of
Management Agent with
qualified, experienced staff;
3. Technical Assistance and  - US$0.9 million       - PSRs;                   - Auditor and technical
Capacity Building:        (IDA: US$0.40 million)    - Midterm review;         consultants are hired on
- ICR                     time.



Annex 7
Page 1 of 3
ACTION PLAN
Key Implementation Activity                    By Whom     By When    Indicator
1. Setup of the Steering committee             MOLG        Nov. 2002  Send to the Bank
2. Subsidiary Agreement between the PA and MOLG  PA        Dec. 2002  Send to the Bank
3. Legal Opinion                               MOLG        Dec. 2003  Send to the Bank
4. Project Launch Workshop                     Bank        Jan. 2003  Aide-memoire
5. Setup of the Special Account                MOF         Jan. 2003  Bank Disbursement
letter issued and first
replenishment in
place.
6. Setup of LGUs municipal accounts            LGUs        Jan. 2003  Aide-memoire
7. Development of the Municipal Fund and Fund
Commission
- shortlist and RFP for MA                  PCU         Jan. 2003  Sent to Bank for N-O
- proposals and evaluation                  PCU         Apr. 2003  Sent to Bank for N-O
- finalization of MA contract               PCU         Jun. 2003  Sent to Bank
- review of LGU capacity and legal framework  MA        Jul/Oct    MA report to PCU/
for MF and FC by MA                                     2003       PCU quarterly report
- draft arrangement for MF and FC by MA     MA          Dec. 2003  MA send proposal to
Steering committee.
Bank copied
- setup of MF and FC                        MA          Dec. 2003  Mid-term review
8. Development of technical assistance to the LGUs
- selection of local consulting firms to provide  PCU   Dec. 2002  Post review by Bank
assistance to the LGUs                                             in Jan. 2003
- deployment of local consulting firms      Firms /     Jan. 2003  Reviewed at project
PCU                    launch workshop
9. Measuring the impacts of the Project:
- Environmental survey                      Firm/PCU    Dec. 2003  Documentation ready
for midterm review.
A second series of
surveys will be
launched by the end
of the project (inputs
to ICR)
- Social survey                             Firm /PCU   Dec. 2003  Same as above
- Quality survey                            Firm/PCU    Dec.2003   Same as above
- User Survey                               Firm/PCU    Dec. 2003  Same as above
- Employment generation survey              Firm/PCU    Dec. 2003  Same as above
10. Dialogue with Donors, dialogue between central
and local governments and within LGUs community
- Setup a donor forum                       MOLG        Nov. 2002  Correspondence
copied to Bank
- Organize for LGUs general assembly        MOLG        Nov. 2003  Letter of invitation
sent to Bank
- organize cross-experience based on best   Firm/ PCU   Entire     Bank supervision
practice for service provision              / MA        duration   mission findings



Annex 7
Page 2 of 3
Key Implementation Activity                   By Whom    By When    Indicator
of project
11. Dialogue with the local communities
- selection of local consultants/NGOs     PCU         Dec. 2002  Post review by the
Bank
- conduct periodic user survey            Firmn       Entire     PCU quarterly reports
project
duration
- organizing for communities feedbacks    Firm        Entire     PCU quarterly
project   reports.
duration
12. Implementation of the firstyear program(EPA
component)
- draft a form that can be used for listing each  MOLG  Nov. 2002  n-a
LGU proposals
- testing the form                        MOLG        Nov/Dec.   Updated form sent to
2002       Bank reflecting test
findings
- sending the form to LGUs and informing the  PCU     Dec. 2003  n-a
LGUs about their potential allocation for the year
- prescreening of LGUs proposals           Firms      Jan. 2003  n-a
- review of LGUs proposals and send to Steering  PCU  Jan-Feb.   n-a
Committee                                             2003
- approval of proposals and issuing letter  Steering  Jan-Feb    First approval for
informing LGUs about the approved list to be  Committee  and then  Steering Committee
financed during the year                              during     sent to the Bank.
2003       Bank supervision
missions findings.
- procurement and implementation of       LGUs        Entire     Bank supervision
works/goods/services by the LGUs                      project    missions
duration
- TA provided to the LGUs during           Firms      Entire     Bank supervision
implementation of their programs                      project    mission
duration
- monitoring LGUs activities              PCU         Entire     PCU quarterly
project   reports.
duration
- gathering information on unit cost for essential  PCU  Entire  PCU reports and
services provision and compute the data in a          project    MOPIC GIS database
database                                              duration   updated
- informing the donors on outcomes and    Steering    Sep./ Nov. Midterm review
preparing with them the financing of the second  Committee  2003
year program
- prepare a mid-term review report        PCU         Nov. 2003  Send to the Bank
13. Implementation of the second year program by
the Management Agent
- refine allocation mechanism for Service  MA         Nov. 2003  Midterm review
Support and Employment Generation
- refine form to be sent to LGUs for listing their  PCU  Nov. 2003  Draft sent to Bank



Annex 7
Page 3 of 3
Key Implementation Activity                    By Whom    By When    Indicator
proposals
- testing the form                         PCU         Nov. 2003  n-a
- sending the form to LGUs and informing the  PCU      Dec. 2003  n-a
LGUs about their potential allocation for the year
- prescreening of LGUs proposals           Technical   Jan. 2004  n-a
Firms
- review of LGUs proposals and send to Fund  PCU       Jan-Feb    n-a
Commission                                             2004
- approval of proposals and issuing letter  FC         Jan-Feb    Sample sent to Bank
informing LGUs about the approved list to be           2004
financed during the year
- procurement and implementation of        LGUs        Entire     MA quarterly reports
works/goods/services by the LGUs                       project    and Bank supervision
duration   aide-memoire
- TA to the LGUs during implementation of their  Firms  Entire    Same as above
programs                                               project
duration
- monitoring LGUs activities               PCU/Firms   Entire     Same as above
project
duration
- collecting data regarding LGUs service   PCU         Entire     Same as above
provision to MOPIC to be entered in GIS                project
duration
- prepare a contribution to the Implementation  PCU    April      Send to the Bank.
Completion Report (ICR)                                2005






Report No.: T       7569  GZ
Type:     TAN



