Report No. PID11533
Project Name             WEST BANK AND GAZA-Emergency Municipal...
Services Rehabilitation Project
Region                   Middle East and North Africa Region
Sector                   Sub-national government administration (100%)
Project ID               P078212
Borrower(s)              PLO FOR BENEFIT OF PALESTINIAN AUTHORITY
Implementing Agency
MINISTRY OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT, LOCAL
GOVERNMENT UNITS
Ministry of Local Government (MOLG)
Address: Kitf Al-Wad, PO Box 98,
Jericho, West Bank
Contact Person: H.E. Saeb Erekat,
Minister of Local Government
Tel: 02-2322619
Fax: 02-2321240
Email: MOLG@P-OL.com
Ministry of Finance (MOF)
Address: Beirut St., Remal, PO Box 4007, Gaza
Contact Person: H.E. Salam Fayyad, Minister of Finance
Tel: 08-2826188
Fax: 08-2820696
Email: cbomof@palnet.com
Ministry of Planning and International
Cooperation (MOPIC)
Address: Remal, PO Box 4017, Gaza
Contact Person: H.E. Nabil Shaath,
Minister of Planning
Tel: 08-2822482
Fax: 08-2822482
Email: info@nmopic.pna.net
Environment Category     B
Date PID Prepared        December 26, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date      September 18, 2002
Bank Approval Date       December 17, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
The intensifying conflict in West Bank and Gaza (WBG) is creating new
challenges for Palestinian service agencies and for donor operations in
the area. Increased tightening of closures, movement restrictions and
unpredictable curfews imposed on urban areas for indefinite periods of
time have served to fragment Palestinian society, isolating communities
from key public sector service agencies and sources of emergency and
development assistance. These restrictions have also significantly
reduced Palestinian access to Israeli labor markets, export markets and
other employment and investment opportunities. This has caused a severe



contraction of the economy, forcing communities to resort to coping
strategies that are quickly being exhausted due to the protracted nature
of the conflict.
Palestinians have come to rely on informal social safety nets during
economically depressed periods. Most assistance is provided by family,
relatives or neighbors (60 percent of food assistance and 11 percent of
cash assistance). But coping strategies such as these, which have been
relied on over the past two years, are now being exhausted. While data
collection has been hampered by closures and mobility restrictions,
preliminary indications suggest that the enduring nature of the crisis has
had a severe economic impact on Palestinian households.
Monthly household income has decreased by 50 percent in the first 18
months of the Intifada, placing 66 percent of Palestinian households below
the poverty line, and as many as 84 percent of Gaza households are now
below the poverty line. Nearly 55 percent of households lost more than 50
percent of their income during the last six months compared to 47 percent
by March 2001. More than 50 percent of the population has decreased the
quantity of food consumed since the beginning of the Intifada, with 75
percent of Palestinian households indicating that this was due to
increased prices. Travel time in West Bank and Gaza has multiplied by at
least two-three times the average since the beginning of the Intifada when
closures and mobility restrictions were first imposed. Correspondingly,
travel costs have also dramatically increased during this period, as
transport routes have been segmented within and between areas.
As the most immediate point of interface between the public sector and
local communities, local governments are best positioned to respond to the
emergency situation but lack adequate financial resources to do so.
Particularly in the West Bank where segmentation through roadblocks and
mobility restrictions is most prominent, unemployed workers and the poor
are increasingly approaching local government officials for assistance.
Impact of the contracting economy on municipal revenue. The prolonged
crisis has severely constrained Palestinian households from maintaining
payments for municipal services. Last year, eight months into the crisis,
municipalities reported sharp declines in revenue collection, averaging
about 30 percent of the revenues that were being collected prior to the
crisis. The situation has worsened further over recent months, with
preliminary indications suggesting that municipalities are now able to
cover only 10 percent of their operating costs. A recent survey of 16
Gaza municipalities indicates that as of the end of March, total
liabilities for electricity, water and other services have reached over
NIS 40 million, while arrears now exceed NIS 121 million at these 16
municipalities. Further analysis of municipal finance data will be
carried out at appraisal.
Deteriorating service provision. Restricted movement and access prevent
municipalities from collecting solid waste in some districts and in
accessing municipal dumps and landfill sites in closed off areas.
Mounting waste in these districts poses serious health and environmental
risks that require immediate solutions. Alternative transfer sites and
collection routes have been adopted in some cases, but these remedies have
in some cases tripled hauling distances, overburdening aged collection
- 2 -



vehicles for which spare parts are in short supply, according to several
Gaza municipalities.
Donor commitment strong but fragmented with unfilled gaps. Donors are
acutely aware of the critical role local governments play as the primary
service providers to local communities. However, donor assistance to
local governments thus far has been provided largely in an ad hoc,
fragmented manner often reflecting long-standing bilateral commitments
that do not take into account emerging pockets of poverty and unemployment
and other considerations, particularly regarding the equitable allocation
of resources within and between WBG. With mounting local government
liabilities and arrears and a severe deterioration in service provision,
the PA and donors recognize the need to better coordinate interventions to
improve efficiency in targeting of the unemployed and poor and to
institutionalize a framework and process in determining resource
allocations in a transparent and equitable manner.
Short-term emergency assistance through donor reallocations. A number of
initiatives are underway to assist the PA, and local governments in
particular, in responding to the emergency. The most immediate form of
assistance is being provided through a reallocation of US$12.9 million
from seven Trust Fund operations across the Bank's portfolio to finance
the infrastructure and building repairs necessary to restore institutional
capacity and the provision of essential services, both nationally and
locally. This was approved by the Bank's Executive Directors on August 6,
2002. The reallocation exercise has been carried out in conjunction with
a coordinated donor-PA Physical and Institutional Damage Assessment
completed in late May. The findings of this Assessment should guide the
PA and donors in reallocating financing toward prioritized emergency
needs, while avoiding duplication of effort.
Restructuring of the Bank's Municipal Program. Regarding the
Bank-financed Municipal Program, the aim is to reallocate financing from
three operations - MIDP I & II and Bethlehem 2000 - drawing largely on
uncommitted funds or funds from project components that would face
insurmountable implementation difficulties over the next six to twelve
months. In parallel, the Bank is initiating a second-tier response to the
emergency by preparing new Emergency Recovery Loans to be implemented over
the coming 2-3 years. The aim is to provide greater flexibility in
response to the crisis, while recognizing medium-term institutional needs.
Government Strategy. Present circumstances create the need to realign
program objectives that, first, enable municipalities to respond swiftly
and effectively to the emergency needs of their constituents, and, second,
build the necessary capacities and planning processes to ensure efficient
resource allocation within greater financial constraints.     The Ministry
of Local Government defined its strategy and EMSRP priorities as (i) the
need to respond rapidly with financial assistance to municipalities to
prevent their collapse, (ii) the need for a flexible instrument to enable
local governments to address a range of priorities, including sustaining
essential service provision, infrastructure repair and reconstruction, and
temporary employment creation; and (iii) a common national framework in
the form of as a Municipal Fund to channel support to local governments
that can better leverage donor assistance, while improving coverage and
the equitable distribution of limited resources. Although EMSRP would not
- 3 -



be a poverty-focused intervention, one element of the project would aim to
assist the urban poor and unemployed through the creation of temporary
employment opportunities. In addition, the Ministry of Finance indicated
that EMSRP could be instrumental in linking central and local budgetary
planning processes and in instilling discipline in local government
financial management through appropriate incentive mechanisms. Most of
EMSRP financing, therefore, would be used to assist local governments in
sustaining the provision of essential municipal services, strengthening
municipal budgetary planning and financial management capacity, and
institutionalizing a mechanism for inter-governmental fiscal transfers.
2. Objectives
The Project would help mitigate the deterioration of basic municipal
services and reduce increases in poverty in urban population centers due
to rising unemployment as a result of the ongoing crisis and closures in
the West Bank and Gaza.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
IDA's long involvement in the Palestinian areas in the municipal sector
and urban and community development allows it to bring a wide range of
technical expertise and practical know-how to this project. The Bank has
been in the forefront of donor efforts to help the Palestinians and has
always been a leader in setting programs for infrastructure rehabilitation
and capacity building, including ERP I, ERP II, MIDP I, MIDP II and the
recent ERSP. In addition, the direct experiences of IDA with the
Emergency Response Program approved in December 2000, the PEACE facility
and the first ESSP project provide useful insights on how to design
appropriate emergency response programs in the Palestinian areas. The
Bank's successful past performance in mobilizing donor assistance (ERSP,
US$25 million in cofinancing, and ESSP, US$44 million in cofinancing)
through a common program framework will be critical in addressing the
financing gap in terms of local government resource needs.
With respect to the Municipal Fund initiative, this represents the first
serious attempt by the Palestinian Authority to begin addressing
systematically the importance of donor coordination and management of the
municipal sector at the local level and in coordination with the central
level.
4. Description
The proposed Project would be comprised of three components: (1)
Emergency Program Assistance; (2) Municipal Fund Design & Management; and
(3) Technical Assistance & Capacity Building, as further detailed below:
(1) Municipal Emergency Program (US$68 million)
Funds would be provided to municipalities to finance emergency programs
that would in part offset increasing revenue shortfalls related to
essential service provision. This component of the project would be
flexible and would expand based on the responsiveness of donors. The
principal focus of this financing would be to sustain the provision of
critical municipal services, including water supply, wastewater treatment
and disposal, solid waste collection, road rehabilitation and maintenance
and electricity supply. Financing could also be used to assist in
maintaining health and environmental services, including pest control.
- 4 -



Infrastructure and public building repairs would be financed based on
priority areas identified by municipalities in consultation with the
communities. Likely, municipal services requiring financing would
include:
Under the water and waste water services: The project would finance
maintenance and rehabilitation of existing water and sewerage networks,
wells and reservoirs, providing required chemicals, repairing and
maintaining equipment such as pumps, generators, vacuum tanks and
vehicles, providing spare parts, goods, vehicles and fuel, payment of
water and waste water bills, materials and labor and vehicles insurance.
Under the solid waste services: The project would finance contracts for
solid waste collection including labor, dumping fees, solid waste
containers, tools and trucks, spare parts for solid waste trucks, fuel,
vehicles lubricants, vehicle insurance, related equipment and materials
and other running costs.
Under the road rehabilitation and maintenance service: The project would
finance goods and works for maintenance, rehabilitation and reconstruction
of internal roads including traffic signs, road paintings and safety
rails, traffic signals, street lightings, sidewalks, fuel, vehicle
insurance and road maintenance tools and equipment.
Under the electricity supply service: The project would finance supply
and or replacement of damaged transformers and electrical panels,
electrical cables and poles and accessories, spare parts, maintenance
tools and equipment, vehicle insurance, fuel, vehicles lubricants and
electricity bills.
To the extent that private sector service providers could be engaged,
either as a more cost-effective option given existing bottlenecks or
through extending existing service agreements, these arrangements would be
encouraged and could be financed under the proposed Grant.
Municipalities also indicated the need to address the problem of
unemployment due to reduced access to employment opportunities under the
crisis situation that prevails. This component would also finance work
programs to provide badly needed income-earning opportunities to those who
lost their jobs because of the conflict. The purpose of this
sub-component would be to provide temporary employment through
construction, rehabilitation and maintenance activities among other
priority areas identified by municipalities in consultation with their
communities. A menu of activities would be preselected, based on
identified priority areas by municipalities. Procedures for
implementation would be standardized to ensure swift implementation and
conformity with agreed program guidelines. Government agencies, NGOs and
CBOs in partnership with LGUs would be invited to present proposals
following a standard format addressing a few basic principles, i.e.
labor-intensiveness, relatively low skill activities requiring little
preparation work, using local material. Administrative arrangements will
be determined at the time of appraisal taking into consideration lessons
learned from successful emergency employment generation programs
implemented globally.
-5-



A Municipal Fund (MF) is proposed to be established under Phase II of the
Project. Initially, the MF would be funded through financing provided
under the Bank operation. Over time, and based on successful
implementation, it is expected that the MF would attract substantial joint
and parallel co-financing, both of which would be administered within the
same framework. As such, the MF would provide the PA and municipalities
with an instrument to more effectively mobilize donor resources, both in
the emergency phase and over a medium-term recovery period. As the
situation stabilizes and the economy begins to recover, the MF would have
also established the basis for a new mechanism to administer
inter-governmental fiscal transfers. For instance, once revenue sharing
arrangements have been agreed between central and local governments,
transfers of local government shares of excise taxes and indirect taxes
could be channeled through this instrument.
(2) Municipal Fund Design & Management (US$1.10 million)
Design and set up of the MF would establish the framework for
inter-governmental transfers made to local governments for emergency
programs over a 2 year emergency period. The framework would consist
inter alia of: (a) parameters defining eligible categories for financing;
(b) uniform emergency program submission forms to be completed by local
governments; and (c) weighted allocation criteria based on district
population, essential service provision requirements, and national
targeting priorities with respect to unemployment and poverty-affected
areas, among other criteria to be determined. Performance criteria would
be gradually introduced once capacity building support to local
governments is in place. Since local government revenue generation
performance criteria would not likely be meaningful or effective as an
incentive under the emergency phase, other criteria, such as community
participation in preparing emergency programs and joint emergency
programming with locally-based NGOs could be applied.
Responsibility for designing the MF and for its management would be
assigned to a contracted management agent. Terms of Reference for this
assignment are under preparation and would be finalized at appraisal. It
is expected that the RFP will be issued by November 2002 and that the
Management Agent would be in place around mid year 2003. The main
responsibilities of the management agent would be to (a) establish the
governance structure and determine the guidelines that would apply to
local government emergency program submissions; (b) Upgrade the PCU
project financial accounts and management system to conform more broadly
to the requirements of a Municipal Fund, and (c) review emergency program
submissions against established criteria and present award recommendations
to the Fund Commission. Funding criteria would be defined so as to ensure
streamlined reviews, whereby FC approvals would be granted on a no
objection basis.
The management agent would set up and manage the Fund for about 1-2 years
drawing heavily on experienced professionals recruited locally, after
which time its management could revert to a locally-appointed management
team. Depending on the effectiveness of the implementing arrangements,
and based on a successful outcome, the MF could establish the basis for a
more formalized intermediary financial institution, following a suitably
adapted global best practice model. A secondary benefit of engaging a
- 6 -



recognized agency to design and manage the fund would be to ensure rapid
implementation (against performance based criteria) and appropriate
oversight in administering the financial transfers, particularly for
budgetary support to municipalities. This design feature would likely
increase the appeal of the Fund to other possible donor co-financers, thus
increasingly the likelihood that the PA would be able to mobilize other
donor co-financing.
The Management Agent would also work at the central government level to
establish or upgrade a database to better integrate donor assistance
programs within the local government sector to enable MOLG/MOF/MOPIC to
coordinate emergency interventions more effectively. Such a database
would improve spatial planning of interventions and reinforce capacity to
address equity considerations by improving targeting of communities with
high levels of unemployment and poverty-affected areas within and between
West Bank and Gaza. The database would build upon, provide vital input
to, and be fully integrated with MOPIC's GIS system. In addition to
setting up such a database, TA would be provided to build capacity at the
PA agency designated with administering the system.
(3) Technical Assistance & Capacity Building (US$0.90 million)
This component would involve the implementation of a diagnostic on
inter-governmental fiscal relations, local budgeting and financial
accountability. This activity would serve to link local government reform
efforts to operations under implementation, as well as to inform the
design of longer-term reform initiatives. The diagnostic would provide a
knowledge base for local government sector policy options with an action
program to address immediate as well as medium term opportunities for
reform. Additional outcomes would be identification of training/capacity
enhancement requirements and, where appropriate, required technical
assistance. A strong indication of interest in co-financing/jointly
implementing this exercise was expressed by DFID representatives and would
be confirmed at appraisal.
In parallel, direct, immediate, short-term capacity building support would
be provided under this component to selected local government units.
Capacity building could be a budgetary component built into each
municipality's emergency program or administered separately. In
particular, smaller municipalities and village councils with capacity
weaknesses would be supported under this component to better enable them
to access and utilize resources from the MF. In some instances, in
regions where Joint Service Councils (JSC) have been established,
emergency programs could be jointly prepared and implemented with the
support of JSCs or other regional/district-based entities. Up front
technical assistance and support needed to prepare emergency programs
could be advanced and later deducted from the allocation provided through
the MF. Municipalities would be encouraged to include in their emergency
programs a budget line item to finance Service Delivery Surveys or
Beneficiary Impact Assessments to ensure responsiveness to community
needs. Technical assistance could be offered to assist in budgeting both
capital and recurrent expenditures and in setting realistic targets for
cost recovery that would be monitored and serve as the basis for future
allocations from MF. Sponsorship of workshops and other public forums to
present and discuss emergency programs could be financed under the MF.
-7 -



For instance, building on the findings and recommendations of the recent
Bank-financed assessment of Emergency Employment Generation Schemes, ILO
and other experienced professionals could provide advice, guidance and
training in the use of labor intensive techniques in project design and
implementation to local government officials, NGOs, contractors and other
community-based groups. Technical local consulting firms would be
recruited to monitor and report on the progress of implementation at the
participating municipalities, provide technical assistance on improvement
of quality of works to LGUs, monitor and report on employment generation,
monitor performance, environmental screening and evaluation of
sub-projects, conducting social surveys and advice on procurement. These
technical consulting firms will be essential, especially at the phase when
the PCU would be managing the project
Funds would be provided for eligible expenditures to support an interim
Project Coordination Unit at the ministry of local government for PCU
staff salary, office and vehicle running costs, workshops, furniture,
rent, office equipment, supplies, communications and other related
expenses.
1) Emergency Program Assistance (IDA financing US$18.5 million)
a) Rehabilitation and improvement of solid waste collection and management
services.
b) Rehabilitation and maintenance of main and internal municipal roads.
c) Rehabilitation and maintenance of water and waste water supply.
d) Rehabilitation and maintenance of electrical services.
e) Employment generation micro-projects.
2) Municipal Fund Design & Management (IDA financing US$1.10 million)
3) Technical Assistance & Capacity Building (IDA financing US$0.40
million)
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER $0.00
IBRD
IDA
SPECIAL FINANCING $20.00
Total Project Cost $70.00
6. Implementation
Three institutions will be involved in the management and implementation
of the project. From a governance perspective, a Fund Commission (FC)
would be established to coordinate and exercise policy decision-making
authority at the central level, in addition to monitoring project
performance, with emphasis on expediting project implementation. A Fund
Management Agent (MA) would serve as the technical secretariat of the Fund
Commission, establishing program guidelines, conducting a technical review
of emergency program submissions, provide assistance in determining
allocation criteria, and setting up systems to manage funds effectively
and transparently. Local governments would prepare and implement the
emergency programs. The roles of each are discussed in further detail
below.
i.) Fund Commission. The FC would be comprised of the three key central
- 8 -



government agencies necessary for effective decision-making: Ministry of
Local Government (MOLG), serving as chair of the Commission, with overall
regulatory responsibility for the sector; Ministry of Finance, which would
oversee the setup of the inter-governmental transfer system and monitor
overall resource allocation at the local government level; and Ministry of
Planning and International Cooperation, which has the dual responsibility
for overall planning and donor coordination, and plays a central role in
coordinating emergency assistance planning under the current
circumstances. It has also been recommended that the Association of
Palestinian Local Authorities (APLA) be designated a seat on the
Commission. This will be further explored at appraisal. The FC would
fulfill the overarching decision-making function regarding relevant policy
matters and would have ultimate decision-making authority over the award
and approval of allocations to local governments based on emergency
program submissions. Composition of the Fund Commission would ensure a
direct line of communication to local governments (MOLG and APLA),
planning and donor coordination linkage (MOPIC), and inter-governmental
fiscal transfers and financial assistance coordination (MOF). The FC
would be established prior to project effectiveness and would meet on a
regular basis to review emergency program submissions. Technical reviews
would be carried out by the Fund Management Agent (see below) and the FC
would authorize MF allocations on a no-objection basis.
ii.) Fund Management Agent. The MA would be responsible for the design
and setup of the Municipal Fund and would serve as the technical
secretariat for the Fund Commission. This would include establishing a
comprehensive project management system, project financial accounts
(including those for donor cofinanciers) with appropriate controls and
provisions taking into account Bank fiduciary and safeguard requirements.
In addition, the MA would prepare a framework, based on specified
criteria, governing resource allocation across eligible local districts;
carry out pre-screening of local government emergency programs with
respect to project selection criteria, including environmental screening
provisions; prepare periodic progress reports; and provide technical
assistance to central government ministries and agencies in conjunction
with the program.    Decisions regarding resource allocations would be made
by the Fund Commission, based on a review and recommendation by the
Management Agent. Approvals would be provided by the Commission on a no
objection basis.
Based on initial reactions by various donors actively involved in the
sector, there is likely to be substantial co-financing channeled through
the MF framework, although the modalities for channeling funds may be
different based on different financing terms and mechanisms. The
Management Agent would assist in streamlining and building flexibility
into the MF in order to accommodate different donor requirements, while
enhancing the potential for greater resource mobilization. In the case of
Bank financing, funds would be channeled through a Special Account set up
by MOF as a sub-account of single treasury account, as is the standard
procedure in administering all Bank-financing projects.
Given the heightened donor concern regarding financial accountability,
particularly where budgetary support may be involved , the role of the
Management Agent is deemed to be essential in setting up the Municipal
Fund. This would achieve a number of aims: (i) ensure effective
- 9-



implementation against specific performance benchmarks; (ii) provide the
degree of comfort to ensure that inter-governmental transfers are being
processed and monitored in a fully accountable manner; (iii) drawing on
global best practice in the design of such a fund in terms of its
administration and structuring of an inter-governmental fiscal transfer
system; and (iv) building in sufficient oversight and decision-making
authority at the central level while ensuring that the Fund operates at
arms-length and is responsive to local government needs.
It must also be acknowledged, however, that identification and contracting
of a suitably qualified Management Agent could take some time (6-8
months), depending on the political situation, and may not be feasible at
all; as such, this consideration will be identified as a critical risk of
the project. Two possible mitigation measures are being considered:
First, emphasis will be placed in identifying a Management Agent that will
rely heavily on local expertise with regard to implementation in WB&G;
Second, an interim institutional arrangement is proposed below to enable
EMSRP to be responsive to urgent needs, while preparing for the setup of
the Municipal Fund.
Interim Management of Project by PCU:
As a provision against this risk, emphasis will be placed on identifying a
strong local core of consultants to facilitate implementation locally,
with guidance provided through international expertise. In addition, an
existing PCU at the MOLG comprised of two key staff members, namely, a
project manager and an accountant, would be engaged to implement the
project for the first 6-8 months of the project period. A financial
management system and auditing arrangements are already in place at the
PCU and the staff are well qualified and trained on Bank guidelines. The
PCU would manage implementation during the interim phase of the project
including finalization of the RFP, tendering and through contract signing
with a qualified management agent. To enable the PCU to function from the
point of project effectiveness, initial allocation criteria and guidelines
will be established during the appraisal and agreed with project
counterparts for implementation during the interim period. Resource
allocations would follow a modified version of the municipal component
already being implemented under ESSPI, but would be refined, based on past
experience. This interim implementation arrangement and the future status
of the PCU once the management agent is in place would be further reviewed
at appraisal.
iii.) Local Governments. Municipalities would prepare emergency programs
identifying priority infrastructure and building repairs, service delivery
requirements, as well as employment generation schemes in accordance with
Fund guidelines. In order to be eligible for funds, municipalities would
have to demonstrate that they have prepared their programs in consultation
with their communities. In addition, cross-programming with NGOs and
other local agencies providing community services will be encouraged.
USAID has indicated strong support for EMSRP by agreeing to provide
parallel financing through NGOs financed under the RAFEED (US$10 million)
and TAMKEEN (US$16 million) Projects to encourage joint local
government-NGO programming in addressing local community emergency needs.
Targeting would be focused mainly on municipalities in large urban
population centers where municipal finances have been most severely
affected and services cut back, but smaller municipalities would be served
- 10 -



as well. The needs of village councils and other very small local
government units are being addressed under the Bank's Integrated Community
Development Project.
Municipalities would be supported in preparing their emergency programs by
targeted capacity building and technical assistance. Workshops and
intensive training on integrating labor intensive design techniques into
employment generation programs would be facilitated by experienced
delivery organizations, such as the ILO, and would be based on experience
gained from the recent Bank-financed assessment of Emergency Employment
Generation schemes. Municipalities would be encouraged to partner with
Joint Service Councils, Micro-regional planning units, established with
UNDP assistance, and other regionally-based organizations where the
benefits of scale are evident, such a solid waste collection and
management.
While Bank-financing would not be provided for municipal staff salaries,
other donors who have provided this assistance in the past have indicated
that they plan to continue to do so. A broad menu of options would be
available to municipalities in preparing their emergency programs,
including non-salary budgetary component needed to sustain service
provision that would also conform to Fund guidelines. Identification of
specific project activities for financing will be fully developed at
appraisal..
7. Sustainability
This is an emergency response project designed to assist in maintaining
essential municipal services and provide short term support until the
economic situation improves. At some future point in time, as the
conflict subsides and the economy begins to recover, municipal revenue
generation is expected to resume to a point where communities are able to
pay for such services, as was the case prior to the crisis. Over the
medium term, it is expected that the Munipical Fund would lay the
groundwork for future institutionalization of a more efficient and
rational intergovernmental fiscal transfer system.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
In preparing EMSRP, a number of considerations regarding past performance
of the Municipal Program should be taken into account, including
implementation capacity, programmatic aspects, and obstacles to
Bank-financed operations. The following are a few lessons learned that
would be addressed in the Project's design:
o Development assistance provided to the local government sector in the
past has been ad hoc and uneven, reflecting a lack of coordination among
donors and central government agencies. The project would address this
problem by introducing a common framework for intergovernmental fiscal
transfers (Municipal Fund), with the aim of improving coverage, equitable
resource allocation, and targeting of poor and underserved areas. This
latter concern would directly address the 2002 OED Evaluation of Bank
Assistance to West Bank and Gaza, which calls for better targeting of poor
communities under the municipal program.
o The absence of a comprehensive database regarding donor-financed
emergency support programs at the local government level has severely
limited coordination and targeting of programs in the past. Under the
- 11 -



EMSRP, such a database would be established, coupled with GIS data,
including poverty and unemployment map overlays, to improve regional
targeting of assistance.
o While implementation of infrastructure components of municipal
development programs have proceeded swiftly, capacity building components
have lagged behind. Under the proposed project, criteria for emergency
and development program allocations will increasingly be introduced to
provide incentives for municipalities to undertake needed reforms. In
addition, the process would be demand-driven, with associated incentives
for local governments to proceed at their own pace and based on priorities
identified by their constituencies.
o The employment generation component will benefit from a recent
Bank-financed assessment of all donor-financed emergency employment
generation schemes implemented in WBG over the past two years. The study
identified shortcomings of past donor-financed employment generation
programs in that they were too conventional in design, emphasizing
equipment-based designs, thus significantly lowering the potential for
temporary employment creation. Under the proposed operation,
labor-intensive design techniques will be introduced and serve as a
criteria for allocations made to municipal emergency programs.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues
The proposed sub-projects to be financed through this Project will not
require land acquisition or involuntary resettlement, nor will it affect
any known historical or archaeological sites. To the contrary, this
facility aims not only to improve the capacity of LGUs to protect the
environment but also aims to protect the environment though installing,
rehabilitating and maintaining sewerage networks, to reduce air pollution
through paving internal roads and installing sidewalks, and to reduce
pollution and potential outbreak of disease by improving solid waste
collection and support for pest control.
An Environmental Assessment is likely to be the only safeguard policy
triggered by the proposed project. Preparation of an environmental
management plan (EMP) will be carried out, in accordance with OP/BP 4.01.
For the most part, the project would bring positive environmental benefits
through improved coverage and quality of municipal services.
Nevertheless, potential negative impacts due to siting, design and
implementation of civil works will require a mitigation and monitoring
plan. There has been a strong track record of local capacity in preparing
EMPs under past Bank-financed operations, e.g. Gaza Water and Sanitation
Services Project and Community Development Projects I and II.
Environmental screening criteria will be mainstreamed into the project
review process and will be a criteria in the Fund Commission's
determination of grant awards to avoid potential damages to an already
severely strained environment.
10. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Majed M. El-Bayya
- 12 -



The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 972-08-282-4746
Fax: 972-08-282-4296
11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
January 10, 2003.
- 13 -



