 IEG
                                                                                               Report Number: ICRR14871

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 12/08/2015

               Country: Guatemala
             Project ID: P077756                                                   Appraisal               Actual
         Project Name: Guatemala Maternal           Project Costs (US$M):                      49.0                 47.6
                         And Infant Health And
                         Nutrition
  L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                      49.0                 47.6
      Sector Board:      Health, Nutrition and        Cofinancing (US$M):
                         Population
          Cofinanciers:                                Board Approval Date :                              01/19/2006
                                                              Closing Date:            06/30/2011         05/30/2013
         Sector(s):       Health (65%); Other social services (30%); Central government administration (5%)
         Theme(s):        Nutrition and food security (29%); Population and reproductive health (29%); Managing for
                          development results (14%); Indigenous peoples (14%); Participation and civic engagement
                          (14%)

Prepared by:              Reviewed by:             ICR Review                 Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Judyth L. Twigg           Mauricio Carrizosa      Joy Behrens                IEGHD

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    According to the Loan Agreement (p. 6) and the Project Appraisal Document (PAD, p. 6), the project's objectives
    were "to assist the Borrower in: (a) improving maternal and infant health in the Project's 40 areas of intervention;
    and (b) reducing chronic malnutrition among children younger than 2 years of age in the rural areas of the 70
    municipalities targeted by the Project."

    In November of 2012, a restructuring revised some key outcome targets. For this reason, a split rating will be
    performed. At the time of this restructuring, US$ 43.52 million, or 91.4% of total Bank funds, had been disbursed.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
No

c. Components:

    The project contained four components:

    1. Strengthening of the Maternal and Infant Health Network (appraisal, US$ 22.8 million; actual US$ 24.7 million).
    This component was to support the development of a Maternal and Infant Health Referral and Response network
    in 40 targeted municipalities, promote demand for maternal and infant care by increasing the proportion of safe
    institutional deliveries, and ease the referral of obstetric emergencies directly from the community and for
    children with acute respiratory and digestive diseases. Planned activities included: supporting community
    involvement in decision-making on maternal and infant health care; financing the upgrading of 40 health units to
    Maternal and Infant Health Care Centers (CAIMIs); disseminating messages on safe motherhood; strengthening
   the referral network for obstetric emergencies, focusing on pathways from basic care to the CAIMIs, and CAIMIs
   to hospitals; and creating Maternal Homes to facilitate safe deliveries for women living in isolated areas.

   2. Nutrition: Implementation of the Community Integrated Care for Children and Women (AINM-C) and Creciendo
   Bien Nutrition Strategies (appraisal, US$ 21.9 million; actual US$ 19.8 million). This component was to address
   child malnutrition in 70 selected municipalities by expanding coverage of existing community-based growth
   promotion and basic health services. The component also sought to expand community-based capacity
   strengthening of mothers and families in the most vulnerable and indigenous communities. Planned activities
   included: technical assistance and financing to strengthen and consolidate the two existing community-based
   nutrition programs, AIMN-C and Creciendo Bien; contract with local NGOs to provide services for AIMN-C;
   extend both programs to the most vulnerable communities; and provide support to the Ministry of Public Health
   and Social Welfare (MSPAS) to supervise and monitor the programs.

   3. Communication, Monitoring, Evaluation, and Continuous Auditing Systems (appraisal, US$ 2.4 million; actual
   US$ 0.75 million). This component was to provide knowledge of nutrition and health programs, encourage the
   poor and indigenous populations to use health and nutrition services, disseminate information about the
   population's right to use services, and encourage social audit; design and implement comprehensive monitoring
   and evaluation (M&E), including development of a management information system for the nutrition and health
   interventions and mid-term and final impact evaluations of the nutrition interventions; and measure the project's
   impact on targeted population welfare.

   4. Institutional Strengthening (appraisal, US$ 1.7 million; actual US$ 2.23 million). This component was to
   support the institutional capacity of the MSPAS to implement and administer basic health and nutrition services.
   In particular, it was to support the project's coordination unit (PCU), providing technical assistance and
   equipment. In addition, the component was also to support the institutional consolidation of the recently created
   Secretariat of Food and Nutritional Security (SESAN) with consultant services, equipment, and training.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

   Project Cost, Financing, and Borrower Contribution: The project was to be financed by a US$ 49.0 million
   Specific Investment Loan. According to the Operations Portal, US$ 47.6 million was disbursed, and US$ 1.4
   million was cancelled. The PAD (Data Sheet) states that US$ 13.3 million was also to be provided by the
   Government to support operations of Maternal and Infant Integral Health Care Centers, but this was not part of
   formal project financing, and the ICR does not provide information on actual Government spending. No formal
   Borrower contribution was planned.

   Dates:

        Although the project was approved in January 2006, it did not become effective until June 2007 and began
         implementation in mid-2008. Delays stemmed from difficulties obtaining project approval by the Guatemalan
         Congress, a transition in government, frequent government staff turnover, and the fact that this was the first
         Bank-financed project in the country's health sector.
        In September 2010, the project's closing date was extended from June 30, 2011 to December 31, 2012 to
         allow for further implementation of project activities.
        In February 2011, resources were reallocated across disbursement categories to facilitate implementation of
         activities toward achievement of the project's objectives.
        In November 2012, indicators and some key outcome targets were revised, funds were again reallocated,
         and the closing date was again extended from December 31, 2012 to May 30, 2013 to allow for completion
         of activities. (November 28, 2012 is the date shown in the Restructuring Paper and amended Legal
         Agreement, although the Operations Portal and ICR Data Sheet show November 28, 2011. The project
         team confirmed that the correct date was November 2012.)

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

   Relevance of Objectives under both the original and revised targets is rated Substantial. At the time of appraisal,
   Guatemala suffered from extremely high maternal and child mortality, chronic malnutrition rates that were among
   the highest in the world, and extreme inequity in access to health care. Progress in the health sector had been
   constrained by years of armed conflict, low health expenditures, inequitable allocation of scarce resources, and
   poor health education. The objectives were substantially responsive to these country conditions, and also to the
   government's development strategy (Vamos Guatemala, which explicitly referred to Bank assistance in the
   nutrition and health sectors), its Extension of Coverage Program (PEC, an effort to guarantee universal provision
   of an improved package of basic services in over a hundred rural and vulnerable municipalities), and its social
   policy (Guate Solidaria, which addressed the main obstacles in the country's path to human development,
   including chronic malnutrition and maternal/infant health). The objectives addressed three of the eight
   Millennium Development Goals (eradication of extreme poverty and hunger, reduced child mortality, and
   improved maternal health). The objectives were also substantially relevant to the Bank's Country Assistance
   Strategy at the time of appraisal (2005-2008), which was constructed around the Vamos Guatemala country
   document, and the Country Partnership Strategy at closing (2013-2016), which contains a results area on the
   social sector that focuses on sustaining gains in health (specifically maternal and infant health) and nutrition.
   However, the objectives were extremely broad, as maternal/child health and chronic malnutrition involve a
   complex array of factors beyond the scope of any single project; more specific, targeted objectives could have
   better focused project design and implementation.

b. Relevance of Design:

   Relevance of Design under both the original and revised targets is rated Substantial. The specific elements
   financed under the project were those most critical in improving the health profile of mothers and children, had
   the potential for greatest impact on improving health service access and the health status of the rural poor, and
   addressed essential governance and management issues (ICR, p. 6). Planned activities expanded the supply of
   health care through the construction of new health centers, and also contributed to increased demand for health
   services through improvements in the quality of services and an emphasis on culturally sensitive communication
   and health practices. The use of local NGOs, where educators and practitioners spoke local languages and were
   familiar with local cultural practices, increased the likelihood of achievement of desired outcomes. The project's
   geographic focus targeted rural areas where the concentration of poverty, malnutrition, and infant/maternal
   mortality were disproportionately high and concentrated in the indigenous population. However, the planned
   health interventions were more tightly conceptually linked to maternal health (safe deliveries) than infant health
   (where the main causes of infant mortality were diarrhea and respiratory infections, which received less direct
   focus).

4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

   Improve maternal and infant health in the project 's 40 areas of intervention is rated Substantial . Outcome
   targets relevant to this objective were not revised. It should also be noted that, although the connection between
   planned outputs and intended outcomes as expressed in the project's objectives was strong, the outcome
   indicators are rather narrowly defined in relation to the broadly stated objective.

   Outputs:

   The project supported the PEC to expand health services through the contracting of NGOs that formed health
   teams to offer basic health packages to rural and isolated communities. 3,064 health personnel received training,
   exceeding the target of 2,000. These staff received culturally sensitive training, and a multicultural
   communications strategy was established, both with the aim of attracting indigenous and rural women to health
   centers. The project established a Communications Resources Bank available to all local agencies working on
   maternal and child health issues.

   37 health facilities were constructed, renovated, and/or equipped, not reaching the original target of 40, but
   exceeding the revised target of 35. Eight secondary-level facilities were provided with expanded services and a
   fully operational operating room, meeting the original target of 8 but not the revised target of 10. 27
   secondary-level facilities were provided with expanded services but without an operating room, not reaching the
   original target of 32 but meeting the revised target of 27. The project also constructed eleven waste water
   treatment plants, eleven placenta and medical sharps disposal facilities, three retention walls, five septic tanks,
   and three absorption wells, 99% of which remained functional at the time of the ICR mission.

   1.1 million people had access to a basic package of health services in 2011, exceeding the target of 950,000.
   The percentage of pregnant women with at least one prenatal care visit in project areas increased from 54.2% in
   2006 to 90% in 2013, not reaching the original target of 100%, but meeting the revised target of 90%. The
   percentage of deliveries in health institutions in project areas increased from 22.3% in 2006 to 42% in 2012, far
   exceeding the target of a 20% increase (26.76%). The percentage of mothers receiving post-natal care within ten
   days of delivery in the areas of intervention increased to 31% by 2013, exceeding the target of 20%. The ICR (p.
   14) suggests that these increases were attributable to increased availability of secondary services, emphasis on
   adherence to cultural norms in terms of the infrastructure available in birthing centers, and rules allowing local
   midwives to accompany mothers in birthing centers.
    Outcomes:

    The ratio of indigenous to non-indigenous infant mortality in project areas remained essentially stable at 1.20 in
    2007 and 1.22 in 2010, not meeting the target of a 10% reduction (1.08). The ICR (p. 25) speculates that this
    result may have been due to improvements in the registration of indigenous infant deaths, while acknowledging
    that the project's interventions were more targeted at the primary cause of maternal mortality (safe deliveries)
    than infant mortality (diarrhea and acute respiratory infections). Data past 2010 were not available for the ICR
    due to delays by SIGSA in releasing information.

    The ratio of indigenous to non-indigenous maternal mortality in project areas decreased from 3.2 in 2006 to 1.24
    in 2012, far exceeding the target of a 10% reduction (2.88).


    Reduce chronic malnutrition among children younger than two years of age in the rural areas of 70
    municipalities targeted by the project is rated Substantial under both the original and revised targets.

    Outputs:

    All families were attended by Creciendo Bien in the project areas, meeting the target. At its peak, 142
    jurisdictions were supported with AINM-C, surpassing the target of 112. As part of the PEC, the AINM-C strategy
    expanded maternal and infant health coverage, focusing on infant growth promotion and counseling for mothers.
    Ninety health service agreements with NGOs were implemented to provide a package of health and nutrition
    services in the targeted areas. Activities included nutrition counseling, monthly growth promotion sessions,
    household visits to children who were not growing adequately, and community meetings to discuss health and
    nutrition issues.

    The percentage of children under two years old who participated in weighing sessions (and for whom change in
    weight was measured) in the areas of intervention reached 78% in 2012, not meeting the original (85%) or
    revised (80%) targets. Exclusive breastfeeding in children under six months of age increased only slightly in the
    targeted regions, from 81% to 84.3%, over the project period, but was still higher than the national average
    (49.6%). The percentage of children ages 6-24 months who received adequate complementary feeding
    increased from 36% to 52%, while in a control group the increase was from 26% to 45%.

    Outcomes:

    The percentage of children under two with weight for height (wasting) less than two standard deviations from the
    norm decreased from 24.7% in 2011 to 22.5% in 2013 (2008/2009 cohort), essentially meeting the original target
    (10% reduction, or 22.23%), and surpassing the revised target (5% reduction, or 23.47%).

    The percentage of children under two with height for age (stunting) less than two standard deviations from the
    norm decreased from 73.2% in 2011 to 60.2% in 2013 (2008/2009 cohort), meeting both the original target (10%
    reduction, or 65.88%) and the revised target (5% reduction or 69.54%).

5. Efficiency:

    At appraisal, the economic analysis centered around calculations of cost per life saved through various kinds of
    nutrition interventions (PAD, pp. 21-22, 75-81). The ICR (pp. 32-34) focuses on the macroeconomic costs to the
    Guatemalan economy linked to chronic malnutrition. It also (p. 17) cites evidence that the project's interventions
    on nutrition were among the most cost-effective ways to prevent malnutrition, but it does not present evidence
    comparing specific activities financed by this project to alternatives. It also (p. 33) cites a 2008 ex-ante economic
    evaluation of a previous project, with similar components, carried out in Guatemala, finding a benefit-to-cost ratio
    of 2.35 for the AINM-C strategy, 1.81 for the promotion of institutional births, and 3.15 for expansion of mobile
    health teams focused on treatment and referral of obstetric emergencies and neonatal complications. No formal
    economic analysis specific to this project is presented, but many of the interventions supported by the project
    (community-based integrated maternal and child interventions emphasizing the first 1000 days of life, and
    distance learning based on materials developed with project support) are internationally recognized as
    cost-effective.

    However, there were implementation shortcomings that negatively impacted the cost-effectiveness of investment
    of Bank resources. In particular, a difficult administrative and budgetary environment led to excessive staff
    turnover and delays (see Section 9a). As a result, Efficiency is rated Modest.
a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
   re-estimated value at evaluation :

                              Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

   Appraisal                       No
   ICR estimate                    No
                                      * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

   Relevance of Objectives and Design are rated Substantial under both the original and revised targets. The
   project's objectives were responsive to country conditions, Bank strategy, and government strategy, though they
   were ambitious and broadly framed. Planned activities were plausibly and logically linked to achievement of
   desired outcomes, though the mismatch in geographic jurisdiction between the two main components led to
   implementation challenges. Both objectives were substantially achieved. The gap in maternal mortality between
   indigenous and non-indigenous women closed far beyond what was targeted, but there was less progress on
   infant mortality. This may have been due to improvements in registration of infant deaths among indigenous
   women, and also to the project's interventions' tighter linkage to maternal than to infant mortality. Both original
   and revised targets were reached for reductions in stunting and wasting. Project efficiency is rated Modest, as
   delays and staffing challenges were indicative of low cost-effectiveness. Taken together, these ratings indicate
   moderate shortcomings in the project's preparation and implementation, and therefore an Outcome rating under
   the both the original and revised targets of Moderately Satisfactory. Overall Outcome is therefore also rated
   Moderately Satisfactory.

a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

   According to the ICR (p. 12), the government continued to prioritize maternal and infant health and nutrition
   beyond project closing. The government and representatives of all sectors in the country signed a Zero Hunger
   Pact in February of 2012, elevating malnutrition reduction to a basic priority. The government also assumed
   responsibility for continuing AINM-C activities in almost all jurisdictions covered by the project. As of project
   closing, the Bank was committed to sustained involvement through non-lending technical assistance. An
   Inter-American Development Bank project, slated for 2015, was to include similar health objectives to those
   under this project: improvements in maternal, reproductive, and neonatal health. In addition, the project helped
   establish manuals on health norms and regulations, serving to standardize and institutionalize best practices.

   However, Guatemala remains vulnerable to global shocks and natural disasters. Other priorities compete for
   scarce resources in the country, revenue mobilization is low, and health spending at only 1% of GDP limits what
   the government can propose and achieve in the sector. The implementation environment remains challenging,
   with frequent political gridlock and changes in administration and policy priorities.

  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

   The project deliberately complemented simultaneous health sector interventions financed by the
   Inter-American Development Bank; IDB was supporting strengthening and expansion of tertiary (hospital)
   care, and so this project focused on the secondary level of care and the linkages between the primary and
   tertiary levels (PAD, p. 16). Project design relied on extensive analytical work on the determinants of poverty
   and inequality in the country, as well as a Social Assessment to understand the practices and cultural values
   surrounding pregnancy, childbirth, and infant/child nutrition, as well as factors impacting access to health
   services. Key lessons were learned from other maternal and child health operations in the region, including
   the importance of a community-based approach, the need to identify culturally acceptable interventions, the
   need to promote behavior change to guarantee sustainability, and other intervention-specific
   recommendations (PAD, pp. 10-14).
   Risk assessment was adequate overall, though the risk of delayed start of implementation was rated only
   Moderate, and the PAD's political analysis did not anticipate the delays in legislative approval for the project.
   The project was complex in relation to country capacity, and the focus on different jurisdictions for
   Components 1 and 2 further complicated project implementation and evaluation (ICR, pp. 8, 45). Also,
   Preparation did not adequately ensure readiness for a complex, multi-component health sector project,
   particularly the first Bank-financed health sector project in the country. Overall, as the ICR notes (p. 20), less
   ambitious objectives and targets would have been appropriate, and a more realistic approach to
   implementation would have better facilitated progress.


  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                       Moderately Satisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:

   Bank staff consistently worked closely with counterparts, proactively identifying problems and proposing
   solutions. The team adopted an effective strategy of holding shorter but more frequent supervision missions
   than the norm, focusing on short-term achievements as a means of setting realistic implementation
   objectives. Setting specific short-term goals and deadlines, supported by short-term action plans, "proved
   crucial in keeping project momentum" (ICR, p. 20). Bank staff advised an adjustment in targets for key
   project indicators early on; the government considered these adjustments later in the project period because
   it wanted to continue to motivate staff and communities to work hard to attain the original targets. Safeguards
   specialists supported the project throughout implementation.



  Quality of Supervision Rating :                Satisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

   The government exhibited high levels of political commitment to the project throughout; three successive
   administrations remained supportive of the objectives. It sustained support for key project activities, including
   emphasis on the first 1000 days of life through the Zero Hunger Program and implementation of
   Community-Based Care for Women and Children (AIMN-C), including financing of educators in communities.
   However, frequent changes in government staff, cumbersome bureaucratic processes, and financing delays
   contributed to a "challenging implementation environment" and "hampered the development of working
   relationships" (ICR, pp. 8, 21). Changes in the Ministry of Finance (MOF) budgeting system delayed release
   of funds, slowing contract signing, and MOF spending ceilings coupled with turnover in health ministry legal
   and administrative teams contributed to delays in contracting and payments. These budget and
   administrative challenges were so severe that all the senior Project Technical Coordination staff resigned in
   the project's final year.

   According to the project team, the government agreed to adjust project targets later in project implementation
   because key government stakeholders believed that revising targets could be perceived as a decrease in
   commitment, and because they wanted to motivate stakeholders to strive to achieve the original targets.
   In-country discussions in 2012 surrounding the Zero Hunger Program and the Results-Based Financing Pilot
   in the Ministry of Health proved persuasive in setting more realistic targets.


  Government Performance Rating                                 Moderately Unsatisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

   The Project Coordination Unit was committed and resourceful in finding ways to advance project activities
   despite the difficult administrative environment. It successfully strengthened community- and facility-level
   monitoring systems. However, short-term contracts and delayed payments led to high rotation of staff, and
    the lack of a civil service career ladder hindered the advancement of project management capacities (ICR, p.
    21).


  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                   Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                      Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

   At appraisal, there was no integrated M&E system in place in Guatemala (PAD, p. 17). Outcome and
   intermediate outcome indicators and targets were clearly specified in the PAD (pp. 40-42), with baseline
   information planned for development early in the implementation period. The outcome indicators intended to
   measure achievement of the objective to improve maternal and infant health were narrowly defined in relation to
   the broadly stated objective. Data were to come from local agencies and nutrition surveys, and a management
   information system was to be put in place. It was difficult to collect data on some indicators, forcing the use of
   proxies (for example, the lack of distinction between indigenous and non-indigenous women in vital statistics
   records required staff to use localities where more than 80% of inhabitants were indigenous as a proxy).

b. M&E Implementation:

   According to the ICR (p. 30), the project was hampered by difficulties obtaining data from SIGSA, most likely
   caused by frequent staff turnover. Coordination difficulties between SIGSA and lower level units added to
   problems with data collection and dissemination. In addition, the nutrition survey was delayed due to difficulties
   in awarding the contract. Overall, reporting on the project was largely ad hoc and in response to Bank requests.
   The project's M&E system was never integrated into a broader health and nutrition or national system.

   Due to difficulties with the national M&E system, the project focused on strengthening community- and
   facility-level monitoring systems. Community involvement in generating data on infant/maternal health and
   nutrition generated more reliable data and reinforced project messages on health and nutrition. This
   community-based monitoring system expanded from 52 pilot jurisdictions in 2009 to 150 in 2012.

c. M&E Utilization:

   The ICR (p. 9) reports that health data were not used sufficiently as a management tool or to inform
   decision-making, hampered by infrequent data updates and quality issues.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

   The project triggered the environmental and indigenous people safeguards. The project's targeted population
   was mainly indigenous. An Indigenous Peoples Plan was prepared and its main recommendations included in
   the PAD, and this plan was implemented throughout the life of the project. The project's multicultural
   communication strategy, which included culturally sensitive messages and interventions in eight different
   languages, was one of its hallmark achievements.

   The environmental safeguard was triggered by expected production of health care waste. A hospital solid waste
   disposal plan was developed for the CAIMIs and included the recommendations made during the project's
   environmental assessment. At project closing, 90% of these facilities had solid waste management plans, and
   the project financed the construction of eleven water treatment plants and containers for the safe disposal of
   health waste. Six additional wastewater treatment plants were planned but not completed, resulting in a
   Moderately Satisfactory safeguard compliance rating in the last Implementation Status Report (ICR, p. 10).
b. Fiduciary Compliance:

    Financial Management: During the early stages of the project, there was not clear definition of responsibilities
    between the Bank and the government for management of administrative processes such as payments, budget
    requests, and budget allocations, slowing disbursements and leading to the need to create a Financial
    Management Action Plan. Subsequently, disbursement arrangements proceeded more smoothly. External audit
    reports were on time but qualified, with qualification mostly related to NGO and local administration fund
    regulations, producing delays and bottlenecks on capitation disbursements and follow-up. Audit reports and
    interim unaudited financial reports were reviewed and considered acceptable by the Bank (ICR, p. 11).

    Procurement: All major procurement activities were outlined in annual Operating Plans and in a Procurement
    Plan. The PCU worked proactively with the Bank team through video conferences and supervision missions to
    master the Bank's procurement guidelines. In some cases, cumbersome internal procedures caused delays to
    final awards and contract signings and implementation, but procurement teams dealt with these issues in a timely
    manner.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):

    The project's multicultural communication strategy, which generated culturally sensitive messages and
    interventions in eight different languages, was adopted by other programs: the Zero Hunger Program, and
    projects sponsored by other international organizations.

d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                Reason for
                                                                                    Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                    Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Significant                   Significant
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                              Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

    The ICR offers several useful lessons, including:

    Focus and simplicity in projects in low-capacity environments lacking familiarity with Bank procedures may
    result in better and faster implementation. In this case, the two-year delay in starting implementation allowed
    expansion of the project from 90 to over 140 jurisdictions, increasing complexity and reducing the ability to
    focus on key interventions. In addition, the lack of territorial coherence of the project, with the two main
    components covering different geographic areas, complicated implementation.

    Innovative approaches to supervision may improve performance in low-capacity environments. In this case, a
    short-term orientation, with shorter but more frequent missions than the norm and a focus on successive
    short-term achievements, allowed momentum to be sustained.

    Community involvement and ownership can contribute not only to better implementation and results, but also
    to enhanced M&E. In this case, a community-centered M&E strategy led to better bottom-up data generation
    and increased ownership of project messages and activities.

    Better results are achieved through communication strategies that respect local languages and customs. In
    this case, a solid Social Assessment during preparation produced interactions and messages in eight
    languages that respected local practices and incorporated them into project interventions.


14. Assessment Recommended?                Yes     No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


    The ICR is clear, concise (23 pages in length), and evidence-based (with a particularly strong discussion of
    causality and attribution in Section 3.2). It goes beyond presentation of data on project indicators, bringing in
    other data sources to assess achievement of objectives. It also presents candid and credible analysis of factors
    determining the project's successes and shortcomings. Its insightful lessons are thoroughly derived from project
    experience and should prove useful to other projects in the sector and the region. However, it does not follow
    guidelines in assigning ratings separately for relevance, efficacy, and efficiency, and deriving an outcome rating
    accordingly.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
