Document of              FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2630-BO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT TO
THE REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
FOR A
GAS AND OIL ENGINEERING PROJECT
February 6, 1980
This docnt ha a redrite  dIsbution nd may be use by recipients only in the perfdorance of
their officbl dute. Its ctents may not otherwise be diclosed without World Iank atrlution.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Bolivian Peso ($b)
US$1 - Sb25-00
$bl - US$0.04
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Barrel (B)                  -  0.159 cubic meters
Cubic Foot (CF)             -  0.028 cubic meters
British Thermal Unit (BTU) -  0.252 kilocalories
1 Mile                      -  1.609 kilometers (km)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BPD       -  Barrels Per Day
ENDE      -  Empresa Nacional de Electricidad
IDB       -  Inter-American Development Bank
MCF       -  Thousand Cubic Feet
MMCF      -  Million Cubic Feet
MMgFD     -  Million Cubic Feet Per Day
PETROBRAS -  Petroleos Brasileiros (the Brazilian national oil company)
TCF       -  Trillion (1,000 billion) Cubic Feet
YPFB      -  Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales Bolivianos
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
Note: A cubic foot of gas is the amount of gas at sea level and 60 degrees
Fahrenheit contained in one cubic foot of space.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BOLIVIA
GAS AND OIL ENGINEERING PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:              The Republic of Bolivia.
Beneficiary:           Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales Bolivianos (YPFB)-
Amount:                US$16 million.
Terms:                 Standard 1/.
Relending Terms:       10 years including 3 years grace at 8.25% per annum.
Project Description:  The proposed project would (a) help carry out a gas
appraisal program, including seismic data collection
and drilling of wells, which would enable Bolivia
to prove sufficient reserves of natural gas to
satisfy the domestic market and undertake further
gas exports; (b) assist YPFB to initiate secondary
recovery in the Monteagudo oil field. The project
consists of: (a) a 14-well appraisal drilling
program; (b) an initial phase oil secondary recovery
project plant in Monteagudo; (c) a 1600 line-km
seismic survey, with data processing and interpreta-
tion of such 1,600 line-km and of additional 700
line-km of previous seismic surveys, reprocessing
and reinterpretation of an additional 250 line-km
seismic survey, all for certification of gas reserves;
and (d) a study of Bolivia's domestic gas market
and a pre-feasibility study of a gas export project.
The project would be a necessary and important step
for Bolivia to increase significantly its gas exports
and hence its foreign exchange earnings.
1/   The Credit would be refinanced (including the relending arrangements)
if, based on the results of this project, a loan is made for a gas export
project or for a subsequent phase or phases of the Monteagudo oil secondary
recovery tomponent.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contenst may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost 1/:
Local           Foreign          Total
(US$ millions)
Appraisal Drilling                           8.3              17.9           26.2
Seismic Surveys                              1.6               2.7            4.3
Secondary Recovery                           0.9               1.7            2.6
Engineering Studies 2/                        -                0.5            0.5
Sub Total                             10.8              22.8           33.6
Physical Contingency                         1.0               2.1            3.1
Price Contingency                            2.5               2.6            5.1
Total Project Cost                          14.3              27.5           41.8
Financing Plan:
Local           Foreign
Cost              Cost          Total
(US$ millions)
YPFB                                          9.8               -             9.8
IDB                                           4.5             11.5           16.0
IDA                                            -              16.0           16.0
Total                                    14.3              27.5          41.8
Estimated
Disbursements:  IDA FY                    1980              1981           1982
Annual                                  4.0               9.0           3.0
Cumulative                              4.0             13.0           16.0
Rate of Return:           Not applicable.
Appraisal Report.         No separate report.
1/   Does not include taxes since YPFB's purchases of imported goods are
tax exempt.
2/   Covered by a Project Preparation Facility Advance.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF IDA TO
THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO
THE REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA FOR A
GAS AND OIL ENGINEERING PROJECT
1.        I -ubmit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Republic of Bolivia for the equivalent of US$16.0 million on
standard IDA terms to help finance a program of appraisal drilling to prove
adequate reserves of natural gas to meet future domestic demand and permit
exports to Brazil, a seismic survey, and an initial phase project for secondary
recovery in the Monteagudo oil field by means of water flooding. The proceeds
of the Credit would be relent by the Government to Yacimientos Petroliferos
Fiscales Bolivianos (YPFB) at a term of 10 years including 3 years of grace,
with interest of 8.25% per annum. The Credit would be refinanced if, based on
the results of this project, a Bank loan is *de for a gas export project or
for subsequent phase or phases of the Monteagudu secondary oil recovery compo-
nent. The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) is providing a parallel loan
of US$16 million equivalent to the Republic of Bolivia for 40 years including
10 years of grace, with interest at 1% per annum which would be relent by the
Government to YPFB at the same term and interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Introduction
2.        A report entitled "Economic Memorandum on Bolivia" (No. 2195-BO)
dated November 3, 1978, was distributed to the Executive Directors. A number
of economic missions have visited Bolivia since then, the latest in December
1979, to review current developments and discuss policy measures with the
Government. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        Despite the increasing importance of natural gas exports, as well
as significant mineral deposits, Bolivia remains one of the poorest countries
in South America. The majority of its population is engaged in traditional
agriculture; only a small part of the labor force is employed in the modern
sector. The economic infrastructure is still primitive and the road and rail
networks provide service to only a fraction of the population who live mostly
in the inhospitable 3,000 to 4,000 m high plateau, the Altiplano, where
physical conditions are harsh.
4.        The 1952 revolution sought to put an end to the dual structure of
traditional and modern sectors, which had characterized Bolivia's economy since
colonial times, and to deprive the landowning and mining oligarchy of its
economic base. This objective was partially achieved. Progress was made in
eradicating feudal relations, distributing the land and eliminating obstacles
to social mobility, notably through an impressive effort in primary education.
The agrarian reform and the nationalization of large mines, however, were
followed by falling production. GDP declined in the 1950s and did not recover
to its pre-1952 level until 1961. During the subsequent decade, output
increased steadily at an average annual rate of about 5%, providing for per



capita income increases averaging 2.5% per annum. As a result, GNP per capita,
which had fallen by 24% in the 1952-60 period, recovered to its 1952 level by
1970 and was more equally distributed. However, the momentum of economic
growth was again lost in 1969/71, when political instability led to declining
private investment and deteriorating public finances. The deterioration of
public finances reflected a structural problem in the economy. Bolivia's
public sector has been proportionately one of the largest in South America and
a source of livelihood for a sizeable segment of the population. With scarce
employment opportunities in the private sector, pressures to expand public
employment proved difficult to resist.  Large expenditures on wages and
salaries, combined with a weak tax system, have limited the resources avail-
able for public investment. Moreover, the inability of the public sector to
generate adequate savings limited its capacity to utilize available external
capital assistance effectively.
5.        From mid-1971 to mid-1978, political stability and policies to
encourage private sector investment raised hopes for a more rapid pace of
economic development. In addition, during the early 1970s Bolivia's exports
of petroleum increased considerably, and it was generally expected that this
upward trend would continue in the future. Public investment and external
lending decisions were largely based on this expectation which seemed reason-
able at the time. The Government launched an ambitious public investment
program financed largely through external borrowing, expecting to have no
difficulty servicing the loans out of revenues from future natural gas and
petroleum exports. Petroleum exports began to decline, however, in 1975,
because of insufficient output in the face of rapidly rising internal demand,
and by the end of 1978 came to a virtual halt. As a result, Bolivia has become
even more dependent on exports of natural gas and of minerals, mainly tin.
6.        Since most of the ongoing public investment projects were initiated
when prospects for the export of hydrocarbons seemed favorable, many could not
be stopped without economic loss. The Government, therefore, tried to compen-
sate the foreign exchange shortfall through additional external borrowing.
As a consequence, Bolivia's public debt outstanding and disbursed increased
rapidly; the end-1978 estimate is US$1.7 billion. As a result of increased
borrowing from commercial banks and suppliers, the structure of the external
debt has worsened; the grant element of new loans fell from 40% in 1974 to 16%
in 1978.
Recent Economic Performance and Prospects
7.        The Bolivian economy is going through a difficult phase.  The public
sector, which has been the main source of disequilibrium in the economy in
recent years, registered an overall deficit of over 10% of GDP in 1979,
compared to a small surplus in 1974. Similarly, the current account of the
balance of payments has moved from a surplus of 5.7% of GDP in 1974 to a
deficit of 10.5% in 1979. As a consequence of the fiscal and balance-of-
payments problems, real GDP growth, which has averaged over 5.5% per annum
for the period 1970-1977, amounted to only 3.3% and 2.1%, respectively,
during 1978 and 1979. This growth performance coincided with the intensifica-
tion of pressures on domestic prices. As measured by the GDP deflator,
the rate of domestic inflation accelerated from an average of about 10%
per annum during 1975-77 to about 17% in 1978 and 19% in 1979.



- 3 -
8.        The service of external debt now absorbs about 30% of exports of
goods and nonfactor services. This ratio is not likely to decline during the
next few years and is undesirably high for a country so dependent on a single
export, tin, characterized by wide fluctuations in demand and price. The
volume of mineral exports has been stagnating and even with production-
stimulating changes in mining taxes, no sharp increase in volume is to be
expected during 1980. The country's balance-of-payments prospects are thus
not encouraging for the immediate future. However, a more favorable environ-
ment for private mining enterprises, modernization investment in the Bolivian
Mining Corporation (COMIBOL), and greater exploration efforts could bring
about substantial increases in output and exports in the medium term. Non-
traditional exports account for a small share of all exports and while
encouragement is also required, favorable policy changes in this area would
affect exports significantly only in the longer term.
9.        Bolivia's most promising export potential over the medium-term lies
in natural gas. Exports to Argentina are expected to increase during 1980 as
additional pumps will begin to operate on the pipeline. The construction of a
natural gas pipeline to Brazil could improve Bolivia's balance-of-payments
position substantially. A letter of intent has been signed by the Bolivian
and Brazilian Governments, laying down the principles regarding a gas sales
arrangement. Appraisal drilling will be stepped up (to be supported by
the proposed Credit) to prove the existence of sufficient gas reserves, to
open the way for increase of total exports in the order of 25-30% in the
mid-1980s. While petroleum exports cannot be expected to resume on a substan-
tial scale before additional reserves are confirmed, some increases are
anticipated from projects under consideration for secondary recovery and
recycling.
10.       In sum, while Bolivia's medium-term export prospects are moderately
favorable if efforts are made to promote them, it is difficult to see much
scope for improvement during the next two to three years. The vagaries of
international mineral prices will continue to have a decisive effect on the
country's export earnings during that time. This underlines the need to
develop, as soon as possible, alternative exports, such as the sale of natural
gas to Brazil.
11.       The main internal cause of financial strain has been the weak
position of the principal state enterprises. Foremost among them is the State
Petroleum Corporation (YPFB) which is one of the largest taxpayers in Bolivia.
YPFB's finances have been damaged by past policies to maintain domestic prices
of petroleum products at a fraction of the world market level. Other state
corporations such as COMIBOL, which owns and operates the country's major
mines, and ENAF, the State Smelting Corporation, which has embarked on a
large-scale investment effort, have large overall deficits caused by consider-
able investment expenditures, low productivity and/or inappropriate wage
policies, rather than by depressed prices. The financial situation of the
railroads has deteriorated because of the severe damage resulting from the
floods in early 1979.
12.       The new Government, which took office in mid-November 1979, is
fully aware of the seriousness of the situation. On November 30, it took
a series of economic measures which formed the basis for an agreement with



- 4 -
the IMF for a standby arrangement. Under this arrangement (and together
with Trust Fund inflows), Bolivia is eligible to draw US$120 million during
1980. The measures include a devaluation of 25% of the Bolivian peso
(and commitment to a flexible exchange rate), average increases in domestic
prices of hydrocarbons of about 120% and a tight control of the fiscal and
foreign exchange budgets. The Government has also initiated, with Bank-
assistance, the preparation of a medium-term public investment program in
an effort to control the magnitude and composition of such investment.
Finally, the Government is undertaking a major debt rescheduling exercise
with foreign commercial banks, which should make the external debt situation
more manageable until major export-oriented projects come on-stream in the
mid-1980s.
13.       Bolivia's creditworthiness for lending on conventional terms is
limited at present. Because of the need to improve Bolivia's debt management--
and the reluctance of commercial lenders to increase their exposure in the
country--Bolivia will have to limit its foreign borrowing to priority projects
and make maximum use of soft-term lending from international and bilateral
institutions to get through the difficult next two or three years. The Bank
is following economic developments very closely and is engaged in a detailed
and frank dialogue with the Bolivian authorities with a view to assisting them
during this interim.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BOLIVIA
14.       Although Bolivia is an original member of the Bank, it did not obtain
any Bank Group financing until 1964. Because of Bolivia's restricted capacity
to service external debt, Bank Group financing was, except for a US$23.25
million Gas Pipeline loan, exclusively on IDA terms until Bolivia started to
export small quantities of natural gas and petroleum. In view of promising
prospects for rapid expansion of such exports, IDA lending to Bolivia ceased
in 1975. In 1978, however, it became apparent that the expectations of large
petroleum exports, and with it dynamic economic development, would not
materialize. Starting with the Ulla Ulla Rural Development project in 1978,
financed in equal amounts on Bank and IDA terms, Bolivia was treated as a blend
country. Bolivia's economic situation has seriously deteriorated since then;
petroleum production has declined and the country is expected to become a net
importer in the near future. Development is still seriously constrained by
the dual structure of the economy; a large part of the population continues to
live in extreme poverty. Limited creditworthiness and low per capita income
make Bolivia eligible for IDA credits. To date, the Bank and IDA have approved
24 operations (11 credits and 12 loans and one blend operation) for Bolivia
amounting to US$322.8 million, of which 8 have been fully disbursed.
15.       Bank Group lending to Bolivia has assisted in the development of
infrastructure and social sectors. In the agricultural sector (7 operations
amounting to US$45.2 million), the Bank Group has helped the Government to
develop a viable livestock industry, to increase agricultural production,



- 5 -
to improve living conditions on the Altiplano and to promote the development
of the alpaca/llama industry; efforts to strengthen the Agricultural Bank
of Bolivia have met with limited success. In the power sector, through 5
operations amounting to US$53.4 million, the Bank Group has been instrumental
in modernizing the sector, expanding electricity supply, improving the quality
of service -id setting up a regulatory agency and a public power company,
which has been operated in an efficient and financially sound manner. In the
transportation sector, Bank Group assistance to the railways (3 operations
amounting to US$75.0 million of which US$3.3 million was cancelled) has
helped to improve the railways' quality of management, efficiency of operations
and financial condition; a US$23.3 million loan was made for the construction
of a gas pipeline from the Santa Cruz area to the border with Argentina;
a US$25.0 million loan for an aviation development project is assisting
Bolivia's efforts to develop hitherto isolated areas by providing safe and
efficient freight and passenger transportation; a US$25.0 million loan for
a highway maintenance project is helping Bolivia protect its investments in
highways. In the mining sector, 3 operations amounting to US$28.2 million
have aimed at increased exploration and production and improved sectoral
coordination. A US$11.5 million loan for a water supply and sewerage project,
of which US$6.3 million was cancelled as two cities withdrew from the project,
is improving services in 70 rural communities; a US$9 million credit will help
finance the expansion of water supply and sewerage services in the city of
Santa Cruz de la Sierra. A US$15 million loan for an education and vocational
training project is assisting Bolivia to develop its human resources in a more
effective way. A US$17 million loan is helping Bolivia to improve the living
conditions of the urban poor in the city of La Paz.
16.       Because of the narrow scope for private investment, IFC became active
in Bolivia only in 1973 through an investment of US$400,000 in a firm producing
cables and plastic products. Two IFC investments since then have contributed
to the establishment of a local market for long-term securities: an equity
participation of up to US$550,000 in Banco Industrial S.A. (BISA) in conjunc-
tion with a Bank loan of US$10.0 million for the same institution to assist in
financing medium-sized industrial and mining enterprises, and US$337,500 in
Banco Hipotecario Nacional to assist in the development of mortgage banking.
Annex II contains a summary statement of the status of Bank loans, IDA credits
and IFC investments in Bolivia as of November 30, 1979, and notes on the
execution of ongoing projects.
17.       Bank Group lending to Bolivia has supported a broadly based Govern-
ment effort to expand and upgrade Bolivia's economic and social infrastructure.
Until 1978, the Government had established an excellent record in providing
the required local funds and, in general, projects were adequately carried
out. During the past year, the execution of ongoing projects has been affected
adversely by the shortage of local funds and changes in government personnel,
reflecting the difficult economic and political situation of Bolivia including
several changes of Government. The Bank Group is reviewing with the Government
the possibilities to overcome these difficulties. For future lending, the Bank
Group is giving priority, for the present, to programs and projects supporting
the Government's stabilization program and/or leading to increased exports.



- 6 -
18.       For the period 1974-78, total official development assistance to
Bolivia has been as follows: Bank, US$226.0 million; IDA, US$22.7 million;
Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), US$263.8 million; US Agency for Inter-
national Development US$191.9 million; other, US$322.2 million. Net of
undisbursed balances, Bolivia's debt to the Bank and IDA in 1978 represented
7.7% of its public debt. Bank and IDA's share of the Bolivian debt service
was 3.9% in 1978.
PART III - THE OIL AND GAS SECTOR
Overall Context
19.       Petroleum products now account for nearly 50% of Bolivia's energy
consumption, whereas natural gas use in industry and electricity generation
remains very limited and amounts to less than 2% of energy consumption.
Electric power generation is predominantly (75%) hydroelectric. Vegetable
fuels (wood, bagasse, charcoal) are still an important energy source and
provide 25% of domestically consumed energy compared to 20% for electricity.
Spurred by prices well below their economic cost, the domestic use of petro-
leum products has increased at an annual rate of 10.5% since 1973, about twice
as fast as the GDP growth. This has led to a virtual cessation of crude
exports in 1979, and to a decline in the financial position of the state oil
company, Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales Bolivianos (YPFB). Unless the
growth in domestic demand is slowed and new supplies of indigenous crude oil
are discovered, Bolivia will have to import crude oil in the near future.
In contrast, domestic consumption of gas has remained almost constant, and
exports to Argentina have risen significantly in volume and price since 1973.
Important gas discoveries have been made in recent years and, although exports
to Argentina are likely to remain at the projected 220 MMCFP, there is a
potentially huge market in Brazil, which expressed interest in acquiring up to
400 MMCFD for the Sao Paulo area if sufficient reserves can be proven and
agreement reached on price. A Bank energy sector mission visited Bolivia in
December 1977. On the basis of the mission's recommendations, a dialogue has
been initiated with the Government on the main issues affecting the sector, of
which the key ones are domestic energy pricing and natural gas resource
utilization. The results of this dialogue to date, including the issues
related to the proposed Credit are covered in the following paragraphs. There
are other matters, also related to energy planning, such as development of
non-conventional energy resources, which are still under discussion. Specific
steps to deal with them would be taken up in subsequent operations in Bolivia's
energy sector.
The Energy Resource and Institutional Base
20.       Bolivia has relatively large and well diversified energy resources.
Natural gas is potentially the most important energy source with proven
reserves of close to 3.0 trillion cubic feet (TCF), sufficient to sustain
net output at the 1978 level for almost 50 years. Proven reserves of liquid
hydrocarbons (crude oil and condensates) are limited by comparison, amounting



to 120 million barrels or some ten years of 1978 output. Ultimate reserves
are likely to be significantly larger, especially for natural gas, since about
one third of the national territory, amounting to some 45 million hectares,
is potentially hydrocarbon-bearing. There are undeveloped though consider-
able reserves of firewood; forests extend over a large area of the national
territory. No significant resources of coal are known to exist except for
some spotty occurrences of anthracite near Lake Titicaca. There are indica-
tions of uranium in the mineralized parts of the country, which are presently
being explored. Like most other Andean countries, Bolivia's hydroelectric
potential is abundant. The economically exploitable potential is estimated
at 18,000 MW of which only a nominal fraction has been developed. The hydro-
carbon sector's importance to the overall economy has been primarily that of
an earner of export and fiscal revenues. The sector's direct contribution to
production and employment is relatively small, accounting for 3% of GDP and an
even smaller share of employment in 1977. In contrast, its contribution to
export earnings and Government revenues amounted to 19% and 25% respectively
in the same year. The figures for 1978 have not yet been released but will be
lower because crude oil exports were down by 36% in volume due to lower
production and increased local demand, while natural gas exports remained
constant.
21.       Bolivia has been a minor producer of crude oil because known reserves
are small and investment in exploration has been comparatively low. The sector
developed largely in the 1960s and after a temporary recess in 1970, following
the sudden nationalization of Bolivian Gulf Oil's assets in October 1969, oil
output continued to rise by about 6.5% annually until it peaked in 1973 at
47,000 barrels per day (BPD). Thereafter, output declined to some 28,000 BPD
in 1978 while local demand continued to increase at 10-12% per annum. Thus,
oil exports, which averaged 32,450 BPD in 1973, dwindled to 7,800 BPD in 1978
and reduced significantly further in 1979 to spot sales of naphtha and gasoline.
In contrast, output of natural gas on a large scale began in 1972 when exports
to Argentina were initiated. These exports now amount to nearly 160 million
cubic feet per day (MMCFD), and by August 1980 are expected to be increased
to 220 MMCFD or more than 75% of Bolivia's gross output of natural gas; the
remainder will continue to be used locally and, to a lesser extent, flared.
There also seems to exist a good potential of nonconventional energy which now
is virtually unutilized, such as geothermal energy in some locations of the
Western and Central Cordilleras and solar energy on the Altiplano where solar
radiation is high. While nonconventional energy cannot be expected ever to
meet more than a small portion of the overall demand, it can make a significant
contribution to satisfying local requirements, thus reducing the need to trans-
port fuel and electricity to distant regions of the country.
22.       The main agencies dealing with the hydrocarbon sector are the
Direccion General de Hidrocarburos, a unit of the Ministry of Mines and
Energy, YPFB, which is the main operating entity, and the private sector
which at present comprises two US operating companies, Occidental Petroleum
and Tesoro Petroleum. YPFB owns all the refining, transport, storage and
distribution facilities.



- 8-
Hydrocarbon Exploration Activity
2
23.       Bolivi4  has a land area of about one million km  (386,000 sq mi) of
which 452,000 km or 41% are covered with sedimentary basins. Three of these
basins have the prerequisites for petroleum generation--the Beni basin, the
Santa Cruz-Chaco basin and part of the Altiplano basin. However, oil or gas
production so far has been achieved only in the Santa Cruz-Chaco basin keep.
(Annexes IV and V contain, respectively, an outline of petroleum geology and
of Bolivia's geological setting.) Petroleum exploration in Bolivia started at
the close of the First World War and was carried out mostly by large interna-
tional companies. Geological and drilling activity culminated in the discovery
of the Camiri field in 1927. Over the past 57 years, 201 wildcat wells
resulted in the discovery of 33 fields, a success ratio of 0.16 which is above
average. The pace of exploration has been uneven: 18 wells were drilled
between 1922-31, 61 between 1958-69 and a further 16 between 1973-78 by
private foreign companies; between 1946-78 YPFB-drilled 106 wells. Bolivia
is more gas than petroleum-prone; at least five of the oil fields are marginal
discoveries, and the largest liquid producer is a gas field. At present, 56%
(17,261 BPD) of the total liquids production comes from condensate, mostly
produced by stripping gas of its liquid content at the surface prior to
reinjecting it into the field (recycling for deferred production until a
market for gas develops). Bolivian crudes, with the exception of the Monteagudo
field, are light and are not suitable for the extraction of diesel and heavier
products; this results in an excess of light products such as gasoline and a
shortage of heavy products which may have to be imported in the future. On
the other hand, the Bolivian light crudes are excellent for refinery blending
with heavier crudes and command premium prices in the export market.
24.       The Government's hydrocarbon policies in recent years have been
to rely on foreign companies to provide the bulk of the risk investment in
exploration, while YPFB dominates production and downstream activities. In
order to boost oil exploration to offset the continuous decrease in reserves,
the Government in 1972 enacted a new petroleum law to attract oil companies.
Contracts have an initial duration of four years with possible extensions
coupled with acreage reduction. The conditions include minimum work commit-
ments and financial obligations, the drilling of two deep wells being impera-
tive during the fourth year. All costs and risks are carried by the private
companies. In case of discoveries, production is shared according to an
agreed split, usually between 50% and 60% for YPFB. Each party is responsible
for its own taxes. This petroleum law generated some 16 operation contracts
by the end of 1975, of which the first three were signed before 1973. The
results of the work performed under contracts, however, have been disappoint-
ing with respect to finding oil. After six years, 16 wildcat wells, and
investment of some US$124 million, only 17.9 million barrels of petroleum
liquids have been found, and now only two foreign firms are active in Bolivia.
On the other hand, gas discoveries by them in the Chaco at Tita, La Vertiente
and Porvenir fields amount to perhaps 1.2 TCF or more. Probable reserves in
these fields and others belonging to YPFB should enable Bolivian gas exports
to Brazil once these reserves are proven.



- 9
Prospects for Natural Gas and Petroleum
25.       Natural Gas.  Large quantities of gas were first discovered in
the early 60s (Rio Grande, Colpa, Caranda) and during the last 17 years some
gas fields were found with individual reserves varying from 0.1 to 1.1 TCF,
bringing c- rent proven gas reserves in Bolivia up to a total of 3 TCF.
An additional 2.2 TCF of reserves are likely to be proven by the proposed
project (para. 39a) and the potential for further discoveries is good.
26.       Petroleum.  As a result of high production rates, Bolivia's oil
reserves have dwindled considerably, and all export sales were stopped shortly
before the end of 1978. Because of the gasiferous nature of the sedimentary
basins, it is unlikely that Bolivia will ever be a major oil producer. The
largest liquid producer is the Rio Grande field with 12,400 BPD followed by
La Pena, 3,897 BPD, and Monteagudo, 3,791 BPD. The remaining proven liquid
reserves amount to 93.1 million barrels, which is sufficient for only ten
years at current production rates.
Refining, Marketing and Distribution
27.       In line with domestic consumption, oil refining has grown at an
annual average rate of 12% since 1972. Refining capacity has been sufficient
to meet domestic demand for most products with the exception of aviation
gasoline which has to be imported and some middle distillates whose production
is low because of the light characteristics of Bolivian crudes. There are two
main refineries, one at Cochabamba which, with the completion of the expansion
at the end of 1978, has an effective capacity of 47,000 BPD and one at Santa
Cruz which was also expanded recently to 20,000 BPD. A small distillation
unit of 3,000 BPD capacity at Sucre brings the total refining capacity to
70,000 BPD, in excess of the current domestic requirements of approximately
25,000 BPD. The types of refineries combined with the light nature of the
crudes create intermittent surpluses of natural gasolines which are exported
on the spot market when possible or reinjected into the wells when there is no
market. At the same time, heavy and middle distillates are in short supply.
28.       Transport, storage and distribution facilities have expanded con-
siderably over the past decade when pipelines for gas (Santa Cruz-Yacuiba,
Monteagudo-Sucre) and for petroleum products (Sucre-Potosi) were built.
Transport of crude oil and natural gas from fields to export points or
refineries is done exclusively by pipeline; refined products are transported
by pipelines to three major distributing and marketing centers, i.e., La Paz,
Oruro and Potosi and by road, rail and waterway to more remote locations. The
pipeline network extends over nearly 3,450 km and has a capacity of 73,000 BPD
of crude, 12,000 BPD of products and 177 MMCFD of natural gas; these capacities
provide sufficient margin at present production levels. Transportation costs
by pipeline for natural gas, crude oil and refined products average less than
US41 per ton-km equivalent, including depreciation, maintenance and operating
expenses; this cost is quite reasonable considering the small diameter of the
Bolivian pipelines.



- 10 -
29.       Storage capacity for petroleum products now amounts to 0.5 million
barrels or less than one month of consumption, and storage tanks have been
erected near La Paz, Santa Cruz, Cochabamba and Oruro. In addition, a new
0.2 million barrel sea terminal was completed in 1976 at Arica (Chile), the
principal export point for Bolivian crude.
Pricing Policies
30.       Domestic prices for petroleum products have been fixed by the
Government at low levels in an attempt to keep down energy costs throughout
the economy. Prices were kept virtually frozen during 1962-75 despite infla-
tion, large increases in international petroleum prices and increases in
YPFB's operating costs. They fell increasingly out of line with the general
price level and were therefore raised in late 1975 by 55% on a weighted
average basis (170% for gasoline). Before the November 1979 increases,
petroleum product prices were less than one half of US levels and about one
fifth of the levels in the neighboring countries of Brazil and Paraguay.
Consequently, YPFB was obtaining a very slim margin on its domestic sales and
was even incurring losses on some products, notably kerosene which retails
at just about one third of production costs.
31.       Unremunerative domestic prices for oil products were largely respon-
sible for YPFB's deteriorating financial position. Furthermore, low prices
have worked against effective energy conservation and rational energy use,
resulting in higher domestic consumption growth and lower exportable surpluses.
Low fuel prices have contributed to diverting long-distance transport from
rail to road and in the power sector, to favoring less efficient self-genera-
tion, from small diesel units, than could be provided through the public grid.
32.       In December 1979, the Government took a major step towards resolving
these issues by increasing petroleum product prices by an average of about 118%.
The price increases were implemented against strong political opposition
which had thwarted earlier attempts by previous Governments. The measures
will substantially improve the financial situation of YPFB; they are also
expected to reduce the growth in domestic consumption and thus contribute to
exports. During negotiations of the proposed Credit, IDA representatives
explained to the Government and YPFB delegations that a further rationaliza-
tion of petroleum product prices aimed at helping YPFB achieve a sound long
term financial position and improve the resource allocation of the country
would be an important element for possible eventual Bank participation in any
gas export project. Such rationalization would include increases in domestic
prices for natural gas, which is being sold below cost in some areas of
the country until existing commitments expire at the end of 1980. While a
substantial spread between the price of gas and petroleum is justified at
present to promote substitution, primarily for diesel and fuel oils, in view
of relative resource endowment and demand, major adjustments in domestic gas
pricing would be required eventually in the context of gas exports to Brazil.
Previous Bank Group Lending to the Energy Sector
33.       The proposed project would be the second lending operation in
Bolivia's hydrocarbon sector by the Bank Group. In 1969 the Bank made a loan
(635-BO) of US$23.3 million to Compania Yacibol Bogoc Transportadores, a



- 11 -
company owned by YPFB and Bolivian Gulf Oil Corporation, for the construction
of a 24-inch, 530-km long high pressure gas pipeline from Santa Cruz de la
Sierra to Yacuiba on the Argentine border. Before the loan could become
effective, Gulf Oil's assets in the country were nationalized, bringing the
project to standstill. After Gulf Oil's compensation was negotiated, a new
loan was signed in September 1971 and the project progressed smoothly with gas
shipments to Argentina starting in late April 1972. Project performance audit
report (Report No. 593) for this project was issued on December 13, 1974. The
project has been successful and benefits have far exceeded original expectations.
The pipeline is operating well and gas exports to Argentina have been highly
profitable. Other Bank Group energy sector activity consists of four operations
with Empresa Nacional de Electricidad (ENDE), for its generation and transmission
system. 1/ One operation, Credit 62-BO, financed investments of the foreign-
owned Bolivian Power Company.
Bank Group Role in Oil and Gas Sector
34.       The Government is in the process of rationalizing policies regarding
exploration and exploitation of Bolivia's gas and petroleum reserves--including
reserve confirmation, oil secondary recovery, gas recycling and pricing of
fuels. The proposed Credit plays an important role in this context. During
the preparation of the project, intensive discussions were held with the
Government on the importance of sound petroleum product pricing; prices have
been increased considerably since then. The Credit will enable YPFB, and
indirectly the private sector (para. 45), to develop the apparently abundant
natural gas reserves of the country.  The project would be a necessary and
important step to enable gas exports on a large scale above the existing
export contract with Argentina. At the volume envisaged, gas exports would
increase foreign exchange earning in the order of 25% to 30% in the mid-1980s
over current levels. It is expected that Bank Group involvement in this
Credit, which also includes a component to help increase oil production, will
expedite the preparation of a gas export project to Brazil. Moreover, the
Bank Group's involvement is expected to provide an incentive to foreign
companies to participate in investments for the confirmation of gas reserves
in Bolivia.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
35.       In October 1978, at the request of the Government, the Bank Group
sent a reconnaissance mission to Bolivia to review the oil and gas sector
investment and work programs to determine in what areas and projects it could
be of assistance. The gas fields in the Boomerang Hills area north of the
city of Santa Cruz de la Sierra were known to have considerable potential for
development and export; a letter of intent had been signed by the Minister of
Mining and Energy of Brazil and the Minister of Energy and Hydrocarbons of
1/   Credits 61-BO, 148-BO and 433-BO and Loan 1238-BO.



- 12 -
Bolivia covering sales of 400 MMCFD, provided that adequate reserves could
be proven and that pricing, on the basis of liquid fuels that the gas would
replace, could be agreed upon. The mission endorsed the development of these
reserves, and gave high priority to increasing oil production in the Monteagudo
field, the only one supplying heavy crude, by means of water flooding. This
field, discovered in 1966 has declined from a peak production of close to
10,000 BPD in 1974 to 3,800 BPD at the end of 1978. As a first step in
developing a project of gas exports to Brazil, the Bank advanced to YPFB
US$0.5 million under the Project Preparation Facility to finance engineering
and market studies related to this project. 1/  The next steps in developing
the gas export project are to carry out a certain amount of seismic work
necessary to locate the appraisal wells on the most promising parts of the
structures and to proceed with the drilling of these wells. A recent mission
to Brazil examined the availability of a market and PETROBRAS (the Brazilian
state-owned petroleum company) confirmed to the Bank Group in writing,
Brazil's interest in purchasing natural gas from Bolivia on reasonable terms.
36.       The project was appraised in March 1979.  Negotiations took place in
Washington from December 17 to December 20, 1979. The Bolivian delegation was
led by Ing. Roberto Arce, Ambassador of Bolivia to the US. Since this is an
engineering project, a separate staff appraisal report has not been prepared.
Annex III contains supplementary data on the project, Annexes IV and V, tech-
nical background and Annex VI, the description of the beneficiary.
Project Objective and Description
37.       The main objectives of the project are to:  (a) prove sufficient
additional reserves of natural gas (in addition to those required to supply
the domestic market) for YPFB to undertake a project of gas exports to Brazil
and (b) help reverse the decline in production in the Monteagudo oil field,
which is one of the most important in Bolivia, by means of secondary recovery
(water injection). Both project objectives are expected to assist Bolivia to
increase its net foreign exchange earnings. The proposed project (Map IBRD
14429) comprises the following:
1/   The prefeasibility study on a gas pipeline to Brazil has been completed,
and seismic interpretation/reprocessing contracts, as well as the domestic
gas market study, are underway.



- 13 -
(a) Appraisal drilling: The delineation of the reserves of
five gas fields by drilling 14 wells in already discovered
structures to an approximate average depth of 3,000 meters:
Boomerang Hill Area (by contract)                 No. of Wells
Santa Rosa                                             4
Palometas                                              2
Yapacani                                               2
Enconada                                               3
Spare                                                  1
Chaco Area (by YPFB rig)
Vuelta Grande                                          2
Total                                            14
The principal objective of the appraisal drilling is to fully
delineate the extent of the fields in order to prove, in
conjunction with Tesoro's La Vertiente and Occidental's Porvenir
and Tita fields, sufficient quantities of gas to support a gas
export project to Brazil while maintaining ongoing sales to
Argentina and supporting a potential domestic market. 1/ To
accomplish this, 1.4 TCF of gas need to be proved in addition to
the already proved reserves of 3.0 TCF. As shown in the table
below, it is expected that at least 2.2 TCF net will be proved,
which, compared with the 1.4 needed, would provide a safety
margin of nearly 60% over minimum requirements.
Total at
Present Addition Completion
TCF      TCF         TCF
Producing Fields (YPFB)                  1.7      (0.1)        1.6
New Fields (YPFB)                        0.7       1.3         2.0
New Fields (Private)                     0.6       1.0         1.6
Totals                              3.0       2.2        5.2
(Oil Equivalent Millions of Barrels)   558         409        967
1/   The three markets would require reserves of 4.4 TCF which would comprise
1.0 TCF (domestic), 1.1 TCF (Argentina) and 2.3 TCF (Brazil).



- 14 -
(b) Seismic Surveys: A 1,600-line kilometer seismic survey is
planned in a 110 x 80 km quadrangle north and northwest of
Santa Cruz that encompasses the four Boomerang Hills fields.
The N-S lines over the fields area are two km apart and the
E-W tielines between seven and ten km apart. Scattered lines
over the entire quadrangle are meant to fill in the gaps of
previous surveys in order to have regional control and also
to tie the northern fields with the Santa Cruz fields. Also
covered in this project component is the processing and inter-
pretation of 2,300-line kilometers of the data gathered in the
above 1,600-line kilometer survey plus that gathered in a
previous survey of 700-line kilometers in the Chaco area.
The denser control in the Boomerang Hills area would lead to
improved drilling locations for the appraisal drilling program
that follows and, particularly, it would firm up the delineation
of the fields' reserves under the project.
(c) Monteagudo Secondary Recovery Project, Initial Phase 1/:
The aim of the initial phase of the secondary recovery project
is to increase production and to help find the optimum system
of water injection for the subsequent phase or phases of water
flooding in the rest of the field. The initial phase would cover
about half of the Monteagudo Oil Field, and would be carried out
in the main oil bearing sands. About five to seven of the exist-
ing wells would be converted into injection wells, some eight
producing wells would be worked over and about 15 shallow water
supply wells would be drilled on the banks of the Banados river.
In addition, water supply lines, a water treatment plant, pumping
and injection equipment, instrumentation and controls, would be
purchased and installed for the initial phase; these installations
could be used also for the next phases. According to a recent
study, the additional oil expected to be recovered by water
flooding the Ingre and Piraimiri sands in the Monteagudo Oil
Field is 1.4 million m3 (8.9 million barrels) over 15 years;
the cost per barrel in 1979 dollars is expected to be about
US$2.50, which compares with the international price of crude of
over US$26/barrel. As a condition of Credit disbursement for
this component, YPFB would determine, to the satisfaction of IDA,
the specific location of the initial phase and the technical
details for the phase (Schedule 1, 4(b) to the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
1/   Secondary Recovery refers to the extraction of oil by artificial means,
primarily water injection (waterflooding) into a producing formation,
whereby the injected water displaces the oil to the surface via the well
pipe. In primary recovery, the oil moves to the surface as a result
of natural forces in the reservoir formation.



- 15 -
(d) Engineering and Market Studies: A Project Preparation Facility
Advance (para. 35) covers the cost of; (i) the reprocessing and
reinterpretation of 250 line-km of previously obtained seismic data
in an area north of the city of Santa Cruz de la Sierra, (ii) a
prefeasibility study for the Bolivia-Brazil gas pipeline, and
(iii) a study of the domestic gas market which will enable YPFB to
determine the amounts of gas available for export.
Project Costs and Financing
38.       The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at US$41.8 mil-
lion equivalent; its foreign cost component is approximately US$27.5 million
(65% of project costs) and local cost component is estimated at US$14.3 million
equivalent. Contingencies included in the total cost estimate amount to
US$8.2 million, or 20% of the basic project cost. The price contingencies
used were 9% and 8% for expenditures made respectively in 1980 and 1981.
Moreover it was assumed that two of the fourteen wells would be dry holes and
this in effect increases the overall contingency of the project. The foreign
cost component would be financed by the proposed IDA credit of US$16.0 million
equivalent and by part of the US$16 million equivalent parallel IDB loan
(US$11.5 million). The local cost component would be covered by YPFB
(US$9.8 million) and by IDB (US$4.5 million).
39.       The financing plan would be as follows:
US$ million equivalent
Local            Foreign
Cost              Cost            Total
YPFB   IDB        IDA   IDB
Appraisal drilling                    6.5   4.5       10.1  11.5         32.6
Seismic surveys                       2.1    -         3.3    -           5.4
Secondary recovery                    1.2    -         2.1    -           3.3
Project preparation facility           -     -         0.5    -           0.5
Total                            9.8   4.5       16.0  11.5         41.8
The IDA credit of US$16 million would be relent to YPFB for ten years including
a grace period of three years and 8.25% per annum interest rate. The execution
of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Borrower and YPFB incorporating
these terms is a condition of credit effectiveness (Section 5.01(a) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement). The estimated schedule of disbursements
from the proposed Credit is shown in the credit and project summary. The
Credit would be refinanced if, based on the results of this project, a Bank
loan is made for the Bolivia-Brazil gas pipeline project or for a subsequent
phase or phases of Monteagudo oil secondary recovery project (Section 3.01(b)



- 16 -
of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The parallel IDB loan of
US$16 million would be made to the Republic of Bolivia from IDB's Fund for
Special Operations carrying an interest of 1% per annum for 40 years including
a grace period of 10 years and would be relent to YPFB under the same term and
interest rate. A condition of effectiveness of the proposed Credit is that
all conditions prior to the initial disbursement of the IDB loan have been
met (Section 5.01(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The YPFB
contribution of US$9.8 million would be from its own internal resources and
assurances have been obtained from the Borrower and YPFB that these funds will
be made available.
Advance Contracting, Retroactive Financing and Procurement
40.       Because part of the results of the seismic surveys is needed for
the appraisal drilling which should start in early 1980 immediately after
the rainy season, advance contracting of about US$5.8 million ($3.3 million
to be financed under the Credit) for these surveys and for well services,
is being employed in order to start them as soon as possible. Retroactive
financing of US$0.7 million is being proposed for expenditures after July 1,
1979 as follows: US$0.3 million for seismic surveys to cover work that will
be done prior to Credit approval and US$0.4 million for well services for the
two Vuelta Grande wells to be drilled by YPFB. Procurement for the seismic
surveys was done under limited international tendering involving nine companies
from three countries. The well services were performed by specialized companies
already under contract with YPFB through the extension of existing contracts.
The balance of the goods and services covered by the IDA Credit would be
procured under international competitive bidding under the Association's
Guidelines except for small contracts (less than US$100,000 for goods and
US$200,000 for services) which would be procured under YPFB's normal procedures
(which are satisfactory to the Association) and would not aggregate over
US$1 million (Section 2.03 of the draft Project Agreement). The IDB loan
would finance the procurement of drilling contracts, well logging services
and local materials, also under international competitive bidding.
Disbursements
41.       Disbursements of the IDA Credit would be for 100% of foreign expen-
ditures for the seismic surveys, well services (other than well logging) for
the appraisal drilling, imported goods for the appraisal drilling and the
secondary oil recovery components, and consultant services, and 90% of local
expenditures for locally procured imported goods needed for appraisal drilling,
well services and the secondary oil recovery components. Disbursements of the
IDB loan would be for 100% of expenditures for drilling and well logging
services. In addition about US$700,000 would be disbursed by IDB for purchase
of local materials related to drilling services.
The Beneficiary
42.       YPFB is a technically sound enterprise which is staffed by well-
qualified professionals with good experience in the oil industry. YPFB has
experienced financial difficulties as a result of the low domestic refined
oil product prices and the burdensome tax structure, both of which have been



- 17 -
outside of its control. As stated, the recent measures taken by the Govern-
ment have provided YPFB with much needed relief. The 40% increase in volume
coupled with a 16% increase (additional price increases have been negotiated)
in the price of gas sales to Argentina in 1979/80 along with the recently
approved 118% increase in domestic petroleum product prices, are expected to
give YPFB ifficient internal cash generation to service its debt and to meet
part of its capital investment requirements, including those needed for the
proposed engineering project. (For more details on YPFB's finances, see Annex
VI, paras. 9 and 10.) YPFB has agreed to give priority to the financing of
the proposed project when allocating the funds available from gas sales to
Argentina (Section 2.01(b) of the draft Project Agreement), and the Government
has agreed that adequate funds would be made available for the proposed
project (Section 3.01(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Moreover,
to ascertain that additional investments by YPFB are rational and related to
its capacity to service debt, each year, IDA would review jointly with YPFB
its investment program as well as the availability of financing for it (Section
4.03 of the draft Project Agreement).
Project Implementation
43.       The project would be carried out by YPFB with the assistance of local
and foreign consultants and contractors. The area for the seismic survey as
well as the locations for the 14 gas appraisal wells and the secondary recovery
wells in Monteagudo has been chosen by YPFB's exploration department and has
been reviewed by DeGolyer and MacNaughton, leading petroleum consultants, and
by IDA. It is expected that this firm, or another suitable firm, will
provide monitoring services during the appraisal drilling and will also make
the final certification of the gas reserves, and YPFB has agreed to hire
consultants acceptable to IDA to perform these services. The drilling program
for the gas appraisal wells would be prepared by YPFB's drilling department
but only the two wells in Vuelta Grande will be drilled with YPFB's own rigs;
the 12 wells in the Santa Cruz area would be carried out by contractors. The
seismic surveys, for which advanced contracting has been provided, and the
interpretation of the data would be carried out by highly specialized firms.
For Monteagudo specialized reservoir engineering and waterflood engineering
services including monitoring the operation of the facilities for the first
two years would be provided by outside consultants acceptable to IDA (Section
2.02 of draft Project Agreement) and it is planned that on-the-job training
would be given to YPFB staff by the consultants.
44.       On the recommendation of IDB and IDA, a special project unit which
would be responsible for the preparation and implementation of the project has
been created within YPFB (Section 2.01(b) of the draft Project Agreement).
It is headed by an experienced geologist who previously held the position of
Exploration Manager. This unit reports directly to the Deputy General
Manager in charge of technical matters. Given the above measures, YPFB's
experience, and the technical assistance that it would receive, no major
difficulties are envisaged in implementing the project which is scheduled to
be completed at the end of 1981.



- 18 -
Role of Private Companies
45.       Foreign companies also would play a role in helping achieve the
objective of proving sufficient gas reserves for the local market and increased
exports. Occidental Petroleum currently holds two service contracts covering
1.1 million hectares which contain the Tita and Porvenir fields. The Tita
field produces condensate and also natural gas which is sold to YPFB at the
rate of 50 MMCFD, and exported to Argentina. The Porvenir gas field has not
yet been declared commercial, and additional appraisal drilling is currently
underway to fully evaluate its potential for both oil and gas. Tesoro is
currently engaged in the exploration and development of its two contract
areas covering 256,000 hectares located in southern Bolivia in the Chaco Basin.
Tesoro found the La Vertiente gas-condensate field and a gas sales contract was
signed recently for sale of 30 MMCFD of gas to YPFB for export to Argentina.
The Government and YPFB officials have expressed the desire to have the private
oil companies participate in proving the necessary gas reserves and sharing the
Brazil export market. This is necessary since without the three privately
operated gas fields (La Vertiente, Tita and Porvenir), the reserves expected to
be proven by the project would be somewhat less than the estimated requirements
of 4.4 TCF to cover the local market and exports to both Argentina and Brazil.
In this regard, YPFB has written to the private companies clearly indicating
its intention to have these companies participate in the gas sales to Brazil.
This, combined with recent arrangements between YPFB and the private companies
for purchase by YPFB of gas and oil from their operations, indicates that the
environment for continued investment by the private companies to prove
additional reserves of gas is favorable.
Project Benefit and Risks
46.       The economic benefit of the main component of the project, the gas
appraisal drilling, can only be quantified once the final use of the gas and
the relevant investment, production and operating costs are known. Brazil
has stated its intention to buy Bolivian gas if adequate reserves are proven
and the price is reasonable. There are excellent prospects that the
required reserves will be confirmed and gas exports are the most important
source of additional foreign exchange for Bolivia in the medium term. The
Bank Group's presence in the proposed project would help prepare the
ensuing Bolivia-Brazil gas pipeline project and would serve to accelerate
negotiations between Brazil and Bolivia as well as to help attract funds
from commercial banks and regional lending agencies for this US$1.7 billion
project. Based on very preliminary estimates of investments, operating
costs and the price range of various fuels that could be replaced by the
gas, the gas pipeline project is expected to yield an economic rate of
return of 20%-40%. The seismic survey is necessary for the optimum location
of the 12 well sites in the Boomerang Hills area and could reveal additional
structures suitable for further exploration. The relatively heavy oil from
Monteagudo is Bolivia's only source of diesel fuel and the addition of
another 3.5 million barrels of recoverable reserves (and another 5.4 million
barrels once the total project is implemented) would help slow the decline
in production and decrease the need for imports; the economic rate of
return of this component of the project (including the second phase) is
estimated at 80%. It is expected also that Bolivia will reap a beneficial



- 19 
fall-out from the Bank Group's involvement in the petroleum sector which
should result in greater interest in oil and gas exploration in Bolivia on the
part of private investors; recently one additional major oil company has shown
interest in starting operations in Bolivia.
47.       Reservoir behavior can never be fully predicted, and while this
project is considered to offer a high probability of success, it is not
risk-free. Even though the geological structure and well locations have
been selected with great care on the basis of a substantial body of geological
data and are believed to offer 60% 1/ more than the gas potential indicated,
there is no way of being sure of what quantity of gas is actually available
until the project is carried out. If a substantially lesser quantity than
anticipated is proven, it may be difficult to justify a sale to the Brazilian
market. 2/ On the other hand, unless the attempt is made to demonstrate
the existence of an adequate quantity of reserves, such a sale cannot take
place. In the case of Monteagudo, it is possible that the initial phase
would not yield satisfactory results; but this is unlikely, given the
excellent and uniform qualities of the reservoir. The proposed project
would have no adverse effect on the environment.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
48.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Bolivia and the Association and the draft Project Agreement between the
Association and Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales Bolivianos (YPFB) and the
Report and Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section
l(d) of the Association's Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of the project are listed
in Section III of Annex III.  Additional conditions of effectiveness would be
that the Borrower and YPFB have executed a subsidiary loan agreement satisfac-
tory to IDA (para. 39) and that all conditions prior to the first disbursement
of the IDB loan have been met (para. 39).
49.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit will comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Association.
1/   Not counting other, recently found, structures such as El Espino.
2/   This is unlikely to happen because the new YPFB fields alone are estimated
to contain almost sufficient gas for the Brazil export project. Moreover,
it is unlikely that the domestic market will require 1.0 TCF over 20 years'
time.



- 20 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
50.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
February 6, 1980



ANNEX I
- 21 -                                     Page 1 of 5
BOLIVIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MEFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED ALURA ES
LAND AlEA (THOUSAND SQ. L.)                 BOLIVA                       - MlOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
TOTAL          1098.6                                                SAME        SAME    NEXT HIGHER
MRCULTURAL    304.4                                MOST RECENT    GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME       UNConE
1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b     REGION /c  GROUP /4   GROUP /
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)               160.0       260.0    510.0          1124.4     467.5      1097.7
ENERGY  5SUPTION Pn CAPITA
(rILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)   147.0       229.0    318.0           943.1     262.1       730.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
PoPuTIoN.   -TEAR (ILLIoNs)        3.3         4.3      5.2/f
01181 POPULATION (PErCENT O0 TOTAL) 24.0      28.1     30.3            59.3      24.6        49.0
POPULATION POJECT7IONS
PVPULATION IN TEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                    9.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                     19.0
TEAR STATIONARY POPULATIONI IS RUAC                2100
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                      3.0         4.0      5.0            23.5      45.3        44.6
PER SQ. uM. ARICUlLTURAL LAND    11.0       14.0     17.0            80.5     149.0       140.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTORE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                       43.0        43.1     43.0            40.9      45.2        41.3
15-64 YES.                       54.0       54.0      54.0           54.4       51.9        55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                 3.0         2.9      3.0             3.9       2.8         3.5
POPULATION GRoIdY RATE (nEEczNr)
TOTAL                            2.1         2.6      2.6             2.4       2.7         2.4
URBAN                            3.6         4.1      4.2             3.7       4.3         4.5
CRUDE BIRTH UAE (PER THOUSAND)    48.0        47.0     44.0            32.8      39.4        31.1
CRUDE DEATE RATE (PER THOUSAND)    23.0       19.0     15.0             8.5      11.7         9.2
CROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             ..         2.8      3.2            2.4        2.7         2.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTOLS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)     ..          ..      7.6
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..         ..       ..            17.7      13.2        34.7
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)        81.7       101.0    108.0            99.4      99.6       104.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                 69.0        76.0     77.0           107.0      94.7       105.0
PROTEINS (GRAMD PER DAY)        43.0        46.0     48.5           60.4       54.3        64.4
OP WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE     13.3/g      14.0     14.4            28.3      17.4        23.5
CHILD (ACES 1-4) MOiTALITY RATE    36.0       27.0     22.0             6.7      11.4         8.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YES)   43.0         48.0     52.0           63.6       54.7       60.2
INFANT YORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)  -                        *                 158.0           76.1       68.1        46.7
ACCESS Mo SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..        33.0     34.0           63.4       34.4       60.8
URBAN                             ..       92.0      81.0           79.5       57.9        75.7
RURAL                             ..        2.0       6.0           38.6       21.2       40.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
MOTAL                             ..        12.0       ..           58.8       40.8       46.0
URBAN                             ..        25.0       ..           77.8       71.3        46.0
RURAL                             ..        4.0       9.0           24.5       27.7        22.5
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        3900.0     2300.0   2120.0           1841.9    6799.4     2262.4
POPULATION PER NRSINC PERSON        ..      2730.0   3520.0          933.7    1522.1       1195.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                          580.0       510.0       ..           563.4     726.5       453.4
URBAN                             ..       200.0       ..           279.4     272.7       253.1
RURAL                             *-      2400.0       ..          1140.9    1404.4     2732.4
ADMISSIONS PER hOSPITAL BED         ..          ..       ..           25.7       27.5       22.1
8OUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             ..          ..       .             3.0        5.4        5.3
URBAN                             ..          ..       ..            4.8        5.1        5.2
RURAL                             .           ..       ..            5.3        5.5         5.4
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                             ..          ..       ..             1.3        ..         1.9
URBAN                             ..          ..       ..             1.3        ..         1.6
RURAL                             ..          ..       ..             1.5        ..         2.5
xCCESS O ELICTRTCT7Y (PERCENT
OF DWELL.NOS)
TOTAL                           22.0/h       ..        ..           54.3       28.1       50.0
JRBAN                           76.0/h        ..       ..           80.1       45.1       71.7
RURAL                            8.oD7E      ..        ..           14.2        9.9       17.3



ANNEX I
-22-                                          Page 2 of 5
BOLIVIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA ShIET
BOLIVIA                   REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUStED A!ERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAKE        SAME     NEXT iiIGNER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRA?dIC   INCOKE        INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /a ESTIMATE /b      REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED EROLLMENT RATIOS
pRIMARtY     TOTAL                64.0         68.0      SO.O           107.3        82.7       102.5
MALL                 78.0         80.0      88.0           109.1       87.3        108.6
PDtALE               50.0        56.0       72.0           107.4       75.8         97.1
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 12.0        21.0      32.0            40.5       21.4         33.5
MALE                 13.0        24.0       36.0            40.4       33.0         38.4
t00LE                9.0         18.0      27.0            39.0       15.5         30.7
VOCATIOKAL ENIOL. (Z Of SECONDA?t)  14.0            *        *-             18.5        9.8        11.5.
NPIL-TEACR  RATIO
PRIMARY                           27.0         27.0      23.0            37.1        34.1        35.8
SECONDARY                         13.0         17.0        ..            17.9       23.4         22.9
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        38.8        40.0      63.0            77.4        54.0        64.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER TlOUSAIO
POPULATION                         3.0          4.0       1.6            29.1        9.3         13.5
RADIO RECEIVERS PSI THOUSAND
PoPULATION                        73.0         82.0      74.0           172.1       76.9        122.7
TV RECElIVERS PER TOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..           ..        ..            67.9       13.5         38.3
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENURAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 27.0         42.0      35.0            76.1        18.3        40.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPTA   ..            ..        ..             4.2         2.5         3.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (TROUSANDS)     2000.0/i   2300.0    2500.0
FE!ALE (PERCENT)                  18.97T       19.5      20.4            21.5       29.2         25.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             61.0         65.0      51.0            30.2       62.7         43.5
INDUSTRY (PtECENT)                18.1        21.1       23.0            23.8       11.9         21.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               34.1         33.2      33.0            30.9       37.1         33.5
MALE                                 56.0        53.7      52.7            47.3       48.8         48.0
FEMALE                              12.7         12.9      13.4            13.3       20.4         16.8
ECONQIIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              0.9/i        0.9       1.0              1.5        1.4         1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PeRCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
hIGHEST S PERCENT OF 8OUSEI8OLDS     ..        36.0/       *.            23.7        15.2        20.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF ROUSEROLDS    ..         59 .        *             58.7       48.2         52.1
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         4.071      ..             2.9        6.3          3.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..        13.OLJ      ..             9.9       16.3         12.6
POVERTY TARCET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY lNCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..         ..           265.6      241.3        270.0
RURAL                               *-                  134.0           185.1      136.6        183.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVEarY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               *-           *      105.0           396.3      179.7        282.5
RURAL                               ..           ..      75.0           308.1      103.7        248.9
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..         ..            35.2       24.8         20.5
RURAL                               ..          ..       85.0            46.6       37.5         35.3
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-veighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the mosc populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unle.s other 1se noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for 'fost Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c  Latin America & Caribbean;   /d   Lower Middle Income (S281-550 per capita. L976);  /e  Intermediace
Middle Income (S551-1135 per capita. 1976);  /f  Provisional 1976 population census gives estimate
of 4.647 million;   LI Av. 1961-65;  /h  1961T   /i  1965;   /J  Population.
Most Recent Estimte of GNP per capita is for 1978.
August, 1979



- 23 -                                                     AMNEX I
WMTIMB Or WUL =IC"=Page  3 of 5
jjj!!U'l.=  thdatac. -  d-  f.m, amee. gma-.J   Jagged Oh. -nt msthaitativa cad rollbla, it AhmId .1  .0 heonted itat they ey cot be inter.-
1~lyog.rh. b.ae-  of th. la"k of allabsddeed dfifadltm. cad  Wemeqa  a.d by different cowtri.eCi 1. wlletiag th. data. Th. dtat arc, ooneth.leaa,
usflto de.wribs orders of ampltmd., ladicate trends, cad obactwiee cartWad major differences between countries..
fhej~           a          s,o~pppyfg     for each indicator  -c  pepcltion-IgIsted geometric means  m=lodieg the .atr    ccloe. of the  Waicato- cd the cost p7000lted
oii  1ik 60~   t   .0   f  aa,pp  ersc   f  l licaa.  e  Cpta   elac. Oil    orptee4 m.d of Indicators of Aec... to Weter cad Koret.
Disosal, aeteg, Incomes Distribeti-m.cd poverty ftc otbw owstrey Wup are populatice-weigted geomtric Samo eithout celuseic of the cotreac el... cad
the most pepelatd caty    ieth                    ofo       in       the                          a,lhi o  dt  od I. cot Oflie.                oio.O.  t be woeri.ed
LA P (tho`234ad  q.k..)                                                            Ac., ohr.aP12T1 6ece.f mlt!oa  -d,total.  rahc    cd rlor
Total eorfaee  -cc  -wrl0g load .rc. and to10.d watr.. .wo   ep.(oa,okc.cderl   avdh  coe. dip.cl
RREWl.r..   m- it   _vot ..ti-.t  of W.ariat-cl arva. ued temprarily                    pecrentagec of their reepective pOo.lation.. 1-r    disposal. may i0000d
opecatly for crops, pastor.s, earket and kltebmn gardecs or to                  tha reoleotioc cd diqecal, with ir without tr eat.. ,t, of bina  covetet
lIe. faliow.                                                                           and ectc-eater by ecti.b-hc  ey.t    or the coo of pit pev    and a.,aila
GW pe  -pit  ..tLt.. a  enrst maret pl...       PinstallatiOcc.
-   o  er cpit  c.tmt.eat osret inhatprie.,  pwaai.0cr~.1m-Population divided by   =be, of prcoticiog pkysiolca
yaseconvralag cethod as Vorld leak Atlau  (1976-78 basis);               M R        URW             ached at usivaraity I.-I.
1960. 1970, cad ? a9 data.                                                             Poma- m   gca              com - PcPclation, divided by ,us"ke  of practicing cale
~~T   CWfI   PIP CAPIT-A - Oca. ooapti    of ommyici  =c.                           afm.  at              e    pvetieci car...' md cassitetant         .
tee Md linit,ptia  natar.lgas cad by -, nuclear ao   e-Pccaln~wWpta  c                                                  oa.e'm    .  oa -          P~opolatioc(total, -rhor,
ehrmlec tricity) I.a kilograms of  0.1.  equiovalent per capit.; 19wed    dvddb   herreeti.                                       r o   opita  bedisaell1.h   .10
11976 da1ily,                                                                          11.c cad privats Samral man  s_.Ucialod beobpit'a cod rehahiilt.tio_ cvoters.
.1970, cad 196dt.cital. W.r  cctahli.at. Pcecaaatly sharrfed by at lcast o.. pbycicico.
P070I1*I5.0    VTAL, STATISTICS                                                           Iaet1bieabnts previdie  prieipaiL4  ooatodial care arc cot iclee.Pra-
Thtl 72ullts.   a-yar ZI.Lio.)- A. of July 1; 1960, 1910, md                  hospitals., bc..r, icolsaic blth cad medical cnters 0ot permanctly staf fed
1977 dt..                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~by a "W.ieim  (bct Wy a medical assisatnt, cares, midwife* *t..)  hich offer
Ilr-  Pnaai)0(eca   fttl  - ettio of -ebm to total ppalstictl;                          ic-patice   -     - katl     mad provide a Unitedd  amVg  of mAedia  fwcilitic..
dlrrfrrt  "finito      ofo.M   1are. NW affect ceqp.abeility of data .ada                                           te am ie   of adissions to or diacharge. frm.
vscotrie..; 1960, 1970. cod 1977 da-..                                           "       m     v             =     .  b ,
pbrati z-V-t _l__  - Corret pop.ltioa projetioc  arc baced  n              iU8
I Wtotolpopelatin by ag   ca eOa cand their cartlity cod fertility        Av.eSo   fIeahl  proaprhoco4   - oa.orc    o  ro. 
rate.  footion parsestero for mortality rates eoeiae of thee.                       A !Weseod ooceidt.                                           11apw   tdeiha.  AoOar  iig qoartero  o
leve. ""cahe  life -opeotamcy at birth increasiag ciOb estcy'o                      their main smel...  A boarder or 1r4-, way or eW not to ijocl.dod I0 the
Per caPita  1cacle1, md femle life cepeot-y ataililims at                           ho,cechld for statistical Pparpac.
7    yar5    The p-retera far fertility rate also have thre  leve.                lee;ringA~      of crsoca p. ro   - toal.osb.  cod roral - A-erge .-toe
esamiega decline in fertility ..oerdlim  to income Lav.1 cd peat                    ofpra.pr coaI   11atc  adrca   voiod vovetio..l Iwelo
fcaiy clemming perfoomme.. Rh  olsOetry is thn e.signed  -e of theec                r-apectively,  Walling. eclo o 0-pereanant atrrotoe  cad ur-cpied 000t0.
nle e0madatiomo of mortality  and f-rtility treads for proJeetioeAcd   oEetiiy(-ee   fdwIe   t.tel.. orbc. elir_a    -  C_o
6-orpcea.                                                                           ectoe   elieact   leetiyS  iigquartr. oo Perc-teor rf
j~~qla       i~-  Ta  tationa.   popalatioc there is co growth                  total, urbc, cad roral dwellinge  -epeotloely.
olaeia brt  fteieq.l to the death rate, cad dec the age
aitcto,a raemid  e.-tet. Thia te achieved ocly after fertility ratec            IDLPATIOI
daelLs. to the replacesent leve  of mit eat reprodetio  rate, oboe.               3U-df-la    t
each generation of wmnreplace. itself excctly.  the atattoaar  popA-           ~    ~     9 ~ -od               l   a     ae- Gr.. total, cle coo fecale 0-011-
ictioe aiee was atimated -c the besia of the projected  h-arcot.ri.tio.               eto   l .         a  hepior__ela   eretgee of -epooti- pr--ay
oftepojcl.tioc 10 the year 2-, cand itO  rote of decli.. of fe-tility             chool-ag. pjpolltion.; -r-eIly iaclode. chlldreo agrd 6-l1 y-eb.r tt
rate to reylcemet level                                                               adJUAted for differ-ct 1ecgthM of pricory edootiot; for --tcoi- with
Tear wtati my  ocipatios. ia reached - The year ob   stationary popolatioc anr,                       dctt   aolcte   eoe    iprrfotcoeppl
cite h" baca reached,                                                                 are bel   or above the official .chool ago.
P.   cato~ itd                                                                          IcOmda..y school - tttal  ca    a    ml         mp,,t.d ac oh  -c  -ccocoy
jj7 d-yee   popoltioo per  kqar   il-ter (lOi hectares) of                     detatiOn reqoire_.  t leat &       foicye re ofppr-vd por-oy  -t-toti..;
P **Atai  M                                                    ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~providea..1ceca  ovotical, or tecohr tralotog i-t-trootI _ or- popilo
Per : Iso. .    Iatutr.  ed- Capated -s cor  for agioultoral 1aad                        -sally of 12 to 17 pearo of age; corepondeov or-          o  r g--aroly
Ptoalo    tratowe (ceroect) -Childreo (i-l4 year.), mertbeg-age                 vocatiooal enrollmaent tOerc-ot of aeodr-Vovatio-el it. titotionoon-iode
L15hi.ye r.     rw,,airel (b5 year  cad over) as perocentages of add-yca                 tehta,talara, or other programa eiot oP-rte i.depeedcntly or 
p.pallation; 196,197, m.d 1977 data.                                                    departmenti  of aeodc.       ctitoa
Poaains Growth cat. (ar-ext) - total - Aaraual ro-th rate. of total 51d-            Pupil-teacher ratio - prizer,  co-d ..ooodery - Total wt.detts eto11ri it
yerrplaic   or I9,0-6, l9b0-70,  Wa 1970-77.                                   Poteary ead sconodary level. divided by  -oaer  of teacher. 10 the vre
poaato fOoth~ hate (peecwet) - urem, - Aca.a. 1   oeth rate. of orbe                 ptodla  level..
Po.1atindoo  for 1950-AC  196,0-7u, sod 1970-75.                                      Adal'tlitetrac   raItel (peoott - Literate 0410,lt  c.lv to r-ed nOd ontO)c
Crude-BLrth              -  aaoL flo  birtha per thotoacd of aId-                 aproteofoaldl popoicti-o agd 15 Y-ar  cd o.er
yew Popdati    -6,l9,cd 1977 data.
Cr"od  bath  _aeAprthuco) - Aa1 deatho Per thorr-dr of aid-year                     r2esmU.ic'T
poeaia   9b0, 197, m.d 1977 data                                             "ecce   ae(c  htea   orlto)-Paegrvv   oPrs   ntvr
(hos  Itorodoctio  Rat  - dorag  noevr odtaghteroc. -mino .ill tea           ceti      ::e thco eIght per. on    ro1or   hah.-.v..boea co   tlitary
i. her  erel repewdotive period ifoteh. vcoe pre...et age-veils
.peelfic fetolittr rate.; rr..oally five-year overage, -odieg it 1960,              bel  Roier   pr thoroacd i.pulaion  -  l.tio feco tfr   mdi,
1970, cod 191                                                                          raOset  gorlpht   o  thooscod of ptopo.icti;%e-lodrc' olivetod
Peely Pl-iAco     -,Avocoptore  daca A thouacoda)i- iAata  oaher of                     r-ciere i  -on o tri-e cd on year. oho  rvgiotrtbt- of   ut,~ sot. ens iv
ceeptora of  Irthco_ro  devire            ador Poyi    of Octio..al family           effec t; dat. for reoeot year. coy cot be cocp ... ll  Iioc-  -to  --otri-
plicnlg Prom"..                                                                        bt1i.hed licensing.
Faailyo Elearlag - rce.  cect of carriedZ.:ec) - P-ro..iage of caioid                 TV Receiver. (po  thW            Us opltivo) - TV rec -  ferrr trotocot t, ..-1ron
eof oIld-brariog age (15-o4 yea.-     h   c  birth-ooetro1 de-i-                pblito per ihccdppltion; .clodee -11l..oene  TV reccio-ronv-tteir
to ci carried women to  am  age grocop.                                               acd 10 ye-ar when reitaicof TV cot. eac io effect.
0000 AID RIT!iIICCN                                               lc~~~~~~~~~- PW.je  Ciela.tioc  pr th.weaed wWulti.o) - ihovo tIc   -   -vra r-orrotioo
of A   CMTOed frO-icprCot   l                     -1oo   e   aiao   daily general i,tercat ocopasor-, daftoed cor  ooO   olcto
pFod-  ~ ~ ~  l      Lode.  f pr c.pit. ~~devoted peiinil.y to recording general eeoc.  It -0ociderd to tr  'doilWy
ceiccal prditoo l   foo  rdlii..  Produtioo coclde. aced sad                          if it appear. at least foor tiace 0 oreb.
feed cad iC on -al-da, yea  bci..  C-ditie. cove  Pricary Goode                     Ct-  Aaaa. Atteodacow ior Capit. 00  lea  - Icord 01. thr  -b-1c  If t1,-eo
(e g. earcoclteat.d of aegar) wdhich are edible cod ...oti.t  otri..t.             .old dugthe yer   clding ad.ai-tcc  to orroc-ic ciorca  od woIjl
(eg.Of'fe  co ac are eacludod).  Aggregate prodaction of each coctry               -iat..
ic bae..d on ational ever.   prdoor price weight..
Per  eavita  oel  of cloetec (percent of  Wreamcente( - Coagpted fro. 0,F~
Mae    qiae t of Oct food scppliec avilbl       .."'otry perept 0-Iio    oo  Jthou da.d)                                           p O0~c1l  oie-poc ina  loodio cre
per day. Available .appliea cospri.. donw.tio pr-duOtioc, ieprta lea.                ore   a   aalyed hot e-l.diog hoot-  cc,t.d-ntc,  ro- lfiitio..
copoct., cWad  haagee 10  t-k0.  cot eappliec colad. aaimal feed, aed..,            1n vai-o  corotries ar-ot  _opV-hl-.
qoatitia aced ic food proeociog, and lo,.... ie dietribatio.. Require-            Pcyr at    felelabor force ow P-rc-tag  of t.to1lb1.1r frc.-
mIt. wer: etimated by PAl laced on physiologica1 weed. for noreal                    iIab7Treo(             - 10he  ore ie faralg, fore-try, bootleg   d
actiltity cad health  -ooider1rg ... iocr-atl t.apcr.tove  hody  eighta              TCijil6g   of total later f-rr
aI cId ecdttoin    f popoLati-, cad .1l.iwog it poe-et for                         ta.y.(.,            Labor for-o in sitig,oesoticoooftrvoo
e:ete at  -ho,aeod lee. 1                                                             ttri oty        rcd gee n  percentage of total labor force.
Per caitescoocy ofwotwi  (pe. cooday)- Prteiw   cteo  of Per           Patc   ti- Ratervpe-t) - total  ca             -ad   eae- 1nrtioipoti- or
ragta  at  toply  f food  re dZ. ot _oPp   of food'' Icdeicd -o                   MMiet  rate, are  oapoted n- total :, ele  nod fel  Ilobr force.. p00-
"k.Z  ..  Wpircaentc for all coutri.a eatabtlibhd by IOaprovide for                 c-tagS.. Of total, cab  cod fem1e popolctio  of all ageo repecti-ely;
aicise alio.ae of 60 prme of total proteic per dap cad 20 p.am  of                  1960, 1970, cad 19,75 d.tn.  The.. ar  iWo. povti-optiOo rates  :releti::
mi-1 cad pol.e proteta, of ebioh 10 p-  cboad he animal proteic.                    ag-w    iot-.re of the popolati.Ot  cod long tier tred. A f_w oticatr
Thec oteeda-ds are 1beer thco tho.e of 70 p.m  of total. pewtet  sadar  f,cal ctiomal  -o c..
23 pm. of allprotein a" coavrage for the merld, propoecd by ?AD                                        Rati.9pl - Ratio of popoletion order 15 cod t5 cod --c to
10 the Third Werld Peod Sorvey.                                                     td161iein asc group of 15-6t yoar..
Pe   0-it   rt.el ameily from  sealm  m.d eclse - Protein eupply of food
derived f.    alaaca   lc.i   re    e  doy.
Child (caea 1-0) mortalitm Ea (per towm    - Aocaaj deaths per th souscd              ..wtmoor oao                .( t   cosah cad hind) - Reocive   yrih
10 age CPe.p hya. to         "lde  in thia age grop; for moct dovel-                  5 percent, riehect  0peon,wrct 20 pervOot, ad p                    4re   0 peroect
opiogcetiadt -~ !  doree  foclife tatl-o                                              of bnaxhbld..
-                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~POVEITY TAW=  GF20
'Ui   pcwtacyat Poth  yeas) -Aveage amber of year. of life                   htlmw  Afitailtte  Prerty Incooe Level (USA P-0 .,]?it.)_ --_O       .._ad_r-rl
cemilag  t bith;  966,1970  cod197.Udte                                    Ab.olote pveerty ioo.   lvli  ht1.0.lvlhb  ohiv111  o eioiac
icfca  Verolit  tate(carthooead)-..aIa doathe of iWfants Oader .c..tiioal   dqa.ede   lo    ceto  totfoo   r                                 _oaotoitco
yea  of age Per thoocead live birtba.                                                 affwrdale.
Arcces to Safe Oter (Pereet of  Roslto   -og.                 .edrrl-                 Itimated Relative P-vety 1-oma  Level (US$ pro -coit.) - -01. cod ruraln 
DA.dr of people (total  rrbe, caco al ith                     cve. to-1c  rlativ- pove rty (0c-  level ie oo-ttird of averag  p-r v-pit.
aaf  water  .oPpy(inclodee treated serrate cater, or owtreated h.t                    peecaca  ictoa  of the -votry. Urbco le-el 10 deri-cd Iro  thc r-rel le_c
riacoctemloated cater mob no that from protected borehole., spriag.,                  with adjactment for higher v-t of living it. -brI   -ro.
m.d c.ita.y call.) os percentage. of their -eecptive poPolatim. .                   Bnltlated Otoulatio  Salvo' Ab-olot- P-vty' 100.  icr (-1 vrv-0tt  - otc  cod
-a rb   are  . robhil  fooStaia   or teafe.t Idected act ear. thm                    -oal -  oco   fpplt7c(rnrcr  oo   oto toy                      _looo   poor'.
200 cater fro n hoc.eq, he wa--c-idared a. Windg ithde reasoabhle
access of that ho-.e  In rura  -area  reasocabl. caeas -amA 1ly
that the ho.u. .if.  or    brrc of the boojobld Ac cot have to spend                                                        E---nco  cOd 000001 0D0 lt lv
di.pop-rti.nate pot .f the day io f.tehica the fiiyc. eater needs                                                     Elov.r.eic A-rlyici  cod P-J~vvtlo-  lepart-et
Aogoct 1979



.24.                                                          Pap. 4 of 0 Pap$.
BM2.Y24A  ZCONI5CC SIVILOHS1T DAT.4
1974           Mit-l   198             179          1       1111                1901                            1980-95               AAETi
NATOO94I  ACCOUNTS                                                        US$ Milli..  t0 1977 ftlo.. .and tooha..  Rote
G-o.:  . omti. P,od.ot                                   2940          3321         3539        3613          3721          4527               6.3              4.0             4.0        96.8         150.8
G.10. f-o  T.oos  of T-ad.                                 96           .76          -16         .21            --                                                                          32-.
Co... 0O-.tit b-oam00                                                  34           3521        3592          3721          4527                7.3             4.1             4'.0      10. 0         109.0
loPart. (iool. 979)                                       599           781          886         978           904          1040                7.6             a.,             2.9        19.4          27.2
toporta  (ti-l. NF9)                                      670           761          646         693           734          1085              14.0              1.5             8.1        22.0          1,.0
ftop-Ot   (a. topoot o4apotly)                            766           685          628         662           754          1093              14.9              1.9             3.1        25.2          18.4
C-Imoptloo                                               2263          2677         3122        3206          3176          3632               5.1              1.1             2.7        74.4          69.2
bo.- moaot                                                600           664          657         702           715           830               8.7              1.3             3.5        19.8          19.5
bo.a.tto  Savina.                          ~~~~         ~~~ ~~777  568  399        386           545          995               16.0            -.104                       25,6          10,7
Nation   Sinoj                                            742           545          380         360           550           840              18.9            -6.5              I, 48                    1. 
IKMC0ANDIS0 TRADE                                                                     Cuatoat U38 Milli-0
ImPort.
Co.-o.T Good.                                          90.4         118.7       173.3        221.0         190.0        280.0            30.3            14.6               9.0         21.3          19.3
Po_l.                                                   4.0           6.          6.           00           12.           2,             38.1             851.                            .             .
Oth-   ot.oamdi.t. Good.                              115.6         189.'7      2784.'3      350.00        3815.0       595,0            18.4           416.2               8.7         2'7.2        3.
Capitl .1  ood.                                       177,2         233.7       345.3        410           419.         6 30.0           27.9            19.5               8.5         41.7         38.3
0.70    d Adot.o'37.3                                               74.9         93.9       123.0          1.            8.               .-                                            99           1.
Tota1 M.-oh-di.. (0.0.i.)                             424.5        623.1        997.1       1143.0        1120.0       1700.0            22.6            18.0               B.7        100.0        100.0
94n..r. 1                                             335.4         3644.       005.4        619.0         704.0        1370.0           20.0            21.0              14.2         407           7.7
Po.1.                                  ~~~~~~        ~~~~~~      ~~193.1  167.3  122.1  146.4  197.0       393.0           90.5             .1.0             14.3         33.3          1.8.
Oth-r                                                  9.7          101.7        97.0        107.6         128.5        230.0           60.0              9.2              14.2         16.9         13.7
Eop-ot AdJo. t~a                                      -69.7         -72.1       .83.4        -84.9         -99.0       -171.0              --                                         -11.9         -11.0
Ttal ?aondi.  (f.o.b.)                              57.           561.6        64.          788.1        940.0        1834.0           31.6            14.7               14.3       100.0         100.0
Mao..h-odl.. Toadd;. 0db.   (1977 -100)
0070_   Poo  So~d..                                    92.9         91.9        111.7        127.9         142.0        18710
I.70-t PIo. Iod.o                                     91.3           91.0       114.         132.1         142.0        197.5
T.o.o  of To-d. I'd"                                  114.3          90.0        97.2         99.4.        100.0        100.0
Elpoot lOoloot I.d..                                   97.0         108.0        90.6         95,6         103.0        131.0
VALUES 40000B STE8CT01                                                    US$ Million a0 1977 Pi4o.. .d6 E006h.. Rt0.                                                                          LA.5 of Total
-Ago4iolt-o                                                309           566          386         596           417           750             5.0             3.5               4.0         17.3          16.6
Iodo.toy .ad Olota                                        976           919          999         990          1020          1312             7.7             4.0               5.1         29.7          27.4
S-Ovi-.                                                  1339          1796         1960        2025          2084          5463             4.0             3 0               3.4         53.0          04.
Total                                                    2944          3321         3339        3413          3721          4027             6.3             4.                4.0        100.0         100.0
! fLC       'C                                                          of-t    027)                                     DETAIL 05N PUBLIC 9OCT01 INVE97T61  710GR4M                        As % of Total
RC-o.alld.t.    Pbi4o 1-.oto                              1974   -          ~       1978                                                                                                       (7,. Y.ao 71.0)
Coor-ot S-oplu./D.fiit (17.6                                            -3.3          1.71960
Capitl IB.p.0dit0.-                                        6.8          13.3         11.9                                   Agotaolto..
Ov-oal  Oooloa/0.ftait (70.7                                           -10.4        -10.3              .Mi.nto  .4d hyd--b..ba.                                                                     23.4
Eot.-oa  B-ioOlO   (-t)                                    2.5           7.3          5.3                                   Iodo.t.y .nd p-na                                                       23.9
D-oti. B-iOOlo  (0.t)                                     -3.9           2.3          4.1                                   T-.op-t .d6  o-.i..tioo.                                                19.0
Oth-r                                                      0.9           0.9          0.8                                   Poblia Soovb. .4d ..oi.1  -aoi...                                       22.0
CURRENT O0PONDITUSE 0ETAILS                                                                                                 70860010
(C:ot.:l 00-0; poo-ct of total)
WJg. .d6 Solool.                                          33.3          50.3         49.3                                   Pootat 9..ot-                                                           30.0
Gmod. fd OoT1i...                                          16.0         14.7         13.4                                   7-oo.1   -aaooa                                                         31.0
Toao.f.  pao,`t.                                          27.5          29.8         26.3                                   Pablt.  so.nO                                                           3.
006.0  (tool. looao.ao paymooto)            ~~~3.0        6.2         11.9                                   Total                                                                  100.0
Tot.1                                                    100.0         100.0        100.0 
EM9PLOYTENT AND OUTPUT PER W0OR0KERo.    ITho Tlo.a46d                                                               GDP to 1977 US8 9111000.                            7.1. Addd Psr O,la.* (No$3
1973           1977                                      1973          1977                                                  17
Agrloolt-r                                                      798            934                                      79IT           366                                 653.162.
1od-.to  .od 9110105                                            332            435                                       978           967                                2494.3          2223.0
S.010.572                                                                      452                                      1405          1990                                2436.3          28999.9
T...1/A-...o                                                   1712           1941                                      2774          342                                 1620.3          1763.3
J-"at  3. 198



Pe,s 5 of 5
-25-
bALANCK OF PAYENeTS,EX3TEN.L ASSISTA6E9 Ab-9 DEBT
(US$ mlilli..)
Actual                            ~~~~~~~~Estimated         Pro-Lsed
1974            1975            1976             1977            1979B--         1979             1990            1985
S91900ARY BAANCE OF PA6010TS
Expot(it.Nt                                                            122.            522.4           623.4           721 .3           721.5           974.1             1043.1           2133.1
Ixpnrt  (i-tl. hF)                                                    4792             667. 3          711.2           827.9           1018.3         1292.0              t295.o           1950.
letoorce boleore                                                      143.7           -144.9           -87.9          -19t.6           296S           -417.9              -242,0             85.0
Net Interest p.y,eote                                                 -17.2            -23.7           -36.9           -5710            -84.4         -12b.0              -130.8           -250.0
Othsr factor sernics cocoma lost)               -13.2            ~~~~     ~     ~~~~-7. 7  -4.3  -2.1            -31.0             3 .1              -74.2           -100U
Current transf rs (net)                                                 17 7            13.1            14.D            150             37.0             I2 0               51.0              70.0
Current Acront balance                                                127.0          -163.2           -11.0           -169.7          -385.0          -537.0              -396.0            195.0
DOlect fore-in Inne-t-   t 01,1)                                       16.7             53.4            12.1             9.0             1.0            18.0                20.0              22.0
PNblir MI.T Ioos (not)                                                 91.1            101.1           232.1           343.2            218.8          209.2               221.0            175.0
(Cross  btsbnre(.en-.5 (13.                                                       (152.3)          (297.1)         (437.2)         (327.2)                             (391.31          (41455.
OA-irtleottr)                                                      152.4)          (51.2)          ((65.07          (34.0'9        (109.49         (162.13)            (170.31          (280.007
SDR Allot.tion                                                            -               -               .               .                -             6.1                  -                 -
13FI drawings (net)                                                       _               _               _               _              19.7             _                120.0                -'
Short-teem capitol, tort. o.e.1.                                     -123.8            -45.6           -62.0          -123.6             20.6           73.2                55.0             49.0
dtensE InxO ree    . -      ti.cre.e..                               -111.0             36.3           -67.2           -600             103.9          230.0               -20.0             409.
GyAF Ah LDAN. C0NHCISmNRT
IB2D                                                                     -              32.0            60.0            92.7             34.0
'DA                                                                     6.2              7.5              -               -                0
00t  exoltllseel                                                       35.0             82.7            66.0             9.6            123.4
Gornnts                                                                60.0            115.7            52.9           134.7             97.0
S.pplise                                                               13.5             44.2            39.0            15.6             39.7
-inenctel  in-tit-tion                                                 71.3             99.5           219.9           223.7            316.5
Bonds                                                                     -               -               .             15.0
nTol ogbIlt OT 7I  ns                                                186.8            30d. 9          445.0           490.6           62D.4
OOTOUOdL7  003B                                                    Actual debt ootstsodito  on D.s. 31. 1979           DrBT 203RDR                                                           1974            1978
(dteb-rssd only)                                                  Diebo-sed olxv         Prtt-t                     Ite.es.. t o  pbltd                                                  17.2            84.4           126.0
Rsporinestts ott pobBIt dsbt                       52.4           1094             142.3
IBRD                                                                   74.5                 4.3                     To ital  poc           d ebt dseIt                                   69.6           292.9           268.3
IDA                                                                    59.1                 3.8                     Publir dsbt  -rnit  ratio (%)                                        11.2            26.7            30.7
0th-s txultilater-l                                                   221.0                12.7
l-nsrx.sts                                                            578.3                33.0                     AVERAGK TRNtI  OF PllbLIC DEBT
I      -pplIere                                                       112,4                 6.4
fl=oncal  -tsttin.s                                                   630.4                36.D                     lotrestos % no D09                                                    2.5             4.8              6.1
Bo.ds                                                                  68                   3.8                     A-wpttzIiot as7 of DOD                                                7.5             6.1
other                                                                    7.4                0.4
Total public h6LT debt                                               1750.7               100.0                     EXPS0URE
IB0D DOD a s   of pohllc D00                                         3.0             6.3               5.3
Bexk GAoup DOD  s. of ptbWll IL.                                     8.9             7.7               8.S
l1e r dubt  -e"t  as   S of  xblit  debt  otnli                      4.9              3.6              6.8
ext, Gto.p debt set %ce as Tof psobtet debt  -I..ttJ 3.3                              3. 1.3
J-sesy 3, 1990



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BOLIVIA
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of November 30, 1979)
-------- US$ million ------
Loan or                                                      (Amount less cancellations)
Credit #   Year    Borrower             Purpose              Bank     IDA    Undisbursed
Fully disbursed loans and credits                            23.3     44.6
Credits
261       1971    Bolivia         Livestock                           6.8         0.8
455       1974    Bolivia         Mining/Manufacturing                6.2         0.1
561       1975    Bolivia         Agriculture                         7.5         2.5
762       1978    Bolivia         Ulla Ulla Development               9.0         7.4
933 1/    1979    Bolivia         Omasuyos - Los Andes
Rural Development                 3.0         3.0
940 1/    1979    Bolivia         National Mineral
Exploration Fund                  7.5         7.5
948       1979    Bolivia         Santa Cruz Water Supply
and Sewerage                      9.0         9.0
Loans
1121       1975    ENFE            Railways                  28.7                  0.1
1211       1976    Bolivia         Rural Development          9.5                  6.6
1238       1976    ENDE            Power IV                  25.0                  1.4
1290       1976    Bolivia         Mining/Manufacturing    10.0                    7.1
1324       1976    Bolivia         Water Supply and
Sewerage                5.2                   2.5
1331       1976    Bolivia         Small-Scale Mining        12.0                 10.9
1404       1977    Bolivia         Education and Voca-
tional Training        15.0                  11.9
1422       1977    ENFE            Third Railway             35.0                 13.8
1423       1977    AASANA          Aviation                  25.0                 21.8
1489       1977    Bolivia         Urban Development         17.0                 16.3
1510       1978    Bolivia         Ulla Ulla Development    9.0                    9.0
1587       1978    Bolivia         Highway Maintenance       25.0                 25.0
Total                                  239.7      93.6
of which has been repaid                 8.2       0.9
Total now outstanding                  231.5      92.5
Amount sold                  0.1                    -
of which has been repaid    -            0.1        -
Total now held by Bank                 231.5      92.5
156.6
1/   Not yet effective.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Fage 2 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (As of November 30, 1979)
Fiscal                                                             Amount in US$ million
Year           Obligator                Type of Business          Toan    Equity   Total
1973       Plasmar, S.A.            Cables and Plastic Product    0.3        0.1       0.4
1976       Banco Hipotecario
Nacional              Capital Market                           0.3       0.3
1976       Banco Industrial
S.A.                 Development Financing                     0.6       0.6
1978       Molino Andino, S.A.   Food and Food Processing           2.3       -        2.3
Total                            2.6     1.0       3.6
Repaid, cancelled or sold        1.2     0.4       1.6
Held by IFC                      1.4     0.6       2.0
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Credit 261-BO - Third Livestock Development Project, US$6.8 million, June 23, 1971;
Effective Date: September 15, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The credit portion of the project has been almost fully disbursed;
only about US$800,000 including about US$400,000 for technical assistance
remains to be disbursed and the credit should be fully disbursed by the
Closing Date.
Credit 455-BO - Mining Credit Project, US$6.2 million, January 18, 1974;
Effective Date: June 18, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily and the credit should be
fully disbursed by the Closing Date or shortly thereafter.
Credit 561-BO - Agricultural Credit I, US$7.5 million, June 20, 1975;
Effective Date: December 15, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Funds originally allocated for cattle and subsequently for grape
orchards are fully committed; whereas demand for sheep, annual crops and
sugarcane has been less than anticipated. The loan is now fully committed.
Loan 1121-BO - Second Railway Project, US$28.7 million, June 5, 1975;
Effective Date: August 6, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Project progress has been satisfactory with performance targets
either having been attained or exceeded. The loan is now fully committed.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
Loan 1211-BO - Ingavi Rural Development Project. US$9.5 million, March 8. 1976:
Effective Date: October 7, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
There have been delays in the implementation of some components of
the project. Corrective measures have been taken and the project is now
proceeding satisfactorily. The average size of subloans has been smaller
than anticipated; consequently, project area may have to be expanded.
Loan 1238-BO - Fourth ENDE Power Prolect, US$25 million, June 2, 1976:
Effective Date: August 23, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The project has been delayed somewhat by poor performance of local
contractors and difficulties experienced in the transportation of a major
equipment component. Overall progress of the project has been satisfactory
and the loan should be fully disbursed by the Closing Date.
Loan 1290-BO - Banco Industrial Mining and Industrial Credit Project,
US$10 million, October 15, 1976; Effective Date: April 14, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
After initial delays, the project is now proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan 1324-BO - Urban and Rural Communities Water Supply and Sewerage Project;
US$11.5 million, October 15, 1976; Effective Date: December 10, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
At the Government's request, the water supply and sewerage invest-
ments for the cities of Sucre and Potosi were cancelled because these cities
were not prepared to proceed without substantial Government subsidies.
The rural component of the project is now proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan 1331-BO - Small-Scale Mining Development Project, US$12 million,
October 15, 1976; Effective Date: July 15, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1980.
Due to institutional and managerial problems, the preparation of
subprojects was delayed about 15 months. To facilitate loan utilization
a number of measures were taken in mid 1978; but progress has been slow and
cancellation of the US$10.9 million undisbursed amount is being considered.
Loan 1404-BO - Education and Vocational Training Project, US$15 million,
May 11, 1977; Effective Date: September 7, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
In its initial phase, the project proceeded well, but subsequently
experienced delays because of the lack of Government contributions. Recent
managerial problems are now being resolved through the appointment of a new
project director and improved participation of teachers.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
Loan 1422-BO - Third Railway Project, US$35 million, June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: September 29, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The progress of the project has been seriously impaired by heavy
rains and extensive floodings of January, February 1979. A reduction in the
project scope is expected as the railways have to divert funds to repair
damages. The Bank is discussing with Government on how best to proceed.
Loan 1423-BO - Aviation Development Project; US$25 million, June 9, 1977;
Effective Date: September 29, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The project has been delayed by about one year because of poor
weather conditions and, subsequently, because of management changes and delays
in Government contributions. Most components are now proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan 1489-BO - Urban Development Project, US$9 million, November 30, 1977;
Effective Date: June 22, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The project has been delayed one year because of slow processing
of subsidiary loan agreements, frequent changes in management and delays
in Government contribution. Most components are now proceeding satisfac-
torily.
Loan 1510-BO and Credit 762-BO - Ulla Ulla Development Project, US$9 million
each, April 6, 1978; Effective Date: July 31, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1983.
The project has been delayed because of the lack of Government
contributions.
Loan 1587-BO - Highway Maintenance Project, US$25 million, July 10, 1978;
Effective Date: October 4, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
Initiation of the maintenance works delayed six months because the
beneficiary has to concentrate on emergency measures to repair the damage to
the road system, caused by heavy rains and extensive flooding.
Credit 948-BO - Santa Cruz Water Supply and Sewerage Project, US$9.0 million,
July 27, 1979; Effective Date: October 29, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The project is proceeding as scheduled.



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
BOLIVIA
Gas and Oil Engineering Project
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I. Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:         1 year
(b)  Agency which has prepared project:        Yacimientos Petroliferos
Fiscales Bolivianos (YPFB)
(c)  First presentation to IDA:                 October 1978
(d)  First mission to prepare the project    December 1978
(e)  Departure of appraisal mission:           March 18, 1979
(f)  Completion of negotiations:                December 1979
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:            May 1980
Section II.  Special IDA Implementation Actions:  None
Section III. Special Conditions
(a) YPFB and the Government will ensure that sufficient
local financing would be available for the execution
of the project; in particular, YPFB would give priority
to the financing of the proposed project when allocating
funds available from gas exports to Argentina (para. 42).
(b) Each year YPFB and IDA would jointly review YPFB's invest-
ment program as well as the availability of financing for
it (para. 42).
The following are conditions of credit effectiveness: The Borrower and
YPFB have executed a subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to IDA and all
the conditions prior to the first disbursement of the IDB loan have been
met (para. 48).



- 31 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1
BOLIVIA
GAS AND OIL ENGINEERING PROJECT
OUTLINE OF PETROLEUM GEOLOGY
Introduction
1.        Accumulations of liquid or gaseous petroleum are generally found
in sequences of sedimentary rocks that were deposited through geological times
in large sea expanses called sedimentary basins. Folding and faulting of the
rocks caused the structure features most looked for in hydrocarbon search.
The structures, in order to be deemed favorable, need to conceal layers in
depth of one or more porous rock formations or potential reservoir rocks that
are capped by a protective or impervious layer so that fluids trapped under-
neath cannot escape. The general area must also be rich in source rocks or
marine rocks that may have generated hydrocarbons in great quantities under
adequate pressures and temperatures. Not all sedimentary basins are oil
bearing and in an oil rich basin usually only a few structures contain oil or
gas in commercial quantities; as hydrocarbons are lighter than water they tend
to escape upward through cracks, fractures or open ends of the formations.
Oil and gas can also migrate from one reservoir to another higher up in the
sequence. Furthermore, accumulations can be partly or completely dissipated
through unfavorable hydrodynamic settings. These conditions in themselves,
and there are more, understandly make for risky and high cost oil and gas
exploration, particularly in remote regions.
Remarks on Exploration
2.        The presence of oil and gas seeps in a still virgin sedimentary
basin is considered as a good sign of the existence of petroleum accumula-
tions, although this is not a sine-qua-non condition, nor is it an indication
of the size or commerciality of the potential prospects.
3.        When the geology of the edges of a sedimentary basin shows:
(a)  an abundance of source rocks;
(b)  rock formations with well-developed pore space (porosity) and
permeability, that can act as reservoirs;
(c)  protective cap rocks or impervious rocks overlying the porous
formations or potential reservoir (drilling objectives); and
(d)  finally, the existence of folds or structures of a size capable
of holding oil and/or gas in commercial amounts,
then it is concluded that the basin is prospective and warrants more explora-
tion efforts.



32 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2
4.        After surface geological studies, the next exploration step usually
consists of (a) an air magnetometric survey that will indicate the total
thickness of the sediments and broad uplifts followed by (b) a reconnaissance
seismic survey, particularly in flat regions, whether the terrain is sandy,
forest covered or marshy. The costs vary with the production, the type of
energy source, the terrain, the remoteness and the amount of computer proces-
sing of the data prior to interpreting. Interpretation of seismic data leads
to mapping of structural trends and features, which in turn need to be further
studied through another round of more detailed seismic shooting before a
structural prospect is deemed ready for testing by the drill. In certain
cases, a gravity survey which gives a map of the gravity variation across the
area is run concomitantly with the seismic survey at a slight extra cost.
5.        After approval of drilling locations based on combined geological-
geophysical interpretations, access roads and drilling sites are readied to
receive the drilling rig. The first exploratory well in a region is called a
rank wildcat well. Its chances of success are assessed between 2% and 10%
depending on the region. If the wildcat well strikes oil or gas, a confirma-
tion well needs to be drilled. About three to five delineation or appraisal
wells are required on a structure in addition to the discovery and confirma-
tion wells, of which one is generally planned and budgeted as a dry hole.
Only after delineation of the pool or pools can a fairly reliable computation
of the oil or gas in place and therefrom, of the recoverable hydrocarbons
(reserves) be made and a feasibility study for producing the field undertaken.
In order to calculate the economics of the project on a realistic basis,
recoverable and deliverability values have to be ascertained from the follow-
ing reservoir of engineering data acquired as a result of delineation drilling
and production tests: porosity and permeability variations, water saturation,
gas/oil ratios, oil and gas gravities and viscosities, pressures and tempera-
tures, productivity, reservoir formation factors, effective pay thicknesses,
etc.
6.        Once the feasibility study shows that the field is of a commercial
size, the project enters the phase of large expenditures--for gathering lines,
gas separators, gas injection plants for pressure maintenance, development
drilling and outgoing pipeline.
7.        Reserves terminology:
(a) proved (also proven) reserves - the amount that can be
drained by one well or the amount proven by a pattern of
wells;
(b) probable - when there is evidence of producible oil or
gas within the conservative limits of the structure;
(c) explored - those proved + probable;



- 33 -
ANNEX IV
Page 3
(d) possible - when there is less well-defined structural
control than for explored reserves and when based largely
on electric-log interpretation and some evidence of oil or
gas saturation;
(e) potential - those explored + possible; and
(f) speculative - when referred to a structure or an area not
yet drilled.



34 -
ANNEX V
Page 1
BOLIVIA
GAS AND OIL ENGINEERING PROJECT
GEOLOGICAL SETTING
1.        The north-south trending sedimentary basins 1/ have the geological
and tectonic prerequisites for hydrocarbon trapping in commercial quantities.
These basins extend north into Peru and south into Paraguay and Argentina.
2.        These basins share a broadly similar geological history from the
onset of Cambrian times (600 million years ago) until recent times through
Ordovician, Silurian, Devonian, Carboniferous and Permian for the Paleozoic
periods, and Jurassic, Cretaceous and Tertiary for the post-Paleozoic era.
The difference between them is that marine Cretaceous rocks and Tertiary
volcanic intrusions occur only on the Altiplano. Oil seeps are reported from
both basins; their analyses indicate a common source with the Santa Cruz
production which was generated mainly in shale of Devonian age and stored in
Devonian and Carboniferous sand reservoirs. After an early Mesozoic tectonic
upheaval of the whole region known today as Bolivia, a period of erosion cut
irregularly into the Paleozoic rocks, removing large amounts of sedimentary
rocks and of petroleum accumulation, prior to the deposition of another cycle
of sedimentary rocks of Cretaceous and Tertiary ages.
3.        In the Chaco-basin, these Cretaceous and Tertiary rocks are of
non-marine or continental origin which means that they do not contain, at
least in sufficient quantity, the proper rocks for generating hydrocarbons in
great quantities. On the other hand, the Altiplano Cretaceous does exhibit a
fairly thick sequence of marine Cretaceous shale and limestone which are
considered favorable where overlain by an adequate thickness of Tertiary,
although this Tertiary is not of marine origin. Numerous volcanic intrusions
of Tertiary age dot the Altiplano and this is commonly viewed as detrimental
to oil accumulations.
4.        The Andes Mountains as we know them came into being during the
Middle-late Tertiary age after a double folding phase accompanied by strong
uplifting. The fact that the Altiplano lies at an average elevation of
3,000 feet above sea level has no bearing on its oil possibilities which are
controlled only by geological history.
5.        The intermediate areas which twice underwent intense folding and
faulting do not appear oil prospective, for the potential source rocks and
reservoir rocks are either exposed at the surface of the ground or eroded off
or impaired by granite intrusions. Only the two large sedimentary basins are
attractive because they were only slightly disturbed and they contain a thick
pile of post-Paleozoic rocks (Cretaceous and Tertiary). These younger rocks
have:
1/   The Chaco-Santa Cruz-Beni-Madre de Dios and Altiplano basins.



- 35 -
ANNEX V
Page 2
(a) acted as a general protective cover for the accumulations
that escaped destruction;
(b) furnished the temperature and pressure necessary to
generate hydrocarbons from active sources; and
(c) provided reservoir capabilities of very good quality.
6.        The hydrocarbons accumulated in pools now at greater depth could
migrate into younger and structurally higher reservoirs, thus "bringing"
commercial petroleum traps at shallow depths in rocks of lesser induration,
a fact which means cheaper, faster and more efficient drilling. Good illus-
trations are the gases of Enconada and Yapacani which are found in Cretaceous
rocks and the gas and oil in the Caranda and Colpa fields which are of Ter-
tiary origin.
7.        The main gas reservoir of the new fields to be drilled on the
eastern edge of the basin is the basal Devonian Chiporo (Santa Rosa) sand
which fortunately lies at rather shallow depth in the Palometas-Santa Rosa
area at about 8,500 feet (in other areas the Chiporo sand is calculated to lie
at depths ranging from 16,000 to even greater than 21,000 feet, which would
make drilling very expensive).



ANNEX VI
Page 1
BOLIVIA
GAS AND OIL ENGINEERING PROJECT
THE BENEFICIARY
Background and Scope of Activities
1.        Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales Bolivianos (YPFB), an autonomous
state oil company under the Ministry of Energy and Hydrocarbons, was estab-
lished in December 1936 to take over the nationalized assets of Jersey
Standard (EXXON). YPFB is responsible for conducting all the state's
activities in the hydrocarbon sector, including exploration, production,
transportation, refining and distribution of petroleum products and natural
gas. YPFB is directly or indirectly involved in the exploration of 37 million
hectares and in the production of 96% of the crude oil and 86% of the natural
gas produced in Bolivia. YPFB controls the country's refinery capacity and
the oil and gas pipeline system. YPFB also has a monopoly on all imports and
exports of crude oil, natural gas and petroleum products. These activities
may be undertaken by YPFB directly or through service contracts (production
sharing) with any or all of the foreign oil companies operating in Bolivia.
On September 19, 1969, all producing oil fields (Colpa, Caranda, Rio Grande)
of the Bolivian subsidiary of Gulf Oil Corporation (Gulf) were nationalized
and YPFB assumed the administration of all its assets. Because of signifi-
cantly higher gas sales price than originally anticipated, indemnization to
Gulf totalling $78.8 million was completed in July 1979.
2.         In conjunction with the Gas Pipeline Project (Loan 635-BO, para. 33
of the main text) cofinanced with IDB and the New York State Common Retirement
Fund (NYSCRF) YPFB established in 1971 two fully-owned subsidiaries: The
Santa Cruz Division which operates the ex-Gulf fields of Colpa, Caranda, Rio
Grande, and YABOG, which operates the Santa Cruz-Argentina gas pipeline. In
addition, a Lenders Trust was established following reactivation of the loan
and tbe proceeds of gas sales to Gas del Estado of Argentina are deposited
in a trust account in First National City Bank of New York. This account
allocates monthly payments into each lender's trust account (IBRD, IDB and
NYSCRF) of one sixth of the next semiannual debt service installment due each
lender and 19.5% of the proceeds to the Gulf Oil Company; Indemnity Trust
Account. The balance of the proceeds go first to the reserve trust account
(six months' payments) and the remainder is transferred to the Bolivian Central
Bank trust account to cover funds needed for the operations of YABOG and
Division Santa Cruz and excess funds, if any, are finally deposited in YPFB's
account.



- 37 -
ANNEX VI
Page 2
Board of Directors
3.        YPFB's Chairman of the Board is the Minister of Energy and Hydro-
carbons. In addition to the Chairman, the six-member Board is composed of the
Under-Secretary of Energy and Hydrocarbons, three representatives from the
Ministries of Planning, Finance, and Defense, YPFB's General Manager, and a
representative of YPFB's work force. All Directors, except YPFB's labor
representative, are appointed by the President of Bolivia. The Board meets
monthly and is kept well informed. The main constraint on autonomy is YPFB's
inability to increase domestic petroleum products prices without Government
authorization. After a long period of stability, recently there have been
frequent changes of management but YPFB's present chief executive is qualified
and competent (para. 5) and there is personnel depth in the organization.
Organization
4.        Reporting to the Board is YPFB's chief executive officer (General
Manager), who is appointed by the Government. Below him are two Assistant
General Managers, for technical and administrative matters respectively, and
the managers for Division Santa Cruz and YABOG in charge of the nationalized
Gulf properties and the Santa Cruz-Argentina gas pipeline respectively.
Reporting to the Assistant General Manager, Administration, are five managers:
Marketing, in charge of domestic commercialization and distribution of petro-
leum products; Finance, in charge of the Treasury, Controllers and warehouse;
General Services, in charge of industrial relations, medical, personnel and
other services; Materials, in charge of spare parts and equipment acquisi-
tions; and External Commerce, in charge of YPFB's Houston Office and crude oil
and products export sales. Reporting to the Assistant General Manager,
Technical, are three managers: Exploration, in charge of conducting YPFB's
exploration and drilling effort; Production, in charge of production activities
on all YPFB's fields, except the ex-Gulf properties, as well as development of
new discoveries; and Industrial, in charge of all refining operations and
pipeline transportation except for the operation of the gas pipeline to
Argentina. The organizational structure is typical and works satisfactorily.
Management, Staffing and Training
5.        Ing. Humberto Suarez was appointed General Manager of YPFB in August
1979. He is an experienced oilman who in the past held several high manage-
ment positions in YPFB, his last one being Exploration Manager. Mr. Suarez is
ably supported by the two Assistant General Managers and ten managers who are
all professional oilmen and whose average length of service is over ten years.
6.        As of December 31, 1978, YPFB's staff numbered 4,434 of whom 404
were professionals. The total of professionals was up by 25 from the previous
year mainly due to an increase of 21 administrative professionals, but the
level of technical/professional staff remained almost unchanged. The turnover
in professional staff is quite low as the overall salaries and benefits paid
by YPFB are competitive with the Bolivian private sector. Nonprofessional
staff salaries are fixed by negotiations with the union with which YPFB



- 38 -
ANNEX VI
Page 3
management has good working relations. YPFB is basically sound institutionally.
The Gulf assets which were nationalized in 1969 were delivered in good working
condition and with well trained personnel to operate them. YPFB is a rela-
tively experienced oil company with capable professionals who O.iten follow,
at YPFB's expense, specialized graduate training in prestigious foreign
universities. It is from this corps of well-trained professionals that YPFB
has drawn most of its current senior management.  YPFB's budgeting, accounting
and administrative procedures are considered adequate and comply with standard
industry practices.
Accounting and Control
7.        As stated earlier (para. 6), YPFB's accounting system is considered
adequate and complies with standard industry practices. YPFB is currently
implementing an Electronic Data Processing (EDP) system in order to facili-
tate and expedite monitoring of income and expenditures in each of its main
profit and cost centers. The accounts and material coding systems are good
and the accounting and materials department staff make good use of these
systems. YPFB's decentralized units, YABOG and Division Santa Cruz, maintain
separate accounting and control departments. Their accounting procedures
were inherited from Gulf and, are operated efficiently. YABOG and Santa Cruz
Division report monthly (cash flow and balance sheet) to YPFB's headquarters
in La Paz and their yearly budget is approved by their Executive Committee
which is composed of the manager of the unit, the head of YPFB Planning
Department, and the General Manager. In the case of the Santa Cruz Division,
the Bank is represented at the Executive Committee meetings by an observer.
8.        YPFB's Internal Audit Unit composed of 19 professionals reports
directly to the General Manager. A confidential plan of action is approved by
the General Manager at the beginning of the year, and one or two auditing
visits yearly, in accordance with the relative importance of the cost/profit
centers, are scheduled. The Unit audits all departments and cost/profit
centers in YPFB except, surprisingly, the Materials Department that has its
own internal auditor. The appraisal mission's overall assessment is that
YPFB's internal auditing is good, but it should improve by incorporating the
regular auditing of the Materials Department. This has been mentioned to
YPFB, who is considering such a measure. YPFB's external auditing is cur-
rently being done by Moreno, Munoz y Cia, independent auditors associated with
Price Waterhouse, Peat, Marwick, Mitchell and Co. The accounts have no
significant qualifications. In connection with the proposed credit YPFB has
agreed to submit to IDA, not later than 4 months after the end of each fiscal
year, its audited financial statements and the audited Project Accounts, pre-
pared by independent auditors acceptable to IDA (Section 4.02 of the draft
Project Agreement).
Earnings Record and Financial Position
9.        YPFB's earnings performance has deteriorated sharply in the last
three years, from net profits of US$52 million in 1976 to US$8.35 million in
1978. Consequently its debt service coverage ratio decreased from 2.5 in
1976 to only 0.75 in 1978.  In 1975, YPFB's return on equity was 18.7%, and



- 39 -
ANNEX VI
Page 4
in 1976 it rose to 22.5% as a result of the increase in domestic petroleum
product prices authorized by GOB in December 1975. Since then, it fell
sharply to'6.4% in 1977 and still further to 2.2% in 1978. The decline in
profitability is due to (a) GOB's policy of maintaining artificially low
domestic fuel prices (about one-third current US prices) while operating costs
have increased; (b) a rapidly growing domestic demand for petroleum products
of 10%-12% p.a. during the period 1973-1978; (c) a steady decrease of crude
oil production, which combined with increasing domestic demand resulted in
lower exports; and (d) a burdensome taxation system where taxes amounted
to about 90% of net income before taxes in 1978. The Government is aware of
the problem and of the negative impact of maintaining such a pricing and tax
policy. It has abolished the 35% price differential tax and also the 20%
export tax, measures which should reduce the tax bite to 63% of pre-tax
earnings in 1980. The recent increase in product prices of 118% together
with the increased volumes (40%) and prices (16%) on gas sales to Argentina
(which will increase further from mid-1980 according to negotiations recently
concluded between YPFB and Gas del Estado of Argentina) will substantially
improve YPFB's financial position, allowing it to meet its projected debt
servicing requirements, provide funds as required for the proposed project,
and finance a part of the balance of its investment program. The table
below shows the financial projections for the years 1980 through 1983.
1/   Table "B" shows that if prices are increased, YPFB will be in a better
position to finance its capital investment program.



- 40 -
ANNEX VI
Page 5
SUMMARY FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
(In Million Current $)
1980    1981    1982    1983
OPERATING RESULTS
Sales Revenue                                         411      405     521      592
Cost of Sales                                         230      242     277      300
Income Before Taxes and Interest                      181      163     244      292
Less
Interest                                            37      34       35       29
Taxes 1/                                           114     103      147      167
Operating Results, Income (Loss)                       30       26      62       96
CASH FLOW
Operating Results                                      30       26      62       96
Add Back:  Depreciation                                33       40      48       56
Amortization (Dry Holes)                   55       54      53       62
Gross Internal Cash Generation                        118      120     163      214
Less:  Debt Servicing (Principal)                      43       45      50       51
Available for Investment                               75       75     113      163
Projected Investment 2/                               175      208     152      168
10.       During the 1974-78 period, YPFB's total assets grew substantially
from US$270 million in 1974 to US$797 million in 1978, a result of the in-
creasing emphasis and scope of YPFB's activities, large capital investments
in two refinery complexes in Santa Cruz and Cochabamba and the enhanced role
given to it by GOB. As of December 31, 1978, YPFB's fixed assets were about
US$591 million, 3/ its long-term debt US$265 million and its net worth US$371
1/   Taxes paid by YPFB are on gross revenues (royalties, production and
sales taxes) and not on income.
2/   Shortfall will be made up by borrowings and/or rescheduling of
investment.
3/   Book value.  US$264 million was work-in-progress as of December 31,
1978. Fixed assets were revalued as of December 31, 1977.



- 41 -
ANNEX VI
Page 6
million. YPFB's leverage is in line with industry standards with a long-term
debt/equity ratio of 0.76 and a total debt/equity ratio of 1.15. YPFB's
current ratio was then 1.15, slightly low, but still adequate. In 1976,
YPFB's Debt Service Coverage ratio was 2.5 decreasing to 1.4 in 1977 and to an
inadequate all-time low of 0.75 in 1978 when debt servicing of long-term loans
(among them long-term debt related to the above-mentioned refinery projects)
began to increase, but this figure should increase to 1.9 in 1980.  In sum,
YPFB is a mature and technically sound company, competently staffed and well
organized and its declining financial position is expected to improve because
of the recent Government action on oil product prices.  To ensure that the
investments planned by YPFB (in addition to the proposed project) are rational
and related to its capacity to service debt, YPFB agreed that not later than
120 days before the end of each of its fiscal years, it will review jointly
with IDA the economic, financial and technical justification for its investment
program for its next following fiscal year, and the availability of financing
for the investment program (Section 4.03 of the draft Project Agreement).






I DR D   14429
02L                                                                                                          SEPTEMBLER t979
ComPos tic! Node                                                                                                /
JNA R0Q5,4 NW
YAPACAAIIV      N N  RA10M7AS N.W                                                                                                                 B N
~Nc0NADA4 -)~a, cnto                                                                                                         l
AZ
~,,OL PA                                                                                                  7~                  
CARANDA16                                                                                                                 )>ip-tt AAi5/EN                 __
Buena ViSta CSl                                                                                  2Son Jos6                                                               -
NA RANJILLoS05    -'MA"                                                                                                      JR
I                                                                                     Ct~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-UQ7IS4CA  PRCtA
*-~  ~A   TI-A         'A UA
t                                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Puerto-
Ni~cLamboto                                                                       ~-~-~.Suarez>
_ >Ja rabuquir1o                 t
MON TEA 4-~j~M/PI IGAS RESERVES APPRAISAL DRILLING
//                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~GAS FIELDS (S FIELDS, 14 WELLK IC sw DRILFDl OF YPFs
/ /          K                            ~~~~~~~~~OT-SER YPF8  GAS AN   owI FIELAZDS 
/    PORL'ENfR                                      CONIRACTORS GAS~ FIELMS
1--/VEi7A GRANDF                                     PROPOSED -,As PWREOKNS
)            -       ~~~~~ALTERNATE PROPOSED GAS FIfELINES
/i                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~EXISTING, GAS PIPFL)NPS
I                         /                      -ERIEFEEXISTI NG OIL PlPELINES
Tarila  /                      /                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~AREA OP SEISMIC SiEVEY
Jori                                                /                                DEPA7RTMENT BOEINDINRES
I               -.       IN~~~~!TERNATtONA1 BOUNDARIES
YC3CUiba4~/tP                                                                        SQS
KILOMETERS'
Aporn-moi '-~                                                             r, - h&s bin prepared by ttoo
World Orkosaf ah ,at c
0,0 c-O Veto-O ofto traer - or '
rho repor to s/;ch  s, a.t/actd
A\           Gi       Ui      A       Y                      Weld Ba/csek i aff,t ts. n
A    R5UG~~EN  T  I NA                                                                                                                                          orY tccept erec atcb Oedt



