Document of
The World Bank                       FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report NoP-3105-EGT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
NATIONAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS ORGANIZATION
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR A
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
June 30, 1981
This document bas a restcted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performace of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authorization.



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1 Egyptian Pound = US$1.43
1 US Dollar         LE 0.70
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARETO:     Arab Republic of Egypt Teleco munications Organization
ARENTO:    Arab Republic of Egypt National Telecommunications
Organization, replaced ARETO in July 1980
COMECON.   Council for Mutual Economic Assistance
CTI:       Continental Telephone International
GDP:       Gross Domestic Product
GNP;       Gross National Product
GODE;      Gulf Organization for the Development of Egypt
M+LT:      Medium and Long Term
UHF/VHF:   Ultra High Frequency Radio Beyond 300 MHz/Very High
Frequency Radio Between 30 MHz and 300 MHz
USAID:     U.S. Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:            Arab Republic of Egypt National Telecommunications
Organization (ARENTO)
Guarantor:           Arab Republic of Egypt
Amount:              US$64 million
Terms:               20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at
9.6 percent per annum.
Project
Description;        The project will contribute to Egypt's plans to almost
quadruple the country's telecommunication investment
program, which has lagged badly behind other sectors,
by financing the rehabilitation and expansion of the
telecommunication systems in the smaller towns and
villages. The project will provide primarily for (i)
the installation of 67,500 lines of semi-automatic
exchange equipment in small towns; (ii) the
rehabilitation and re-installation of about 60,000
lines of manual exchanges in rural areas; (iii) the
replacement and expansion of outside plant networks for
about 180,000 lines; and (iv) the rehabilitation and
expansion of long distance networks. In addition the
project will help strengthen ARENTO's organization and
financial position. Project benefits include direct
support for development in rural areas, with more
timely availability of inputs and improved marketing
and social services. There are no unusual risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offcal duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(ii)
Cost Estimates:
Local    Foreign   Total
-----in US$ million-----
Telephone exchanges                   10.3       12.9      23.2
Outside plant networks                23.5       22.0      45.5
Subscriber equipment                   2.0        4.5       6.5
Long distance systems                  8.6       22.6      31.2
Miscellaneous equipment                1.9        7.2       9.1
Total Base Cost 1/                  46.3       69.2    115.5
Contingencies (physical)               1.8        2.8       4.6
Contingencies (price)                 13.4        7.8      21.2
Total                           61.5       79.8    141.3
Financing Plan:
Bank                           --         64.0      64.0
Bilateral Credit (France)    --            6.3       6.3
Government                     61.5        9.5      71.0
Total                     61.5       79.8    141.3
Estimated
Disbursements:                             US$ Million
Bank FY   82        83        84        85        86        87
Annual                      3.0      12.0      15.0      14.0     14.0       6.0
Cumulative                  3.0      15.0      30.0     44.0      58.0      64.0
Economic
Rate of Return:            21 percent.
Staff Appraisal
Report:        Appraisal Report, "Egypt, Arab Republic of Egypt National
Telecommunications Organization (ARENTO), Third
Telecommunications Project" (No. 3326-EGT of June 26, 1981).
1/ ARENTO is exempt from taxes and custom duties.



INTERNATIONAL BANK OF RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK OF RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
NATIONAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS ORGANIZATION
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR A THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Arab Republic of Egypt National Telecommunications Organization
(ARENTO) with the guarantee of the Arab Republic of Egypt for the
equivalent of US$64 million to help finance the foreign exchange cost of a
telecommunications project. The proposed Bank loan would be for a term of
20 years, including 5 years grace, with interest at 9.6 percent per annum.
Expected financing for the project includes cofinancing with bilateral
credits from France for about $6.3 million.
PART I - THE ECONOMYI/
2.         A report on "Recent Economic Developments and External Capital
Requirements" (SecM80-933) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
December 24, 1980. Country data sheets reflecting the recently updated and
revised macroeconomic accounts are attached.
The "Open Door" Strategy
3.         Following more than a decade of inward looking and centralist
economic policies, President Sadat in 1974 announced a new "Open Door"
policy with the objective of accelerating the pace of development by
liberalizing the economy and stimulating foreign and domestic private
investment. It is important to stress that the "Open Door" policy was not
a radical break with the past but a redefinition of priorities in the face
of changing opportunities. Parallel to the changes in economic policy
there was progress towards peace which brought with it expectations of
rapid economic growth and greater prosperity.
4.         To implement the open-door strategy the government took a number
of specific policy actions. Among the more important ones were the gradual
devaluation of the Egyptian pound (LF), and the concurrent liberalization
of foreign exchange regulations. Starting in 1973 when the parallel market
rate was introduced, Egypt's currency has been devalued by 44 percent from
1/    This section is the same as that for the Technical Assistance Project
($6.9 million equivalent), the documents for which were distributed
to the Board on May 21, 1981.



-2-
US$2.56 to US$1.43 per LE at present. Exchange restrictions were eased,
specific import allocations were replaced by general import quotas, and
more foreign exchange was made available to both the public and private
sector. A new investment law (1974, amended in 1977) offered attractive
incentives to foreign firms. Trade agreements, especially with the EEC,
opened new markets for export products; at the same time, bilateral trade
with COMECON countries was much reduced.
5.       In 1975, Egypt was able to reopen the Suez Canal.  At the same
time petroleum production in the Gulf of Suez started increasing at rapid
rates and workers' remittances as well as tourism became significant
sources of foreign exchange. Nevertheless, Egypt was facing serious
balance of payments problems. The base from which foreign exchange
revenues were growing was too small to meet the increase in imports
triggered by the liberalization program and the government's commitment to
providing ample supplies of basic consumer goods at stable prices.
However, large capital inflows, primarily from the oil-rich Arab Gulf
states, sustained the "Open Door" policy during the 1975-77 period. These
loans and grants also complemented the public sector's fiscal resources and
allowed a large expansion of both consumer subsidies and public sector
investment.
6.       By the end of 1978 the balance of payments started to show clear
signs of improvement as a result of the sustained rapid growth in receipts
from remittances, tourism, the Suez Canal and petroleum exports. The last
two years have confirmed and strengthened this improving trend. Petroleum
exports and workers' remittances reached about $2.7 billion each in 1980.
On capital account, the cessation of Arab aid following the Camp David
agreements was largely offset by a substantial increase in U.S. assistance,
and an increase in direct foreign investment, mainly but not exclusively in
the oil sector.
7.       The Egyptian economy has thus entered the new decade with a much
improved balance of payments. Moreoever, the emergence of the petroleum
sector has strengthened the budget considerably.  Deficit financing through
the domestic banking system declined from an average of about 10 percent in
the 1975-1979 period, to 5 percent in 1980. Finally, gross fixed
investment increased from about 25 percent of GDP in the 1975-1977 period
to almost 28 percent over the last two years with the share of national
savings in total investment rising from 30 percent in 1974 to 70 percent in
1979; real C-DP growth averaged almost 10 percent throughout the period.
8.       While much of the momentum for this accelerated pace of
development is attributable to the "Open Door" policy, the increasing
openness and accompanying structural changes have made economic management
more difficult and changed the environment in which economic policies
operate. Inflation has emerged as a principal policy concern. Prior to
1975, Egypt was essentially a fixed price economy and resource allocation
and investment decisions were centrally determined. Moreover,
international and domestic inflation was low, so that while relative prices
may have been out of line with world prices, price inflexibility did not
create undue macroeconomic imbalance. The situation has since changed



-3-
radically. The opening of the economy coincided with an acceleration in
world inflation. At the same time, labor migration and the rapid expansion
of the economy led to supply bottlenecks in several key sectors. Effective
demand, especially for consumer goods, also rose sharply following the
income gains that resulted from the growth of tourism, remittances and
other receipts. All these factors have exerted sharp upward pressure on
domestic prices. In a country unaccustomed to inflation and flexible
prices, and where there are no easily functioning mechanisms for
cost-of-living adjustments in wages and salaries, the required price
adjustments appeared large and unjust. Some small adjustments were made
and, in the uncontrolled parts of the economy, prices and wages did in fact
surge upward. In the controlled sector, major changes could not be
achieved.  As a result the gap between world prices and domestic selling
prices of key traded goods has continuously increased, leading to large
implicit and explicit subsidies and resulting in an increasingly distorted
system of relative prices and incentives.
Recent Economic Developments
9.       Recent economic trends have been characterized by continued rapid
overall growth and the emergence of the petroleum sector as the dominant
sector in Egypt's economy. In May 1980, the fiscal and administrative year
was shifted from January-December to July-June. As a result, data for
calendar year 1980 are not always available and fiscal year 1981
(July 1980-June 1981) estimates are used instead of calendar 1980 estimates
to describe the most recent developments.
10.      Overall C-DP growth averaged about 10 percent in constant FY81
prices over the last four years.l/ The very high rate of growth reflects
the emergence of the petroleum sector and rapid growth in industry,
transportation, trade and finance, and Suez Canal traffic. Agriculture
stands out by its low growth rate, around 2.2 percent per annum, although
it should be stressed that agricultural performance improved compared to
the 1965-75 period when growth averaged 1.5 percent. The combination of
continued growth in real petroleum output and the doubling in export prices
has resulted in considerable changes in the structure of GDP. The share of
petroleum in value-added at factor cost has tripled since 1977 to about 19
percent in FY81.
11.      Production of crude petroleum is at present averaging close to
650,000 barrels a day (32 million tons a year). There is general agreement
in Egypt and among foreign observers that the proven reserves attached to
Egypt's large established petroleum fields could not sustain production at
present rates beyond the mid-1980's. On the other hand, over the last two
years Egypt has added about 100 million tons to the stock of proven
reserves largely through a continuous stream of small discoveries.
Investment in exploration by foreign oil companies has increased
dramatically since the oil price increase of mid-1979 and is expected to
1/ In 1975 prices real growth would decline to 8.5 percent, the difference
being due to the changed petroleum prices.



-4.-
average at least $600 million annually for the next few years. Given the
performance achieved over the last two years and the massive investment
program, it is only reasonable to assume that new discoveries will continue
to occur. The magnitude of these discoveries remains, of course, highly
uncertain.
12.      In addition to crude petroleum, the output of natural gas has
recorded a steady increase reaching over 2 million tons of oil equivalent
in FY81. Substantial investments are planned for the exploitation of
existing gas fields and for further exploration, which will hopefully
release additional quantities of petroleum for export. However, the level
of the exportable surplus of petroleum would also depend on domestic energy
consumption, which has been growing by over 11 percent annually in recent
years. It is important therefore that efforts to increase production of
energy are complemented by measures designed to achieve tore efficient
domestic use of energy.
13.      Reflecting the sharp increase in petroleum export earnings and the
continued growth in workers' remittances and Suez Canal revenues, Egypt's
foreign exchange earnings have grown rapidly since 1979. At $1.9 billion,
the current account deficit in FY81 was lower in relation to CDP (7.5
percent) than in any year since 1973. Net medium and long-term capital
inflows are estimated at $2.9 billion, giving an overall surplus in the
balance of payments of about $1 billion compared with a surplus of $167
million in 1978 and a deficit of $250 million in 1977. The marked
improvement in the balance of payments since 1979 has allowed for some
buildup in foreign exchange reserves, which stood at about $1 billion at
end-1980 (about one and a half months of imports). Despite the apparent
strength of the balance of payments, certain structural features are worth
noting: (i) Agricultural and manufactured exports constitute only a very
small fraction (10 percent) of Egypt's foreign exchange receipts.
Petroleum ($3.1 billion in FY81), Workers' Remittances ($3 billion), the
Suez Canal ($0.9 billion) and foreign capital inflows ($2.9 billion)
dominate the accounts. (ii) Food imports, at $2.6 billion, are almost
equal to petroleum earnings. Moreover, with severely limited arable land
and a growing population, Egypt's dependence on imported food is likely to
grow. (iii) The share of imported capital goods in overall investment is
high. Along with import requirements of industrial raw materials, this
implies a continued high import dependence in the medium term.
14.      The liberalization of Egypt's trade and payments system has
contributed significantly to the balance of payments performance. However,
by enhancing capital mobility (through the creation of the so called "free"
foreign exchange market 1/) financial liberalization has made it more
1/ The official exchange rate applies to transactions taking place within
the framework of the government's foreign exchange budget and has been
fixed at LE 0.70 per $1.0 since January 1979. However, the free market
exchange rate has fluctuated between LE 0.75 and LE 0.85 per $1.0 over
the last two years.



-5-
difficult for the monetary authorities to pursue policies entirely divorced
from external circumstances. Attempts to keep domestic interest rates much
below world levels will lead to private capital outflows and an upward
pressure on the "free" market exchange rate. Policies to mobilize private
savings through the development of a domestic capital market must,
therefore, be complemented by an interest rate policy that acknowledges the
growing sensitivity of capital movements to the relative structure of
incentives.
15.      Most "competitive" imports and exports were shifted to the
parallel market rate of lE 0.70 per dollar at the end of 1977. The rate
applying to these transactions has thus remained constant since 1977.
Since inflation in the domestic Egyptian economy has been somewhat more
rapid than inflation affecting the real value of the dollar, the purchasing
power parity deflated value of the Egyptian pound has slowly but steadily
appreciated with respect to the dollar over the last 3 to 4 years. Egypt
faces the typical problem of real appreciation characterizing many natural
resource and oil exporting economies. While oil and service receipts have
shown spectacular growth, non-oil merchandise exports have declined in
volume since the mid-1970's. Part of this decline may be due to the
necessity of replacing Egypt's traditional Eastern European markets with
outlets in the convertible currency areas. But the transition should by
now have been achieved and increasingly the problem may be due to an
erosion of Egypt's competitive cost position and a shift of incentives
against exports. The trend towards real appreciation has also reduced the
profitability of import competing activities. The situation is
complicated, however, by the subsidies provided to domestic producers
through low energy prices and other subsidized inputs. These subsidies
allow competitive production of some exports and import substitutes inspite
of the appreciating real exchange rate. The medium and long-term prospects
for the volume and composition of merchandise trade, therefore, are
intimately tied to developments in price and exchange rate policies.
16.      While rapid growth was achieved over the last five years and there
has been a continuous improvement in the balance of payments, the overall
fiscal deficit of the consolidated public sector remained very large during
the 1976-1979 period, fluctuating between 13 and 22 percent of GDP. The
1980 budget, presented in end-1979 and revised in February 1980, included
several proposals to raise revenues and limit the growth of expenditures.
The most important of these were: a new sales tax, an increase in
electricity tariffs, price increases for public sector companies, and a
reduction in consumer subsidies. However, some of these measures were
dropped when a new government took office in May 1980. A different set of
measures were announced and a new budget presented to the People's Assembly
in response to growing signs of social tension and based on the additional
revenues provided by the petroleum sector. Wage increases were awarded to
public sector employees, the prices of several commodities were reduced and
the government embarked on a large scale import program. The declared
objective of the new budget and the accompanying measures was to break
inflationary .expectations, raise incomes of disadvantaged groups and
reaffirm the government's commitment to ample supplies of basic commodities
at stable prices.



-6-
17.      Despite the large increases in subsidies and the other net
expenditure raising measures taken in 1980, the overall fiscal deficit will
decline substantially as a percentage of GDP from 19.5 percent in 1979 to
about 13 percent in 1980/81. Excluding investment expenditures, the
current budget will actually be in surplus. This improved situation is due
to the additional resources provided by the petroleum sector and the Suez
Canal. Together, petroleum and Suez Canal revenues have more than tripled
since 1978 (9.1 percent of GDP in FY81), more than offsetting the
deteriorating trend in Central C-overnment savings. This massive increase
in public revenues has reduced the need for domestic bank financing from
more than 9 percent of GDP in 1979 to less than 5 percent in FY81, the
lowest percentage since the mid-1970's.
18.      There was hope that increased public sector savings and reduced
deficit financing would reduce the pace of monetary expansion that has
averaged about 30 percent annually over the last few years. This has not
so far been the case because the reduced growth in the domestic assets of
the banking system has been more than compensated by much more rapid growth
in net foreign assets reflecting the overall surplus in foreign payments.
Since a large portion of the increase in reserves has accrued to the
government, domestic bank credit to the public sector understates the
expansionary monetary effect of public sector operations. During the
present phase of foreign asset accumulation, monetary control requires
special sterilization policies so that the fiscal improvement can reduce
the underlying inflationary pressure which constitutes such a crucial
source of concern for Egyptian policymakers and which is an obstacle to
many of the required reforms in the areas of pricing and institutional
change.
Development Potential and Constraints
19.      Egypt has considerable potential for continued rapid development.
The reasons for this are, in brief: a large domestic market, a relatively
skilled and literate population, an agricultural potential not yet fully
developed, varied raw materials (including oil, gas and phosphate), and a
key geographical location. Future economic growth may come less easily,
however, than during the past years. The gradual need to substitute
domestic for foreign savings will become more pressing as net foreign
contributions decline in relation to GNP. Capacities are now strained in a
number of sectors, including infrastructure. The expansion of new
capacities has been slowed down by administrative inefficiency, inadequate
fiscal resources and weakness in national coordination and sector
programming. Managerial effectiveness in public enterprises and financial
incentives for production are often inadequate. Higher levels of economic
activity together with labor emigration have led to shortages in critical
professional and technical skills. Educational facilities in Egypt still
reflect a non-technical bias and their quality needs to be upgraded.
20.      In addition, the rapid economic growth of recent years has been
based on the performance of sectors with only weak linkages to agriculture,
industry and services where the bulk of the labor force is occupied. For
example, the Suez Canal and the petroleum sector currently account for



-7-
about 22 percent of GDP but only one percent of total employment. While
tourism and remittances directly touch the lives of a much greater number
of people, they cannot provide a solid basis for employment expansion and
technological development. Moreover, the long-term real growth potential
for receipts from petroleum, Suez and remittances is uncertain. The
challenge for Egypt lies in the necessity of channeling a good part of the
surpluses and revenues from these "natural resource" based sectors, into
productive investment in agriculture, industry and social infrastructure in
order to lay the foundations for self-sustaining growth and employment
expansion in the domestic economy. There is tremendous scope for improving
the efficiency and dynamism of domestic institutions and production
processes, particularly at a time when overall resource constraints have
been eased and the absence of short-term crises provides a valuable
opportunity to address the difficult problems of long-term structural and
technological change.
21.      Another key issue is population.  At an estimated 42 million in
mid-1980, Egypt's population is already very large for its limited arable
land area, with an average density exceeding 1300 per sq. km, higher than
that of Bangladesh or Indonesia. Recent census results show that
population has continued to grow at an annual rate exceeding 2.5 percent,
adding almost one million people every year. Moreover, almost half of this
increase is concentrated in the greater Cairo area alone. This continues
to create pressures on resources for consumption and investment and
aggravates the employment problem in the longer run. Although the
government has initiated a more aggressive population program, it will take
considerable time and further measures to achieve measurable results in
fertility reduction.
22.      A serious side effect of recent inflation appears to have been a
deterioration in the relative distribution of income and a growing
disparity in consumption levels. Although inequality and the incidence of
absolute poverty is no worse in Egypt than in most economies at similar
income levels, continued inflation and lack of progress in more effective
taxation of high income groups could lead to serious social problems.
23.      To maintain the momentum of development and to meet the challenges
of the future, major efforts are required to overcome the structural
constraints cited above. Specifically, action is needed to (i) increase
the efficiency of government administration through organization and
procedural modifications and selective changes in salary structures;
(ii) increase real domestic savings through an effective mobilization of
domestic resources and fiscal reform; (iii) strengthen the general use of
prices as meaningful indicators of relative scarcities; (iv) develop a
long-term export promotion policy including appropriate management of
incentives and real effective exchange rates; (v) pursue a vigorous and
balanced program to upgrade the country's physical infrastructure; and
finally (vi) intensify efforts to develop a coherent and effective
population policy. There is an ongoing dialogue on all these important
issues between the Egyptian authorities and the Bank. They have also been
the focus of discussions among the members of the Consultative Group for
Egypt.



-8-
External Debt and Creditworthiness
24.      Egypt's non-military medium- and long-term public debt outstanding
and disbursed as of June 30, 1980, was estimated at about $12.6 billion.
Bilateral loans comprised about 7.9 billion or about 63 percent of the debt
outstanding while the shares of multilateral credit and suppliers' credit
were about 22 and 9 percent respectively, with the remainder being held by
financial institutions. Major creditors were the USA and Gulf Organization
for the Development of Egypt (GODE), followed by Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, and
the Federal Republic of Germany. IBRD/IDA debt comprised about 6 percent
of the total disbursed debt. Debt service payments on medium- and
long-term debt have fluctuated around 20 percent of export earnings during
the last few years.
25.      Although there has been a marked improvement in'the overall
resource situation, and in particular in the balance of payments, in a
longer term perspective, Egypt's development needs remain immense. It is
still a relatively poor country with a population projected to increase to
55 million by 1990. A large investment program will thus be required if
Egypt is to meet the basic needs of its growing population and lay the
foundations for self-sustaining growth. This, in turn, implies the need
for continued large foreign capital inflows in the medium-term.
26.      If Egypt can successfully develop its export and import competing
sectors, and given the significant amounts of concessional aid flows, it
should be able to meet some of its foreign exchange requirements through
borrowing on commercial terms. In the medium- and long-term, debt
servicing as a percentage of exports is expected to remain at around 18
percent during the next five years. In the longer-term, the debt service
ratio will depend on domestic policies and on developments in the oil
sector.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT 1/
27.      The proposed loan would be the World Bank's fifty-ninth lending
operation. It would bring Bank and IDA commitments made since 1970 to
$2200.1 million.2/ Through these operations, the Bank Group has assisted
in the development of the agriculture, industry, power and energy, water
supply, population, transportation, telecommunications, tourism, urban and
1/ This section is substantially unchanged from the corresponding part of
the President's Report for the Technical Assistance Project (P2994-EGT)
which was distributed to the Board on May 21, 1981.
2/  This also includes the HADISOLB Steel Rehabilitation ($64 m.), Beheira
Water Supply ($56.6 m.) and Technical Assistance ($6.9 m.) Projects
which have been presented to the Board but which have not yet been
signed (see Annex II, p. 1).



-9-
education sectors. Annex II contains a Summary of Bank loans and IDA
credits as of March 31, 1981 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
28.      The Bank has tailored its response to Egypt's basic structural
problems in a very broad fashion and in close cooperation with other
donors. Its strategy involves entry into a broad spectrum of sectors in
order to provide not only direct finance with its relatively limited
resources but, equally, to act as a catalyst for other bilateral and
multilateral agencies, and as a spur for initiating discussion and positive
action on a coherent framework of policies and investment proposals which
can tackle the substantive issues. The approach also includes delivery of
technical assistance, not only for adequate implementation of specific
investment programs but for developing the domestic institutional
capability to articulate and implement future policies and investment
programs. The Bank's deliberately broad multisectoral intervention has
been differentiated by sectors and tailored to the pace at which the
Egyptian authorities can reasonably be expected to address these issues and
implement the programs.
29.      Industry, which has been over the past five years the sector
receiving the largest portion of Bank resources and significant attention,
illustrates the nature and scope of the Bank's intervention. The govern-
ment looks upon rapid industrialization as a means to stimulate growth of
the economy, create productive employment, cater to basic consumer needs,
and generate an "export surplus". Efforts under Bank financed projects
have gone beyond the immediate objective of improving capacity utilization
(Imports loans and credits Nos. Cr. 524, Ln. 1062 and Ln. 1456) and in-
creasing production capacity and supply of essential commodities in
resource-based industries (cotton ginning, textiles, cement and fertilizer
projects). The more fundamental effort has been directed at introducing
policy and structural improvements. Towards this end, the Bank has
financed six subsector studies in textiles, building materials, pulp and
paper, food processing, metallurgy, and engineering industries, in order to
assist the government in formulating a package of policy and investment
proposals, which are also embodied in our projects. To complement these
efforts the Bank has also carried out a study on small-scale industries.
Finally, the Bank is assisting the government in a comprehensive study of
the construction/contracting industry, which is one of the major
bottlenecks facing Egyptian industry today.
30.      The illustrative sketch provided above of the scope and breadth of
the Bank's intervention in one sector is representative of the multifaceted
approach that it has adopted in varying degrees in the entire spectrum of
the Egyptian economy. It is a role that is in harmony not only with the
Egyptian Government's wishes but is welcomed by the various bilateral and
multilateral donors as an appropriate function for the Bank as the Chairman
of the Consultative Group. Preparation of projects for future lending fol-
lows this strategy, and the pipeline includes projects in education, gas
development, rural and urban development, population and nutrition, trans-
portation, water supply, agriculture (including drainage), development
finance and industry.



-10-
31.      Bank Group disbursements in 1980 represent about 13 percent of
Egypt's medium-and long-term capital inflow. The Bank and IDA shares of
total external debt outstanding and disbursed were about 3.2 percent and
2.4 percent, respectively, as of June 30, 1980. For the future, the Bank
and IDA shares of total external debt outstanding and disbursed (excluding
military debts) are estimated to reach about 5.5 and 3.5 percent
respectively in 1981. It is estimated that in 1981, debt service payments
due to the Bank and IDA will represent about 2.3 percent and 0.2 percent,
respectively, of service payments due on Egypt's external debt.
32.      IFC participation and lending for projects in Egypt now total
about $74 million and include: a ceramics project (approved in 1976); a
ready-made garment project (1977); a project for an agricultural complex
primarily for sugar beet (1978); a poultry project (1979); a fish farming
project (1979); a building material project (1980), and a tourism project
(1980). IFC is dissussing several other private sector and joint venture
projects.
PART III - THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
33.      The Arab Republic of Egypt National Telecommunications
Organization (AREtNTO), attached to the Ministry of Commutications, is
responsible for the operation and development of all public
telecommunication facilities in Egypt. The old organization (ARETO) was
re-established under a new charter in July 1980 to provide the organization
with a greater degree of fiscal and administrative autonomy, giving it
scope to improve its efficiency and, in time, to achieve financial
independence. This is a very important step toward strengthening ARENTO's
performance. Under its new charter the Telecommunications Organization is
now empowered (a) to set tariffs, subject to approval by the Minister of
Communications; (b) to determine staff hiring and compensation; (c) to
retain surplus funds for investment; and (d) to implement a commercial
accounting and billing system.
Current Status of Service
34.      The development of telecommunications in Egypt has not kept pace
with the country's overall development. Egypt's telephone density of 1.3
telephones per 100 people is significantly lower than other mideastern
countries, e.g. 11.2 in Lebanon and 2.5 in Turkey. Within Egypt, the
figure is about 5.0 in Cairo and 3.4 in Alexandria (compared with 19.5 in
Beirut and 16.1 in Ankara) and for the rest of the country there are only
0.28 telephones per 100 inhabitants. Even primary access to telephone
service, e.g. by a public call office, is still not available in about
1,000 out of a total of 4,000 village communities.
35.      Telephone availability deteriorated during the decade prior to
1978 because of very low investment in telecommunications development,
resulting mainly from lower priority accorded to this sector. During this
period, registered applicants waiting for service rose from about 15,500 to



-11-
over 400,000, which is roughly equivalent to all the existing working
connections in the country. Consultants have estimated the total demand
for telephone lines at about one million in 1980. The waiting lists
continue to expand and, in some areas, applicants are now waiting up to 14
years for a connection. Furthermore, because of the insufficient
investment, the existing telecommunication facilities are grossly
inadequate in relation to demand and usage, resulting in severe traffic
congestion, difficulties in establishing connections, and extended periods
when equipment remains faulty. Consequently, the quality and reliability
of existing telecommunications services are poor.
36.      ARENTO estimates that in Cairo approximately 95 percent of all
calls during peak hours are business related. In rural areas, the major
telephone users are also business people, e.g. agricultural wholesalers,
local merchants and tradesmen. Therefore, the unavailability of adequate
facilities and poor quality of services cut sharply into economic
production and distribution activities. Improvements in urban and
international telecommunications services will improve the efficiency of
banking, tourism, and commercial investors, and make Egypt a more
attractive location for overseas businesses. In rural areas, improved and
expanded facilities will improve marketing and in particular support the
rapid expansion of cash crops, such as fruits and vegetables. Improved
telecommunications should also benefit rural social services, including the
administration of health, education, and rural developme'nt agencies.
Sector Objectives and Investment Program
37.      The central objective of the sector is to overcome the very high
backlog in demand, to improve service quality, and to develop a
telecommunications network in the rural as well as the urban areas that
fully supports the country's economic development. In order to do this
effectively it will be important to develop a sound financial basis for
ARENTO and policies that will enable ARENTO to strengthen its organization
and maintain investment growth in order to provide adequate and
satisfactory services.
38.      To compensate for the past decade of low sector investment,
ARENTO's investment program for the next four years (FY82-85) has been
increased dramatically, averaging annually about $534 million compared to
about $111 million in the late 1970s. The program provides for increasing
the total number of working lines to about one million; improving local,
long distance domestic and international services; providing sufficient
telex connections to meet the demand; improving telecommunications services
to villages and small towns in addition to the large cities to provide a
balanced network; and developing ARENTO into an effective and efficient
organization. This program would raise the number of telephones per 100
people in Egypt to nearly 2.7, almost doubling the telephone density in
Cairo and Alexandria and a five-fold increase in the rest of Egypt. The
estimated cost of the FY82-85 program is about $2 billion equivalent.



-12-
Bank's Role in the Sector
39.      Bank Group involvement in the telecommunications sector in Egypt
dates back to 1974. Given the then severely run-down condition of the
telecommunications services and the total absence of long-term planning,
the first IDA credit (548-ECT) in 1975 for $30 million was designed for the
most urgent service rehabilitation needs and to set the stage for a
comprehensive sector study to provide an in-depth review of sector needs,
goals, and constraints--in short, to lay the foundations for the rational
and least cost development of the sector. (The project completion report
for the first project is scheduled for September 1981.)
40.       In 1976, USAID financed a two year study by the Continental
Telephone International (CTI) consultants, for which the Bank assisted in
drafting the terms of reference. Pending the results of the study, a
second IDA credit (774-EGT) in 1978 for $53 million funded further urgent
rehabilitation and some service expansion, as well as instituted measures
to restore some order in ARETO's accounts and to help it maintain financial
viability. The immediate results of our participation were a tariff
revision; a major review and adjustment of ARETO's heretofore incomplete
accounts; initiating the collection of long-overdue receivables from
government subscribers and the checking of inordinate increases in the
number of staff; and the undertaking of an asset revaluation study.
41.      Through continuing involvement in the sector, the Bank has been
able to assist the government in its evaluation of the CTI consultants'
report (issued in 1978) which included specific recommendations on the
scale of overall costs and implementation of its proposed development
program. While agreeing generally with the report, the Bank paid special
attention to evaluating the estimated investment costs (which were
considered high) and counseled ARETO on the disadvantages of adopting the
proposed global, turnkey procurement strategy. As a result, the investment
costs of the FY82-85 program have been scaled down to more reasonable
levels.
42.      The proposed FY82-85 development program consists of three major
components: first, the installation of about 738,000 lines of main local
automatic telephone systems in Cairo, Alexandria and principal towns in the
rest of the country; second, the expansion of national and international
long distance telephone, telegraph and telex systems; and third, the
rehabilitaton and expansion of the manual and semi-automatic telephone
systems and secondary long distance network serving small towns and
villages in the rural areas. The first two components are covered by a
number of ongoing works, by USAID projects and by supply/financing
arrangements with a European consortium comprising Siemens (Federal
Republic of Germany), Thomson CSF (France) and Siemens (Austria). The
proposed Bank project is needed to cover a substantial share of the third
component, which is an essential part of ARENTO's FY82-85 program and is
needed for the balanced development of Egypt's telecommunications network.
Approximately. 55 percent of Egypt's population lives in the smaller towns
and villages and the upgrading of services in these areas is necessary for
the overall infrastructure improvements needed to support balanced economic



-13-
development in the country. Equally important, through the third project,
in addition to providing financial support to Egypt's rural and small town
development, the Bank will be able to continue to provide critical support
to the sector and ARENTO in key organizational and financial areas.
PART IV - TUE PROJECT
43.       The proposed project was identified in June 1979, and prepared by
ARENTO with the Bank's assistance. It was appraised in November 1980.
Negotiations were held in Washington from April 6 to April 13, 1981, with
the government delegation headed by Mr. Samir Koraiem. The staff appraisal
report entitled "Egypt: Arab Republic of Egypt National Telecommunications
Organization: Third Telecommunications Project" (No. 3326), dated June 26,
1981, is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
The Project
44.      The proposed Third Telecommunications Project provides for the
following physical vTorks:
(a) installation of about 67,500 lines of semi-automatic exchange
equipment in small towns in Lower and Upper Egypt;
(b) rehabilitation and re-installation of about 60,000 lines of manual
telephone exchange equipment in rural areas;
(c) replacement and expansion of the outside plant networks for about
180,000 lines in manual and automatic exchange areas;
(d) rehabilitation and expansion of long distance networks by
installation of small coaxial cables, UHF/VHF radio links,
overhead cables and open wire lines and carrier systems-connecting
small towns and rural areas; and
(e) provision of tools, vehicles, testing amd miscellaneous equipment
including telegraph and telex.
45.      In addition, the project provides for the following institutional
improvements:
(a) the establishment of a planning group in ARENTO to develop and
maintain multi-year investment plans;
(b) the maintenance of a continuous dialogue with ARENTO on (i) its
reorganization, (ii) review of the productivity targets and
progress in their achievement, and (iii) future financial planning.
Project Implementation and Strengthening the Implementing Agency
46.      The project will be implemented over the fiscal years FY82-85.
The Arab Republic of Egypt National Telecommunications Organization would
be the Borrower and the implementing agency.



-14-
47.      As indicated in Part III, the Bank has been closely involved, on a
continuing basis, with the development of the telecommunications sector in
Egypt. The re-establishment of ARENTO under a new charter and the
accompanying increase in its financial independence provides an important
opportunity for substantially strengthening the organization. The Bank's
continued participation in the sector through the proposed project will
provide necessary support for a dramatic increase in investment in order to
permit telecommunication services to catch up to and reinforce the rest of
the country's development. Many of the institutional aspects are now being
reviewed by Arthur D. Little consultants (financed by USAID), including
ARENTO's functions, capabilities, systems and procedures for planning,
accounting and financial management and control. Based on this review, the
consultants will propose a new organizational structure, recommend
necessary improvements, and assist ARENTO in the implementation of the
required changes. In view of the Bank's interest and continuing close
involvement in these institutional areas, ARENTO will undertake (a) to
provide the Bank with the results of ARENTO's current review of its
organizational structural policies and operating procedures, (b) to
exchange views with the Bank in respect to such results, and (c) to keep
the Bank informed of the progress achieved in implementing these changes
(Section 4.02 of the Loan Agreement).
48.      Pending the consultant's recommendations, the Bank is prepared to
assist further with ARENTO's institutional development. At this time, the
Bank has identified two important areas of organizational development not
contingent on the consultants' review. First, the Continental Telephones
International sector study provided an initial master plan for 20 years,
with an initial five year development program. If these plans are to be
operationally useful, it is essential to revise them on a continuing
basis. Therefore, ARENTO has agreed to establish a Planning Unit by
January 1, 1982 and assign to it the responsibility for revising from time
to time ARENTO's master and medium-term development plans (Section 4.02 of
the Loan Agreement).
49.      A second important institutional development which has been
identified is the establishment of a Program Implementation Coordination
Unit. With an enormous and accelerated investment program that involves a
number of large individual projects financed by several foreign donors, as
well as a large number of additional activities financed by ARENTO, it will
be vital to centralize under a single unit the coordination, control and
monitoring of all ARENTO's program activities. Accordingly, in February
1981 ARENTO established a Program Implementation Control Unit headed by the
chairman of ARENTO.
50.      In June 1980, ARETO had a high employee-telephone ratio (92/1,000)
which was partly brought about by government employment policies. The high
employment levels decreased efficiency and unnecessarily increased costs.
Under its new charter, ARENTO will have more control over staffing.
Therefore, ARENTO has agreed to establish for every three fiscal year
period, starting with its fiscal year 1982-83, in accordance with sound
telecommunications operational practices and taking into account local
conditions, targets for ARENTO's employee/telephone ratio, and it will



-15-
inform the Bank and exchange views annually with it on the progress in
achieving these targets (Section 4.04 of the Loan Agreement). With a
policy to hold down staff levels and with the expected increase in the
number of telephones financed by the large increase in investment, ARENTO
should be able to achieve increased productivity by gradually reducing the
employee/telephone ratio.
51.      ARENTO's existing training facilities are considered adequate to
ensure the availability of sufficient trained manpower to implement the
proposed program, although appropriate in-service (refresher) training is
necessary for existing staff to aquaint them with the new technologies in
telecommunications as they are introduced in Egypt. A.D. Little is
assisting with management training and setting up the basis for technical
training programs. These additional efforts should improve the quality of
ARENTO's staff training.
52.      ARENTO's engineers have the capability to plan, design and execute
the works under the project. However, it will be necessary to maintain a
project unit in ARENTO for the execution of the proposed project (Section
3.02 of the Loan Agreement). A schedule of construction for major works in
the project has been prepared, and the project unit will be responsible for
monitoring project execution according to this schedule.
Improving AR4NTO's Financial Performance
53.      The Bank is in a unique position, through the project, to assist
ARENTO to make policy reforms necessary for improving the organization's
financial viability and to point it toward eventual independence.
54.      ARENTO's current financial situation largely reflects the
institutional constraints of the old organization, ARETO, which it
replaced. ARETO had no control over its tariffs or over one of its major
operating expenses, personnel costs. Its main financial problem--high
indebtedness and hence debt service--had arisen primarily from its
financial relationship with the government. The government was entitled to
receive ARETO's net income in lieu of dividends, regardless of its level
relative to the government's investment in ARETO or ARETO's investment
needs. The Ministry of Finance in turn lent ARETO investment and operating
funds. Because of the burden of debt service on an ever-increasing
indebtedness, the level of ARETO's net internal cash generation was
materially lower than it would have been under more conventional financing
arrangements. From 1977 to 1980, the financial rate of return on revalued
net fixed assets fell from 9 to 4 percent, and net internal cash generation
as a percentage of capital expenditures fell from 10 percent in 1977 to
being negative in 1979-80. These results were a consequence of rising
operating costs and indebtedness, coupled with the absence of adequate
financial policies and guidelines to deal with the problem.
55.      One of the Bank's major objectives is to advise ARFENTO on policies
that will help it achieve a much sounder financial position, taking into
account the effects of inflation. In addition to advising on how rates of
return on revalued assets can be raised, the Bank



-16-
will work with ARENTO on establishing adequate targets for liquidity ratios
and self-generated contributions to system expansion. For example,
ARENTO's historical liquidity ratio has been inadequate resulting in a
consistent shortage of cash for operations, and the Bank has incorporated
in the financial projections an increase in the liquidity ratios, which
will be monitored during project supervision.
56.      With the help of Bank staff during preparation of the second IDA
credit, the government implemented a 70 percent increase in tariffs.  In
addition, the second IDA credit helped improve and expand services. These
actions contributed to a growth in revenue but not enough to outweigh
rapidly increasing operating costs so as to maintain a reasonable rate of
return and provide a satisfactory contribution to capital expenditures.
Thus, during preparation of this project, it was determined that further
tariff increases were necessary so that prices could begin to play a role
in determining access to telephone service and to generate additional
revenue to help finance a reasonable portion of ARENTO's massive FY82-85
development program. In view of the importance of the tariff level in
maintaining the financial viability of ARENTO, and pending the results of a
more detailed tariff structure study in terms of marginal production costs
and demand characteristics (which is currently being carried out by
consultants), the Bank required that, as a condition of Board presentation,
the government take appropriate measures to set tariffs necessary to ensure
ARENTO at least a 10 percent rate of return on revalued net operating
assets in FY82. This condition has been met. ARENTO agreed to earn an
annual rate of return on revalued net fixed assets in operation of not less
than 10 percent (Section 5.04 (b) of the Loan Agreement). Further tariff
increases during the project period would be necessary if actual price
inflation exceeds significantly the foreseeable rates used in estimating
capital and operating costs in the financial projections. As required
under the second credit agreement, ARENTO will also revalue periodically
its assets on principle as agreed with the Bank.
57.      With the recent tariff increase ARENTO would be able to-cover its
operating expenses, including depreciation, and to meet interest on and
amortize debt. Furthermore, ARENTO would be able to finance an increasing
proportion of its vastly expanded investment program rising from a negative
contribution in 1981 to 24 percent in FY86, at the end of the project
period. Although somewhat low in absolute terms, this level of
self-financing is significant considering the extremely large magnitude of
the investment program which is needed to compensate for the long period of
stagnation in sector investment. In addition, the benefits of the ongoing
and project works will only begin to accrue in a significant way in 1984
and will then build substantially after the project construction period.
58.      ARENTO's financial position may be further strengthened by
settling arrears in government payments. In the second Development Credit
Agreement (774-EGT) the government and ARENTO had undertaken to arrange
that all overdue debts by public agencies for ARENTO's services through
December 1977 would be settled by the end of December 1978 and that all
further debts of government subscribers would be settled within three
months from the date of billing. Some progress has been achieved but,



-17-
although the deadline for the complete settlement was extended by the
Association to December 31, 1979, this new date could not be met. The
government confirmed that all the accounts receivable from government
agencies up to December 31, 1979 are now being collected. Further, the
government has given assurances that all debt of government subscribers
incurred during the period January 1, 1980 to June 30, 1981 will be paid
not later than December 31, 1982, and that all future debts for services
rendered by ARENTO will be settled within three months from the date of
billing (Section 5.05 of the Loan Agreement).
59.      As a government organization, ARENTO's accounts are post audited
on a continuing basis by the government's central auditing organization.
Under the existing IDA credits, ARETO agreed annually to provide IDA with
audited financial statements together with the auditor's report and
recommendations. These audits have been carried out and ARETO has made the
reports available to IDA, although they have been late. The need for
timely submission of these reports has been brought to the notice of the
government and ARETO. During negotiations assurances were obtained that
these reports will be made available within six months of the end of the
fiscal year (Section 5.02 of the Loan Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
60.      The estimated cost of the project is about $141 million, with a
foreign exchange component of about $80 million. (ARENTO is exempt from
taxes and custom duties.) A physical contingency of four percent has been
provided. Price contingencies have been applied on foreign costs at 9
percent in 1982, 8 percent in 1983, and 7 percent each in 1984 and 1985.
For local costs, an annual escalation of 15 percent for 1982 has been
applied and 12 percent for each following year, 1983-85. The resulting
overall estimated price contingency amounts to 17.6 percent of the
estimated total base cost plus physical contingencies.
61.      The proposed Bank loan of $64 million would meet about 80 percent
of the foreign cost of the project. Bilateral aid funds are also available
from France ($6.3 million). The government and ARENTO would provide the
balance of required funds (Section 2.02 of the Guarantee Agreement).
Procurement
62.      ARENTO will procure all the material and equipment financed by the
Bank loan through international competitive bidding in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines for Procurement except for the supply of extension of
existing terminal transmission and multiplex equipment estimated to cost
about three million dollars (about five percent of the proposed loan) from
the original suppliers on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. A
15 percent preference or the prevailing customs duties, whichever is lower,
will be applied to bids from local manufacturers. Apart from Bank-financed
items, the semi-automatic telephone switching equipment will be available
from French s.uppliers under credits from France; the manual switch boards
and telephone instruments are either available or will be provided by
ARENTO's workshops and the Egyptian Telephone Company.



-18-
Disbursement
63.      The proposed loan will be disbursed against 100 percent of foreign
expenditures for imported equipment. For locally awarded contracts, 100
percent exfactory costs (less local taxes) will be disbursed.  The closing
date for the loan is expected to be December 31, 1986.
Project Benefits
64.      ARENTO's investment program will contribute to closing the gap
resulting from telecommunications facilities having lagged far behind the
predominantly business-oriented demand for such services. Thus, in
addition to assisting in overall institutional development, the project
will help remove what has come to be recognized as a major bottleneck in
the development of the economy. In particular, in rural areas the project
will provide an important component of the infrastructure linking villages
to each other, and forming links between hamlets, villages, markazes
(districts), and from them to the major cities and the rest of the
country. This will make it possible to summon help in emergencies, and
facilitate timely contact with markets for agricultural produce to arrange
deliveries and order supplies such as groceries, kerosene, and spare parts
for tractors. Use of the telephone in rural areas is particularly
important in instances of supply shortages. For example, University of
Cairo researchers cited the typical example of a markaz bfficial making
several calls to the governorate capital to request more kerosene when
supplies ran out. Similar examples were cited for shortages of cement and
iron. Research has also documented the fact that the telephone is used in
rural Egypt to arrange sales of produce to urban markets and to arrange for
shipments, for example, of eggs, chickens, vegetables and molasses. The
primary users of the telephone have been found to be business, merchants,
and wholesalers of agricultural produce. Their calls are likely to be to
the regional business center such as the capital of the governorate, and to
major cities. Finally, telephone service in rural (as well as urban) areas
of Egypt is used to arrange meetings and to avoid unnecessary travel. Even
in instances in which face-to-face meetings are required, appointments are
arranged by telephone when available, so that a trip is not wasted.
65.      Return on Investment.  The minimum estimate of the economic rate
of return on ARENTO's projected investment program (based upon the recent
tariff increase, at constant 1981 prices) is 21 percent. The advantages of
increasing tariffs again during the project period is recognized by ARENTO,
and with the assistance of consultants the possibility of future tariff
action to strengthen further ARENTO's financial position is being studied.
66.      The foregoing estimate of benefits is a significant underestimate
of total program benefits, since it does not fully account for external
benefits associated with transport substitution and administrative
efficiency. Under the second project (Credit 774-EGT), an attempt was made
in 1978 to measure some portion of the additional benefits associated with
the 1978-80 investment program period. The study showed that by taking
into account these additional benefits the economic rate of return was more
than double the internal financial rate of return.



-19-
Risks
67.      There are no unusual risks associated with the program.  A
possible risk may arise out of delayed physical implementation due to
unforeseen circumstances, such as delays in civil work of buildings or
receipt of equipment. However, in telecommunications projects which
comprise a large number of independent works, a delay in imlementation of a
few works does not generally prevent the use of other newly created assets.
Furthermore, when delays occur, the costs and revenues are delayed in
roughly the same degree so the overall impact on the return on investment
is not significant. A sensitivity analysis shows that on increasing
capital costs by 10 percent and reducing revenues by 10 percent the
economic rate of return falls to about 17 percent. No adverse
environmental or health effects are expected from the project.
PART V - Legal Instruments and Authority
68.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Arab Republic of Egypt
National Telecommunications Organization and the Bank, the draft Guarantee
Agreement between the Arab Republic of Egypt and the Bank, and the Report
of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii), of the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
69.      Features of the draft Loan Agreement of special interest are
listed in Section III of Annex III.
70.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - Recommendations
71.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 30, 1981
Washington, D.C.



-20-                                             ANNEX I
LADLE 3.4                                                   Page  1  of  6
UYP1 - SOCIAL I4DlLArUOS DAtAA SHEEI
Wift                           I8EFEItEHCE GAROUP  (WEICHTEI AVER ,
LAMi) A.4A (ITHU        o. I.)                                                        - tlUSt aE,EtT   STIMATE)
luIAL           IVul.4                                                   HIU0Li INC;.E
AGHIUULTUtAL      26.4                               MOST KAECEPT        8UrtH AFRICA 6            PUDDLE INCOME
-                  1960  a    1970 Lb EStILATE /b       HIDDLE EAST         LATIS AItEICA 6 CAIUIBEAM
(Ahl PE, tAVITIA (US)                100.0       170.0    480.0                 86S.5                  1616.2
LNEYUY  uhbU,.FIneUN P1K LA"ITA
(K1WI,mI Ok  Al kUMIVALI.SI)    299.4         321.2    565.1                  756.3                  1324.1
?UrULA1tJEM Abo VIrAL sTArILbTILS
iUPULATIU;., _L-YLAK (THUUSAN1S) 25929.0    32341.0   3868.0   ..
Ut14  rUPULAIION (EAlENIT OF lUTAL) 37.9        A2.2      45.1                 45.24.
PUPULATIUN P)JELIEU lUll
PfULATIUM IN YtAK 2UUU (lILLIUON)                      b0.2
STAtIONARY HUYULAILtN (MILLIONS)               ..      104.0
YEII 5TATIVtMY IVPULATIOI  IS PEALHEU                2060
PPVU - TlutJ DENSITY
PtY 64. 13.                      25.9         32.3      38.8                36.3                     34.3
PEA sq. LK. AaIILULtUM  LAND   1016.8       1142.8    1338.4               442.7                    94.5
1P4ULAIIOu  AGE STIUCTURE (PEhl'EtT)
0-14 YdS.                        42.2         41.8     40.0                  A.2                    40.7
L5-04 Ytb.                        54.7        54.9      56.6                 52.4                    55.3
65 iRS. ADh ABOVE                  3.1         3.3       3.4                  3.4                     4.0
pOPULAtlUN AUWTH R ATE (PERCEt4T)
TOrAL                             2.4          2.2      2.0                  2.7                     2.4
UIkUm                             4.1         3.3       2.8                  *.6                     3.7
CRUDE 5111H MAIL (P11 IHtUSANO)    44.0         38.1      37.0                 41.5                    31.4
*utJh)E O  RATE MAIL (FLU I8UIJSAN14)  Id.8    14.9       12.2                 12.66.4
(.UMA  xEfVUUPIJTIUv MAIE            3.U         2.7       2.4                  2.9                     .3
FAULY PLASNINI.
CL.LPILUJS, AINNLAL (tHUUSM4US)    ..        206.0    187.0
USLAS4  (ftPLtALNI Of A1El1   WOMEN)   ..     9.0      17.0
-WU) AhU) t UltRllUt.
IhUt.X UF f10U YKUAJUCIIOt
PER CAPtIA (1969-71-LVO)         96.0        99.0      94.O                 96.3                   108.3
EKR CAPITA SUPPLY VF
CALIaILS (Pt A(.1I uF
MMlUIKAUIITS)                  102.0       104.0    109.0                 110.4                  107.6
PUYUTtlhS (RA14S rLR JAY1         73.0        71.0      75.0                73.4                    65.8
f WdlCH8 ANIMAL ANU PULSE       17.0        17.0      19.0                 17.1                    34.0
"ILLU C&LS 1-4) MU1VTALITY tArE     31.7        21.9      14.9                 14.9                     7.6
LIFL EUL AINCY At BI1TH (YEARS)   46.1        51.6      56.b                 55.9                    4.1
LDFANT MORTALITY SAIL (PER
litHUAN.)                         109.3       116.0      85.0                   ..                    70.9
ACCESS To SAFE WATEYt (PERCENT UF
mUpULAIION)
TOTAL                              ..          ..       U.0                 59.4                    65.7
Utt,A)                           3S.5          ..      86.0                 83.9                    79.7
RURAL                              ..          ..      S0.0                 40.8                    43.9
ACCESS TO LXCALIA VLbPUSAL (PEt CEHT
UF POI'ULATLUhN
IUTAL                              ..          ..        ..                   ..                    59.9
016.414                            ..          ..        ..              . -  ..                    75.7
ANL                                .                                                                30.4
PUPUJLATION PER PHYS[C1AN        2556.1       1656.7   1046.0Lc             4174.5                  1728.2
PUrULAIIuN PER NhUbSlG PERSHU    2130.0/c   158d.413  1096.6.LS             1780.5                  1286.2
FUPULATIQIN PLK HSlPITAL BED
TUTAL                           466.0       448.7    459.6                 647.4                   471.2
Utm                                ..       352.2    654.0                 547.2                   558.0
ItURL                              ..      2128.1   2291.8                3361.1
ADMIIISSIONS Pi HOSPITAL BED         ..          ..      30.8                 25.3
HUUSlhG
AVLXAOE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TuTAL                              ..          ..       5.2
URALN                             4:.          ..       5.0
RUMAL'                             ..          ..       5.5
AVERALE 81U41E1 OF PEKSUNS PEt MOON
MUK                               Ib  ..                 ..                ..
KIIKAL                             L..                    .                    ..
ACCESS IOr ELLLLKICITY (PERCENT
UF DWELLI.1.)
1u.AL                              .                   45.7
U164                             37.8          ..      76.9
RURAL                              ..          ..      18.6



-21-                                               ANNEX I
ECYPT - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                               Page  2  of  6
EGYPT                            REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAC5S
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
MIDDLE INCOME
MOST RECENT         NORTH AFRICA 6             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb        HIDDLE EAST         LATIN AMERICA * CARIBIRU
EDECATION
ADjlSTED ENKOLLMEXE RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 66.0         70.0       74.0                  85.1                    101.7
MALE                  80.0        88.0       88.0                 101.5                    103.0
FEKALE                52.0        54.0       58.0                  67.5                    101.5
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 16.0         33.0      47.0                   38.0                     35.3
MALE                  23.0        44.0       60.0                  48.1                     34.9
FEHALE                 9.0        21.0       35.0                  28.3                     35.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY) 22.0           19.0       20.0                  11.3                     30.1
PUPIL-TEACHEX RATIO
PRIMARY                            39.0         38.0       34.0                  34.9                     29.6
SECONDARY                          16.0         25.0       25.0                  23.8                     15.7
ADt'LT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       26.0           ..       43.5                  43.0                     80.0
CONS0;hPTION
PASSESGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPL'LATION                         3.0          4.0        7.6                  18.3                     42.6
RAD10 RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         57.9        136.1     142.1                  121.0                    215.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          1.9         16.4       17.0                  37.4                     N.0
NEWSPAPER (DAILY GENERAL
INIEREST') CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     ..        23.0      83.0                   35.9                     62.8
ClNEhA ANNUtAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  3.0          2.0         ..                   3.0                      3.2
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      7481.4       9041.9   10839.7
FLHALE (PERCENT)                    7.3          7.2        7.8                  10.5                     22.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              58.0         54.4       50.4                  43.5                     35.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 12.0         18.8      28.6                   27.3                     23.2
PAR.ICIFATION PATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                28.9         28.0       27.9                  26.4                     31.8
HALE                                  53.2        51.5       50.9                  47.0                     49.0
FEHALE                                4.2          4.1        4.4                   5.7                     14.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.6         1.6        1.6                   1.8                      1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PFRCEIT OF PRIVATE INCOHE
iECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.5/d        17.4/d e  22 0/f
hIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  44.47a        42.8d    4 9 27T
LOIEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.6/d         7.0ld.   5.1i7f
LoWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.5/d        18.77~i  14.87.                            
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTD>ATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAX                                 ..          ..      131.0                 271.4
NLURAL                                ..          ..       94.0                 144.6                    187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..      180.0                 400.8                    513.9
RUiLAL                                ..          ..      118.0                 290.9                    362.2
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOKE LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      21.0                   22.1
RLRAL                                 ..          ..       25.0                  29.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   Tbe group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic ueans.  Coveraje of countries
aong the Indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted. data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate. between 1976 and 1979.
/c   Registered, not all practing in the country;  /d Rural expenditures;  /e 1964-65;  /f National, 1974-75.
may, 1981



-22-                                                                         ANNEX I
b9VIUIONSOF SCIAL  XbJCTOPSPage    3    of    6
jf "'lf  lthorgh ot. euro or. droa fla.  -orsao g.-rolly  Jw s tio.  -o  robrtrltuo  rotota                               0 -uhul   la, ha oatd  hth   rho7 -y  Mt ho tOffo
sar1ooll  roupa-blo booao.  of rho lock of utur1dri-ad dot tttrtoo   oud  --oort  ..ad by dtffonoo-                  uotu        r  o   r       tn ho data.  Tb. do.        p.0
tboloo. woofoL Co d.... rho ordorsof -.uulodu,So LScat, tr-.J.draroolt    urooao  dl t.faoTc.   bouo A                                    ot
Thu rofr-ot0puar  (If rhoo.  rou-soy sroup of rho aubjot ocnry d (2) acou-ur   grop old .rh.   hlthur   -argo Itno.  th.t uh.  -outr  grop
.1 th.  objuct ...rr.tY    -p5 for "Cuottu  hr. Oil fuotu                      - gop olur   Otidlo  tic..  fut,h *fr- lo  a   Piddlo rot'  a. Oho..t         .     of.. t. ong. r
uuol-.oultarl sftr,lloul   Snhurlouu         rop dots TMuooa           . pplto   nightS   ttttutto  u-At. for a..ch  ricut-or uod uh.- oulY oh-
alortrt9  b.  of    .. Illottrtu    to   ot-, tuu data for that  Wit trao.nc.       rho.ooooo   cnotss sroIul sno.,-4u. -n rho.olbltr   fdat
U~..MzA  ftouaaaodsq.hs.       ....rfI.to  far claIIa   Sod-11I toruS  ur                                                                       -, 'nburl-  Pplal          I(ttl
0ur pu,  _arot.  ubuta   botugrdouso.               oIl   slrt17   aa Itatlru  ur  uoen                                 . PMoslra1  ar.    solIhor ..r.o.n.y.utt.fod
by ur lu-u  on  Phyrrr tan.  trblhsr    rndi -a P, lcipollyOusr..
PUClTA (SIt) - IS  p.r  _ulr   urut   oror                        P"'.br    oca.o               dtu  coot sf0 tot Lorludd.          o   hoapttlu, borvr, lrcldu  hualth
'ralT Id_by M . conatot  ohdu   ol    u   AtlasV.              01977-frharlr; 19600                     Add -dlra   tAott-  no  po-.tunty stoffod byaphsIn   AhT b 
1970, uo  1679 dots.d i.udoluuOrn .tr 1,sdoito, ofc.)  htchfoffor Oir-poroto
mciV cOMnww~Otco y   CA~PITA -Aoo   nooto    f tourtol. .roogy (col,.l.Jpt.  ro    .ortl  locud  0 0  ptnLpul/gon.ruhopoaa
aad lspro, putoluota  rotoro   Mu an  byro,`oolo,                                                          w tthruul.1c-un   url   ootti .loa   t..r.ru . ..pol  und uodlcl urd  -1-rruly
-ortory) Ia ktluraua  of r-u  uqorIoolo   Mur  Iat;16.1970. oM  1979                                   roros    pollod hosy-tal  of. L-Inol                ..od  ol .unds  total.
daro.                                                                                                Aduoouloou to, orurtl rod - Total toaho  of  d'..ul ...t to or dfurhurguo
fuou aplttulu dtudud by rh. ouber of buds.
Pl CLWr ANt VITALS.TATtISTICS
ptos. Ponl ioOd-fourf luhusadr) - A. of Iu1y 1; 1960. 5970, lood 1919                             bOttOtc
ddru.                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Anuoaf  Slo   f  outl   orsn   .huohold7  otl  ur-u ndrua  -
Ioo   outro   roAobfroa)-ha  oo  ubot   otlppilro;0                                                         Iooood oott  ofufo              d f l,tdndutlr oh.  haru IoInJg qutruro
dlffrus  dtfostcnoof urbanara A       y off.ct ctaod, 1bsltytro  dur                           o  ru,touMb b"A bood-r or  -ntrsy 00 -f- n btho toludod to
ongouoou;19600  1970, sod 1979 dot.-                                                       rho h-rrahodfosttttlsprpa.
houI.oolunProirotton                                                                  Anuroas uulor..1.Lyrtoru  p.rdooto- ours.    oba . orirra - -torao- re
Poertluitor It roar100                             iro   oolto    njolts ore ioun  00 19thriffrst   r  rosI   Ilubt  ndrrloCutdtunn  oa
toalppuato  by ag   o   oan   hf   otolycdfrrMtrtu                                           dotlsgar  rrrpooInrly           Inrlouoludo              = oo-.oouusrououd
tonal, cod loud   1100 so poorasy  srshfloolog o  77.5 yuuru.  Th  1to-1         Coon-olo-a  donluoraFtbroh          r   107Mi  In.  Irlt  qurrr  a.T.  
-cur.  or futlllt  too.ol onho,u  huulu.usofa toInun                                     of rtul.l  ubn   o   uo  dul.lo             -rop-ctl-ly.
fart111ty accodlog to Iocot  Iota1  and pat  fulyplonr.n I            oro,onou
Lob--1 cottr   Ia  than .ar'Vo"  out of utra.  ri-  cht-bo-fcoo  of  -.orrlly                 EDUCATIOrN
s.w  furroro itruo...d. for proS-ti-  rurss                                                       fso  tf9otro
Suatteory ooruotlon-turot  ouy  op hudo   00c  t  to grothh ulno.                             yr!T     rho  -         1o. solo ood total  - G-:autota,  tala  and tu 1.a
thu brth  rt, t  oqua  to  h. do,si  rtr,  rd  Au   t ho ag    t_roor.s                       -crulto   of oIlcgua   nha rrur   0               rPtrttuuuo  rtyot o
soda.onuoaut.ThIs  r .olo-u   only af-o  foroll tr  rutu   dofli..to 0ploy.h laurpLatiocu;..,ra-l  sursudoo Ihllro   ugrd  -11
C,,  Iulrootlclo  unIt oaf o-Pnd   Io  rt., oh. or   th aguour-o Irjtr  but adlrtod for dlfforun   lu,,rh, of.prloaY oduoticr; for
of    -orplao-   Itoft ty.  Tho atroay popu.luto  rotor"urIu  Okcsoal ocrInorlu                                                                          say soo   0          oo
.2ta0    0thu bouuu of rho roJuotod ohrror                 I c  ofturrlfo                       uoucuool   r   r0cO                  Iotoofoto1 uchool ago.P
go th  yu1000, ond rho furu of duollo  . o  fIrollf  raot   olc-hcoarc(tO-otl"                                                  ul   r   raoCooo               .bo;ood
u-oht    u tuhod.                                                                            -ucull  of 12. to 17yorofooorrprdcaorurrogualy
Parso  h. -fOd-uo  coulclt fr qProkilouutu  (100 hou tat)of                                  rouratu  orolou   (p.rut-  of uoonorl-fouloollsrtttr
oa   ro;11.'1970 un   979oa..lI.to ocu,fdrra,rohr pro.rro ..i oob ptt. ..d..                                                                                                 d
o     Ir16,1970  td 1970 dou.'                                         -                     uolraouro  to-cd            or.cdoeodp                   otlrut   urlsI
Poo.lonls ha  Itroruo  forcur  -  ibld..t (0-l4 Y-af), - ouklr-agu  (15-                          prlucry coO  so7odoy 1-de dooiood h by uo    ft t-ohr   to rho
hA roors),sod rouro  (6) r.tor  orJ  -tno) a",r",Pt,oIl-yu    oc-ccuutOorlnl...
lottoo   1960. 19071  and 1979 dots.                                                                 Must IItao   obScscrr      Loroodu    (ahlr to red und  -rt.o)
P~WUtrLro    roT-h too   Ioor1to  - tot ul -         Iauo   rohrau    fttltd-                            Aurocotgoo  t...sI ao1lt popuilar.o ogd 10 yua-  cod  -nor.
F0c  popuutio.. for 1950-t0, 1900-710  ,dn 1970-79.
Poolato  Iool ar  foror   -roo-A_-Ia grSt-h Iurr  of urbar  ops-                      CoOtftnlfPl0
latlsO  fr 191-ba  19h-71.cr41(70-29.                                                    aursras500ooosdouloul- F..... g f ca.-  oupl..   rr
girt S h I-t  (cup    fooad   - Anul Itru bl,rho par rho..uad of uld-,or..,o.rr   otrfr   fh  p000   o -,odooeSulto                                                     h-bsonou
P.ps.laro.; 1960, 1970,  t  1979 dat.                                                               tarr         hofolt
Crud  guah tuoo  o.rhoootd.- Auoolduohapa         -boaad   of tLd-yoar                      .a..oulrocr huao  coolton                         All IypO5 of roculnu. :for~ rsdl
poptsltIou;1961,1951,und 179 dst.                                                           hrodcouRuc.torl cobl    o  olouuan   of PopoIutlot; uoolodaor
CIllO  rouo; uaullp p-Lro-ysd t  oo   ulgf   90   90   u  1979 f-acootosecl; luhud  lOoaot.%:-1-:b
Peso), P1atotog-ucoortoos.  Mood    clocuandal - Oeruul o,s"to   of  rouoor          ZTf to      -iort oa  bfocusd II-  alut)     Tootou  o    rooi
Ofhrt-rorldreoturt   ou  lu    frolcl  sly   lclo    rgr.                                   gorl  olI,poOcoad   ooaco:   obdo   0 rooif0rcuor
laInPlIo-sut(crooro  srru  ourn  -PuuuoguoforoofOoouorosco  I   sas  ho.rulorttr  f  VuosuuOrfAc
prdoro   o   I  food  orodtlt         .Frduclouoluu   ou                so-fodo.d                 `lkr   od   ob   h  yu -r  tIroulg   doslo   odrr-o   lo
ha  0  elodo  yur  aal.    uidlIrocte   pfsYyhoo..- (t.            ... uartoou N_ .pbllI uo.t.                                                    S-t .tg  c
too coo tooluded)    Aggroguto croduoctolr ofl nob  countryi 10to hsuod on                                                          I  -.  Lt1lA....idf..C 
PMroto  uol of          cooooSooc   7oo lr                 a-os  -f- -ouc ted  Iooru                               oct.adu.ly.d ho  -rldo  hoaY                 oa,uoucs   r.
turyof ttlot  f  o food      rudi  I luaolhl   nouty  urcr                                   ornudlod pyulatoft fdoIl 1og          i.Dfotlo  ttnruo d oot- Iosiot
our I...oy . Artlbl  rupl-   s    -i,h0lsr19 do _ttol  roOuotd Lr f79ot  boo.                     nor7 orupoucl-190- 190 on  197  do
aoportu,aS  rhoo oo r   frdc.  ooIsuro..Ioo1oludfto.r..u  .te .I                              __rda  Fuu.Ooru.o 1. -o rao lbrf   oo   orocos  offI00001 lubro  foro.
suse  Auro olblaaa   by PAl  boe  Atpyl           ta   od.i fo   tooalucl                       fohcgO  corp- l.; 19go of7 roru  1sh7r frd.;  00,97 t.97 u.
05, 00   ladholr  fppuaIo,an   lcolro1  preo   ob-aa  tu5rfrroty    atru5guuuprcoaI fora    br  ool f196-                                                                                   -
hursourhuld lund; 196169, 1970. .0d 1977 doa.                       1070-atd  1079cdata
sot   ppy o  fod pro dFy   Ourl supply,offon,f   d               floe  ..- ahn.li-              acforrneaacooe   osI tort, ftrIo, und0 Ionl.  10100 foreu a.
ollorurt  50  ruos o  totalprotou   par dy .0d  0 sroo  ofoW- S100   fr   n07                                  fat.    ru torbaeurtO   pacttrtt_   rates
pou  pooo,ot    lth1  goashud-tolalpool.Tdu   tnd                                             oluuo  oooroorcr    f01   ouyoo.  n    ogus   ted
ard   ao  ororrht  hot  t  5  roo  f  ctl  orul  ad  )  rusIf od  rrtlP.oIf.art foc  talod                                                  ofaucro-s....  160
Usfod las  iofnuy; 1961-65, 1970 sod 1977 dafo.                               tu  oho fore 0  sbrrl"                     fIdor-ot               -1- --.
rtntuj fo-sod I   odp- 0   ocuupo  a;  01-0,17  ad197daa                                       lItrOrooAtr
solrr  .sto dotond  oou It .ou .1  P6., 1900 uod 297  dta,                                   of.-I16,  9 haholdo. 7   ..         1               1M'  "'i.
ttsaooroo  uf Otrth              Id    Irrrf      noao..brf torsof  Tofh.uu..h  foot    sorsup. ct-  tor  aprh tol    atord of- toer   utlo.. d
Or  t1ft  1960  1970 ood65    97   . 1979 datu.                                                     aod0 should ho  loorotodrt  cttdaal  cuI
hafot  gcalt  tat (-I0l thuAnd) (P _t-Aoaldaoh  of~ to d rrth  or- r sh.               o you                             totlad  u..PoerSoou.oo I-h-d kurosota -   urban sod ourol
fl~~jjThiiocurood  Ifco I Orocs. ~l                                                                        j      ~
goors  ,:o 1.1. Tao  (crootofoo,fi tr -h fufal -  olbp n. co1            rro " -1p- S-                2A    O  r.ur-mon1.0                 00 0100         ... Iol. bumv dIo  u  tpOo Lua
bur  of pd-hplofff.0.1,.fufolF                                                                     .1 f -Idotl.                ~ t          i      l     lZ
uA rr..       ata   ropoaoo      clls.urno    n   auto    It    0srloa0c  p terf  loo.. boo I O.                                                   oo-tlo o.. f   aurrod.  rarfi
flrooufoua of  hu Sr taptotlr  rofi ultoOI    i  oobna-oupb  c                                orrlInoooz           h  ootr.Oro   00   sutr7oo7h   ua
fu.aoatj.or (tad rutSctdoroA  ta   0   ousEn       ta   o    0Ioun  or7ant   o   ror                                                         ro   ltsO   osuts
onudrdo   orsutt   ornb aacs   fta   ruc                              nu.Iasu                      otau   o0  ofnslrcu  o   ProoIos   oaltoco        cu
Pouscoh 50000   cold  [rI   Ofar  h.  onoou S  orsotarsuO  ro hoooolocodrura  -  orfu  o  p.ulatou  urhn a   rus b) ho     .rs   Jbuo -o     1
dont-o0.t  uyrof rnrroot   afoflAatofrburhpor
funlyruoorf00do
Ouubor of 0.0000  Soero 1. ootou.  aroorulo  uaroud to toooftaldturoL.lAa
oto    uloffdfr a .....     _ ra     cola  oocr ly  Stool.            .,
frg7pttlour r Oruon  farrt- PotoSooor dofdsdbp cobar o  gra Tto
ousA  o  tu_ ul  oradoaro.--I.   p000.  uorutedassto                          uu



-23-                                                           ANNEX I
Page * of 6
EGYPT - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Populationt 41 million (mid-1979)
.. r ,.   .pta:  US$46U
Amount (million)                            A N N U A L  G R 0 W T H  R A T E S  (X)
US$ at current
prices)                      A C T U A L                         EST.           P R O J E C T E D
1979        1975      1976      1977      1978     1979      1980/81  1981/82  1982/83  1983/84  1984/85
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross Domestic Product /a            17745.0       10.4      10.3      10.9      11.9       8.2        9.0       8.3       6.5       6.9       6.9
Agriculture                     3844.0         6.3       1.6      -3.0       5.5       3.9       2.2        2.1      2.3       2.6       2.7
Industry                        3237.0        10.6       4.8       9.8     12.3       6.5        9.8       9.2        9.7      9.5       9.8
Petroleum                       2728.0        39.4      52.3     55.2      22.0      10.3        11.6     12.8        3.4      6.0       5.7
services                        7263.0         9.2      11.6       9.4      12.0     10.2       10.8       8.8       8.3       8.0       7.8
Consumption                          15010.0       -3.8       8.3      11.0      11.2       4.5       12.0      11.2       8.9       8.0       7.1
Gross Investment                      5450.0       54.2      -8.2       9.3      -2.4       9.4        9.6       8.6       7.5       6.7       5.7
Exports of GNFS                       5585.0       27.2      30.8       9.0       3.0       5.8       12.4       7.9       4.5       5.8       5.8
Imports of GNFS                       8300.0       16.0      -5.3       2.5       4.2       8.9       18.7      11.8       9.2       7.9       5.2
Gross National Saving                 3885.0      133.0      74.8      25.7      17.4    -13.4          -         -         -         -         -
PRICEb
GDP Deflator                                       50.6      55.9      60.5      65.8      81.0      100.0        -
Exchange Rate /b                                    2.15      1.97      1.75      1.54      1.43       1.43       -         _         _         _
Share of GDP at 'Market Prices (S)                      Average increase (2) at constant prices
(at ctrrrent prices)                        1965 Prices  1975 Prices           i980/81 Prices
1960       1970      1975     1979   1984/85            1960-1970    1970-1975        1975-1979    FY81-FY2
Gross Domestic Product
-    Agriculture                        27.9       25.3      28.2      21.7      16.2               4.7           5.1             1.9           2.4
-    Industry & Petroleum               23.7       26.1      25.4      33.6      37.0               3.0           2.6           17.5            8.2
-    Services                           42.9       40.8      42.8      40.9      41.7               6.3           4.4           10.8            8.2
Consumption                             87.3       90.6      90.4      84.6      86.2              4.4            8.0            6.8            8.8
Gross Investment                        13.3       13.9      32.3      30.7      27.4               5.8           4.2             1.8           7.1
Expott of GNFb                          19.5       14.2      21.5      31.5      30.9              4.9           22.8           11.6            6.0
Import of GNFS                          20.1       18.8      44.1      46.8      44.5               1.1          13.5            2.5            8.5
Gross National Saving                   12.9        7.7      10.9      21.9      17.9               7.2          17.2           22.2             -
As 2 of GDP
1960       1970      1975      1979
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current Revenue  '                      18.5       21.3      34.1      37.2
Current Expenditure                     21.5       22.0      39.9      33.9
surplus (+) or Deficit (-)              -3.0       -0.7      -5.8       3.3
Capital Expenditure                     11.8       11.1      16.6      23.0
Foreign Financing                         -          -       16.0       4.4
1960-70  1970-75  1975-80   FYSI-FY85
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP Growth Rate (2)                      4.5         5.0     11.9       7.6
GNP per capita growth rote (2)           1.9        2.7       8.7       4.9
Energy consumption growth rate (X)/e 14.9          14.9      13.2      11.4
ICOR                                      -          -        3.6       4.0
Marginal savings rate                     -           -       0.46      0.15
Import elasticity                        0.9        1.7       0.9       1.1
/a   GOP for 1979 at current prices is valued at market prices.  Rates of growth concern GDP at factor cost.
/o   EfSf ctive rate computed as  weighted average of official and parallel market rates.
T.Z  Liec"Ircity only.
April 22. 1981



-2'-
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
EGYPT - EXTERNAL TRADE
Population: 41 million (mid-1979)
GNP per capita:  Ub$460
Amount (million)                    Annual Growth Rate (2) at Constant 1980/81 Prices
US$ at current
prices)                   ACTUAL                            EST.              P R O J E C T E D
1979      1975      1976      1977     1978      1979    80/81    81/82       82/83    83/84    84/85
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise Exports              4024       27.2      19.6       3.1       7.7      9.6      10.8      6.6       3.2       5.4      5.3
-  Primary 1'                     546      -15.3      -8.5      25.7    -29.8       4.5       5.2      1.4       2.0       2.6      3.0
-  Manufactures!'                 168        24.8    -14.6    -27.3       17.9    -29.6       9.2      6.1       6.1       6.7      6.7
-  Petroleum                     2860       72.0      63.3      11.1      16.1     22.6      12.1      7.5       2.8       5.6      5.4
Merchandise Imports              7336        14.1     -5.0      -1.1      8.5       5.9      18.0     11.7       9.1       7.7      5.0
-  Food                          1677       27.4      16.9    -18.1      25.8      -7.0      21.2     12.8       8.8       6.2      2.3
-  Petroleum                      243      -34.2    -23.3    -53.3        2.7    -11.8       17.7      6.1       2.7       1.5      0.6
-  Macoinery and Equipment       2846       59.5      24.8      21.4     -0.7      25.6      14.3     10.4       9.4       7.3      6.8
-  Others                        2570       17.9    -26.2       10.7      7.5       0.2      20.0     12.9       9.6       9.2      5.6
Prices
Export Price Index                          51.5      49.9      52.3     52.9      76.0    100.0    112.0    124.0    137.0    152.0
Import Price Index                          60.6      63.5     70.4      76.1      87.9    100.0    110.0    120.0    130.3    140.0
Terms of Trade Index                        85.0      78.6      74.3     69.5      86.5    100.0    102.0    103.0    105.0    108.0
Composition of Merchandise Trade (2)  Average Annual Increase (Z)                -
(at current prices)             at constant 1980/81 prices
1970     1975      1979    84/85        1975/79      FY81/FY85
ExPorts                                                                9.8           4.8
Primary _/              64.2      28.3     13.6      11.8          -4.1           2.4
Petroleum                4.8      25.2     71.0      76.3          26.8           4.9
Manufacture.'/          31.0      46.7     15.4      11.9         -15.3           6.6
Imports                                                                1.9           7.6
Food                    13.4      23.6     22.9      26.0           2.9           6.3
Petroleum                8.2       6.9      3.3       3.0         -24.5           2.3
Machinery               23.4      23.7     38.8      37.7          17.2           8.1
Others                  55.0      45.8     35.0      33.3          -3.1           8.4
Share of Trade with          Share of Trade with                   Share of Trade vita
Industrial Countries (X)      Developinl Countries (2)          Capital Surplus Oil Exrjrters (2)
1965     1970      1975        1965     1970      1975              1965      1970     1975
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Exports                          27.0     17.0      14.0        18.0     22.0      10.0               1.0       1.0      4.0
Primary                      29.0      19.0      18.0       17.0      22.0      11.0                        1.0       3.0
Manufactures                 19.0      12.0       3.0       23.0      23.0       9.0               4.0       3.0      5.0
Imports                         55.0      42.0      65.0        18.0     25.0      14.0                -         -       4.0
1/ Not including oil and oil products.
April 22, 1981



-25-                                                        ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
ECYPT - BALANCE OF PAY ENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million US at current prices)
EST.                 P R O J E C T E D
1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979   1980/81    1981/82    1982/83    1983/84    1984/85
BALANCE OF PAYPIENTo
Export of Goods and Non-Factor Services            2251    2503    3319    3888    4099    5585    8207            9835        11315       13160       15275
- of which merchandise f.o.b.                      1818    1875    2169    2346    2558    4024    6007            7160         8185        9550       11125
Import. of Goods and Non-Factor Services          -3959   -5141   -5182   -5879   -6612   -8300  -11388          -13920       -16590      -19360     -21965
- of which ,ercband.se c.i.f.                     -3618   -4608   -4659   -5110   -5998   -7336   -9998          -12225       -14575      -16995      -19270
net Factor Income                                     70     122      413     472    1098    1143    1412          1650         1865        1980        2020
let Private Transfers                                42       90       87      63       54       50     -           -            -           -           --
Current Account Balance                           -1596   -2426   -1363   -1456   -1361   -1522   -1769           -2435        -3410       -4220       -4670
Private Direct Investment                            87      225      444     477      387     710      964        1130         1320        1510        1715
HLT Lo- (Net)                                        69      270      647     730    1141    1509    1826          2370         2635        2560        2500
- official                                          -21      210      490     803    1028    1072    1615          1685         1870        2040        2195
- private                                             90      60      157     -73      113     437      211         687          765         520         305
Otnker Capital (Net) 4/                             1393    1907      191      339    -181    -599    -300         -330         -360         355         455
Chaage in Reerve.                                    47       24       81     -90       14     -98      721         735          185         205           0
International Reserves 1/                           516      678      642     880    1106    1098    1815          2550         2735        2940        2940
- of WhiCh gold                                     102      102      102     104      104     104      --          --          -           --          --
Reserves as Nontos Imports 3/                       1.7      1.8      1.7     2.1      2.2      1.8     2.2         2.5          2.3         2.1         1.o
EXTERKAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross Disoursements                                2227    3612    2305    3349    2812    2329    2962            3720         4375        4620        4870
Official Grants                                 1303    1076       792     445      345     110      350         600          735        805          870
Conceasional Loans                               120    1444      668    1855    1600       996    1461         1420         1475       1530        1545
- DAC                                  _          55      199     421      591      799     833    1198         1190         1260       1320        1330
- OPEC                                             3    1142       171     137       93      43       68          20            5           0           0
- 1DA                                             12       49      42       42       45      55       55          85          110         105          80
- Other.                                          50       54      34    1085      663       65      140         125          100         105        135
Ness-Concessional Loans                          804    1092      845    1049      867    1223    1151          1700        2165        2285        2455
- official export crerits                        379      639     214       24       44      50       97         120          170         185         210
-  IdYD                                           -        14      36       37       57     118      163         185          225        295         370
- other multilateral                              -         6      -       256       18       5       34          55           65          80          95
- private                                        425      433     595    .732      748    1050       857        1340        1705        1725        1780
External Deot
Debt outstanding  and disbursed                    2830    4830    5770    8090    9920   11330   13537           15310        17210       18970       20600
- official                                      1990    3890    4720    6800    8500    9470   11423           12510        13640      14880       16210
- private                                        840      940    1050    1290    1420    1860    2114           2800        3570        4030        4390
Unvixbureed Debt                                   1602    2426    3014    4515    4390    4629    5558            5950         6175       6480        6900
Debt Service
Total service Payment                               517      595      665    1099    1211    1040    1658          2030         2490        2935        3400
i- nterest                                        70      115     111      340     387      236      645         685         750         870        1035
- payment as 2 exports Z                         21S    21.67   16.87   23.9X   21.81   14.67   16.3           16.8         18.0        18.A        18.7
Average Interest Rate on New Loans                  6.3      4.7      5.1     5.1      4.6     6.4      6.5         7.3          7.3         7.3         7.2
- offcial
- private
Average maturity of New Loans (years)               17.2    18.5    23.3    18.7    27.9    24.5    19.5            17.4        17.3         16,2       16.2
- official
- private
1/ Foreign ssets of Centrul Bank.
2/ EXPortf of gOods a.d servICeS not Including foreign oil companiee exports.
3/ rerct-n-  * *e onIy.
4/ jtclodl-n conmorcial banks operations and residual balance of pay.ents fisancing.
April 22, 1981



-26-
ANNEX II
Page I of 10
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT
STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(March 31, 1981)
Amount in million US dollars
Loan/Credit     Approved       Borrower       Purpose                                       less cancellations
Numibers         FY                                           .                     Bank       IDA     Undisbursed
Li. 243-UAR         60            SCA         Suez Canal Expansion                     56.5       --           --
Cr  blS-UAK         70           UAR          Nile Delta Drainage                        --     26.0           -
Cr  284-UAR         72           ARE          Railways I                                --      30.0           --
Cr  393-UAR         73           ARE          Upper Egypt Drainage                       --     36.0          2.4
Cr  412-UAR         73           AXE          Development Industrial Bank 1/             --     15.0           -
Cr  423-UIAR        74           ARE          Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation             --      18.5          2.1
Cr  437-UAR         74           ARE          Population I                              --       5.0           --
Cr  484-UAR         74           ARE          Talkha Fertilizer                         --      20.0           --
Cr  524-ECT         75           ARE          Ag./Ind. Imports                           --     35.0           --
Ln 1062-ECT         75           ARE          Ag./Ind. Imports                        35.0        --           --
Ln 1064-EFT         75           SCA          Suez Canal kehabilitation               50.0        --         13.5
Ln 1085-EGT         75           ARE          Tourah Cement                           40.0        --          2.1
Ln 1098-EGT         75           ER           Railways II                             37.0        --          7.0
Cr  548-EGT         75           ARE          Telecommuniations I                       --      30.0           --
Cr  576-EGT         76           ARE          Development Industrial Bank II 1/         --      25.0          0.2
Ln 1239-ECT         76           APA          Alexandria Port                         45.0        --        27.1
Ln 1276-T-ELGT 2/   76           ARE          Fruit and Vegetable Dev.                50.0        --         33.7
Cr  637-EGT         76           AkE          Upper Egypt Drainage II                   --      40.0         13.6
Ln 1285-EGT         76           ARE          Upper Egypt Drainage II                 10.0        --         10.0
Ln 1292-EGT         76           ARE          Textile Rehabilitation                  52.0        --         14.6
Ln 1369-EGT         77           AWA          Alexandria Water Supply                 56.0        --         31.3
Cr  681-EGT         77           ARE          Education I                               --      25.0         4.0
Cr  719-EGT         77           ARE          Nile Delta Drainage II                    --      27.0          7.2
Ln 1439-EGT         77           ARE          Nile Delta Drainage II                  27.0        --        27.0
Ln 1440-1-EGT 2/   77            ARE          Nile Delta Drainage II                  12.0        --         12.0
Ln 1453-EGT         77           EEA          Regional Electrification                48.0        __        15.1
Ln 1456-EGT         77           ARE          Industrial Imports                      70.0        --         18.8
Ln S-005-EGT       77            ARE          Iron Ore Beneficiation and Eng.          2.5        --         0.7
Ln 1482-EGT         78            SCA         Suez Canal Expansion                   100.0        --         29.9
Cr  774-EGT        78            ARE          Telecommunications II                     --      53.0        51.0
Ln 1533-EGT         78           DIB          Development Industrial Bank III         40.0        --         12.0
Cr  830-EGT         78           ARE          Agricultural Development                  --      32.0        26.8
Cr  831-EGT         78           ARE          Urban Development                         --      14.0         13.6
Cr  850-EGT         79           ARE          Population II                             --      25.0        20.9
Cr 868-EGT          79           ARE          Education II                              --      40.0        33.3
Ln S-14-FGT         79           ARE          New Valley Phosphate Engineering
and Technical Assistance             11.0       --          3.3
Cr  909-ECT         79           ARE          Tourism                                   --      32.5        32.1
Ln 1732-EGT         79           ARE          Gulf of Suez Gas                        75.0        --        45.2
Cr  935-ECT        79            ARE          Shoubrah El Kheima Thermal Power          --      37.0        36.5
Ln 1733-EGT         79           EEA          Shoubrah El Kheima Thermal Power 3/  102.0          --        102.0
Cr  988-EGT        80            ARE          Agroindustries                            --      45.0        44.9
Ln 1804-ECT         80           DIB          Development Industrial Bank IV          50.0        --        45.1
Ln 1837-EGT        80            ARE          Textiles II 4/                          69.0        --        69.0
Ln 1842-EGT         80           ARE          MIDB                                    30.0        --        30.0
Cr 1024-EGT        80            ARE          Cairo Gas Distribution                    --      50.0        34.4
Ln 1849-EGT         80           ARE          Pulp and Paper 4/                       50.0        --        50.0
Ln 1886-EGT        80            EEA          Power III 4/                             7.0        --          7.0
Cr 1052-EGT        80            EEA          Power III 4/                              --    120.0         120.0
Cr 1069-EGT        81            AKE          Education III                             -       40.1        40.1
La 1298-EGT         81           EGPC         Petroleum Exploration 4/                25.0        --         25.0
Cr 1083-EGT        81            ARE          New Land Development 4/                   --      80.0        80.0
Cr 1111-EGT        81            ARE          Fish Farming 4/                           --      14.0         14.0
Totals 5/                                                                           1150.0    915.1       1208.5
Of which has been repaid                                                              65.3       0.9
Total now outstanding                                                               1084.7    914.2
Amount sold                                           7.5
Of which has been repaid                              7.5
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                                      1084.7    914.2
1/  Formerly Bank of Alexandria.
2/ Third Window Loan.
3/ Not included is EEC Special Action Credit 20 of $35.0.
4/ Not yet effective.
5/ In addition, $127.5 m. of projects has been approved by the Board but are not yet
signed (HADISOLB Steel Rehabilitation, $64 m.; Beheira Water Supply, $56.6 a.;
and Technical Assistance, $6.9 m.).



-27-
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 10
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ECYPT
STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(December 31, 1980)
(Amount in US$ million)
Year        Obligor                 Type of Business                         Loan       Equity        Total
1976        Arab Ceramic Company   Ceramic Industry                          4.80         .835       .5.635
1977        Nile Clothing Company  Ready-Made Garment Industry               0.43       0.16          0.59
1978        Delta Sugar Company    Agricultural Production, mainly
sugar                                 20.0        3.00        23.0
1979        Ismailia Misr Poultry  Food and Food Processing                  5.97       i.52          7.49
company
1979        Isailia Fish Farming  Food and Food Processing                  1.93         .55         2.48
Company
1980        Suez Cement Company    Building Materials                       30.0          -          30.0
1980        Crocodile Tourist       Crocodile Tourist Project
Project Company                                                4.41        .857         5.267
67.54       6.922       74.462



-28-
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 10
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. No. 393-UAR - Upper Egypt Drainage I Project; US$36 million Credit of
June 8, 1973; Effectiveness Date: November 28, 1973; Closing Date: July 31,
1981.
Construction and remodelling of some 1,640 km of open drains have
been completed. Of 300,000 feddans in the project area, tile drainage has
been completed in about 230,000 feddans. Progress on this activity was
slow due mainly to poor construction planning and management by the public
sector contractors. The other outstanding activity is the construction of
two pumping stations; civil works are more than 75% complete and the
pumping equipment has been delivered at site for erection. EPADP's current
program shows project completion by June 1982, and accordingly, the
Government is likely to request an extension of the current closing date.
Cr. No. 423-UAR - Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation Project; US$18.5 million
Credit of July 30, 1973; Effectiveness Date: February 15, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
The project is estimated to be completed in 1982. Previous
substantial delays, primarily due to lack of adequate local funds, have
been overcome.
Ln. No. 1064-EGT - Suez Canal Rehabilitation Project; US$50 million Loan of
December 20, 1974; Effectiveness Date: April 21, 1975; Closing Date: June
30, 1982
Project execution is generally satisfactory although some items
are lagging behind appraisal schedule. Contracts for most items in the
project have been awarded and the cost of Bank-financed items is expected
to exceed appraisal estimates slightly.
Ln. No. 1085-EGT - Tourah Cement Expansion Project; US$40 million Loan of
February 10, 1975; Effectiveness Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date: December
31, 1982
Procurement of machinery and equipment is completed. Most items
are already on site being erected. Slow civil works execution has further
delayed project execution. Thus start-up of commercial operations is
expected to be only towards mid-1982.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



-29-
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 10
Ln. No. 1098-EGT - Railways II Project; US$37 million Loan of April 2,
1975; Effectiveness Date: August 20, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Investment in mobile assets has been satisfactory but progress on
fixed installations is slow. The Egyptian Railways' (ER) operations and
maintenance situation remains very poor with low availability of
locomotives and rolling stock. The track renewal and repair program is
also behind schedule. Efforts are now being made to improve rolling stock
maintenance with the help of consultants and ER plans to set up separate
companies with overseas technical assistance to upgrade track conditions.
The 1980-84 draft investment program contains many large investments
including new lines for which no economic justification has been
demonstrated. The financial situation is poor and a deficit of IE 38
million was recorded for 1979. After many years without tariff increases,
substantial increases in freight tariffs were made in 1979, and passenger
fare increases are promised for 1981. A decree, effective in July 1980,
establishes a National Railway authority and aims to give the railways
inter alia considerably more autonomy in relation to tariffs and staff
salaries. There are no plans for extending the closing date.
Cr. No. 576-EGT - Second Development Industrial Bank (formerly Bank of
Alexandria) Project; US$25 million Credit of July 30, 1975; Effectiveness
Date: February 19, 1976; Closing Date: April 30, 1981
The credit is now fully committed.
Ln. No. 1239-EGT - Alexandria Port Project; US$45 million Loan of April 19,
1976; Effectiveness Date: August 30, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Progress on the execution of the main civil works and dtedging
contract is proceeding reasonably well although other civil works are
behind schedule. Procurement of most equipment is progressing
satisfactorily although the evaluation of bids for radar equipment is
behind schedule. Estimated final cost remains within appraisal estimates.
Because of the delayed start of the main civil works, the project is now
expected to be completed by the end of 1983.
Ln. No. 1276-EGT - Fruit and Vegetable Development Project; US$50 million
Third Window Loan of June 11, 1976; Effectiveness Date: December 20, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project is now over two years behind schedule but is making
progress. Work on the drainage and irrigation components of the project is
proceeding and a large contract has recently been awarded. The seed
component has had major problems, which are now being addressed. The
Agricultural -Development Lending Unit in Bank Misr is making very good
progress. The project scope has been expanded to allow financing of
agroindustries subprojects, and terms of financing liberalized.



-30-
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 10
Ln. No. 1285-ECT and Cr. 637-EGT - Upper Egypt Drainage II Project; US$10
million Loan and US$40 million Credit, both of June 11, 1976.
Effectiveness Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Overall progress on construction of 1602 km of open drains
covering 500,000 feddans is 62% complete. Foundation work is in progress
on one pumping station included in the Project. Installation of tile
drains has just commenced and is complete only in 8,000 feddans. The
progress on this activity has been slow due mainly to the time taken by the
public sector contractors for import of plastic pipe laying machines and
setting up of cement collector pipe making workshops. Also the area of the
project was adjusted by exchanging 22,000 feddans of previously tiled area
with an equivalent non-tiled area of the Upper Egypt I Project.
Ln. No. 1292-ECT - Textile Project; US$52 million Loan of September 20,
1976. Effectiveness Date; February 16, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1982
The project is proceeding with a delay of more than two years
caused by a later and slower than anticipated start of the civil works,
shortage of steel and cement, and a recent fire on the construction site of
one of the two beneficiary companies. The project is now estimated to cost
about US$20 million equivalent (all in local currency) more than appraised,
due to increased scope and delay of civil works and increase in cost of
construction materials beyond what was expected at appraisal. No
difficulties are foreseen in financing this, although some government
equity contribution would be required in the next two years to supplement
the companies' internal cash generation in order to adhere to the financial
covenants as well as project costs. Early management problems have now
been overcome and both companies have developed effective project
implementation units.  Disbursements are slower than anticipated reflecting
initial delays in procurement. However, about 95 percent of the contracts
for machinery and equipment have now been awarded, and the balance is
expected to be awarded in the near future.
Ln. No. 1369-EGT - Alexandria Water Supply Project; US$56 million Loan of
March 7, 1977; Effectiveness Date: July 6, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Bidding for all equipment has been completed and orders placed.
Management studies were completed in the Authority and AWA is implementing
some of the recommendations. AWA has called for bid proposals for new data
processing equipment. The award has been made for the civil works
construction of the Bank financed water treatment plant extensions and work
has started. Local bidding for 65 km pipeline contracts have been
completed and awards made to four contractors; these contracts are now
being financed with local funds. Satisfactory progress is being made on
meter replacement and reduction of waste, and AWA's regularly submitted
reports reflect good general progress.



-31-
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 10
Cr. No. 681-ECT - Education Project; US$25 million Credit of March 7, 1977;
Effectiveness Date: August 19, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily. Curricula
and staff development, and technical assistance are essentially complete.
About 95 percent of all equipment has been procured and nearly all has been
installed. Of the 23 institutions to be constructed 22 are completed and
operational, and the remaining one will be operational by June 1981. All
of the existing institutions being re-equipped are operational.
Commitments total about 92 percent of Credit amount.
Cr. No. 719-EGT, Ln. No. 1439-EGT and Ln. No. 1440-EGT - Nile Delta
Drainage II Project; US$27 million Credit, US$27 million Loan and US$12
million Third Window Loan of July 15, 1977; Effectiveness Date: April 17,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Construction of open drains is on schedule, with completion of
some 380,000 feddans out of the total area of 815,000 feddans. Progress is
satisfactory on renovation of the equipment of two pumping stations. Of
the other four new pumping stations, the foundation work has been commenced
on three. The contractors for the installation of tile drains are in the
process of importing plastic pipe laying machines and other equipment.
This activity is complete only in 4,000 feddans out of the project area of
400,000 feddans.
Ln. No. 1453-EGT -Regional Electrification Project; US$48 million Loan of
July 15, 1977; Effectiveness Date: February 6, 1978; Closing Date: December
31, 1981
Physical progress is good. A six month delay in completion of
construction is expected, however. Consultants for the extension of the
UNDP Power Sector Survey have completed their work. Consultants for the
distribution companies are in place. All contracts for equipment,
materials and technical assistance have been awarded.
Ln. No. 1456-EGT - Industrial Imports Project;US$70 million Loan of July
15, 1977; Effectiveness Date: November 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
As of March 31, 1981, about $51.2 million has been disbursed and
about $56.0 million committed. Utilization of the loan proceeds has been
slow mainly because of delays in procurement of equipment for public sector
firms.



-32-
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 10
Ln. No. S-5 EGT - Iron Ore Engineering and Beneficiation Project; US$2.5
million Loan of July 15, 1977. Effectiveness Date: February 2, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Consultants preparing both iron ore beneficiation and diagnostic
studies have submitted the final feasibility studies. The closing date was
extended to help finance consulting services to help prepare a
rehabilitation and balancing project for Egyptian Iron and Steel Company
and engineering work for pilot beneficiation plant.
Ln. No. 1482-EGT - Suez Canal Expansion Project; US$100 million Loan of
September 28, 1977; Effectiveness Date: February 8, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
Progress in the execution of the project is close to appraisal
estimates although in some areas, such as procurement of tugs there has
been some delay because of delayed decisions on design which have now been
taken. The financial situation of the borrower is sound, total canal
traffic continues at levels close to appraisal forecasts and revenue is
higher than appraisal estimates.
Ln. No. 1533-EGT - Development Industrial Bank III; US$40 million Loan of
April 12, 1978; Effectiveness Date: July 18, 1978; Closing Date: December
31, 1982
Commitments and disbursements are progressing satisfactorily. As
of March 31, 1981, $28.0 million had been disbursed and the loan had been
fully committed.
Cr. No. 774-EGT - Second Telecommunications Project; US$53 million Credit
of March 21, 1978; Effectiveness Date: September 19, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
Procurement action under this credit is well advanced. Bid
evaluation reports on the two remaining items (mobile exchanges and
electronic PABXs) are awaited.
Cr. No. 830-EGT - Agricultural Development Project; US$32 million Credit of
July 24, 1978; Effectiveness Date: February 20, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Project tractors have been procured and distributed.
Implementation is being reviewed to determine whether basic project
objectives have been met. Improvements in institutions and project
management are under consideration.



-33-
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 10
Cr. No. 831-EGT - Egypt Urban Development Project; US$14 million Credit of
August 30, 1978; Effectiveness Date: April 30, 1979; Closing Date: December
31, 1982
There has been progress in the staffing of the project unit, but
its technical staff needs to be augmented. Progress in implementation of
some of the shelter components and studies has improved; however, there are
delays in some of the other components. Measures to resolve the problems
are under discussion with the Government.
Cr. No. 850-EGT - Second Population Project; US$25 million Credit of
October 30, 1978; Effectiveness Date: May 1, 1979; Closing Date: December
31, 1983
Civil wTorks and procurement of furniture, equipment and vehicles
are proceeding satisfactorily. All sites have been selected. Of the 153
sites, construction on about one third has been completed, and the
remainder should be completed by September 1981. Progress in implementing
the software components is seriously delayed partly due to managerial
problems. Measures to be taken by the Government following discussions
with a recent review mission should expedite progress in the training, IEC
and home visiting programs.
Cr. No. 868-EGT - Second Education Project; US$40.0 million Credit of
January 26, 1979; Effectiveness Date: July 18, 1979; Closing Date: March
31, 1984
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily. Of the 23
new institutions to be constructed, five are completed, another five will
be completed by mid-1981 and 12 will be completed in 1983.  One will now be
situated in an existing building.  Of the 36 institutions to be
rehabilitated, 14 will be completed by mid-1981; construction work on the
remainder will begin in 1982. All equipment is under procurement with
contracts already signed for about 50 percent. All technical assistance
has been contracted.
Ln. No.S-14-EGT - New Valley Phosphate Engineering and Technical Assistance
Project; US$11 million Loan of May 25, 1979; Effectiveness Date: October
19, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Procurement and delivery of mining equipment has been completed
and erection is proceeding at mine site; laboratory tests of phosphate rock
have been completed and reviewed by the Bank. Draft terms of reference for
pre-feasibility study are being discussed with government.



-34-
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 10
Cr. No. 909-EGT - Tourism Project; US$32.5 million Credit of June 13, 1979;
Effectiveness Date: March 26, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Project implementation has started. Procurement is underway for
electricity, telecommunications, Luxor Hotel Training School and Luxor air
terminal components. Planning and Design studies are underway for the
roads, water, and museum components. Disbursements are running at 50% of
appraisal forecasts, and this percentage is expected to rise by the end of
1981.
Ln. No. 1732-EGT - Gulf of Suez Gas Project; US$75 million Loan of June 29,
1979; Effectiveness Date: January 29, 1980; Closing Date: September 30, 1982
Project implementation is in progress. The onshore contract has
been signed and the contractor has mobilized. The three studies included
under the project, the exploration and the energy pricing studies as well
as the financial management study are underway.
Ln. No. 1733-EGT - US$102 million, Cr. No. 935-EGT - US$37 million and
Special Action Cr. No. 20-EGT - US$35 million - Shoubrah El Kheima Thermal
Power Project of September 6, 1979; Effectiveness Date: April 8, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
Bidding documents for electro-mechanical equipment were issued in
December 1980. Bid opening dates for major equipment packages are set for
May/June 1981.
Cr. No. 988-EGT - Agroindustries Project; US$45 million Credit of May 1,
1980; Effectiveness Date: December 3, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
The contract for construction of the Cairo abattoir has been
awarded, and the bids for construction of the Alexandria abattoir are being
evaluated. Disbursements under the credit component through three
participating banks have been slow, pending clarification of on-lending
interest rates by the Egyptian Government.
Ln. No. 1804-EGT - Fourth Development Industrial Bank Project; US$50
million Loan of May 1, 1980; Effectiveness Date; August 8, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Commitments and disbursements are progressing satisfactorily. As
of March 31, 1981, $25.9 million had been committed and $4.9 million
disbursed.
Ln. No. 1837-EGT - Textile II Project; US$69 million loan of June 4, 1980;
Effectiveness Date: (Not yet effective); Closing Date: September 30, 1984
Effectiveness action underway.



-35-
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 10
Ln. No. 1842-EGT - Misr Iran Development Bank Project; US$30 million Loan
of June 4, 1980; Effectiveness Date: December 31, 1980; Closing Date: June
30, 1985
The project became effective on December 31, 1980.
Ln. No. 1849-EGT - Pulp and Paper Project; US$50 million Loan of June 4,
1980; Effectiveness Date: (Not yet effective); Closing Date: December 31,
1984
Action on effectiveness is underway.
Cr. No. 1024-EGT - Cairo Gas Distribution Project; US$50 million Credit of
June 4, 1980; Effectiveness Date: December 4, 1980; Closing Date: December
31, 1985
Contractor has been working since April 1980 and the project is
progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 1069-EGT - Third Education Project; SDR 30.3 million (US$40.1
million equiyalent) Credit of November 7, 1980; Effectiveness Date: April
16, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The credit became effective on April 16, 1981.
Ln. No. 1886-EGT, US$7 million, Cr. No. 1052-ECT, US$120 million - Third
Power Project of November 7, 1980; Effectiveness date: (not yet effective);
Closing Date: June 30, 1987.
Action on effectiveness is underway.
Ln. No. 1928-EGT - Western Desert Petroleum Exploration Project; US$25
million Loan of January 13, 1981; Effectiveness Date: (Not yet effective);
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Effectiveness action underway.
Cr. No. 1083-EGT - SDR 60.9 million (US$80 million) - New Land Development
Project of December 16, 1980; Effectiveness Date: (Not yet effective);
Closing Date: December 31, 1987
Action on effectiveness is underway.
Cr. No. llll-EGT - SDR 11.0 million (US$14 million) - Fish Farming
Development Project of April 24, 1981; Effectiveness Date: (Not yet
effective); Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
Action on effectiveness is underway.



-36-
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)   Time taken by the country to prepare
the project.                                     One and one-half years
(June 1979-December 1980)
(b)   Agency preparing the project:                     Arab Republic of Egypt
National
Telecommunications
Organization (ARENTO)
(c)   Date of first presentation to the Bank:           April 1979
(d)   Date of the first Bank mission to consider
the project:                                     June 1979
(e)   Date of departure of appraisal mission:          October 1980
(f)   Date of completion of negotiations:               April 13, 1981
(g)   Planned date of effectiveness:                    January 1982
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
During negotiations the following assurances were obtained from the
government and ARENTO:
(a) ARENTO shall (i) provide the Bank with the results of ARENTO's
current review of its organization structural policies and
operating procedures, (ii) exchange views with the Bank in
respect to such results, and (iii) keep the Bank informed of
progress achieved in implementing these changes (para. 47);
(b) ARENTO, by January 1, 1982, will establish a Planning Unit to
revise from time to time ARENTO's master and medium-term plans
(para. 48);



-37-
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(c) ARENTO shall establish for every three fiscal year period,
starting with its fiscal year 1982-83, in accordance with sound
telecommunications operational practices and taking into account
local conditions, targets for ARENTO's employee/telephone
ratios; and it will inform the Bank and shall exchange views
annually with it on progress in achieving these targets (para.
50);
(d) ARENTO will earn an annual rate of return on revalued net fixed
assets in operation of not less than 10 percent (para. 56); and
(e) all debt of government subscribers incurred during the period
January 1, 1981 to June 30, 1981 will be paid not later than
December 31, 1982, and all future debts will be settled within
three months from the date of billing (para. 59).






IBRD -11323R2
,LEXA~OR0    ,         ~           ,        .O              =a .     =      ,A_                                                                                                                         _   _
El                                                                                         E Ont)
\  g11ot  -W                                           51 .o h-o -cr
Sh,                                        O           I ESMOhjYo
WADI\  t  ;
EL NATRJ1U~'
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT-
A. RE. NATIONAL TELECOMMUNICATION ORGANIZATION                                                100                 .   0110001 el 00000
HIGH CAPACITY  TRANSMISSION  SYSTEMS AND TRUNK AUTOMATIC EXC.ANGES                               A0bAX                  EElorg                  - H.g
--- ITNERROADT 0N01NESFORTTRIL                                      0000 501-100f                      S  f
300
-   ~~~~~- ,                1
. 1    RIWT DOUELE                                                                                                                                                                                                    ElAC  To't  } a 
' on              a Ao,T5oO-005110050T5,O,~7                                                                 0            00                           50 70  \0 
I  \\: o27ClFC,:': T,b-
29'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E (S .f/fX                                                                                                                                     T
T-1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S
% NT-T-ALE                                                                              Ni iSUEFGgt&X                                                                                         :               h      u
AR R REEICE                                                                            'TsmIphsLeEs     w          Y      f    we L        E MINYA  0  25  50       7 1OO 
EDn       X  \>               <erEreYC-t>                                                                                      LMEER2V ~  
I          t      \\   _b -2E'~~~~~~ZI  =hevtohC11:a.OCcd                                                                                                                                                          \                      25
/  A.domN 32dndm itI 



