Document of
The World Bank
FILE cony
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3326-EGT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
EGYPT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT NATIONAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS ORGANIZATION
(ARENTO)
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
June 26, 1981
Transportationz, Water and Telecommunications Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the pettormance orT
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1    =    LE 0.70        LE 1    =    US$1.43
MEASURES EQUIVALENTS
1 kilometer   =   0.6214 miles
1 mile   =   1.6094 kilometers
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31 (until July 1, 1980)
July 1 to June 30 (since July 1, 1980)
LIST OF DEFINITIONS, ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED IN THE REPORT
ARENTO                - Arab Republic of Egypt National Telecommunications
Organization
ARETO                 - Arab Republic of Egypt Telecommunications Organization
GAO                   - Central Auditing Organization
Carrier               - A system providing a number of circuits (telegraph or
telephone) through one transmission bearer (radio,
cable or open wire)
Channel               - One circuit of-a carrier system carrying speech or
telegraphic signals
Coaxial cable         - A cable with a center conductor surrounded by a
coaxial outer conductor. It is used for high-capacity
transmission systems
Crossbar switching   - An automatic telephone switching system utilizing a
connecting matrix with horizontal bars and vertical
bridges
CTI                   - Continental Telephone International Corporation
DELs                  - Direct exchange lines (connected)
Electronic switching - An automatic telephone or telex switching system
electronically controlled
GHz                   - Gigahertz (1,000 megahertz)
HF/VHF/UHF            - High frequency radio up to 30 MHz/very high frequency
radio between 30-300 MHz/ultra frequency radio beyond
300 MHz
KfW                   - Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
Markaz                - A district center for administration purposes in Egypt
under a governorate
MHz                   - Megahertz
Microwave             - Radio system working at frequencies above 300 MHz but
normally applied to systems working at frequencies
above 1,000 MHz
PABX                  - Private Automatic Branch Exchange
PCM                   - Pulse Code Modulation
Rotary                - A type of centrally motor driven rotary telephone
switching system
SAS                   - Standardized Accounting System
Saudi Fund            - Saudi Fund for Development
STD                   - Subscriber Trunk Dialing
Telex                 - Teleprinter exchange system
TRC                   - Telecommunications Research Center
TTRI                  - Telecommunications Training and Research Institute
UNDP                  - United Nations Development Programme
USAID                 - United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
EGYPT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT NATIONAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS ORGANIZATION (ARENTO)
APPRAISAL OF THE THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page Number
1.  THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR  .... ...........                        1
Background and Organization   ................                     1
Access to Service   ...... .............                           1
Usage of Service .................-                                3
Quality of Service   ..... ..............                          3
Demanrid for Service   ..... ..............                        4
Sector Objectives   ..............................                 5
Sector Constraints   ..... ..............                          6
Bank's Role in Sector   ..... .............                        7
2.  THE PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT  .... ............                         8
The Program    ...................................                 8
Project Concept   ................................                 9
The Project   ....... ...............                              9
Project Costs   .................................                  9
Contingencies   ......         ............................       10
Project Financing   ..............     ..     ..............      10
Items for Bank Financing   ....         ...................       11
Procurement             ..........  11
Plarning and Execution of the Project  ..........                 11
Disbursement   ..................          .................      12
Performance Indicators   ........... ..         ............      12
3.  ECONOMIC ANALYSIS   ...............      ..     ................      12
Telecommunications and Development   .............                12
Benefits of Telecommunications in Rural Areas   ..                13
Tariff Policies   ...............     ..     ...............      14
Least Cost Solution   .............      ..    .............      15
Return on Investment   ............      ..    .............      15
Risks        ..................... .....................          16
Environmental and Health Aspects   ...............                16
4.  THE IMPLEMENTING AGENCY   ............       ..     .............     17
Organization and Management   ......... .. .........              17
Planning and Control   ............      ..    .............      17
Prcgram Implementation Control   ......... ........               17
This report is based on information provided by ARENTO and on the findings of
a mission composed of Messrs. S. Sathar, J. Acevedo-Navas and Ms. Heather
Hudson, Consultant, which visited Egypt in November 1980, and a mission
comprised of Messrs. D. Lomax and J. Acevedo-Navas which visited Egypt in
February 1981.
This dc  lt h;s a restricted distrib'htion and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page Number
Staff and Productivity  .....      ...................  18
Training    .......................................   18
Accounts and Audit  ...........................        19
Billing and Collection  .......................       19
Insurance    ......................................   20
5.    FINANCES    ..........................................  20
Background    .....................................   20
Past Financial Performance  .....     ................  21
Financing  Plan    .................................  21
Future Financial Performance  ....    ...............  24
6.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ....  ........   25
ANNEXES
1.  Existing Telecommunications Facilities and Traffic  ....     27
2. Existing Main Automatic Telephone Exchanges
and Direct Exchange Lines 
3.  Status of Existing Telephone Offices 
4.  International TelephoneoStatistics.
5.  Summary of Scope of Work of A. D. Little Consultants 
6.  Growth of Local Telephone System:  1960-85s
7.  Growth of Local Telephone System:  1966-85 (Chart) 
8.  Description of Works in ARENTO's FY82-85 Program 
9. Main Automatic Telephone Exchange
Installation Program:  1980-85. ..
10. Main Automatic Telephone Exchange Installations:
1980-85 (By Areas, Years and Program Components).
11. Mobile Automatic Telephone Exchange Installation Program
12.  Automatic Trunk Exchange Installation Program 
13.  Telex Exchange Installation Program 
14.  Semiautomatic Telephone Exchange Installationsl
15. Forecast of Telephone and Telex Exchange Capacities E..
16.  Forecast of DELs and Telex Connections 
17.  Investment Program:  FY82-85m
18.  Project ConstructioniCosts.
19.  Construction Schedules of Major Works in Project 
20.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements   n
21.  Performance Indicators     o
22.  Summary of Telecommunications Tariffs r
23.  Return on Investment 
24.  Organization Chart (World Bank 22061) 
25.  Telecommunications Staff .       ..
26.  Historic and Projected Income Statements t
27.  Historic and Projected Balance Sheets 
28.  Historic and Projected Funds Flow Statementsn
29.  Consortium Financing n
30.  Basis for Financial Projections    n
31. Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
MAP: IBRD 11323R2



1. THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
Ba~-ound and O,.ganization
1.01      Public telecommunications facilities in Egypt are state owned.  The
Arab Republic of Egypt National Telecommunications Organization (ARENTO),
attached to the M-finistry of Communications, is responsible for the operation
and development of all public telecommunications facilities in the country.
Basic data on existing facilities is given in Annexes 1, 2 and 3. The Suez
Canal Authority, defense service, railways, broadcasting and television, and
civil aviation authorities, however, maintain telecommunications facilities
for their own specialized needs.
1.02      Some items of telecommunications equipment and cables are manufac-
tured in Egypt. The state-owned Egyptian Telephone Company attached to the
Ministry of Communications produces crossbar telephone switching equipment
and telephone instruments under license from L. M. Ericsson of Sweden.
ARENTO is proceeding with the import of a relatively large amount of elec-
tronic telephone switching equipment for installation in the major centers in
Cairo, Alexandria and Lower Egypt. According to present plans, the installa-
tion of crossbar equipment in the country will be gradually phased out by
1990. The Ministry of Communications has agreed, in principle, to the estab-
lishment of domestic production of electronic telephone switching exchange
equipment and expects to consider proposals in due course taking into
account existing production facilities, the type and quantity of equipment
installed and onci order, and future requirements. The state-owned Electro
Cable, Egypt, attached to the Ministry of Industry, produces wires and under-
ground cables for telecommunications and electric power. The factory, how-
ever, does not cover the full range of ARENTO's needs and ARENTO has to rely
on substantial imports of telecommunication cables.
Access to Service
1.03      Egypt's telephone density of 1.31 telephones per 100 population (as
of January 1, 1979) is significantly lower than that of other Mideastern
countries, e.g., Lebanon--11.20; Syria--2.55; Turkey--3.70 (Annex 4). The
telephone density is about 5.0 in Cairo and 3.4 in Alexandria, compared with
Ankara--16.1; Beirut--19.5 and Damascus--6.5. The overall average for the
country excluding Cairo and Alexandria is only 0.28. Even primary access to
telephone service, e.g., by a public call office, is still not available in
as many as 1,0Q'0 village communities.
1.04      Telephone availability 1/ deteriorated from 96.9 percent in 1968 to
only 49.4 percent in 1978 because of stagnation in investment. The
1/ Telephone availability is defined as a percentage of direct exchange
lines (DELs) to expressed demand. (Expressed demand is the sum of DELs
plus registered waiting applicants.)



-2-
number of registered waiting applicants rose from 15,500 in 1968 to over
373,500 by 1978, that is about 103 percent of the existing connections.
However, since 1978, major investments have begun to reverse the trend.
1.05      Given this massive unsatisfied demand for telephones, regional 1/
committees of ARENTO periodically review the waiting lists and assign
priorities. Since November 1980, a special priority has been accorded to
hospitals, banks, investment companies and diplomats who should receive
telephones "almost immediately." Also, a telephone can now be transferred to
a member of an extended family, rather than just to a parent or offspring.
Even more significant, in selling a house, assignment of a telephone line to
the buyer is allowed. A regulation forbidding transfer of lines within three
years of their allocation has also been relaxed in areas served by new
exchanges.
1.06      There are relatively few public telephone booths in towns because
of vandalism. Most public call offices are located in private shops. In
rural areas, public telephones are located either in the local telephone or
telegraph office or, in villages without such offices, in the premises of
ARENTO's agent (usually a village merchant).
1.07      Telegrams are used not only for important business and personal
messages in both urban and rural areas, but also for social announcements and
messages of congratulations, condolence, etc. Telegrams are generally viewed
as more authoritative and are generally considered a more secure means of
communication than telephone calls in business transactions.
1.08      An important service in rural areas is phonogram service, whereby
telegrams are sent and received by telephone. This service is used in vil-
lages which have a telephone but not a telegraph office. To send a phonogram
from a village, the message is given to the telephone operator, who dictates
it to the nearest telegraph office which then telegraphs it to its destina-
tion or to the nearest telegraph office where, if required, it is again dic-
tated to a telephone operator or, if possible, to the recipient. An advan-
tage of the system is that it does not require teleprinters at remote loca-
tions, or operators who can use a telegraph key or teleprinter. Also, in
villages with a single telephone, it is often necessary to leave a message
anyway, as it is difficult and time-consuming to find the person being called
and get him to the phone. However, phonogram service adds to the congestion
on long distance telephone lines, which are sometimes tied up for long
periods for sending and transcription of telegrams.
1/ The Committee for the Cairo area is headed by the Chairman of ARENTO and
for Alexandria, Lower and Upper Egypt by the regional managers. The
priorities for assignment have been incorporated in guidelines issued by
the Ministry of Communications.



-3-
Usage of Service
1.09      Overall statistics on the usage of telephones in Egypt by classifi-
cation of user type are not available. A breakdown by type of subscribers
for Cairo showed that, officially, business subscribers represented 47 per-
cent of the total, Government 10 percent, and residential subscribers 43 per-
cent. However, ARENTO's present tariff structure allows for 1,500 free calls
per year for each residential subscriber and 300 free calls for each business
subscriber. Consequently, there is incentive for business subscribers to
attempt to be classified as residential; this results in an overestimate of
residential subscribers. ARENTO estimates that a large percentage of the
telephones officially categorized as residential are primarily used for
business purposes and that, in Cairo, approximately 95 percent of all calls
during the peak traffic period--which determines the system size and, hence,
its costs--are business related. The situation in Alexandria is similar.
1.10      In rural areas, the major users of telephones are also business,
e.g., agricultural wholesalers, local merchants, and tradesmen, although some
personal calls are placed to relatives in the large cities and abroad.
Generally, the flow of communications in rural areas progresses up the
hierarchy of towns, with a village primarily communicating with the markaz
(district center), the markaz with the capital of the governorate, the capi-
tal of the governorate with major cities, etc. There are exceptions, such as
wholesalers of agricultural products in rural areas who must deal directly
with urban markets, rural residents with relatives in the city, etc.
Quality of Service
1.11      The quality of existing telephone service is poor.  Because of
insufficient investment over many years, existing telecommunications facili-
ties are grossly iinadequate in relation to demand and usage, resulting in
severe peak period traffic congestion in local and long distance networks.
In local exchanges, because of the inadequate availability of direct exchange
lines, existing telephones are used by a larger number of persons; this keeps
the lines busy for relatively long periods. These busy lines in turn lead to
a high proportion of repeat attempts, which worsens system congestion. In
some exchanges, subscribers simply cannot establish connections during peak
traffic hours. Adding to the reasons for call failures are worn-out switch-
ing equipment and faults on old and defective cables. The time required to
clear technical faults is relatively long and, as a result, the number of
complaints is high.
1.12      Poor quality of service also plagues rural services where there is
evidence of frequent and long-term outages of equipment and extreme conges-
tion of major trunlk circuits. Specific examples of delays in placing trunk
calls from rural areas abound.  To call Cairo from villages in Monofeya pro-
vince takes at least four hours. A Cairo University professor tried for
three hours to call the university from a town about 70 km from Cairo to
alert his class that he could not teach that day.  He gave up when time for
the class had passed. A businessman from the Delta tried to call a



-4-
businessman in Montreal.  He did not get through for a month 1/ and finally
telexed his message. This heavy congestion and consequent delays force
potential telephone users to seek higher cost alternatives such as personal
travel or use of messengers.
1.13      Long distance services between Cairo, Alexandria, and five other
cities are provided with Subscriber Trunk Dialing (STD) facilities but in
Cairo and Alexandria access is limited because of the large number of sub-
scribers (about 46 percent) still connected to the old rotary exchanges which
have technical limitations. The quality of the STD service between these
seven cities is also poor due to (a) problems of congestion and faults in
local networks, and (b) inadequacy of trunk switching equipment at Cairo,
which is the hub of the STD network. The quality of the domestic manual long
distance service is also poor with delays in putting through calls which may
vary from three to six hours. The international telecommunications services
from Egypt are routed via an INTELSAT earth station near Cairo and via sub-
marine cables from Alexandria to Italy and Lebanon. The quality of present
international telephone, telex and telegraph services is satisfactory except
where it is affected by failures in the domestic networks.
1.14      ARENTO is aware of the need for improving the status of maintenance
of existing networks and services.  Accordingly, it has taken the following
steps; (a) charging the consultants A. D. Little and Company with the study
of procedures and methods for improved maintenance, (b) providing adequate
funds in the budget for maintenance, (c) implementing the Service Improvement
Program (SIP) assisted by consultants (paragraph 1.17), and (d) including in
its major supply contracts, training for maintenance of new equipment.
Demand for Service
1.15      The unmet expresed demand for telephones in urban areas is extreme-
ly high. ARENTO's statistics show a total of 224,925 registered applicants
waiting for telephones in Cairo as of October 30, 1980, and over 75,000 in
Alexandria. These statistics, however, are only indicative rather than
definitive. The waiting lists go back many years (for example, to 1963 in
the Beliopolis exchange area of Cairo). As a result, many potential appli-
cants have not bothered to go through formal application channels because of
the extreme delays. On the other hand, some names on the waiting lists are
probably no longer valid.
1.16      In rural areas, the evidence on demand is less clear.  It appears
that there is significant unmet demand in large regional towns, in the dis-
trict towns, and even in large villages with limited local service. However,
in some villages, where telephones are primarily used for long distance
1/ This was presumably caused by congestion in the national network and
local operational problems. It was not due to the international circuits.



calls, although there is spare capacity, additional telephones are not
requested, partly because of the fact that trunk circuits are already so con-
gested that it is difficult to get through on long distance calls. Also,
ARENTO feels that adding more telephones is, under the present traffic condi-
tions, futile.
Sector Objectives
1.17      The objectives of the sector are to improve the quality of existing
services, to overco>me the very high backlog in demand, to develop ARENTO into
an efficient and effective organization, and to develop a sound financial and
institutional basis for ARENTO to maintain sustained growth. A sector study
completed in 1978 by Continental Telephone International (CTI) consultants
outlined the steps required for achievement of these objectives on the basis
of a Service Improvement Plan, a long-term, twenty-year (1980-1999) Develop-
ment Plan and a medlium-term, five-year (1980-1984) Investment Plan.
1.18      The five-year Investment Plan provided for:
(a)  the installation of additional telephone connections,
bringing the total number of direct exchange lines (DELs)
to about a million by end of 1984;
(b)  improving long distance domestic and international
services;
(c)  providing telex connections to meet the demand;
(d)  improving telecommunications services to villages and
small tcowns in addition to the large cities to have a
balanced network; and
(e)  developing ARENTO into an efficient organization through:
(i)  restructuring of ARENTO's internal organization;
(ii) establishing a planning and project control system
to support implementation of plan and projects;
(iii)  strengthening the financial management system;
(iv) improving commercial operations; and
(v)  improving training of ARENTO's personnel.
With financing from USAID, ARENTO has engaged A. D. Little Consultants to
assist in the required studies and for implementation of these objectives.  A
summary of scope of work of the consultants is at Annex 5.



6
1.19    To compensate for the long period of stagnation in investment in the
sector in the past, ARENTO's investment program for the four-year (FY82-85)
period (paragraph 2.01) is very much larger than any previous program as
illustrated in the following table:
Percent
1975-81    1982-85       Increase
Average annual investment
(US$ million)                     111          534         381
Average number of DELs
connected annually             11,313      104,794         826
1.20      The forecast increase in exchange capacity, DELs and other paramet-
ers between 1979 and 1985 are shown in Annexes 6 and 7. Selected parameters
reflecting estimated changes in access to service are indicated below:
At End of Year
1979      1985      Percent
Actual   Forecast    Chan e
Direct Exchange Lines (DELs)
Egypt                               383,000    960,000         150
Cairo and Alexandria                274,000    584,200         113
Rest of Egypt                       109,000    375,300         244
Tenes  per        Pulaton
Egypt                                 1.35        2.66          97
Cairo and Alexandria                  4.57        8.83          93
Rest of Egypt                         0.28         1.55        453
Telephone AvailaiI.t/  (%
Egypt                                 48.2         75.9         57
Cairo and Alexandria                  52.3        70.3          34
Rest of Egypt                         40.4         85.3        111
1/  Telephone availability is defined as the ratio of DELs to
expressed demand.  (Expressed demand is the sum of DELs plus
registered unmet demand.)



7-
Sector Constraints
1.21      The single major constraint which historically has impeded progress
in the telecommunjications sector has been the lack of adequate investment.
1/ The investment situation improved with Bank Group support to ARENTO's
1975-77 and 1978-80 programs with the first and second IDA credits and
contributions from USAID, Saudi Development Fund, and other bilateral
sources. As a result of the completion of the CTI sector study in 1978, the
investment climate has considerably improved, with financing support coming
from the European Consortium and bilateral sources (paragraph 5.07).
Government has also enacted a new law (paragraph 4.01) which now permits
ARENIO to retain its own surplus funds for expansion. This facilitates more
stable advanced planning.
1.22      The major constraint now impeding progress in the sector relates to
ARENTO's implementation capability, including the lack of a long-term plan-
ning unit and an effective organization for the coordination of planning and
implementation of different components of the total investment program. A
degree of balance in investment to ensure some priority for improvement of
telecommunications services in the smaller towns and rural areas is also
essential (paragraph 2.02). Now that the new law for reorganization of
ARENT) (paragraph 4.01) has been enacted, the program and detailed implemen-
tation of the reorganization need to be carefully reviewed and monitored
(paragraph 4.02). The overall productivity of ARENTO's staff in terms of
staff/telephone ratio is low and needs improvement (paragraph 4.05). The
overall financial viability of ARENTO has to be maintained by specific tariff
measures and periodic reviews (paragraphs 3.11 and 5.12).
Bank's Role in Sector
1.23      The IDA credit 548-EGT for US$30 million for the first telecommuni-
cations project in 1975 was designed primarily as a measure to keep ARENTO's
rundown network from collapsing. In 1976, USAID financed a sector study by
Continental Telephone International (CTI) Consultants. The Bank assisted in
defining the terrms of reference for the study. Pending the results of the
sector study, an IDA credit 774-FGT for US$53 million was agreed in 1978
1/ In 1973, 1974 and 1975, Egypt invested, respectively, an estimated 0.19
percent, 0.18 percent and 0.39 percent of GDP in telecommunications
through ARENTO. In contrast, a tabulation of 44 developing countries by
the International Telecommunication Union revealed that in 1972
three-fourths of the countries invested more than 0.4 percent of C-DP in
telecommunications, over one-half more than 0.6 percent and one-fourth
more than 1.0 percent.  The two countries with the highest 1972
telecommunications investment relative to GDP were Philippines with 4.0
percent and l?apua New Guinea with 1.74 percent.



- 8 -
for the second telecommunications project which was designed to support the
rehabilitation of the network with some expansion, as well as to institute
measures to restore some order in accounts and maintain financial viability.
The first telecommunications project (IDA credit 548-ECT) has been completed.
After initial delays on the second project (IDA credit 774-EGT) procurement
action is now well under way. The Bank also provided in-depth comments on
the CTI Consultant report which came out in 1978, and made specific recom-
mendations on the scale of overall costs and implementation of the proposed
development program.
1.24      Bank involvement in the proposed third telecommunications project
is needed to provide support for financing the telecommunications networks in
small towns and rural areas, which is necessary for balanced development, and
to assist in institution building in key financial and organizational areas.
The latter relate to (a) establishment of a unit in ARENTO for coordination
and control for timely execution of the diverse components for the investment
program, (b) steps for implementation of the law for reorganization of
ARENTO, (c) the improvement of maintenance of ARENTO's telecommunications
networks and services, (d) the improvement of productivity of ARENTO staff,
(e) the implementation of the financing plan, and (f) the maintenance of
ARENTO's financial viability.
2. THE PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT
The Program
2.01      ARENTO's development program for the four-year (FY82-85) period has
been set out in Annex 8 with details in Annexes 9 to 16 and includes the
following:
(a) the ongoing program, including the works of the IDA second
project (under Credit 774-EGT);
(b) the new program comprising:
(i) USAID-financed works;
(ii) European Consortium-financed works;
(iii) the proposed Bank's third telecommunications
project; and
(iv) other works.
The program provides for installation of about 738,000 lines of main local
automatic telephone systems including replacement of about 113,000 lines. In
addition, the program provides for the rehabilitation and expansion of the



-9-
manual and semiautomatic telephone systems serving small towns and villages,
expansion of national and international long distance telephone, telegraph,
and telex systems,, and other miscellaneous items. The estimated cost of the
FY82-85 program is about LE 1,485.6 million (US$2,124.4 million) with a
foreign cost of LE. 952.7 million (US$1362.4 million) and a local cost of
LE 532.9 million. The details of the costs of the major components of the
program are at Annex 17.
Project Concept
2.02      The proposed project has been conceived with the objectives of (a)
assisting in the :i.nstitution building of ARENTO, particularly in key finan-
cial and organizational areas, and (b) providing for the rehabilitation and
expansion of telecommunications services in the previously neglected small
towns and rural areas of Egypt. As discussed in paragraph 1.12, the quality
of telephone service in rural areas is very poor, as is telephone access
(paragraphs 1.03 and 1.16); the benefits of rural telephone service, however,
can be of major significance (paragraphs 3.06-3.09). Together with the
implementation of the other components of the program which concentrate on
the rehabilitationi and expansion of the telecommunications facilities in
Cairo, Alexandria and the bigger towns of Egypt, the project will constitute
an integral part of the total telecommunications network development in Egypt
during FY82-85.
2.03      The proposed Third Telecommunications Project provides for:
(a)  installation of about 67,500 lines of semiautomatic
exchange equipment in small towns in Lower and Upper Egypt;
(b)  rehabilitation and reinstallation  of about 60,000 lines of
manual telephone exchange equipment in rural areas;
(c)  replacement and expansion of the outside plant networks for
about 1.80,000 lines in manual and semiautomatic exchange
areas;
(d)  rehabilitation and expansion of long distance networks by
installation of small coaxial cables, UHF/VHF radio links,
overhead cables and open wire lines and carrier systems
connecting small towns and rural areas; and
(e)  provision of tools, vehicles, testing and miscellaneous
equipment, including telegraphs and telex.
Project Costs
2.04      The estimated cost of the project is about LE 98.8 million
(US$141.2 million) with a foreign exchange component of about LE 55.8 million



- 10 -
(US$79.7 million).  The local costs are estimated at about LE 43.0 million
(US$61.5 million). The cost details are given in Annex 18 and summarized
below:
Local  Foreign  Total       Local  Foreign  Total
----in LE million----       ----in US$ million---
Telephone exchanges              7.20    9.00   16.20       10.30   12.87   23.17
Outside plant networks          16.40   15.40   31.80       23.45   22.02   45.47
Subscriber equipment             1.40    3.15    4.55        2.00    4.51    6.51
Long distance systems            6.00   15.80   21.80        8.58   22.59   31.17
Miscellaneous equipment          1.35    5.05    6.40        1.93    7.22    9.15
Contingencies (physical)         1.28    1.96    3.24        1.83    2.80    4.63
Contingencies (price)            9.37    5.41   14.78       13.40    7.74   21.14
Total                      43.00   55.77   98.77       61.49   79.75  141.24
The cost estimates are based on ARENTO's recent experience with (a) the
procurement of telephone equipment from the Egyptian Telephone Factory and
already-imported equipment for the semiautomatic and manual exchanges, and
(b) the installation of outside plant networks and long distance systems.
The local costs are based on prevalent costs of civil works. ARENTO is
exempt from payment of customs duties. Base costs are as at October 1980.
Contingencies
2.05      A physical contingency of 4 percent has been provided in foreign
and local costs, and this provision is adequate. Price contingencies have
been applied on foreign costs of all equipment which has not been contracted
based on an annual escalation of 9 percent in 1982, 8 percent in 1983 and 7
percent each in 1984 and 1985. For local costs, an annual escalation of 15
percent for 1982, and 12 percent for each of the years 1983 to 1985 has been
applied. These are considered adequate. The resulting overall estimated
price contingency amounts to about 17.6 percent of the estimated total base
cost plus physical contingencies.
Project Financing
2.06      A Bank loan of US$64 million is proposed to meet about 80 percent
of the foreign cost of the project. US$6.3 million is available as bilateral
aid from France. Government and ARENTO will provide the balance of required
funds (US$70.9 million). The financial requirements of the Program during
the project period are discussed in more detail in paragraphs 5.05-5.09.



- 11 -
Items for Bank Financin&
2.07      The items to be financed by the proposed Bank loan are:
USi million
(a) outside plant equipment and materials (poles,
wires, cables, PVC pipes and accessories)                 23.0
(b)  subscrib:er plant and accessories                          1.5
(c) long distance equipment (cable, VHF/
UHF radio equipment, multiplex and open
wire carrier equipment) and accessories                   25.0
(d) tools, -vehicles, test and miscellaneous
equipment, including telegraph and telex                   8.0
(e)  unallocated                                                6.5
Total                            64.0
Procurement
2.08      ARENTO will procure all the material and equipment financed by the
Bank loan through international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank's
Guidelines for Procurement except for the supply of extension of existing
terminal transmission and multiplex equipment estimated to cost about US$3
million (about 5 percent of the proposed loan) expected to be procured from
the original suppliers on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. A
15 percent preference or the prevailing customs duties, whichever is lower,
.will be applied to bids from local manufacturers. Apart from Bank-financed
items, the semiautomatic telephone switching equipment will be available from
French suppliers under credits from France; the manual switchboards and
telephone instrumtents are either available or will be provided by ARENTO's
workshops and the Egyptian Telephone Company.
Planning and Execution  _ the_oe
2.09      ARENTO's engineers have the capability of planning, designing and
executing the works under the project. The rehabilitation and expansion of
the manual and semiautomatic telephone systems will be carried out by
ARENTO's staff. Some of the coaxial cable and radio works for the long
distance network will be carried out by contractors under supervision of
ARENTO personnel. As discussed during appraisal, ARENTO agreed to create a
special Project Unit for execution of the project. The Unit was established
by ARENTO in February 1981 and the designated project manager of the Unit
attended negotiations. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that
ARENTO shall (a) maintain and adequately staff the Project Unit and (b)



- 12 -
assign to the Unit the responsibility for the preparation of the plans,
specifications and bidding documents for the project and for execution and
supervision of all works under the project. A schedule of construction for
major works in the project is given in Annex 19. This was reviewed with
ARENTO during negotiations. The project is expected to be completed by
December 1985.
Disbursement
2.10      The proposed loan will be disbursed against 100 percent of foreign
expenditures for imported equipment. For locally awarded contracts, 100
percent local expenditures ex-factory will be disbursed. The closing date
for the loan is expected to be December 31, 1986. An estimated schedule of
disbursements is at Annex 20.
Performance Indicators
2.11      Performance indicators to help ARENTO's project implementation and
operational and financial per-formance are given in Annex 21. These were
reviewed during negotiations and will be included in the ARENTO's regular
project progress reports to be sent to the Bank.
3. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
3.01      The economic impact of ARENTO's total investment program, of which
the Bank project is an integral part, is discussed in this chapter.
Telecommunications and Development
3.02      Egypt's Five-Year Plan for 1980 to 1984 (General Framework for
Socio-Economic Development) notes: "The problems of transportation and commu-
nication have long been without solution. They have blocked progress and are
a burden on the people. The Plan allocates about 16 percent of the total
investment for the public sector to the transportation and communications
sector. This is designed to solve the problems of this sector and to result
in improving services both nationally and internationally."
3.03      As highlighted above, telecommunications plays an important role in
Egypt's development efforts. With rapidly expanding telephone waiting lists,
connection waiting periods of up to 14 years, and call failure rates in some
areas of over 75 percent (paragraphs 1.11-1.13), the production and distribu-
tion of goods, and the provision and administration of services are adversely
constrained. This has created a major bottleneck in the development process
and causes resources to be wasted on more costly means of communication, or
wasted because adequate communication does not take place. It is hoped that
improvements in urban and international communication services will improve
the efficiency of banking, tourism, commercial investors, and make Egypt a
more attractive location for overseas businesses (many of which are located



- 13 -
in Athens or send officials regularly to Athens to use the international
communications facilities). Similarly, improved communications should
benefit social services, including the administration of health, education,
economic and rura:L development agencies.
3.04      One indicator of the perceived value of telephone service in Egypt
is the additional value attributed to an office or dwelling which has a tele-
phone. In Cairo, for example, estimates of the premium for an installed
telephone range from LE 50 and LE 100 per month (depending upon exchange
area) to half again the rental value of the apartment or office. An indica-
tion of the perceived value of telex to commerce and industry is that deci-
sions on priorities for telex service are made by the National Organization
for Investment in the Ministry of Economy. Priorities are generally given to
revenue-generating businesses and industries such as hotels, banks, and
petroleum and mining industries. In rural areas, an indicator of the value
of the telephone is that one is often located in the mayor's home. If the
mayorality changes hands, the phone may be moved to the new mayor's home.
3.05      Telex is the most important means of international communication
for businesses. ARENTO estimates that over 95 percent of telex subscribers
use the service for international traffic. Businesses with international
markets exist in regional centers as well as Cairo. Examples of export
businesses include agricultural produce (e.g., sugar, cotton), carpets,
furniture, handicrafts, etc. Telegram and phonogram are popular means of
transmitting written messages, particularly to or from rural areas.
Benefits of Telecommunications in Rural Areas
3.06      Approximately 55 percent of Egypt's population is rural; almost all
of it is clustered in villages along the Nile River and throughout the
fertile Delta. The primary activity is agriculture, with emphasis being
placed on the opening of new desert lands through irrigation controlled by
the Aswan Dam. In rural areas, telecommunications is part of the infrastruc-
ture linking villages to each other, and forming links between hamlets, vil-
lages, markaz, and from them to the major cities and the rest of the country.
Rural telecommunications are important to summon help in an emergency, and
are used to find markets for agricultural produce, to arrange deliveries, to
order supplies such as groceries, kerosene, spare parts for tractors, and to
contact friends and relatives in other centers.
3.07      These uses of telecommunications fit within a framework of the
rural resident's needs for information--which are varied and are met in a
variety of ways. In general, the use of telephones in rural areas of Egypt,
as opposed to other forms of communication, appears to depend on:
(a) quality of the road--if the road is very poor, the telephone
becomes a more important alternative;



- 14 -
(b) distance to be covered; and
(c) quality of the telephone service.
Telephones in rural areas are particularly important in instances of supply
shortages. For example, University of Cairo researchers cited the typical
example of a markaz official making several calls to the governorate capital
to request more kerosene when supplies ran out. Similar examples were cited
for shortages of cement and iron.
3.08      Cairo University researchers have also documented the fact that the
telephone is used in rural Egypt to arrange sales of produce to urban markets
and to arrange for shipments, for example, of eggs, chickens, vegetables and
molasses. The primary users of the telephone are businessmen, merchants, and
wholesalers of agricultural produce. Their calls are likely to be to the
regional business center such as the capital of the governorate, and to major
cities. For example, in Monofeya province, calls from the governorate are
primarily to Cairo, Alexandria, and to other governorate capitals. From the
markaz, calls go to the capital of the governorate and to Cairo and
Alexandria. From the villages, the calling pattern is similar. Wholesalers
of vegetables in a village in Monofeya were found to be heavy users of the
telephone to obtain orders and arrange deliveries to their customers in
Alexandria.
3.09      Finally, telephone service in both urban and rural areas of Egypt
is used to arrange meetings and to avoid unnecessary travel. Even in
instances in which face-to-face meetings are required, e.g., with a merchant,
a tailor, a physician, appointments are sometimes arranged by telephone (when
available) so that a trip is not wasted.
Tariff Policies
3.10      Given the inadequate resources which have been allocated to the
telecommunications sector in the past (paragraph 1.21), and the large exist-
ing waiting lists (paragraph 1.04), pricing policy is another means by which
the benefits of existing and new sector investment can be focused on high
priority users. Existing methods of telephone allocation (paragraph 1.05),
while giving priority to several important categories of waiters do not allow
sufficient flexibility in decision-making to maximize the benefits of sector
investment in the short run; price does not officially play an important role
in determining access to subscriber telephone or telex service. This fact
was recognized under the previous Bank lending operation in the sector
(Credit 774-EGT) and, partly as a result, tariff increases of about 70 per-
cent have been implemented over the 1977/1980 period. A summary of the prin-
cipal telecommunications tariffs in effect on December 31, 1980, is given in
Annex 22.



- 15 -
3.11      Further tariff increases are necessary so that price can begin to
become a factor in telephone allocation decisions, and in order that ARENTO
can begin to gene:rate a meaningful amount of revenue to contribute to its
massive FY82-85 de-lvelopment program (paragraph 5.06). In view of the import-
ance of the tariff level in maintaining the financial viability of ARENTO,
and pending the results of a detailed tariff structure study, which is cur-
rently being carried out by consultants, the Bank required that, as a
condition of Board presentation, tariff increases necessary to ensure at
least a 10 percent: rate of return on revalued net operating assets in FY82--
the first year of the proposed project--would be implemented. This condition
has been met. Depending largely on how price inflation develops, further
tariff increases rnay also be necessary during the project period for ARENTO
to maintain a satisfactory financial position as measured through rate of
return and contributions to capital expenditure (paragraph 5.04). Proposals
discussed so far include large increases in connection charges both to
generate revenue and to better ration the large excess demand for new
connections. Following the introduction of electronic switching in Cairo and
Alexandria during the proposed project period, the possibility of local
peak-off peak call charge pricing can also be considered.
Least Cost Solution
3.12      The least cost solution to the provision to telecommunications
depends on (a) having made the correct technical and eonomic decisions
initially when the networks were planned, and (b) following the optimum path
in the design, diimensioning and timing of the many installations which
comprise continuing system expansion.
3.13      The local and long distance telephone and telex network designs and
plant provisioning periods follow acceptable practices to minimize costs.
The dimensioning and timing of the works under the program, which are based
on the studies carried out by the CTI Consultants, are designed to provide
the least cost means for improving the services.  The decision to move toward
electronic switching and transmission network designs is a correct one.
Return on Investment
3.14      The internal financial rate of return on the investment program,
based upon pre-July 1981 tariffs at constant 1980 prices, is 5 percent.
Given that telephone subscribers and users are willing to pay the increased
tariffs which ARENTO is to charge during the program period, the internal
financial rate of return will be 12 percent (Annex 23). Assuming that sub-
scribers and telephone users will be willing to pay the increased tariffs
maintained in real terms over the project period, an estimate of the economic
rate of return is 21 percent.



- 16 -
3.15      The foregoing estimate of benefits is a significant underestimate
of total program benefits, since it does not fully account for external bene-
fits associated with transport substitution, administrative efficiency, etc.
Under the previous Bank project (Credit 774-EGT), an attempt was made in 1978
to measure some portion of the consumer surplus associated with the 1978-80
investment program period by (a) observing the historical willingness of sub-
scribers to pay for telephone service, (b) taking into account the apartment
and office rent differentials which some consumers pay to have a telephone,
and (c) estimating the value of time wasted in Cairo and Alexandria on unsuc-
cessful calls. Using these alternative methods, the quantifiable economic
rate of return on the program was found to be more than double the initial
estimate of the internal financial rate of return. Given the continuing
existence of large waiting lists, call traffic congestion, and premium rents
for apartments and offices with telephone service (paragraph 3.04), it is
likely that if a similar exercise were undertaken in conjunction with the
proposed FY81-85 investment program, a similar estimate of consumer surplus
would be found.
Risks
3.16      There are no unusual risks associated with the program.  A possible
risk may arise out of delayed physical implementation due to unforeseen
circumstances, such as delays in civil work of buildings or receipt of
equipment. However, in telecommunications projects wqhich comprise a large
number of independent works, delay in implementation of a few works does not
generally prevent the use of other newly created assets. Furthermore, when
delays occur, the costs and revenues are delayed in roughly the same degree;
hence the overall impact on the return on investment is not significant. A
sensitivity analysis shows that, on increasing capital costs by 10 percent
and reducing revenues by 10 percent, the economic rate of return falls to
about 17 percent.
Environmental and Health Aspects
3.17      No adverse environmental or health effects are expected from the
project. Telecommunications works have very little negative impact on the
environment and the plant consumes little energy. On the other hand, through
its use as an alternative to communications involving physical movements,
telecommunications has the potential to conserve energy and reduce environ-
mental pollution, particularly in Cairo and Alexandria, where better tele-
phone facilities are expected to slow the growth in vehicular traffic.
Better telecommunications should also result in better utilization of tran-
sport for movements of food, medicine and patients in emergency situations.



- 17 -
4. THE IMPLEMENTING AGENCY
Organization and Mana&ement
4.01      The Arab Republic of Egypt Telecommunications Organization (ARETO)
was established and governed by Presidential Decree No. 709 of August 1957 as
amended by Decree No. 457 of February 1966. The need for providing ARETO
with a greater degree of fiscal and administrative autonomy and responsibil-
ity became particularly acute with the recent undertaking of large investment
programs. The People's Assembly in July 1980 enacted a new Law No. 153,
redesignating ARETO as Arab Republic of Egypt National Telecommunications
Organization (ARENTO) and investing ARENTO with a revised Charter. Under
this Law, ARENTO (a) can set tariffs subject to approval by the Minister of
Communications, (1:)) need not compulsorily hire staff as a part of general
government policy irrespective of its needs, (c) can retain surplus funds for
its investments, (d) can determine for its staff adequate remuneration to
secure and retain qualified personnel, and (e) can implement a commercial
accounting and billing system. The Bank and USAID supported this step.
ARENTO is current]Ly preparing a program for implementation of the Charter.
4.02      The present internal organizational structure of ARENTO is indi-
cated in Annex 24. Arthur D. Little Consultants financed by USAID are
assisting ARENTO by reviewing in depth existing policies, functions, capabil-
ities, systems and procedures for planning, accounting and financial manage-
ment and control. Based on this review and the requirments of the Charter
under Law No. 153, the consultants will propose a new organizational struc-
ture, recommend needed improvements, and assist ARENTO in the implementation
of the required changes. In view of the Bank's interest in institution
building in the sector, during negotiations, ARENTO undertook (a) to provide
the Bank with the results of ARENTO's current review of its organization
structure policies and operation procedures, (b) to exchange views with the
Bank in respect of such results, and (c) to keep the Bank informed of the
progress achieved in implementation thereof.
Planning and Control
4.03      The CTI: sector study financed by USAID and completed in 1978
proposed a 20-year master plan with the first medium-term plan being for the
FY80-84 period; this is now likely to extend to FY85. If these plans are to
be operationally useful, it is essential to carry out revisions on a continu-
ing basis to keep the master plan and the medium-term plans updated, for
which purpose there should be a designated Planning Unit in ARENTO. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that ARENTO shall establish this
Planning Unit by January 1, 1982 and assign to it the responsibility for
revising from time to time ARENTO's master and medium-term investment plans.
Prgrammlementation Control
4.04      With the substantial program involving (a) the USAID project, (b)
the French, German and Austrian Consortium project (paragraph 5.08), (c) the



- 18 -
proposed Bank project, and (d) a large number (over 200 individual items) of
works in ARENTO's own program, the need for an effective control group to
coordinate all program activities and monitor their timely execution was dis-
cussed during appraisal. As a result, ARENTO in February 1981 established a
Program Implementation Unit headed by the Chairman of ARENTO.
Staff and Productivity
4.05      In June 1980, ARENTO had a staff of 51,008 and an employee/
telephone ratio of 92/1,000 excluding staff on deputation (Annex 25). This
is high and has been partly brought about by implementation of Government's
policy for providing jobs for university graduates and returning military
personnel. Government and ARENTO have been aware of the need to reduce the
employee/telephone ratio and the results so far have been mixed. In 1978
ARENTO covenanted with USAID to freeze staff at present levels. With the
pending reorganization of ARENTO under Law 153, Arthur D. Little Consultants
have been entrusted with the task of reviewing the structure of staff levels
and functions for rationalization to ensure improvements. With ARENTO's
undertaking to freeze staff at current levels and with the expected large
increase in the number of telephones due to the expansion programs, ARENTO
will be able to achieve increased productivity by gradually reducing the
employee/telephone ratio. During negotiations, ARENTO agreed to establish
for every three fiscal year period starting with its fiscal year 1982-83, in
accordance with sound telecommunications operational practices and taking
into account local conditions, targets for ARENTO's employee/telephone ratio
and inform the Bank and exchange views annually with it on progress in
achieving such targets.
TrainjR
4.06      ARENTO operates the Technical Training and Research Institute
(TTRI) with training facilities in Cairo and six regional branches. Initi-
ally assisted by UNDP experts and fellowships, TTRI is now fully staffed by
Egyptian instructors. Engineers, technicians and skilled workers are trained
in the Cairo facility and telephone, telegraph and radio operators are
trained in the regional centers. TTRI also conducts refresher (inservice)
courses in various disciplines. The Arthur D. Little Consultants are also
providing special training programs which concentrate on short courses for
cable jointers and linesmen on installation and repair of cables and lines.
A special operator training course has also been instituted to improve
performance. These activities are coordinated with the existing training
facilities of ARENTO.
4.07      A substantial number of Egyptian engineers, technicians and skilled
workers are working abroad, particularly in the Arab world. The flow of
personnel has slowed down recently, but the higher salary and benefits for
the jobs outside are attractive and this movement has to be accepted as
some,what inevitable. While the drain of trained staff no doubt affects
overall operational efficiency, ARENTO's existing training facilities are



- 19 -
considered adequate to ensure availability of trained manpower in required
numbers to avoid serious disruption either in day-to-day operations or in
implementation of t:he development programs.
Accounts and Audit
4.08       ARENTO's accounting follows the Standardized Accounting System
(SAS) applicable tic all Government boards since 1967. This system is on the
accrual principle and is satisfactory.
4.09       Plant records have been divided between the engineering and audit-
ing departments without proper reconciliation. As a result, plant in-service
has tended to be understated in the accounting statements. Plant records and
other accounts have also been incomplete. For example, some of ARENTO's
assets came as grants and were carried on the books at LE 1. This asset
undervaluation was only partly compensated by other assets acquired at higher
than normal costs. Under the terms of the second IDA Credit (774-EGT),
ARENTO was required to establish the net current value of its assets as at
December 31, 1976, and agree on principles to be applied for future period
revaluations. Valuation through December 31, 1978, has been completed. The
results indicate possible overpricing of the plant in-service considering the
planned replacement: of some major items. Arthur D. Little Consultants are
reviewing the accotnting and financial management control systems following
which significant improvements in these areas can be expected.
4.10       In accordance with its enabling legislation and SAS procedures,
ARENTO's accounts are pre-audited internally and post-audited on a continuing
basis by the Government's Central Auditing Organization (CAO).  Under the
existing IDA credits, ARENTO agreed annually to provide IDA with audited
financial statements together with the auditor's report and recommendations.
These audits have been carried out and ARENTO has made the reports available
to IDA, although late in respect of audits through 1979. The need for timely
submission of these reports has been brought to the notice of Government and
ARENTO. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that these reports
will be made available within six months of the end of the fiscal year.
Billing and Collection
4.11       Despite inefficient billing and collection procedures and policies,
but perhaps reflecting fear of disconnection during the protracted period of
scarcity of new te:lephone connections, the overall level of receivables from
private subscribers has been reasonable relative to the established billing
cycle. Billing is done manually except in Cairo where there is both manual
and computerized billing. Also, a three-month billing cycle and allowing
accounts to age up to three months before they are considered delinquent,
result in charges iaccumulating for up to six months before disconnection is
considered. Thus, there is a lack of effective management control over
billing and collections and, as a result, the amount of billing adjustments
and write-offs, though not yet critical, has been increasing. Improvement,



- 20 -
however, calls for changes in management policies and accounting procedures
but implementation of the latter will take some time. Arthur D. Little
Consultants are also expected to formulate remedial actions in these areas.
4.12      Government and ARENTO had undertaken in the second Development
Credit Agreement 774-EGT that all overdue debts by public agencies for
services rendered by ARENTO through December 1977 will be settled by
December 31, 1978, and that all future debts of Government subscribers will
be settled within three months from the date of billing. Progress in
settlement was slow and Government appointed an ad hoc ministerial committee
in 1978 to resolve these arrears which, as of June 30, 1978, totalled about
LE 3.5 million. Some progress has been achieved since but, although the
deadline for the complete settlement was extended by IDA to December 31,
1979, this could not be kept by Government. Assurances from Government were
obtained that accounts receivable from Government agencies up to December 31,
1979 shall have been paid to ARENTO by May 1, 1981, and this was a condition
of Board presentation of the loan. This condition was met. Further, during
negotiations, Government also gave assurances that all debt of Government
subscribers incurred during the period January 1, 1980 to June 30, 1981 will
be paid not later than December 31, 1982, and that all future debts for
services rendered by ARENTO will be settled within three months from the date
of billing.
Insurance
4.13      Except for motor vehicles, ARENTO does not provide insurance cover-
age on fixed assets for such risks as fire and theft. The cost of this
coverage is high and ARENTO management feels that the wide geographical dis-
persion of the assets provides a reasonable diversification of the risks.
Moreover, as a Government board, ARENTO would be assisted by Government if
serious losses occur. This is in line with the approach adopted by state-
owned telecommunications entities in many other countries and is acceptable.
5. FINANCES
Background
5.01      ARENTO's past financial performance reflects largely the institu-
tional framework in which it had been operating up until July 1980, when its
new Charter (Law No. 153) became effective (paragraph 4.01). As a Government
board, the then ARETO had no control over tariffs or over one of its major
operating expenses--personnel costs. Its main financial problem--high
indebtedness and hence debt service--had arisen primarily from its financial
relationship with Government. Government was entitled to receive ARETO's net
income in lieu of dividends, regardless of its level relative to Government's
investment in ARETO or ARETO's investment needs. The Ministry of Finance in
turn lent ARETO investment and operating funds. Because of the burden of



- 21 -
debt service on an everincreasing indebtedness, the level of ARETO's net
internal cash generation was materially lower than it would have been under
more conventional financing arrangements. These institutional financial con-
straints of ARETO were recognized by Government, and Law No. 153 was framed
to provide the newly created ARENTO with a greater degree of fiscal and
administrative autonomy and responsibility. ARENTO is currently preparing a
program for implementation of the new charter, assisted by Arthur D. Little
Consultants.
5.02      It shouldl be feasible under the new charter of ARENTO to improve
its financial performance. In view of the Bank's interest in this matter,
which is considered important for the future financial viability of ARENT0,
during execution oi the project the Bank will pay particular attention to the
implementation of t:he charter (paragraph 4.02).
Past Financial Performance
5.03      Annexes '26 through 28 contain financial statements covering the
period 1977 to FY-8,6. 1/ ARENTO's past financial performance has been
mixed. The financial rate of return on revalued net fixed assets in opera-
tion has dropped from a level of about 9 percent in 1977-78 to 4 percent in
1980, and net internal cash generation as a percentage of capital expendi-
tures from 10 percent in 1977 to negative in both 1979 and 1980.  These
unsatisfactory results and trends were a consequence of rising operating
costs and indebtedness--the latter reflecting a greatly increased construc-
tion program--coupled with the absence of adequate financial policies and
guidelines (paragraph 5.13).
5.04      As agreecl under the terms of Development Credit Agreement 774-EGT,
the Government and ARENTO increased tariffs on April 5, 1979 (paragraph 3.10).
Moreover, some improvements in service resulting from renewal of selected
equipment and faci'lities and installation of an interexchange microwave
system in the businless district of Cairo contributed to a growth in revenue.
However, this growth in revenue was not sufficient to sustain either a
reasonable rate of return or a satisfactory contribution to capital expendi-
tures. To achieve these, a further increase in tariffs sufficient to achieve
a rate of return for 1981-82 of not less than 10 percent on revalued net
fixed assets in operation has been approved (paragraph 3.11)
Financing Plan
5.05      A summary of ARENTO's capital investment requirements and of the
sources of funds to meet them during the FY82-85 project construction period
is as follows:
1/ As of July 1, 1980, ARENTO's fiscal year was changed from the calendar
year to the July 1-June 30 period.



- 22 -
LE        US$        % of
millions   millions    Total
Investment Requirements
Construction program
(including capitalized expenses)    1,495.3    2,138.2           97
Increase in working capital                  95.8       137.0        6
1,591.1    2,275.2       100
Sources of Funds
Cross internal cash generation              547.5      782.9        34
Less:  debt service                         357.9      511.8        22
Net internal cash generation                189.6      271.1        12
Subscriber deposits                           2.4         3.5        -
Total user-based resources                  192.0      274.6        12
Equity contribution                         230.1      329.0        14
Long-term debts                           1,020.7    1,473.8        65
Grants (USAID)                              138.3       197.8        9
1,591.1    2,275.2       100
5.06      Provided program execution develops as anticipated and expected
productivity gains in unit revenues materialize, user-based resources would
be sufficient to provide a growth in funds from internal resources to finance
construction requirements from about 3 percent in FY82 to 24 percent in
FY85-86. Although somewhat low in absolute terms, the level of self-
financing increases significantly and is acceptable considering: (a) the
extremely large magnitude of the rehabilitation/expansion investment during
the program period, which is needed to compensate in part for a long period
of stagnation in sector investment; and (b) that revenues from the huge
volume of ongoing and project works only begin to accrue in a significant way
in FY84, that is, towards the end of the project period, and build up
materially after it.
5.07      Of the external financing required, grant financing from USAID of
US$198 million has been agreed. The breakdown of the long-term debt
financing as shown in paragraph 5.05 is as follows:



- 23 -
LE                 US$
Millions            Millions
Loans for ongoing works            336.4                481.0
Loans for other works
USAID                             18.8                 26.9
IBRD                              44.8                 64.0
France                             4.4                  6.3
Consortium
Phase I
France             114.3                163.4
Germany             85.3                122.0
Austria             28.6                 40.9
Subtotal         228.2               326.3
Phase II             130.0                185.9
Subtotal         358.2    358.2      512.2    512.2
Other lcans                        95.6                136.7
Total external financing    858.2               1,227.1
Government of Egypt                172.5                246.7
Tot:al                      1,030.7             1,473.8
5.08      Of the total extpLia~ financing requirement of about US$1,227
million, agreements have ";-en signed -'r US$800 million, being consortium
Phase I US$326.3 million5 USSPID US$26.9 million, France US$6.3 million, and
US$440.5 million from varirus d;iorcr for ongoing works.  Assurances have been
given for about US$186 million (being amounts identified under the Phase II
Consortium lending program). The rerceived external financing gap is thus
approximately US$241 million, of which the proposed IBRD loan would be US$64
million, leaving a remaining balance of US$177 million (14 percent of total
external requirements), which is expected to be financed under future
bilateral agreements and traditional commercial bank financing.  Details of
the Consortium financing are shown at Annex 29.
5.09      The financing plan as detailed above calls for Government to
finance about LE 403 million (US$575 million). It is anticipated that in
order for ARENTO to achieve satisfactory financial coefficients consistent
with financial viability this financing will be provided by Government to
ARENTO in the form of debt, about LE 173 million (US$246 million) with an
interest rate of 5 percent and an equity contribution of about LE 230 million
(US$329 million). Government is aware of the magnitude of the financing
required of it. [)uring negotiations assurances were obtained that Government



- 24 -
would provide funds to ARENTO, on terms satisfactory to the Bank, to meet any
required foreign or local expenditure necessary to complete the program and
to ensure maintenance of a sound financial position for ARENTO
(paragraph 5.14).
Future Financial Performance
5.10      Revenues have been projected based on ARENTO's experience and
taking into account plant additions and improvements. A summary of the
projected results including recent tariff measures follows:
FY82       FY83        FY84        FY85        FY86
Operating revenues
(LE millions)          127.8       166.5       244.8       310.4      384.2
Operating income
(LE millions)           51.2        72.4       124.8       154.3       189.1
Operating ratio
(percent)               60          57          50          50         51
Financial rate of
return (percent)        10          11          14          11          10
Contribution to ex-
pansion (percent)        3           6          17          20          24
Debt/debt and equity
(percent)               82          75          70          68          67
5.11      The financial projections indicate that with the implementation of
the recent tariff measures and financing plan ARENTO's prospective financial
performance would improve considerably. Increased revenues would result in
progressive lowering of the operating ratio, an increased rate of return on
revalued assets, and an increasing self-financing capability. Asset
revaluation has taken into account an initial 110 percent revaluation in 1977
with application of an annual cumulative 5 percent revaluation factor for
each subsequent year. ARENTO's capital structure, previously marked by
unusually high levels of indebtedness (paragraph 5.01), would gradually
improve such that the debt/equity ratio would be about 70/30 at the end of
the project period.
5.12      In order to achieve a reasonably satisfactory financial position
for ARENTO, reliance was placed on specific tariff actions (paragraph 3.11)
and on ARENTO's agreement to improve productivity (paragraph 4.05). During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that ARENTO earn an annual rate of
return on revalued net fixed assets in operation of not less than 10
percent. As required under the second credit agreement, ARENTO will also
periodically revalue its assets on principles agreed with the Bank.



- 25 -
5.13      During negotiations the whole area of financial goals, policies and
strategies and the relationship of these to overall financial viability and
financial structure of ARENTO were discussed with ARENTO and Government
officials. Particular emphasis centered on the control of receivables and
cash management. The financial projections included in this report have
incorporated a number of goals, such as rate of return on revalued assets,
current asset ratios, liquidity ratios, self-generated contribution to system
expansion, and each of these is identified in Annex 21. As an example,
ARENTO's historical liquidity ratio of about 0.5 has meant that ARENTO has
consistently been short of cash for operations. The financing plan
incorporates an improvement in this ratio from the 0.5 level to about 0.8 by
the end of the project period. As part of the Bank's role in institution
building, a major emphasis of supervision will be on ARENTO establishing
sound technical and financial policies and strategies and the requisite
implementation capabilities.
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations, the following assurances were obtained from
Government and/or ARENTO:
(a) ARENTO shall (i) provide the Bank with the results of
ARENTO's review of its organization structure, policies
and operation procedures, (ii) exchange views with the
Bank in respect of such results, and (iii) keep the Bank
informed of progress achieved in the implementation
thereof (paragraph 4.02);
(b) ARENTO shall establish by January 1, 1982 a Planning
Group to review and update the master and the medium-term
telecommunications development plans (paragraph 4.03);
(c) ARENTO shall establish for every three-year period
starting from FY1982-83 targets for ARENTO's employee/
telephone ratio and shall exchange views annually with
the Bank on progress in achieving such targets
(paragraph 4.05);
(d) ARENTO shall continue to have its accounts audited by
independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank and to
submit such audited accounts to the Bank within six
months of the end of the financial year (paragraph 4.10);



- 26 -
(e) from June 30, 1981, Government subscribers shall settle
all accounts submitted by ARENTO for services rendered to
them within three months of the date of billing
(paragraph 4.12);
(f) Government shall provide ARENTO, on terms satisfactory to
the Bank, the local and foreign funds required to
complete the project (paragraph 5.09); and
(g) ARENTO shall earn an annual rate of return of not less
than 10 percent on revalued net fixed assets in operation
(paragraph 5.12).
6.02      The proposed Project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan
of US$64.0 million equivalent, for 20 years including a 5-year grace period,
and bearing interest at 9.6 percent per annum.



- 27 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 2 pages
EGYPT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT NATIONAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS ORGANIZATION (ARENTO)
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Existing Telecommunication Facilities and Traffic
(as of December 31, 1979)
Alexandria
Cairo Zone       Zone      Provinces    Total
A. Local Telephone Network
Telephone Exchanges
Automatic                         18            9            27          54
Semi automatic                     -            4            20         24
Manual                            64           68         2,187      2,319
Total         82           81         2,234      2,397
Equipped capacity
Automatic                    220,400       78,800        60,300    359,500
Semi automatic                  -           1,470         7,600       9,070
Manual                          2,452       2,931        60,254      65,637
Total     222,852       83,201       128,154    434,207
Direct exchange lines
Automatic                    202,581       67,060        58,140    327,781
Semi automatic                  -           1,010         5,586       6,596
Manual                         1,562        1,798        45,257      48,617
Total     204,143'      69,868       108,983    382,994
B. Long Distance Transmission Systems
1. Coaxial Cable Systems
a. Cairo-Benha-Tanta-Damanhour-Alexandria
6-tube standard, capacity 2 x 960 channels
b.  Cairo-Benha-Zagazig-Ismailia
4-tube standard capacity 2 x 960 channels
c.  Tanta-IMLhalla-Mansura
4-tube standard, capacity 2 x 960 channels
d.  Beni Suef-Fayoum
2-tube small, capacity 960 channels
e. Cairo-El Saff-Beni Suef-El Minya-Assyout-Sohag-Quena-Luxor-Asswan
f.  44tube small, capacity 2 x 960 channels



- 28 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 2 pages
2. Microwave Systems
a. Port Said-Mansura, capacity 120 channels
b. Cairo-Alexandria-Tripoli (Libya)
Alexandria-Tripoli, capacity 1,260 channels
Cairo-Alexandria, capacity 2,880 channels (under installation)
3. Open Wire Carrier Systems
46 systems of 3 and 12 channel capacities
4. Trunk Switching Equipment
a. 7 automatic trunk exchanges, capacity 7,200 lines
b.  493 manual trunk boards                1/
5.  Long Distance Public Call Offices - 2,867-
C. Telex Services
2 telex exchanges, capacity 3,200 lines
telex subscribers - 1,921
D. International Service
a. Submarine Cable Systems
1. Alexandria- Catanzara (Italy)
single tube, capacity 480 channels
2. Alexandria-Beirut (Lebanon) single tube capacity - 120 channels
b. Satellite Communication Systems
Standard "A' earth station, capacity - 132 telephone circuits
c. HF Radio System
3 international circuits
d. Scatter System
10 circuits Aswan-Wadi Halfa (Sudan)
E. Traffic (during the year 1979)
Telephones - Long distance
No. of Calls Paid Minutes
(a)  Domestic                                 13,265,059   55,713,000
(b)  International - Outgoing                    564,732    2,963,856
Telex and Telegraphs
(a)  Telex - International                       n/a         5,931,325
(b) Telegrams - Number
Domestic                                6,929,891
International outgoing                    948,772
1/ These include coin box operated telephone booths in urban areas of Cairo
and Alexandria.



- 29 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2 pages
EGYPT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT NATIONAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS ORGANIZATION (ARENTO)
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Existing Main Automatic Telephone Exchanges and Direct Exchange Lines
Area and                              Capacity as of      Year            DELs as of
Exchange                    Type      Dec. 31, 1979    Operation       Dec. 31, 1979
Cairo
1.  Central Cairo            Rotary            20,000       1931-1940  )         180988
(Auto I, II)                "                                       )         6,706
2.  Gezira                       "            10,000        1948-1961  )
3.  Bab-El-Louk                  "             14,000       1952-1956            13,109
4.  Heliopolis l             X-Bar              7,000           1979              6,812
5.  Heliopolis I:I & III     Rotary            22,000       1934-1963            21,842
6.  Giza                         "              4,800       1936-1958             4,624
7.  Maadi                        it             4,000       1952-1966             3,926
8.  Helwan                      "i              2,000        1952-1955            1,905
9.  Zamalek                      It            20,000       1955-1962            18,999
10.  Abbasia                  X-Bar 2           20,000        1962-1964           18,715
11.  Opera                        "             35,000        1963-1965           33,848
12.  Roda                         "             20,000        1965-1969           19,719
13.  Shoubra                      "             18,000        1965-1969-1979      12,709
14.  Calyub                                        800           1965                773
15.  Barrage                                       800           1965                737
16.  Pyramid                                     7,000        1967-1979            5,956
17.  Dokki                                      10,000        1976-1977            8,775
18.  Nasr                         "              5.000           1977              4.438
Total                            220,400                           202,581
Alexandria Region
19.  Central                   Rotary           20,000        1935-1952           19,010
20.  Ibrahimia                    "             10,000        1949-1962            9,949
21.  Gleem                        "             10,000        1949-1962            9,451
22.  Manshia                  X-Bar             10,000        1969-1973            9,708
23.  Sidi Gaber                  It             11,000        1965-1973           10,120
23a  Sidi Gaber                Electronic       10,000           1978              3,042
24.  Sidi Beshr                X-Bar             6,000        1977-1978            4,386
25.  Matruh                       "              1,000           1/                  688
26.  Kafre Dawar                  "                800           1/                  706
67,060
Alexandria sub-total                       78.800
/1 Data on year of operation not available.
/2 X-Bar refers to Cross Bar type of switching equipment.



-30 -
4                                          ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2 pages
Area and                          Capacity as of    Year of         DELs as of
Exchange                Type      Dec. 31, 1979    Operation    June 30, 1979
Lower Egypt Region
28.  Damanhour             X-Bar             3,000           1962             2,951
29.  Tanta                 X-Bar-/           6,000                            6,000
30.  Mehalla                                 3,000            1/              2,993
Al Kubra
31.  Kafrel Zayat                            1,000            1/                991
32.  Kafrel Sheikh                           1,400           1965             1,359
33.  Disug                                   1,400           1965             1,200
34.  Mansura                                 6,000           1962             6,000
35.  Damietta              S/S(ATE)-!        3,000       1953-1963            2,403
36.  Rasel Bar             S/S(ATE)            900           1964               820
37.  Shibin-El-Kom            "              1,500           1953             1,440
38.  Benha                 X-Bar             2,000           1964            1,982
39.  Zagazig               S/S(ATE)          3,200           1952             2,928
40.  Fagus                 X-Bar             1,000            1/                993
41.  Mit Ghamr             X-Bar             2,000           1968             1,991
Sub-total                     35,400                           34,051
Upper Egypt Region
42.  Assyut                X-Bar             4,000           1964             3,984
43.  Sohag                                   1,800           1966            1,786
44.  Qena                                    1,000           1967               957
45.  Luxor                                     800           1965               782
46.  Aswan                                   2,000           1965            1,925
47.  Malawi                                  1,000           1967               968
48.  Fayum                                   2,000          1966             1,997
49.  Beni Suef                               1,600          1965             1,587
50.  Minya                    "              3,000           1964            2,810
51.  Gerga                                     800           1977               793
Sub-total                     18,000                           17,589
Canal and Sinai Region
52.  Port Said             S/S               4,000            1/             3,810
53.  Suez                  S/S               2,000            1/              1,799
54.  Imailia               S/S                 900            1/               891
Sub-total                      6,900                            6,500
GRANT TOTAL EGYPT                    359,500                          327,781
/1 Data on year of operation not available.
/2 X-Bar refers to Cross Bar type of switching equipment.
/3 S/S(ATE) refers to step by step switching equipment of Automatic
Telephone Electric Company.



- 31 -
ANNEX 3
EGYPT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT NATIONAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS ORGANIZATION (ARENTO)
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Status of Existing Telephone Offices
(as of December 31, 1979)
Offices Belong to
ARENTO
Organi-    Post                                Total
Area                    zation    Office    Railways       Private    Offices
Cairo                     113         34         1             35         183
Alexandria                118         47        33             62         260
Lower Egypt               409         55         14           809       1,287
Upper Egypt               255        162          1           689       1,107
Total                   895        298        49          1,595       2,837



- 32 -
ANNEX 4
EGYPT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT NATIONAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS ORGANIZATION (ARENTO)
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
International Telephone Statistics
(As of January 1q79)
Aver- Aver- Average
Busi-  age   age   No. of  No.
ness   No.   No.  Conver-  of
Principal Cities   Rest of Country                   Per 100 Population             Lines  of    of   sations Employ-
Telephones        (X of National)    (2 of National)    Total Telephones   Main Telephones   (X of  Per- Tele-   per    ees
Pop-   Total   Main             Pop- Total  Main   Pop- Total  Main                     Rest                 Rest  Total  sons phones Tele-   per
ula-   Tele-   Tele-  Ratio: ula- Tele-  Tele-  ula- Tele-  Tele-   Na-  Prin-   of    Na-  Prin-   of   Lines) per   per   phone  1,000
tion   phones  phones Total/ tion phones phones tion phones phones tion- cipe1  Coos- tion- cipal  Coon-                  HNose- House- per   Tele-
Country         (000s)  (0005)  (oGOs)  Main  (X)   (X)    (X)   (X)   (2)    (X)    al   Cities  try   al   Cities  try   (2)   hold  hold   Day   phones
AFRICA
Algeria          18,500      346      203   1.7    N.A. 83.2   N.A.  N.A. 16.8   N.A.   1.87   N.A.  N.A.   N.A.   N.A.  N.A.   N.A.  N.A.  N.A.   7.8    N.A.
Egypt            40,000      524      346   1.4   31.5  93.0  89.0  68.5   7.0  11.0    1.31   4.57  0.28   0.97   2.68  0.15  47.0   5.0   0.06   4.6                  92
Ethiopia         30,017       81      N.A.  N.A.   5.8  81.7   N.A. 94.2   8.3   N.A.   0.27   3.80  0.05   N.A.   2.73  N.A.  28.9   5.0   0.01   8.9                  53
Kenya            14,875       156     N.A.  N.A.   9.8  79.8   N.A. 90.2  20.2   N.A.   1.05   8.46  0.25   N.A.   3.43  N.A.                    5.7   0.06   6.5       29
Nauritius            910       34      20   1.7   15.9  36.8  33.2  84.1  63.2  66.8    3.78   8.73  2.84   2.19   4.57  1.74  39.5   5.2   0.20   N.A.    36
Namibia              962      47       29   1.7   10.2  49.1  47.2  89.8  50.9  52.8    4.94  23.79  2.80   2.90  13.41  1.71  28.5   6.0   0.30  12.3    N.A.
Rwanda            4,800        6        4   1.6   17.0  62.0  61.3  83.0  38.0  38.7    0.12   0.45  0.06   0.08   0.28  0.04   N.A.  4.7   0.01   3.2                  10
Senegal           5,085       40       17   2.3   44.5  90.4  84.2  55.5   9.6  15.8    0.79   1.61  0.14   0.34   0.64  0.10   N.A.  N.A.  N.A.   3.1                  27
South Africa    24,356   2,456   1,307   1.9   34.1  72.9  78.9  65.9  27.1  21.1   10.09  21.56  4.15   5.37  12.42  1.72  27.6   N.A.  N.A.   8.8    N.A.
Sudan            18,513       63       44   1.4   10.6  90.7  89.7  89.4   9.3  10.3    0.34   2.89  0.04   0.24   2.02  0.03  65.2   5.0   0.17   N.A.    12
Swaziland           526        9        3   3.0   11.6  76.2  93.7  88.4  23.8   6.3    1.88  12:38  0.51   0.62   5.01  0.04  56.5   5.8   0.11   N.A.    23
lunisia           5,982      158       89   1.8   19.1  64.7  64.8  80.9  35.3  35.2    2.65   N.A.  N.A.   1.49   5.07  0.65   N.A.  5.5   0.15   7.1                  25
Zambia            5,600       58       30   2.0   35.1  80.6   N.A. 64.9  19.4   N.A.   1.03   2.37  0.31   0.53   N.A.  N.A.   N.A.  N.A.  N.A.   N.A.   N.A.
AMERICAS
Canada           23,691  15,059   9,249   1.6   40.4  49.6  41.6  60.0  50.4  58.4   63.57  78.82 53.40  39.04  40.60 38.00  22.5   3.3   2.10   3.6                     6
Chile            10,958      531      339   1.6   54.5  85.8  90.3  45.5  14.2   9.7    4.85   7.63  1.51   3.09   5.14  0.64  35.4   4.8   0.02   9.5                  15
-Costa Rica        2,139      175      112   1.6   43.1  85.2  88.8  56.9  14.8  11.2    8.20  16.22  2.13   5.25  10.81  1.03  25.7   5.6   0.46   4.7                  13
Mexico           69,287   4,140   2,190   1.9   38.9  84.5  86.9  61.1  15.5  13.1    5.98  12.98  1.51   3.16   7.06  0.68  27.3   N.A.  N.A.   6.4                     6
United States  219,530 168,994  84,431   2.0   48.9  51.9  47.4  51.1  48.9  52.6   76.98  81.70 72.46  40.28  39.05 41.46  15.7   2.9   2.20   3.9                      6
Uruguay           2,800      269      204   1.3   43.0  78.0  74.0  57.0  22.0  26.0    9.60  17.50  3.70   7.30  12.90  3.10  25.0   N.A.  N.A.   4.8                  25
Venezuela        15,070      920      676   1.4   39.5  75.5  84.9  60.5  24.5  15.1    6.11  11.67  2.47   4.49   9.65  1.12   N.A.  N.A.  N.A.   N.A.   N.A.
ASIA
China (Taiwan)  17,182   2,099   1,395   1.5   40.6  69.5  68.1  59.4  30.5  31.9   12.21  20.90  6.25   8.11  13.61  4.21  40.0   5.0   0.61  15.7                     10
Hong Kong         4,720   1,382   1,082   1.3  100.0 100.0 100.0                             29.28  29.28          22.93  22.93          23.4   4.4   1.28   N.A.        6
India           644,681   2,424   1,824   1.3    6.8  55.0  51.6  93.2  45.0  48.4    0.38   3.04  0.18   0.28   2.15  0.15   N.A.  N.A.  N.A.   6.7    101
Indonesia       141,579      393      275   1.4   11.0  70.4  64.9  89.0  29.6  35.1    0.28   1.77  0.09   0.19   1.15  0.08   N.A.  N.A.  N.A.   N.A.   N.A.
Israel            3,740   1,028       715   1.4   52.0  72.2  72.4  48.0  27.8  27.6   27.49  38.17 15.92  19.19  26.71 11.03   N.A.  3.9   1.07   9.1                   8
Japan           115,620  52,937  38,755   1.4   52.6  59.5   N.A. 47.4  40.5   N.A.  45.79  51.79 39.12  33.52   N.A.  N.A.  33.2   3.3   1.50   2.2                     6
Korea (Sooth)   36,628   2,387   1,917   1.2   45.2  73.9  68.2  54.8  26.1  21.8    6.52  10.66  3.10   5.23   7.90  3.04  42.0   5.0   0.33  13.9                     22
Lebanon           2,860      321      260   1.2   54.9  82.6  81.2  45.1  17.4  18.8   11.24  17.48  4.64   9.09  14.36  3.52   N.A.  5.0   0.56   N.A.   12
Malaysia         13,332      439      273   1.6   10.2  58.6  55.5  89.8  41.4  44.5    3.29  18.92  1.52   2.05  11.15  1.02  48.5   N.A.  N.A.   N.A.                  9
Philippines      48,253      593      353   1.3   19.2  93.8  90.5  80.8   6.2   9.5    1.23   6.01  0.08   0.73   3.44  0.08  36.4   5.9   0.07   N.A.    12
Singapore         2,349      540      380   1.4  100.0 100.0 100.0                          23.00  23.00           16.16  16.16          27.2   4.0   0.92  19.4        18
Sri Lanka        13,900       79       49   1.6    6.9  64.7  59.5  93.1  35.3  40.5    0.57   5.31  0.21   0.36   3.07  0.15  51.8   5.7   0.03   N.A.   116
Syria             8,328      212      169   1.2    6.9  64.7   N.A. 93.1  35.3   N.A.   2.55   5.55  0.67   N.A.   N.A.  N.A.   N.A.  N.A.  N.A.   3.5                  40
Thailand         45,222      409      283   1.4   14.8  82.8  80.7  85.2  17.2  19.3    0.91   5.07  0.18   0.62   3.41  0.08  53.4   6.1   0.05   4.2                  24
EUROPE
Czechslovakia   15,184   2,981   1,578   1.9   16.8  37.4  38.9  83.2  62.6  61.1   19.63  43.71 14.77  10.39  24.06  7.63  45.5   2.9   0.57   2.1    N.A.
France           53,387  19,870  11,936   1.7   31.4  53.9  45.1  68.6  46.1  54.9   37.22  63.89 25.01  22.36  32.11 17.89   N.A.  N.A.  N.A.   N.A.                    8
Germany,Fed.Rep.61,322  24,743  17,611   1.4    3.1  39.5  37.7  96.9  60.5  62.3   40.35  50.89 35.54  28.72 349.27 26.05   N.A.  2.5   1.02   2.0    N.A.
Greece            9,370   2,487   2,025   1.2   50.0  71.5  69.7  50.0  28.5  30.3   26.55  37.96 15.13  21.61  30.13 13.10  31.2   3.4   0.90   3.8                    11
Italy            56,829  17,081  11,451   1.5   37.8  57.0  55.7  62.2  43.0  44.3   30.06  45.32 20.78  20.15  29.69 14.35  27.2   3.2   0.95   1.5                     5
Spain            36,780  10,311   5,866   1.8   26.6  47.3  49.6  73.4  52.7  50.4   28.04  49.85 20.13  15.95  29.74 10.95  39.4   3.7   1.04   N.A.                    5
Sweden            8,284   6,160   4,267   1.4   36.0  43.1  43.2  64.0  56.9  56.8   74.36  89.03 66.11  51.50  61.81 45.71  15.2   2.5   1.83   8.5    N.A.
Switzerland       6,298   4,292   2,677   1.6   34.9  45.9  42.9  65.1  54.1  57.1   68.15  89.63 56.63  42.51  52.26 37.32   N.A.  2.5  17.10   3.6    N.A.
Turkey           43,290   1,578       986   1.6   25.2  68.5  61.2  74.8  31.5  38.8    3.70   9.91  1.53   2.30   5.54  1.18  57.2   4.6   0.13   2.3                  25
United Kingdom  55,822  24,935  16,479   1.5   31.3  40.1  37.2  68.7  59.9  62.8   44.67  57.23 38.95  29.52  35.09 26.99  20.2   2.8   1.26   2.1                      9
USSR            262,400  20,943  17,546   1.2    9.8  26.4   N.A. 90.2  73.6   N.A.   8.00  21.50  0.60   N.A.   N.A.  N.A.   N.A.  N.A.  N.A.   N.A.   N.A.
OCEANIA
Auatralia        14,332   6,266   5,104   1.2   68.6  77.3  60.4  31.4  22.7  39.6   43.72  49.27 31.61  35.61  31.35 44.91  29.9   3.1   1.36   2.2                    10
Fiji                607       35       20   1.8    1.4  46.9  42.5  90.6  53.1  57.5    5.76  19.31  3.56   3.23   9.81  2.16   N.A.  6.2   0.36   N.A.    19
New Zealand       3,145   1,762   1,092   1.6   70.3  75.3  70.1  29.7  24.7  29.9   56.04  60.02 46.60  34.73  34.63 34.96  27.6   3.1   1.80   N.A.    14
Papua New Guinea 3,060        42       21   2.0    8.8  85.7  84.4  91.2  14.3  15.6    1.37  13.29  0.21   0.68   6.49  0.11   N.A.  6.5   0.09   N.A.    62
Ssurce:  The data, and the analyses thereof, in the above table are based on information supplied by each country's telephone administration or company to
AT&T and compiled by that company in its publication, "The World's Telephones - A Statistical Compilation as of January 1979."  It has bees
aupplemented in the case of Egypt.and some neighboring countries from information available in the Bank.
Definitions:  Population:           Representa the latest available cenas- or estimate as reported by the respective telephone administration or company for
the country.
Principal Cities:  For countries other thas the USA, the principal cities are those designated by each country's telephone administration or
company; in mast cases they represent the largest, mast prominent, world renowned or having commercial or historical
significance. For the USA, the principal cities are those with population in excess of 50,000.
Rest of Country:   Data on population, telephones, etc., for areas of each country other than the principal cities.
Total Telephones:  Total number of telephones available to the general public.  Excludes private telephones not connected to public telephone
system.
Main Telephones:   Telephones connected direct to the exchange.  Excludes telephones connected to the exchange manually or automatically
through a private branch exchange.
Business Lines:    Telephone lines connecting telephone exchange to subscriber's business station or telephone.
Households:          Arrangements made by persons individually or in groups for providing themselves with food and other essentials for living.
Employees:           Permanent members of a telephone administration or company who are fully employed with providing and supporting public
telephone service.
N.A.:                Data not given by telephone administration/company.  Also used where given data results in implausible analyses.



- 33 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 5 pages
EGYPT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT NATIONAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS ORGANIZATION (ARENTO)
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Summary of Scope of Work of A. D. Little Consultants
The corLsultant's scope of services will include, but not be
limited to, providing services, support and assistance to ARENTO in the
performance of the tasks described below. Most managerial and technical
tasks are expected to be completed within a two-year period.
A - Management, Operation and Training Programs
(1)  The restructuring of ARENTO's internal organization according
to the guidelines contained in the Sector Study. Specifically,
assistance will be provided in the development of text,
tables and charts describing the proposed organizational
structure of major divisions, departments, and offices; identi-
fication of specific functions and responsibilities of these
units; {development of staffing plans for selected units; the
preparation of a projected schedule for the implementation of
proposed changes; and the establishment of supervisory and
control systems to evaluate the progress and efficiency of
the different divisions.
(2)  The establishment of planning and project control systems to
support the implementation of the proposed master plan. The
consultant will assist ARENTO management in establishing a central
planning office and project control group; in designing and
developing planning and control procedures and practices; and
in performing selected planning/engineering functions. Con-
sideration will be given to both manual and computer-assisted
planning and control techniques.
(3)  The strengthening of financial management systems, including
reorganLzation of the accounting and financial functions;
design and development of an improved accounting system;
establishment of a budget office and budgetary practices and
procedures; development of an improved cash management capability;
upgrading of the existing internal audit capability; and
improvement of the current financial reporting function. Con-
sideration will be given to strengthening the existing financial
control capability and the ability of ARENTO management to utilize
financial and accounting information in planning and decision
making.



- 34 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 5 pages
(4) The improvement of commercial operations (defined broadly as
encompassing those activities involving contacts between
ARENTO and its customers), including customer contact avail-
ability, office environment, service contract rules and
regulations, customer billing, customer payments, and
directory development. Consideration shall be given to
matters of organization, practices, procedures, and training.
New procedures will be introduced in a model exchange area
to be selected.
(5) The strengthening of purchasing and inventory management
capability, including: reorganization of the purchasing
and stores functions; development of a coordinated purchas-
ing/inventory stock identification system; establishment of
procurement and inventory control practices and procedures;
examination of the feasibility of establishing an automated
inventory reporting system; implementation of an economic
ordering quantity or other system capable of reducing pro-
curement costs; and examination of existing inventory
storage facilities and development of a comprehensive
facilities utilization plan, including recommendations
for the systematic disposal of obsolete and unusable items.
(6) The establishment of the organization, procedures and priorities
for the standardization of purchase equipment, materials and
services. Consideration will be given to the role of the
various divisions and departments of ARENTO in the evaluation
of available technical products and services, and in an
ongoing program for the review of the influence and applic-
ability of new technologies.
(7) The provision of technical and management-related training for
ARENTO personnel. Technical training will be provided to a
core of ARENTO training specialists in areas related to service
improvement. These areas include, but are not necessarily
limited to, station installation and maintenance; workshop
repairs to equipment; central office maintenance; outside
plant maintenance, tools and test equipment; engineering;
customer service records; commercial practices; and building
maintenance. Management training will be provided to selected
ARENTO personnel in middle- and upper management positions in
such management-related areas as management theory and practice
problem solving and decision-making, and supervisory concepts
and practices. Specific training will also be provided in
those management-related areas improving the design, develop-
ment, and implementation of management systems ancd practices.
(8) The preparation of an Electronic Data Processing (EDP) plan and
the design of computer-based systems for ARENTO. The EDP plan
will catalog existing and necessary computer equipment and



- 35 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 5 pages
programs and identify all potential applications, describe
their system components, prioritize and schedule their
implementation, and outline a suitable system environment.
The systems developed for ARENTO will help it to develop the
required capabilities in the areas of traffic analysis,
network planning, and radio frequency planning and utili-
zation.
B - Service Improvement Programs
(1) The provision of a suitable operating environment for modern
telecommunications switching and transmission equipment. This
program will involve the repair, modification, rehabilitation
or replacement of air conditioning equipment and standby power
plant in Cairo exchange buildings, and other steps necessary
to ensure an acceptable range of temperature, humidity, cleani-
ness and fire prevention. Consideration will be given to
continuing maintenance programs, including such factors as
organization. procedures, training, and the availability of
necessary tools and spare parts.
(2) Improvements in the overall administration, maintenance and
performance of Cairo local and automatic toll exchange equip-
ment. ARENTO personnel are presently engaged in the general
overhauL of BTM rotary and LME crossbar equipment throughout
the Cairo area. This task is intended to complement the work
being done by ARENTO and includes:
(a) Provision of an optimum-size maintenance work force in
each exchange and development of a centralized manage-
ment group;
(b) Steps to improve the availability of spare parts, tools
and test equipment;
(c) The introduction of modern traffic usage recording (TUR)
equipment;
(d) Reconditioning of main distribution frames;
(e) Development and application of measures to reduce traffic
overload caused by ineffective calling attempts; and
(f) The coordination of all of the above activities, in order
to ensure the maximum overall service improvement.



- 36 -
ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 5 pages
(3) Implementation of measures to improve operations of the
national toll center and to improve service on international
toll calls. This work has the objective of improving opera-
tor efficiency and accuracy in both the national and inter-
national exchanges, and of improving the transmission and
speed of connection on international calls.
(4) The establishment of a central organization and the necessary
records and procedures to improve the maintenance and utili-
zation of Cairo junction facilities; and the implementation
of a program to verify, test and repair junction facilities
and associated equipment. Records and procedures will be
devised in such a manner as to facilitate the possible future
employment of mechanized testing and assignment routines.
This task is to be completed at the earliest possible date.
(5) The implementation of programs and priorities for the rehabili-
tation or partial replacement, as required, of exchange outside
plant. Consideration will be given to the introduction of new
technology, methods and procedures. A model exchange, Opera,
has been chosen and given first priority for improvement and
for the training of ARENTO personnel. A program will be
established and work initiated, to the maximum extent prac-
ticable, toward rehabilitation or partial replacement of
exchange outside plant throughout the Cairo area, on the
basis of their importance and the condition of existing
facilities.
(6) Establishment of an ARENTO organization and implementation of
a program to improve service to major business and government
telecommunications users.
(7) Implementation of a program to improve subscriber equipment and
installations. This program will include organization, train-
ing, tools, practices and new material necessary to carry out
work in the Opera exchange area, during the contract time frame.
Consideration will be given to subsequently extending the program
to all Cairo telephone users.
(8) The preparation of standard engineering and operating practices
and procedures. These practices will cover a selected range of
telecommunications services and facilities such as: station
installation and maintenance; cable installation and maintenance;
exchange installation; testing and maintenance; and transmission
facilities installation, testing and maintenance. The consul-
tant will also assist ARENTO in developing a formal system for
classifying individual practices and for distributing these
practices as necessary.



- 37 -
ANNEX 5
Page 5 of 5 pages
(9) Goals anid objectives will be stated in detail for service
improvement programs, together with methods for measuring
the actual improvement achieved during the contract period.
Statements of the degree to which and under what conditions
the contractor would guarantee the results of each service
improveiment task will be included.



EG YPT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT NATIONAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS ORGANIZATION (ARENTO)
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Growth of Local Telephone System - 1960-85
Exchange  Direct Exchange                                                                               Ratio      Registered                   Increase in
December 31  Equipped        Lines                    Increase Over Previous Year (%) Telephone1,  Exchange 2/  Telephones   Waiting    Total  3/  Demand Over Previous   Telephone  4
of Year    Capacity       (DELs)       Telephones    Capacity  DELs Telephones         Density -   Fill (%) -    to DELs        List       Demand -          Year (%)         Availability -
1           2             3              4             5       6         7              8            9             10          11           12                13                 14
-------------------------     _----------------------------------------------------------- A C T U A L --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1960        170,630      144,661       203,105           -       -        -             0.78         84.8           1.40      N.A. -        N.A.5-            N.A.5-/            N.A. -
1961        173,880      151,021       213,024          1.9     4.4     4.7             0.80         86.8           1.41
1962        187,840      161,480       227,916          8.0     6.9      7.0            0.84         86.6           1.41
1963        219,780      179,535       248,790          1.0    11.2     9.2             0.89         81.7           1.39
1964        249,650      194,969       277,479         13.6     8.6    11.5             0.97         78.1           1.42
1965        270,640      228,579       321,299          8.4    17.2    15.7             1.08         84.5           1.41        '
1966        297,130      231,749       345,820          9.8     1.4      7.6            1.15         78.0           1.49
1967        307,160      255,712       360,344          3.4    10.4     4.2             1.17         83.3           1.41              "                        0
1968        314,300      261,628       368,045          2.3     2.3     6.4             1.16         83.2           1.41       15,500    277,128                                96.9c
1969        330,600      270,254       379,466          5.2     3.3     3.1             1.17         81.8           1.40       45,500    315,754              13.9              85.6
1970        342,400      287,265       404,302          3.6     6.5     6.6             1.21         84.0           1.41       66,500    354,265              12.2              81.2
1971        347,400      305,000       439,692          1.3     6.0     8.8             1.29         87.9           1.44       95,500    400,500              13.1              76.2
1972        353,300      319,572       451,380          1.8     4.8     2.7             1.30         90.5           1.41      135,376    454,948              13.6              70.?
1973        368,463      327,251       465,064          4.3     2.4     1.0             1.31         88.8           1.42      171,200    498,541               9.6              65.6
1974        369,525      338,024       479,994          3.0     3.3     1.0             1.32         91.5           1.44      201,680    539,704               8.3              62.6
1975        373,159      345,266       497, 183         1.0     2.1     1.0             1.36         92.5          1.44       231,108    576,374               6.8              59.9
1976        376,096      352,162       507,113          0.8     2.0     2.0             1.39         93.6           1.44      268 045    620 207               7.6              56.8
1977        392,465      362,403       521,869          4.3     2.9     2.9             1.33         92.3           1.44      329,978    692,381              11.6              52.3
1978        405,030      364,236       524,499          3.2     0.5     0.5             1.31         89.9           1.44      373,485    737 721              10.6              49.4
1979        434,207      382,994       551,511          7.2     5.1     5.1             1.35         88.2           1.44      411,516    794,510              10.8              48.2
__-____________________________________________________________________________---F O R E C A S T-------------------------
1980        460,907      393,274       558,449          6.1     2.9      1.3            1.34         85.3           1.42      464,796    858,070               8.0              45.8
1981        572,487      455,168       641,736         12.4    15.7    14.9             1.50         79.5           1.41      473,552    928,720               8.0              49.0
1982        688,087      540,618       756,865         12.0    18.8    17.9             1.73         78.6          1.40       462,402  1,003,020               8.0              53.9
1983      1,021,287      687,118       927,609         48.4    27.1    22.6             2.07         67.3           1.35      396,192  1,083,260               8.0              63.4
1984      1,189,887      827,368    1,116,946          16.5    20.4    20.4             2.44         69.5           1.35      342,552  1,169,920               8.0               70.7
1985      1,277,387      959,568    1,247,438           7.4    16.0    11.7             2.66         75.1           1.30      303,942  1,263,510               8.0               75.9
NOTE:  Figures for years uP to 1979 are actuals.  Figures for years 1980 to 1985 are forecasts.
1/ Telephone Density: Telephones  (Col. 4) per 100 population (as per census figures for 1976 and growth at 2.31% per annum beyond).
2/ Exchange Fill:  DELs (Col. 3) s- c:pacity (Col. 2) x 100.
3/ Total Demand: DELs (Col. 3) . waiting list (Col. 11).
4/ Telephone availabilitY:  DELs (Col. 3) . total demand (Col. 12) x 100.
5/ N.A.: Not available.



EGYPT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT NATIONAL TELECOMMUNICATION ORGANIZATION CARENTO)
GROWTH OF LOCAL TELEPHONE SYSTEM-1966-85
I .688-
ACTUALS                 P    7JJECTED
N
T
H
0    ___~___-             _--_--_OTA_D
a
A
N
D
S
--  D_,     EXCHAN ,,     ,,S
- --  MITEM  WAITThS LIST
---- TOTAL DEIAC)
198    1906  1179   1972   1074   1076   1976   1 WS   1962   19I4
YEAR ENDINS DECEIVER 31



- 40 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 9 pages
EGYPT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT NATIONAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS ORGANIZATION (ARENTO)
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Description of Works in ARENTO's FY82-85 Program
1.        ARENTO's FY82-85 (four-year) program has the following
components:
Ongoing Program
(a) ongoing works carried over by ARENTO from the 1978-80
period including the projects financed under Credits 548
and 774-EGT;
(b) works financed by USAID under its Phase I program including
its Projects I, II, and III; and
(c) works financed by the European Consortium under its Phase I
program;
New Program
(a) works to be financed under proposed Bank's third project;
(b) works to be financed by USAID under a likely Phase II
program;
(c) works to be financed by the European Consortium under a
likely Phase II program;
(d) other new works in ARENTO's program yet to be financed.
2.        A brief description of the major works in each of these
components follows:
Ongoing Program
(1) Local Telephone Exchanges
(a.)  4aift Xutotmatic Exchanges
ARENTO's program of installation of main telephone automatic
exchanges covers about 288,100 lines during the 1981-84 period, out of
which about 23,700 lines are for replacement of old and obsolete equipment.



- 41 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 9 pages
In the Cairo area, ARENTO is installing about 107,400 lines of crossbar
switching equipment out of which 16,800 lines are for replacement. The
Alexandria systemn is being extended by 37,200 lines, the lower Egypt
system by 43,900 lines, including 1,500 lines of equipment to be replaced,
and the Upper EgsTpt system with 34,600 lines all with crossbar equipment.
In the Canal area, 47,000 lines of Hitachi crossbar equipment imported
from Japan, out of which 21,000 lines are under the Saudi Development Fund
and the rest from Japanes Aid, are to be installed. Apart from the
Japanese equipment for the Canal area, the rest of the switching equipment
is to be supplied by the Egyptian Telephone Company, supplemented by direct
imports from L. M. Ericsson of Sweden of power plant and other specialized
equipment which the domestic factory does not produce. Annexes 9 and 10
give the details of the installations.
(b) Mobile Automatic exchanges
ARENTO's ongoing program also provides for the installation of
60,000 lines of mobile automatic telephone exchanges with 34,000 lines
procured from the Japanese Aid and 26,000 lines under procurement from the
IDA second credit. Annex 11 gives the details of the installations.
(2) Junction andl Local Cable Network Expansion
To complete the exchange expansion in item 1 above and to meet
the demand for telephone connections, adequate expansion to the outside
plant network comprising the junction and cable network and subscribers'
installations is provided for. A major part of the requirement for cables
for expansion along with accessories and cable laying equipment has been
and is being provided under IDA credits 548-EGT and 774-EGT for the first and
second telecommunications projects.  In addition, ARENTO has entered into
several turn key contracts for the renewal and expansion of the networks
in Cairo and the Canal area. These works have been financed by the Federal
Republic of Germany with export credit from Hermes insurance for the Cairo
areas of Helwan, Almaza, Giza and Kubba and by Japanese OECF loans for
Suez, Port Said and Ismailia.
(3) Expansion of Automatic Trunk Exchanges
The program of automatic trunk exchanges is given in Annex 12.
The extension of the international trunk exchange from 160 to 800 lines of
LME ARE type is expected to be completed in 1981. The equipment for the
Lower and Upper Egypt exchanges is financed by L. M. Ericsson of Sweden
under a supplier's credit. The 1,800 lines trunk exchange equipment for
Port Said, Ismailia and Suez has been financed by the Saudi Development
Fund.
(4) Expansion of Telex Exchanges
The program of telex installations is given in Annex 13. The
equipment for the new Cairo telex exchange of 3,000 lines has been financed



- 42 -
ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 9 pages
by IDA Credit 774-EGT and for the Suez Canal area for 320 lines by L. M.
Ericsson of Sweden under a supplier's credit.
(5) USAID Works (Phase I)
USAID has provided US$200 million financing for works and
technical assistance as follows:
(a) Local Telephone Systems
USAID works include replacement and expansion of the
life-expired rotary telephone systems in Cairo of 60,000 lines and
Alexandria of 40,000 lines with modern electronic telephone switching
systems of 90,000 lines in Cairo and 70,000 lines in Alexandria. The
details are given in Annex 9. The installation of outside plant networks
in Cairo and Alexandria, each with 84,000 lines, is also provided for.
In Cairo, the outside plant network for Maadi exchange system, the switch-
ing equipment of which is provided under USAID, is provided for under
ARENTO's ongoing program under a separate contract. The projects also
provide for the supply and installation of the standby power plant and
air conditioning equipment necessary for these installations. Government
and ARENTO will provide all local costs and be responsible for the
construction of buildings and civil works.
(b) Technical Assistance
The projects provide for the employment of consultants to assist
in planning, detailed engineering, preparation of specifications and
assistance in procurement and supervision of installation and acceptance
of all the works financed by the USAID. The consultants will also assist
ARENTO in rehabilitation of key elements of the existing system and to
improve its planning, management, operations and training functions
apart from assisting in service improvements in Cairo area. Details of
the consultants' scope of work are given in Annex 7.
(6) Consortium-Financed Works (Phase I)
During the 1981-84 period, the major items to be financed by
the European Consortium relate to the installation of local telephone
systems in Cairo and Lower Egypt areas on a turn key basis. Financing
will cover both local and foreign costs and provide for the construction
of buildings and outside plant civil works in addition to the supply of
equipment and installation. The local telephone systems to be financed and
included in the Phase I implementation program cover 120,000 lines in
Cart~.  Thest viI be z   t-3totc. sWitc~xn i  ten aVaLog ty',e. (YUSA of
Siemens manufacture. In Lower Egypt, about 80,000 lines are provided for
with installation also of Electronic Analog Switching Systems of Thompson
CSF of France. Details are given in Annex 9.



- 43 -
ANNEX 8
Page 4 of 9 pages
New Program
(1) Works in Bank's Third Telecommunications Project
(a) Local Telephone Exchanges
(i) Semi Automatic Exchanges
T'he project provides for the installation of semi automatic
exchanges with a capacity of about 67,500 lines. Equipment
for these exchanges has been already procured from France
under bilateral credits. These comprise several units of
equipment from 120 lines upwards, the largest being about
800 lines. Most of the units will provide for replacement
of existing manual boards to meet additional demand and
provide improved services in the smaller towns and rural
areas. Their distribution by Governorates is given in
Annex 14.
(ii) M4anual Exchanges
T'he project also provides the rehabilitation and expansion
of the manual exchanges serving the villages and hamlets
in the country. The service will be improved by rehabili-
tating the magneto and Central Battery (CB) switchboards
in ARENTO's workshops. The manual switchboards released
with the replacement by the semi automatic exchanges (item
(i) above) will also be reallocated to centers needing
expansion after necessary rehabilitation. About 60,000
lines manual exchanges will be rehabilitated and rein-
stalled but due to conversion of existing manual systems
the total capacity of manual switchboards is not expected
to increase over the project period.
(b) Local Cable Network Replacement and Expansion
To comLplement the telephone exchange expansion and installation
in items i and ii above and rehabilitation of existing networks, about
180,000 lines fcr installation of outside plant is provided. The existing
network of the outside plant in almost all the manual systems is in very
poor condition and needs total replacement. Rehabilitation of exist-
ing networks of the manual telephone systems to be converted to semi
automatic telephone systems is also provided for in the project. Some of
the material for the local cable network replacement and expansion will be
drawn from ARENI'O's available stocks.
(c) Subscriber Installations
The existing subscriber installations in the manual exchanges are
in poor condition and most of the telephone instruments are life expired.



- 44 -
ANNEX 8
Page 5 of 9 pages
The subscribers to be connected to the semi automatic service also need
proper subscriber installations. The project provides for the required
telephone instruments and subscribers wiring.
(d) Long Distance Links
The project provides for the installation of secondary routes
with microwave, VHF radio, cable and open wire carrier systems. ARENTO,
after making traffic studies, is developing the plans for the routes and
systems which will form part of the secondary network under the project
mainly to connect the zone centers with the group centers. The important
centers to be connected in each zone centers are as follows:
Lower Egypt
(1) Kafr El Sheikh Zone
(i) Kafr El Sheikh, (ii) Sidi Salem, (iii) Dessouk, (iv) Biala,
(v) Fowa;
(2) Damiette Zone
(i) Damiette, (ii) Ras El Barr, (iii) Faraskour;
(3) Damanhour Zone
(i) Damanhour, (ii) Itay El Baroud, (iii) Kom Hamada, (iv) Abo Hommos,
(v) Rasheed, (vi) Mahmoudeya;
(4) Tanta Zone
(i) Kotour, (ii) Basioun, (iii) Kafr El Zayat, (iv) Mehalla,
(v) Samanoud;
(5) Mansoura Zone
(i) Aga, (ii) Mataraya, (iii) Manzala, (iv) Nabarouh, (v) Talkha,
(vi) El Gamalia, (vii) Meniet El Nasr, (viii) Mit Gamr, (ix) Belgas,
(x) Sinbelaween;
(6) Zagazig Zone
(i) Minat El Kamh, (ii) Abou Hammad, (iii) Dirb Negm, (iv) Kafr Sakr,
(v) Hasaneya, (vi) Hehya;
(7) Canal Zone
(i) Port Tewfik, (ii) Ghardaka, (iii) Fayed, (iv) El Tall El Kabir,
(v) El Arish, (iv) West Kantara, (vii) East Kantara, (viii) El Kosseir;



- 45 -
ANNEX 8
Page 6 of 9 pages
(8) AlexandriaL Zone
(i) Kafr El Dawar, (ii) Amrya, (iii) Mersa Matrouh;
Upper Egypt
(i) Beni Sueff' Zone
(i) Beni Sueff, (ii) Wasta;
(2)  Minia Zone
(i) Minia, (ii) Samalout, (iii) Abou Qargas, (iv) Malawi, (v) Beni Mazar,
(vi) Magha.gha;
(3) Assiut Zone
(i) Assiut, (ii) Abou Tig, (iii) Dayrout, (iv) El Kharaga;
(4)  Sohag Zone.
(i) Sohag, (ii) Akhmeem, (iii) El karagha, (iv) Temma, (v) Tahta,
(vi) El Ba.lyana, (vii) Gurgua;
(5)  Quena Zone
(i) Quena, (ii) Deshna, (iii) Naga Haimadi, (iv) Farshout, (v) Quaft,
(vi) Quos, (vii) Esna, (viii) Armant;
(6) Aswan Zone
(i) Aswan, (ii) Edfo, (iii) Komombo, (iv) High Dam.
In addition, the project will provide for the extensive rehabil-
itation of existing open wire lines by replacement with aerial cables and
in some cases use of carrier equipment to improve the quality of service
to the termina:l exchanges from the group centers. The links to public
call offices wi.ll be provided with adequate long distance connections to
meet the overall national standards of transmission quality.
Telegraph and TIelex
In order to provide for the increasing demand, an additional
1,000 lines te:Lex exchange is proposed in Alexandria along with the
procurement of 1,500 teleprinters to expand and improve the telegraph
service.



- 46 -
ANNEX 8
Page 7 of 9 pages
(2) USAID (Phase II) Works
ARENTO has proposed to USAID to finance extensions of some of
the telephone systems financed under Phase I along with a new tandem
exchange for Alexandria and some microwave systems to the Sinai Peninsula.
USAID has not made any commitments so far for any of the items under
Phase II except a feasibility study for the Sinai area for the proposed
microwave system. In the Annex 9 indicating installations of exchanges,
an extension of 10,000 lines at Zamalek has been included under the
proposed USAID project Phase II as a likely priority item to be completed
in CY1984.
(3) Consortium Phase II Works
The works to be covered under the second phase program of the
Consortium have been tentatively identified. However, contracts for the
telephone switching systems will be made after some experience with the
installed systems under Phase I. Based on tentative proposals, the
Phase II program provides for installation of 180,000 lines, out of which
80,000 lines are to be installed in Cairo, 60,000 lines in Alexandria and
40,000 lines in Lower Egypt. These are likely to be installed during
CY1984 and 1985 as indicated in Annex 9.
(4) Other New Works in ARENTO's Program
(a)  Coaxial Cable Cairo-Alexandria
This coaxial cable system of the 4-tube small diameter type
is proposed to link Cairo with Alexandria, following a
different route to the existing system, thereby connecting
new centers such as Shibinel Kom, Kafr El Shaikh, Dessouk,
etc. The route of this cable is shown in Map IBRD 11323R2.
(b)  Coaxial Cable Port Said-El Mansura-Mit Ghamr-Tanta-Rashid-
Alexandria
This coaxial cable system of 4-tube small diameter type is
proposed to link Port Said to Alexandria via El Mansura,
El Sembalween, Mit Ghamr, Tanta, Kafr El Sheikh, Dessouk
and Rashid. The route of this cable is shown in Map IBRD
11323R2.
(c) Coaxial Cable Assiut-Wadi Jedid
This coaxial cable system with 2 tube small diameter is
proposed to link Wadi El Jadid (the new valley) with Assiut.



- 47 -
ANNEX 8
Page 8 of 9 pages
(d) Coaxial Cable Suez-Quseir
This coaxial system with 2 tube small diameter is proposed to
link Suez with Quseir, a town on the Red Sea coast of Egypt.
(e) Coaxial Cable Bernis-Aswan
This coaxial system with 2 tube small diameter is proposed to
link Bernis, a town on the Red Sea, with Aswan.
(f)  Coaxial Cable Cairo-Ismailia
This coaxial system with 4 tube small diameter is proposed to
link Cairo with Ismailia direct and provide for extension
into t:he Sinai Peninsula.
(g) Submarine Cable Alexandria-Greece
The submarine coaxial cable system is proposed to link
Alexandria with Greece, supplementing the existing cable
to Italy, to provide additional telephone and telegraph
circuits to Europe and beyond.
(h) Microwave Link Siwa-Mersa Matruh
A microwave link is proposed to connect Mersa Matruh on
the Mediterranean seacoast with the Siwa Oasis. The type
of system and capacity have yet to be determined.
(i)  Microwave Links in Northern Sinai
A microwave system is proposed to link Ismailia to Northern
Sinai to the town of El Arish. A request has been made to
USAID for financing. A survey is being undertaken as a
first step.
(j) Microwave Link in Southern Sinai
A microwave system is proposed to link Ismailia with the
Southern Sinai cities. A request has been made to USAID
for financing.
(k) Computer Controlled Message Center Cairo
ARENTO proposes the installation of a computer controlled
message center to deal with all public telegraph messages
originating, transiting and terminating at Cairo. This
will also be integrated with the international public
message switching center which was proposed originally as



- 48 -
ANNEX 8
Page 9 of 9 pages
a separate item. These proposals are in the preliminary
stages and ARENTO has accepted the need for studies before
undertaking this scheme.
(1) Automatization of Telegraph Offices
ARENTO proposes to convert a number of telegraph offices
using the morse system of telegraphy or the phonogram
service to teleprinter working to improve efficiency of
telegraph operations.



- 49 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 6 pages
EGYPT
ARAB REPUBL:I'C OF EGYPT NATIONAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS ORGANIZATION (ARENTO)
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Main Automatic Telephone Exchange Installation Program: 1980-85
(as at end of each calendar year)
T'otal    Extensions
instal-  to existing      New         Replace-
Location           Lations   exchanges   installations   ments 1/          Remarks
-  -_-_-_-_-_--                1980                  -
CAIRI
Almaza                  10,000                10,000 XB        7,000   Replaces 7,000 lines of
Helliopolis I Rotary
Nasr                     5,000    5,000 XB
Subtotal             15.000    5,000        10,000           7,000
LOWER EGYPT
Shibinelkom             5,000                  5,000 CA/EL    1,500   Replaces 1,500 lines
step by step equipment
Subtotal              5,000                  5,000           1,500
EGYPT GRAND TOTAL    20,000    5,000        15,000           8,500
-----  1981       ---------        -              
CAIRO
Ramses                  20,000   10,000 XB    10,000 XB       10,000   Replaces 10,000 lines
Gizira
Dokki                   10,000   10,000 XB        -               -
Giza                    10,000      -         10,000 XB        4,800   Replaces 4,800 lines of
Giza rotary.
10,000   10,000 XB        -
Subtotal             50,000   30,000        20,000          14,800
ALEXANDRIA
Sidi Gaber               9,000    9,000 XB
Sidi Beshr               4,000    4,000 XB
Subtotal             13,000   13,000
XB    - Crossbar type equipment from Egyptian Telephone Factory.
CA/EL - Electronic switching equipment of CIT/ALCATEL.
J/XB  - Crossbar equipment from Japanese of Hitachi Company.
US/EL - Electronic switching equipment from US under AID financed project.
S/EL  - Electronic switching equipment from European Consortium of Siemens Company.
TH/EL - Electronic switching equipment from European Consortium of Thompson C&F-France.
I, II - Phases I and II of program of installation.
/1 Equipment required for replacement is included in quantities specified under
"New Installations".



- 50 -
ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 6 pages
Total     Extension
instal-  to existing        New        Replace-
Location          lations   exchanges   Installations   ments             Remarks
LOWER EGYPT
Kafr El Sheikh           1,600    1,600 XB
Dessouk                  1,600    1,600 XB
Menouf                   2,000                  2,000 CA/EL
Tanta                    4,000    4,000 XB
Tala                     1,000                  1,000 CA/EL
Kafr Rabie                 600                    600   "
Bagour                     800                    800   "
Mit Abol Kom               200                    200   "
Shuhadaa                   600                    600   "
Kouesna                  1,000                  1,000
Ashmoum                  1,000                  1,000
Subtotal              14,400    7,200         7,200
UPPER EGYPT
Assuit                   4,000    4,000 XB
Subtotal               4,000    4,000
CANAL & SINAI AREA
Port Said               10,000                 10,000 J/XB      4,000   Replaces 4,000 lines
-step by step exchange
Qerdaga                    600   ___              600 J/XB    ___
Subtotal              10,600                 10,600           4,000
EGYPT GRAND TOTAL       92,000   54,200        37 800          18,800
- 1982
CAIRO
Kanater                  1,200    1,200 XB
Kaliub                   1,200    1,200 XB
Shobra                   4,000    4,000 XB
Opera                    5,000    5,000 XB
Pyramids                 3,000    3,000 XB
Almaza                  10,000   10,000 XB
Dokki                   20,000   20,000 S/EL I                          Extension to existing
20,000 X Bar exchange
Helwan                   5,000                  5,000 XB        2,000   Replaces 2,000 lines
rotary
Tebine                   2,000                  2,000 XB                rotar
Subtotal              51,400   44,400         7,000           2,000
ALEXANDRIA
Kafr Dawar               1,200    1,200 XB
Mersa Matruh             1,000    1,000 XB
Subtotal               2,200    2,200



- 51 -
ANNEX 9
Page 3 of 6 pages
Total     Extension
instal-  to existing        New        Replace-
Location           lations   exchanges   installations   ment               Remarks
LOWER EGYPT
Damanhour                4,000    4,000 XB
Birket El Sab              800                      800 CA/EL
Mehalla                  5,000    5,000 XB
Kafr Sheikh              2,000    2,000 XB
Dessouk                  2,000    2,000 XB
Mansoura                 4,000    4,000 XB
Benha                    2,000    2,000 XB
Toukh                    1,000                   1,000 CA/EL
Mit Kenana                 400                      400
Mit Ghamr                3,000    3,000 XB
Kaha                       800                      800 CA/EL
Degui                      200                      200   "
El Amar                    300                      300   "
Shibinel Kanater         1,000                   1,000
Subtotal              26,500   22,000          4,500
UPPER EGYPT
Luxor                    1,200    1,200 XB
Sohag                    1,200    1,200 XB
Qena                     1,000    1,000 XB
Badrashein               1,000                   1,000 CA/EL
Ayat                     1,000                    1,000
Elsaf                    1,000                   1,000
Hawamdiya                  800                      800   "
Shobakgarta                600                      600   "
Aflih                      200                      200   "
Ikhsas                     200                      200   "
Kof Amar                   200                      200   "
Mazhouna                   600   _         _        600   "
Subtotal               9,000    3,400          5,600
CANAL & SINAI AREA
Ismailia                 4,000                   4,000 J/XB        900   Replaces 900 step by
step exchange
Suez                     4,000                   4,000 J/XB    2,000   Replaces 2,000 lines
Subtotal               8,000                   8,000          2,900   step by step exchange
EGYPT GRAND TOTAL    97 100   72.000          25,100          4,900
1983
CAIRO
Fawala                  20,000                   20,000 S/EL I
Heliopolis II & III    30,000                   30,000 US/ELI122,000   This will replace
22,000 lines rotary
Kubba                   30,000                   30,000 S/EL I 20,000



-52-            ANNEX9
Page 4 of 6 pages
Total     Extensions
instal-    to existing            New          Replace-
lations     exchanges        installations      ments          Remarks
Zamalek             20,000                        20,000 US/EL I   20,000   Replaces 20,000 lines
rotary exchange.
Imbaba             20,000                         20,000 S/EL I       -
Shobra             10,000       10,000 XB
Nasv                10,000      10,000 XB                             -
Maadi               20,000                        20,000 US/EL I    4,000   Replaces 4,000 lines
Subtotal        160,000       20,000           140,000            46,000   rotary exchange.
ALEXANDRIA
Central I & II     30,000                         30,000 US/EL I   20,000   Replaces 20,000 lines
rotary.
Mersa Malruh         2,000       2,000 XB
Ibrahimiya         20,000          -              20,000 US/EL I   10,000   Replaces 10,000 lines
rotary.
Gleem               20,000         -              20,000 US/EL I   10,000   Replaces 10,000 lines
rotary.
El Meuhya           10,000      10,000 XB
Sidi Beshr          10,000      10,000 XB
Subtotal         92,000       22,000            70,000            40,000
LOWER EGYPT
Tanta               20,000      20,000 TH/EL I                                Extension to existing
Kafre Zayat          3,000       3,000 XB                                     X Bar exchange.
Zefta               4,000                          4,000 Th/EL I
Zagazig             15,000                        15,000 TH/EL I    3,200   Replaces step by
step 3,200 lines.
Facous               4,000                         4,000 TH/EL I    1,000   Replaces existing
1,000 lines X Bar.
Abo Kebir            4,000                         4,000 TH/EL I
Belbis               4,000                         4,000 TH/EL I
Mansoura            25,000      25,000 TH/EL I      -                         This is in addition
to 10,000 lines X
Bar equipment.
Sherbine            2,000                          2,000 TH/EL I
Derkiness           2,000                          2,000 TH/EL I
Subtotal         83,000       48,000            35,000             4,200
UPPER EGYPT
Minia                4,000       4,000 XB
Beni Souef           3,400       3,400 XB
Fayoum              3,000        3,000 XB
Aswan               1,000        1,000 XB
Gerga               2,200        2,200 XB
Assiut              2,000        2,000 XB
Malawi               3,000       3,000 XB
Subtotal         18,600       18,600



ANNEX 9
Page 5 of 6 pages
Total     Extension
instal-    to existing            New          Replace-
Location       lations      exchanges        installations      ments          Remarks
CANAL & SINAI
Port Said           10,000       10,000 J/XB
Qantara              1,000                         1,000 J/XB
Fayed                1,000                         1,000 J/XB
Ismailia             6,000        6,000 J/XB
Suez                6,000         6,000 J/XB
Tel El Kabir        1,000                          1,000 J/XB
Pat Tarfig           1,000                         1,000 J/XB
El Arish             2,000                         2,000 J/XB
Gerdaga                400                           400 J/XB
Subtotal         28,40         22,000            6_400
EGYPT GRAND TOTAL 382,000       130,600          251,400           90,200
--- --- ---  --- --- --- --- --- --- --- -----   1984
CAIRO
Pyramids           10,000        10,000 XB
Bab El Louk        20,000                         20,000 US/EL I  14,000    Replaces 14,000 lines
rotary.
New Shobra          10,000                        10,000 S/EL II
Kurba               10,000                        10,000 S/EL I
Roda                20,000       20,000 S/EL I                               Extension to
Helwan               5,000        5,000 XB                                    crossbar exchange.
Tebine               1,000        1,000 XB
Zamalek             10,000       10,000 US/EL II
Maadi               10,000       10,000 S/EL II
Subtotal         96,000        56,000           40,000           14,000
ALEXANDRIA
El Maks             15,000                        15,000 S/EL II
Gleem               25,000       25,000 S/EL II    -
Subtotal         40,000        25,000           15,000
LOWER EGYPT
Mehalla             10,000       10,000 TH/EL II   -
Talkha               2,000         -               2,000 TH/EL II   -
Matareya             2,000          -              2,000    it
Menzala              2,000          -              2,000   "i
Damiette           10,000          -              10,000    "       3,000    Replaces 3,000 lines
Ras El Barr          2,000                         2,000              900                900
Mina El Kamh         4,000          -              4,000    I        -
Abo Hamad            2,000         -               2,000    it
Benha                6,000        6,000 TH/EL       -                -        This is in addition
Subtotal         40,000        16,000           24,000            3,000    to 4,000 lines X
Bar equipment.



ANNEX 9
54               Page 6 of 6 pages
Total      Extension
instal-    to existing           New          Replace-
Location       lations      exchanges       installations     ments          Remarks
UPPER EGYPT
Gharga               3,000                        3,000 XB
Subtotal           3,000                        3,000
EGYPT GRAND TOTAL  179,000      97,000           82,000           17,00
------------------------------------------ 1985
CAIRO
Almaza              15,000      15,000 SEL II                                Extension to
existing crossbar
20,000 lines.
Nasr                20,000       20,000 SEL II                               Extension to
existing crossbar
20,000 lines.
Imbaba              10,000                       10,000 SEL II      -
Pyramids            15,000      15,000 SEL II                                Extension to
Subtotal          60,000      50,000           10,000             -        existing crossbar
ALEXANDRIA                                                                   20,000 lines.
Menshiya            20,000       20,000 SEL II                               Extension to
Subtotal          20____ 20,000                                            existing crossbar
EGYPT GRAND TOTAL   80,000       70 000          10,0               -        10,000 lines.
------------------------------------SUMMARY---
YEAR
1980                20,000       5,000           15,000            8,500
1981                92,000      54,200           37,800           18,800
1982                97,100       72,000          25,100            4,900
1983               382,000     130,600          251,400           90,200
1984               179,000      97,000           82,000           17,900
1985                80,000      70,000           10,000                 -
Total 1980-85      850,100     428,800          421,300          140,300



EGYPT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT NATIONAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS ORGANIZATION (ARENTO)
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Main Local Automatic Telephone Exchange Installations: 1980-85
(By Areas, Years and Program Components)
Cairo                      Alexandria                    Lower Egypt                    Upper Egypt                    Canal Area                        Total
Installation   Replacement   Installation   Replacement   Installation   Replecmoent   Installktion   Replacement   Installation   Replacememt   Installation   Replacement
------1980------
ARENTO's ongoing works               15,000        7.000             _                                           1,500             -              _               _               _            20,000          8,500
------1981------
ARENTO's ongoing works               50000        14800            13,000            -            t4.400           -             4,000            -10,600                       4,000          92,000         18,800
------1982------
ARENTO's ongoing works               31,400        2,000            2,200            -           26,500            -             9,000            -             8,000           2,900          77,100          4,900
USA ID Project Phase I
Consortium Project Phase I           20,000          - _-                            -               -             -               -              -               -                            20,000
Total        51.400        2,00             2.200            -           26500             -             9,000                          8,000           2,900          97,100         4.900
------1983_____
ARENTO's ongoing works               20,000          -             22,000            -               -              -           18,600            _            28,400             -            92,000            -
USAID Project Phase I                70,000       46,000           70,000         40,000          3,000            -               _       -                      -                           150,000         86,000
Consortium Project Phase I           70.000                                                      80 000         42,000             -              -               -               -           140 000          4,200
Total      160,000        46,000           92,000         40.000         83,000         42,000          18,600            -382000                                                     90,200
_--1984---
ARENTO's Ongoing works               16,000          -                -              -               -             -             3,000            -               -               -            19,000            -
USAID Projsct Phase I                20,000       14,000              -              -               -              -              -              -               -               -            20,000         14,000
Consortium Project Phase I           30,000                                                 -               -                      -               -                                           30,000            -
Consortium Project Phase II          20,000          -             40,000            -           40,000          3,900             -              -               -               -           100,000          3,900
USAID Project Phase II               10,000                                                          -              -                              -              -                             0 000
Total       96.000        14.000           40.000            -           4               3,900                            -               -               -           179.000         17.900
_-1985--
ARENTO's .ngoing works                                                                       -              -               -                                                                      -              -
USAID Project Phase I
Consortium Project Phase I                                                                           -                      -                                                                     -
Consor.tium Project Phase II         60,000          -             20,000            -               -              -              -              -               -               -            80,000
USAID Project Phaoe 2I
Total        60,000           -             20,000            -               -             -              _               -               -               -                              -
GRAND TOTAL 1981-85        417,400        76,S00          167,200        40,000         163,900         45,900          34,600            -            47,000           6,900         830,100        131,800
GR8AND TOTAL 1980-85       432,400        83,800          167,200        40 000         168,900         47,400          34,600            -            47,000           6.900         850,100        140,300



- 56 -                ANNEX 11
EGYPT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT NATIONAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS ORGANIZATION (ARENTO)
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Mobile Automatic Telephone Exchange Installation Program
(at end of calendar year)
Location          1980     1981     1982      1983
CAIRO
Helliopolis 2 & 3              6,000                                Temp. - J/F
Almaza                         2,000
Zamalek               2,000                                           if
Maadi                          8,000
ALEXANDRIA
-Ameyiya                                 2,000                      Perm. - B/F
LOWER EGYPT
Tanta                          2,000                                Temp. - J/F
Fewa                                    2,000                       Perm. - J/F
Beyala                                            2,000               tt    it
Mansoura                       2,000                                Temp. - J/F
Sembalween                                        2,000             Perm. - J/F
Samanoud                                2,000                         " i
Belkass                                 2,000                         if
Kom Hamada                                        2,000             Perm. - W/F
Abo Homos                                         2,000                      TI
Rashid                                            2,000               It    It
UPPER EGYPT
High Dam                                          2,000
Nag Hamadi                                        2,000
Akhmim                                            2,000               "      "
Tahta                                             2,000               "      "
Abo-Teg                                           2,000
Dayrout                                           2,000              "I
10th Ramadhan                           2,000                         "      "
Abo Khar Khas                                     2,000               *      II
Maghagha                                          2,000
Beni Mazar                                       2,000
Total             2,000   20,000  10,000   28,000
Temp. - Temporary installation to be used until main exchange is installed.
Perm. - Permanent installation.
J/F   - Supplied by Japan under bilateral credits.
W/F   - Under procurement from the IDA Second Telecommunications Project.



- 57 -
ANNEX 12
EGYPT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT NATIONAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS ORGANIZATION (ARENTO)
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Automatic Trunk Exchange Installation Program
(at end of calendar year)
Capacity     Addi-        Addi-        Addi-         Total
as of       tions        tions        tions       Capacity
December      during      during       during       end of
Location            1979         1980         1981        1982         1982
1.  Cairo               3,200          600                                  3,800
2.  Alexandria          1,800          200                                  2,000
3.  Benha                 200                      400                        600
4.  Damanhour             200                      400                        600
S.  Mansura               600                      400                      1,000
6.  Mehalla               200                      400                        600
7.  Tanta               1,000                       -                       1,000
8.  Dessouk                                        600                        600
9.  Kafrel Shaikh                                  600                        600
10.  Port Said                                      400                        400
11.  Ismailia                                                    800           800
12.  Suez                                                        400           400
13.  Assyut                                                      600           600
14.  Minya                                                       400           400
15.  Sohag                                                       400           400
16.  Luxor                                          400                        400
17.  Aswan                                                       200           200
18.  Beni Soueff                                                 400           400
19.  Quena                                                       200           200
20.  Fayoum                                                      400           400
TOTAL            7,200          800      3600         3,800        15,400



- 58 -                  ANNEX 13
EGYPT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT NATIONAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS ORGANIZATION (ARENTO)
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Telex Exchange Installation Program
(at end of calendar year)
Existing          Additions during             Capacity at
Location -     in 1979      1980    1981    1982    1983        end 1983
Cairo           2,400        -       -    3,000 2/    -           5,400
Alexandria        800        -       -        -     1,000-/       1,800
Port Said         -         320      -        -        -            320
Ismailia          -          -      160       -        _            160
Suez              -          -       -       160       -            160
TOTAL       3,200       320     160   3,160   1,000          7,840
/1 Telex subscribers at locations other than indicated such as Luxor,
Assyut, Tanta, Mansoura, and Zagazig,will be connected to the Cairo
exchange by voice frequency telegraph (VFT) circuits.
/2 The 3,000-line extention at Cairo and 1,000-line extension at
Alexandria will be electronic exchanges.



- 59 -
ANNEX 14
EGYPT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT NATIONAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS ORGANIZATION (ARENTO)
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Semiautomatic Telephone Exchange Installations
Capacity of
Areas                    Installations
1.  Ca:iro and Giza                        2,140
2.  Alexandria, Matruh and Beheira        9,600
3.  Gharbia                                4,700
4.  Ka:fr El Shaikh                        5,660
5.  Dakhalia                              13,620
6.  Damiette                               3,360
7.  Minlufia                               3,250
8.  Kalyubia                               1,400
9.  Shargiya                               4,740
10.  Beni Souef                             1,080
11.  Fayoum                                 2,360
12.  Minia                                  3,540
13.  Assiut                                 4,100
14.  Sohag                                  3,460
15.  Qena                                   2,620
16.  Aswan                                  1,820
TOTAL                        67,450



- 60 -                  ANNEX 15
EGYPT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT NATIONAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS ORGANIZATION (ARENTO)
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Forecast of Telephone and Telex Exchange Capacities
1979     1980      1981     1982      1983       1984        1985
Main Automatic Exchanges
Gross additions during year      -       20,000   92,000   97,100  382,000    179,000        80,000
Less Replacement                 -        8,500   18,800    4,900   90,200       17,900        -
Net additions during year        -       11,500   73,200   92,200  291,800    161,100        80,000
Total at end of year          359,500  371,000  444,200  536,400  828,200    989,300  1,069,300
Mobile Automatic Exchanges
Net additions during year        -        2,000   20,000   10,000   28,000         -           -
Total at end of year             -        2,000   22,000   32,000   60,000       60,000      60,000
Semi-Automatic Exchanges
Net additions during year        -       13,200   18,380   13,400   13,400        7,500       7,500
Total at end of year            9,070   22,270   40,650   54,050   67,450        74,950      82,450
Manual Exchanges
Net additions during year        -         -         -        -         -          -           -
Total at end of year           65,637   65,637   65,637   65,637   65,637        65,637      65,637
GRAND TOTAL TELEPHONE
EXCHANGE CAPACITIES       434,207  460,907  572,487  688,087 1,021,287 1,189,887  1,277,387
Telex Exchanges
Additions during year            -          320      160    3,160       -          -           -
Total at end of year            3,200    3,520    3,680    6,840    6,840         6,840       6,840



- 61 -
ANNEX 16
EGYPT
ARAB REPUBLIC O]F EGYPT NATIONAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS ORGANIZATION (ARENTO)
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Forecast of DELs and Telex Connections
1979     1980      1981     1982      1983     1984      1985
DELs
Main Automatic DELs
Additions during year            -        7,079   39,494   61,250  129,300  126,750  120,200
Replacements                     -        8,252   15,140    4,595   87,085   16,332        -
Total at end of year          327,781  334,860  374,354  435,604  564,904  691,654  811,854
Mobile Exchanges DELs
Additions during year             -         700   12,400   14,200    7,200    3,500    2,000
Total at end of year             -          700   13,100   27,300   34,500   38,000   40,000
Semi Automatic DELs
Additions during year             -       2,501   10,000   10,000   10,000   10,000   10,000
Total at end of year            6,596    9,097   19,097   29,097   39,097   49,097   59,097
Manual DELs
Increase during year             -         -        -         -         -        -
Total at end of year           48,617   48,617   48,617   48,617   48,617   48,617   48,617
Grand Total all DELs       382,994  393,274  455,168  540,618  687,118  827,368  959,568
TELEX CONNECTIONS
Additions during year              461      500       400      400    1,500        500      500
Total at end of year            1,921    2,421    2,821    3,221    4,721    5,221    5,771



EGYPT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT NATIONAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS ORGANIZATION (ARENTO)
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Investment Program: FY82-85
OLE thousaads)
FY82                       FY83                        FY84                         FY85                       FY82-85
Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign           Total
ONGOING PROGRAM
ARENTO's Ongoing Works                46,052   63,340  109,392   67,784  105,654  173,438  86,903  132,366  219,269   55,260   80,920  136,180  255,999  382,280            638,279
US Aided Phase I Project Works         10,570   31,030   41,600   20,570   56,030   76,600   6,330   18,240   24,570    2,150   10,490   12,640   39,620  115,790            155,410
European Consortium Phase I
Project Works                         44,730   89,464  134,194   22,366   44,732   67,098   5.997   11,984   17.981    2,953    5,906    8,859   76,046  152,086            228,132 
Subtotal            101,352  183,834  285,186  110,720  206,416  317,136  99,230  162,590  261,820   60,363   97,316                371,665  650,156   1,021,821
NEW PROGRAM
Bank's III Project Works               7,138   10,510   17,648   12,126   16,426   28,552  13,577   17,194   30,771   10,130   11,670   21,800   42,971   55,800             98,771
US Aided Phase II Project Works         -         -        -         -        -        -       4,000   16,000   20,000    8,000   32,000   40,000   12,000   48,000          60,000
European Consortium Phase II
Project Works                           -         -        -        -         -        -      13,300   26,700   40,000   30,000   60,000   90,000   43,300   86,700         130,000
ARENTO's FY82 New Works                 _         _                                    -      10,000   30,000   40,000   35,000   60,000   95,000   45,000   90,000         135,000
ARENTO's FY85 Plan Worlts               -         -        -        -         -        -        -        -         -      18,000   22 000   40,000   18.000   22.000         40.000
Subtotal              7,138   10,510   17,648   12,126   16,426   28,552  40,877   89,894  130,771  101,130  185,670  286,800  161,271  302,500           463,771
GRAND TOTAL           108,490  194,344                                                          392,591            282986  444479       2656 
I_



EGYPT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT NATIONAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS ORGANIZATION (ARENTO)
TEIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Project Construction Costs
(LE Thousands)
VFY82                       FY83                                _   _ _. _V__-_ __ r    r
Local  Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign   Total    LocalForeign   Total    Local  Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign                  Total
Local TeliephonSstm
Telephone Excha
Rehabilitation and expansion of
manual Switchboards 60,000 lines              240       120     360       360       180      540      360       180      540       240       120     360    1,200        600      1,800
Installation of semi automatic (PABX)
switchboard equipment 67,500 lines          1,200    1,680   2,880    1,800    2,520   4,320    1,800    2,520   4,320    1,200    1,680   2,880    6,000    8,400    14,400
7,200    9,000    16,200
Outside Plant Network
Rehabilitation and expansion of
manual sYstems 80,000 lines                 1,520    1,680   3,200    2,280    2,520   4,800    2,280    2,520   4,800    1,520    1,680   3,200    7,600    8,400    16,000
Rehabilitation and expansion of
semi automatic systems 100,000 lines        1,360    1,400   2,760    2,040    2,100   4,140    2,040    2,100   4,140    1,360    1,400   2,760    8,800    7,000    15,800
16,400   15,400    31,800
Subscriber E ui ment
Replacing old manual telephone
sets 30,000                                    84       336     420       126       504     630       126       504      630        84       336     420       420    1,680       2,100
New automatic telephone sets 70,000            196       294     490       294       441      735       294      441      735       196       294      490      980    1,470       2,450
1,-400   3i,1-50    4, 55 0
Long Disac   ytm
Microwave, VIF Radio, Cable and
Open wire systems                             1,200    3,160   4,360    1,800    4,740   6,540    1,800    4,740   6,540    1,200    3,160   4,360    6,000   15,800    21,800
Miscellaneous
Tools, Vehicles, and Miscellaneous
equipment including telegraphs and
telex                                           270    1,010   1,280        405    1,505   1,910        405    1,505   1,910         270    1,010   1,280    1,350    5,050         6,400
Base Cost                                        6,464    9,686  16,150    9,696   14,529  24,225    9,696   14,529  24,225    6,464    9,686  16,150   13,350   48,400    80,750
Physical Contingencies                           256       392      648       384      588      972       384      588      972       256       392      648    1,280    1,960       3,240
Base Cost with Physical Contingencies            6,720   10,078  16,798   10,080   15,117  25,197   10,080   15,117  25,197    6,720   10,078  16,798   33,630   50,360    83,990
Price Contingencies                              418       432      850    2,046    1,309   3,355    3,497    2,077   5,574    3,410    1,592   5,002    9,371    5,410    14,781
Total Cost         7,138   10,510  17,648   12,126   16,426  28,552   13,577   17,194  30,771   10,130   11,670  21,800   43,001   55,770    98,771                 h'



EGYPT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT NATIONAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS ORGANIZATION (ARENITO)
Construction Schedules of Major Works in Project
Calendar Years      1981                 1982                        1983                         1984                        1985
Quarters    3      4      1      2      3      4      1      2      3      4       1      2      3      4      1      2       3      4
Local Telephone Systemns
Manual Exchanges 60,000 Lines
Rehabilitation and Expansion
Semi Automatic Exchanges 67,450 Lines
Buildings                                                _       -      _      -                    _      _
Installation                      _      _      _  _                                                - _
Outside Plant Networks
Networks for Manual Exchanges 80,000 Lines
Bidding and Evaluation
Contract
Delivery and Installation                                                             -             _      __
Networks for Semi-Automatic Exchanges
100,000 Lines
Bidding and Evaluation
Contract
Delivery and Installation                                                             _                           - __           _
Subscriber Equiptment
Installation                                              -             -_
Long Distance Networks
Buildings                                         _-                    -      -      -     -       _
Bidding and Evaluation
Contract
Delivery and Installation                                                                                         - _                          -       -      -     -
Note: 1. Construction schedules are not shown for buildings where they are available.
2. Schedules for bidding and evaluation not shown where contracts are to be placed with Egyptian Telephone
Factory or workshops or where equipment has already been obtained such as the semi-automatic exchange
equipment from France.                                                                                                                         World Bank - 22266



- 65 -
ANNEX 20
EGYPT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT NATIONAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS ORGANIZATION (ARENTO)
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Cumulative Disbursements
Bank Fiscal Year                           at end of Quarter
and Quarter                             (in US$ Thousands)
FY82
March 31, 1982                                     1,000
June 30, 1982                                      3,000
FY83
September 30, 1982                                 5,000
December 31, 1982                                  8,000
March 31, 1983                                    12,000
June 30, 1983                                     15,000
FY84
September 30, 1983                               18,000
December 31, 1983                                 22,000
March 31, 1984                                    26,000
June 30, 1984                                     30,000
FY85
September 30, 1984                                34,000
December 31, 1984                                 38,000
March 31, 1985                                    41,000
June 30, 1985                                     44,000
FY86
September 30, 1985                               48,000
December 31, 1985                                 52,000
March 31, 1986                                    55,000
June 30, 1986                                    58,000
FY87
September 30, 1986                                60,000
December 31,, 1986                                64,000



- 66 -                    ANNEX 21
EGYPT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT NATIONAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS ORGANIZATION (ARENTO)
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Performance Indicators
A set of indicators which would assist in monitoring ARENTO's
performance during the 1981-85 period is given in the statement below.
ARENTO through periodical progress reports will indicate actual performance
relating to these items.
At end of Year:l/             1981      1982      1983      1984       1985
(a) Additional telephone
exchange equipment
installed (lines)
net increase             111,600  125,600  320,200   161,000    88,500
(b) Additional telephone
connections installed
(DELs)                    61,900   85,450  146,500   140,250   132,200
(c) Total number of
telephones               641,700  756,900  927,600 1,116,900 1,247,400
(d)  Number of employees2/
per 1,000 telephones        85        73        61        50         43
(e)  Success/Call attempt %      25        30       40         50         50
(f)  Rate of return %            10        11       14         11         10
(g)  Operating ratio             60        57       50         50         51
(h)  Debt-equity ratio           82        75       70         68         67
(i) Receivables (telecom-
munications) - % of
gross revenues              30        25       25         20         20
(j)  Liquidity ratio              0.7       0.7       0.7       0.8        0.8
(k)  Current asset ratio          1.3       1.3      1.3        1.3        1.3
(1) Training - % of staff
in each category
receiving training:
--Administrative/Finance
Staff                     20        20       20         20        20
--Technical Staff           20        30       30         20         20
--Skilled Workers           15        20        25        20         20
/1  Items (a) to (d) are for calendar year and the rest for fiscal year.
/2 This includes personnel engaged in telegraph and radio operations and
construction.



- 67-                    ANNEX 22
Page 1 of 2 pages
EGYPT
ARAB REPUBLIC OFi EGYPT NATIONAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS ORGANIZATION (ARENTO)
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Summary of Telecommunication Tariffs
(as of December 31, 1980)
A. RENTAL AND CALL CHARtGES - TELEPHONE CONNECTIONS
Type of         Annual        Charge    Free Calls
Type of Exchanges              Subscriber        Rental       Per Call   Per Annum
LE           LE
1.  Automatic - Message Rate             Residential         18          0.030         1,500
2.  Automatic - Message Rate             Business            18          0.030           300
3.  Automatic - Message Rate         Mixed (Bus./Res.)       18          0.030        1,000
4.  Automatic - Message Rate           Government and        18          0.030        1,000
Semi Officials
5.  Automatic - Message Rate           Rented Furnished      18          0.030           300
Apartments
6.  Automatic - Flat: Rate                  All              21             -      Unlimited
(Cairo and Alexandria Zones
Outside Metropolitan Area)
7.  Automatic - Flat: Rate                  All              18             -      Unlimited
(Provinces)
8.  Manual Working                          All              21             -       Unlimited
14 hours per day and over
9.  Manual Working                          All              15              -      Unlimited
under 14 hours per day
B.  RENTAL CHARGE - EXTENSION
Type of Extension
1.  Internal                                                  6
2.  External up to 5,00 meters                                8
3.  External over 500 meters                                  8 plus
1.5 for every addi-
tional 500 meters



- 68 -                ANNEX 22
Page 2 of 2 pages
LE
C. CONNECTION/SHIFTING CHARGE
1.  Automatic Exchange Lines (Business)                      150
2.  Automatic Exchange Lines (Government)                    150
3.  Automatic Exchange Lines (Residential)                    50
4.  Manual Exchange Lines                                     50
D. TRUNK CALLS - MANUAL AND STD
Charges for 3 minutes
Day 1i         Night
Mis-/            Mils-
Up to  25 kms                                            30               30
Over   25 kms but under    50 kms                        50               30
Over   50 kms but under    75 kms                       100               50
Over   75 kms but under   100 kms                       100               50
Over  100 kms but under   125 kms                       150              100
Over  125 kms but under   150 kms                       150              100
Over  150 kms but under   175 kms                       200              150
Over  175 kms but under   200 kms                       200              150
Over  200 kms but under   250 kms                       250              200
Over  250 kms but under   300 kms                       250              200
Over  300 kms but under   500 kms                       350              300
Over  500 kms but under 1,400 kms                       350              300
1/ LE 1 - Mills 1,000
2/ Night tariffs apply between 1900 hours and 0700 hours on all days.
E. TELEX
LE
Installation charge (machine)   520
Rental per annum (machine)       500
Call charge-/ (per minute)
Local                              0.01
F. TELEGRAPHS
LE 0.2 per word
1/ Minimum value of telex calls should be LE 500 per annum.



- 69 -
ANNEX 23
Page 1 of 2 pages
EGYPT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT NATIONAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS ORGANIZATION (ARENTO)
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Return on Investment
1.        The benefit period of the program extends from 1980-2005, when,
on average, the equipment provided under the program is expected to have
substantially completed its useful life.
2.        Capital expenditures are based on the estimated requirements
during the program period, excluding preinvestments for future programs
and including preinvestments for this program. Price contingencies are
excluded and asset values have been adjusted to reflect 1980 values.
3.        Incremental revenues assigned to the program are primarily based
on the expected additional telephone and telex subscribers and the traffic
increase brought about by the program. Incremental costs excluding depre-
ciation and interest are based on the additional assets, traffic and staff
requirements expected from the program. All revenues and costs have been
deflated to bring them to the 1980 price level and make them comparable
with the capital expenditures.
4.        A summary of the program's incremental cost and benefit streams,
at 1980 price levels, is as follows and is based upon information contained
in Annexes 26 through 28 and Annex 17.
Capital                              Net
Year        Expenditure      Costs   Benefits   Benefits
--------------    LE millions--------------
1980            222              -        -         (222)
1981           152               1        7         (145)
1982            249            11        52         (208)
1983            261             15       77         (199)
1984            272             20      123         (169)
1985            254            24       153         (125)
1986           158             27       180           (5)
1987              -             27      224          197
1988-20C05          -             27      250          223



- 70 -
ANNEX 23
Page 2 of 2 pages
5.        The internal rate of return for the above net benefit stream is 12%.
6.        Estimating a portion of the future consumer surplus by tabulating
over the program period the proposed prices in real terms (1980), the economic
rate of return is 21%.
7.        A sensitivity analysis on the above rate of return shows that, with
10% higher capital costs and 10% lower revenues, the rate of return will be
17%.



EGYPT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT NATIONAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS ORGANIZATIONI (ARENTO)
ORGANIZATION CHART
FROJDRWREEIDN  Th*S n E CTS RADIO  TELERUTNEN   PLANNING OP                                                    STASCES                               COMMERCIAL             OLECOOUNI              CAALED-AN -M-CAL  |                     U| NTEPP..         LO E
.o   NW  RZESEDENAND   ELASENING AND  TELEPOONE~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~I-RNTI-L 
LOECATIOPS                                                                                           PURCHASe                                ADDAITS                  TIANS                                                      REGIONRAAA-AN
NEIVREN                CAR                COXA                RAI                 ROEUS~EST         | TGREFIC               DRAIDA           ADUTOSTRO                  e STORE         ANr                ONWICDAEIC                        l       ADUINISrDlIDDI TRArION|  ADUININTRARION|ADOUINISTSATITN|
AREA  CASLES                               EAC~~~NIPUENT        DAS,G ANDREPOTSNRAN RRNONEL                                                     RLATINS               -AD-
MEOEXREAXDEON                  SARECRIRERL:N J ~[EE
4 T5>9 l 9 ARE                      AN CAtE              STTION       K       W I OLLSADS  COOSHINATIOS    | RUILATSNGSl                                        O=GERE                                 ESONs  CONTRAC ]4EGNEIG|jTSCHIA   eHIA   EHIA 
4 Te l q EXCHANGEE | 4 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CONTROL                                                                DR O INSTITUTE        NOOSTOES                                                  AA SSCeSR |jINIGTDATION |  I RONSl           lOOSE        T      AFC   ZONES  |        TAFlC ZOE
UPPER3                                                                                                                                        PUROSCAUSE   ll FNNf pWll &i-2E



- 72 -
ANNEX 25
EGYPT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT NATIONAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS ORGANIZATION (ARENTO)
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Telecommunications Staff
(at end of calendar year)
2/
Job Classification               1976      1977-    1978      1979     198&-
Managerial                           18       82        82       82        82
Engineers                        1,265    1,224    1,241    1,238    1,266
Administrative                     820       950    1,002    1,022    1,022
Wire Technicians                 5,520    6,284    6,462    6,399    6,400
Wire Telephone Operators         7,224    7,432    8,338    8,337    8,337
Wire Telegraph Operators         2,064    2,169    2,612    2,785    2,850
Wireless Technicians               773       790      834       460      481
Wireless Telegraph Operators    1,351    1,403    1,567    1,627    1,642
Wireless Telephone Operators       304       309      343       460      481
Stores Technicians                 111       161      176       221      241
Skilled Laborers                14,548   16,624   17,315   16,996   16,978
Clerks                           5,213    5,406    5,420    5,489    5,495
Laborers                        12,606   10,683   11,527   11,497   11,541
1/
SUB TOTAL-/     51,817   53,517   56,919   56,976   57,158
Staff in Actual Working
Positions (excluding
staff on deputation)          44,711   46,025   48,409   49,569   51,254
/1  This number indicates the total staff including the staff on
deputation outside ARENTO.
/2 The number of staff for 1980 is an estimate.



EGYPT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT NATIONAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS ORGANIZATION (ARENTO)
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Historic and Projected Income Statements
(LE millions)
Half
1977    1978    1979    1980         FY81       FY82        FY83       FY84      FY85       FY86
Operating Revenues
Telephone                       24.0    26.9    33.9    17.5          38.4       54.3       75.8      122.0    160.8        206.5
Telex                            6.5    11.4    12.6        9.8       17.3       19.9       24.0       29.8       34.6       37.8
Telegraph                        7.0    12.5    10.7        5.3       10.9       11.0       11.2        11.4      11.5       11.8
Subtotal                      37.5    50.8    57.2    32.6          66.6       85.2      111.0      163.2    206.9        256.1
Tariff Increase                   -        -        -        -         6.3       42.6       55.5       81.6    103.5        128.1
Total Revenues                 37.5    50.8    57.2    32.6          72.9      127.8      166.5      244.8    310.4        384.2
OPerating Expenses
Staff                           17.8    20.9    26.0    14.2          32.0       45.9       51.8       57.0       62.7       69.0
Materials                        2.2      2.9      4.1      2.0        5.1        7.6       12.0        19.2      27.9       35.8
Services                         1.3      1.6-    1.6       1.4        2.4        3.6        4.1         4.5       4.9        5.4
Other                             -        -        .1       -          .1         .2          .2        1.6       1.7        1.8
Depreciation                     5.2      6.1      9.6      5.5       13.7       19.3       26.0        37.7      58.9       83.1
Total Expenses                26.5    31.5    41.4    23.1          53.3       76.6       94.1       120.0    156.1       195.1
Operating Income                  11.0    19.3    15.8        9.5       19.6       51.2        72.4      124.8     154.3      189.1
Other Income (Expense)              -       1.7    (1.7)       .4         .5          .6         .6         .8         .9        1.1
Less Interest                      3.5      6.0      8.7      9.9       25.0       33.5       44.8        56.0      68.7       82.6
Net Income                         7.5    15.0       5.4       -        (4.9)      18.3       28.2        69.6      86.5      107.6
Operating Ratio (%)                71       62       72       70         73         60          57         50        50         51
Rate Base Revalued               126.7   140.5   187.0   233.7         301.4      433.7      572.3       809.3   1232.4      1710.6
Rate of Return on
Revalued %                        9       14        8        4          7         10          11         14        11         10



EGYPT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT NATIONAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS ORGANIZATION (ARENTO)
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Historic and Projected Balance Sheets
(LE millions)
Half
1977    1978    1979    1980        FY81       FY82       FY83       FY84      FY85       FY86
Assets
Plants in Operation           108.6   123.2   197.7   215.1        333.1     437.2      604.2      905.5    1450.8    1874.5
Accumulated Depreciation       47.2    52.2    63.2    68.2         81.9      101.2     127.2      164.9      223.8      306.9
Net Plants in Operation    61.4    71.0   134.5   146.9          251.2     336.0      477.0      740.6    1227.0    1567.6
Works in Progress             107.7   171.5   196.5   222.2        271.1     468.3      647.8      744.0      648.7      681.0
Total Fixed Assets          169.1   242.5   331.0   369.1       522.3      804.3    1124.8    1484.6       1875.7    2248.6
Long-Term Investments             1.6      1.6     3.1      3.1        3.1        3.1        3.1        3.1        3.1        3.1
Current Assets
Cash                           15.1     9.5      8.2    10.5        11.2      38.0       39.0       47.0       59.0       89.0
Receivables                     9.8    19.8    24.3    24.6        21.9       32.0       41.0       49.0       62.0       58.0
Inventories                    13.7    22.5    19.2    20.0        21.5       37.3       42.4       47.3       52.6       60.7
Other                          25.8    28.3      8.8    14.7        20.4      27.5       33.0       33.7       34.4       35.5
Total Current Assets        64.4    80.1    60.5    69.8         75.0      134.8      155.4      177.0      208.0      243.2
Total Assets               235.1   324.2   394.6   442.0        600.4      942.2    1283.3    1664.7    2086.8    2494.9
Liabilities
Capita51 1/                   29.6    29.6    29.6    29.6         29.6       92.9      158.0      210.7      259.7      260.9
Grants                           -       -        -        -       13.7       25.5       75.2      109.5      152.0      188.2
Surplus                       21.5    35.5    18.7    11.7          6.8       25.1       53.3      122.9      209.4      317.0
Total Equity                51.1    65.1    48.3    41.3         50.1      143.5      286.5      443.1      621.1      766.1
Long-Term Debt                  149.4   203.0   287.9   335.7       497.1      720.0      909.6    1126.3      1372.9    1631.9
Less Current Proportions         18.3    28.2    14.9    24.2         27.5      33.3       38.6       55.5       81.9       101.2
SUbtotal                   131.1   174.8   273.0   311.5        469.6      686.7      871.0    1070.8      1291.0    1530.7
Subscriber Deposits               6.0     7.6      9.9    10.7        11.2      11.8       12.3       12.9       13.6       14.6
Current Liabilities              28.6    48.5    48.5    54.3        42.0       66.9       74.9       82.4       79.2       82.3
Amort. Long-Term Debt            18.3    28.2    14.9    24.2         27.5      33.3       38.6       55.5       81.9      101.2
Total Liabilities         235.1   324.2   394.6   442.0        600.4      942.2    1283.3    1664.7    2086.8    2494.9
/1  includes capitalized debt of LE 127 million being portion of debt repayment due 1980.



EGYPT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT NATIONAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS ORGANIZATION (ARENTO)
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
ARENTO - Historic and Projected Funds Flow Statements
(LE millions)
Actual          Half                            Forecast
1977-78  1978-79  1979-80  1980-81  1981-82  1982-83  1983-84  1984-85  1985-86
Sources
Net Income Before Interest             21.0      14.1       9.9     20.1      51.8      73.0    125.6    155.2    190.2
Depreciation                            6.1       9.6       5.5      13.7     19.3      26.0      37.7      58.9      83.1
Subtotal                             27.1     23.7      15.4      33.8      71.1      99.0    163.3    214.1    273.3
Subscriber Deposits                     1.6       2.3        .8        .4       .6        .5        .6        .7       1.0
Grants                                   -         -         -      13.7      11.8      49.7      34.3      42.5      36.2
Capital Contribution                     -         -         -        -       63.3      65.1      52.7      49.0       1.2
Long-Term Borrowings                   71.9    113.1       62.7    185.6    250.4    222.9    255.3    302.1    340.9                   n
Total Sources                       100.6    139.1      78.9    233.5    397.2    437.2    506.2    608.4    652.6
Construction                           78.4      99.5     43.1    166.9    301.3    346.5    397.5    450.0    456.0
Long-Term Investment                     -        1.5        -         -        -         -         -         -         -
Debt Services
--Amortization                        18.3      28.2      14.9     24.2      27.5      33.3      38.6      55.5      81.9
--Interest                             6.0       8.7       9.9     25.0      33.5      44.8      56.0      68.7      82.6
Subtotal                         24.3      36.9      24.8      49.2      61.0      78.1      94.6    124.2    164.5
Changes in Working Capital             (4.2)   (19.6)       3.5     17.4      34.9      12.6      14.1      34.2      32.1
Other 1/                                2.1      20.8       7.5        -        -         -         -         -         -
Total Applications                  100.6    139.1      78.9    233.5    397.2    437.2    506.2    608.4    652.6
Debt Service Coverage Ratio (times)    1.1          0.6       0.6       0.7       1.2       1.3       1.7       1.7       1.7
Internal Generation/Capital
Expenditure (Percent)                   4       neg.      neg.      neg.       3         6        17        20        24
/1 Adjustment to net income.



- 76 -
ANNEX 29
Page 1 of 2 pages
EGYPT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT NATIONAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS ORGANIZATION (ARENTO)
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Consortium Financing
1.        In September 1979, the Minister of Communications signed a protocol
with a European Consortium ("the Consortium") providing for the supply,
installation and financing of telecommunications equipment and services over
a five-year period. The Consortium consists of Siemens of the Federal
Republic of Germany, Thomson CSF of France and Siemens of Austria. The
protocol has been ratified by the Peoples' Assembly, with some modifications.
Its main features are:
(a)  The Consortium may be entrusted with the execution and
financing of specific projects in ARENTO's development
program with an aggregate value of up to US$1.8 billion
equivalent, including the financing of up to US$0.6 billion
of domestic currency expenditures.
(b)  Implementation will be made through specific contracts
between ARENTO and the Consortium members. These contracts
will contain the necessary technical project descriptions,
as well as the specific financing and legal conditions
(delivery and financing terms, guarantees, settlement of
disputes, penalties, escalation clauses, etc.).
(c)  Financing is to be provided with an average term of not
less than 15 years and an average grace period of at least
five years. The funds would bear interest at an average
rate not exceeding 5.5% per year. Funds will be provided
from baskets of resources, including:
(i) suppliers' credits by Consortium members;
(ii) guaranteed export credits;
(iii) loans/credits by Consortium member governments;
(iv) credits through the Austrian Postal Savings
Services (Osterreichische Post-Sparkasse); and
(v) commercial bank credits.



- 77 -
ANNEX 29
Page 2 of 2 pages
(d) A joint venture (60% Egyptian and 40% Siemens) would be
established to manufacture telecommunications system
components, spare parts and "selected items".
(e) Consortium members will operate and maintain the facilities
providecd under the protocol for as long as ARENTO deems
it necessary, and will provide adequate training for
future operation and maintenance by ARENTO's staff.
(f)  ARENTO has the option to call for a second five-year
protocol "with similar volume and conditions".
2.        Partly because of the nature of some of the equipment to be supplied
(electronic switching systems - "ESS") and partly because of the administra-
tive limitations in committing long-term funds from such basket of resources,
ARENTO and the Consortium members have agreed that protocol implementation
will be made in phases.  Thus far, Phase I has been contracted and Phase II
has been identified, with an aggregate value of LE 528 (US$755) million.
Details of the equipment to be supplied under these two phases are given in
Annex 8.
3.        Contracts under Phase I have an estimated aggregate value of about
US$0.4 billion, broken down as follows:
LE millions   US$ millions
Siemens - Germany                  100            143
Thomsonl - CSF                     134            192
Siemens - Austria                   34             49
Total                          268           384
Of which, domestic
currency expenditure              97            139
Disbursements under this initial phase are expected over the 1981-85 period.
4.        It is presently estimated that Phase II will have a total cost of
about LE 260 (US$372) million, including a domestic currency component of
LE 105 (US$150) million. Disbursements for this phase are expected over the
1983-86 period.



- 78 -                   ANNEX 30
EGYPT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT NATIONAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS ORGANIZATION (ARENTO)
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Basis for Financial Projections
1.        Base revenues have been projected on the basis of program increases
in number of DELs and assuming real increases in revenues/DEL, as a result of
the program, as follows: 20%/1981-82; 20%/1982-83; 30%/1983-84; 10%/1984-85;
and 7%/1985-86. These increases are larger than normally expected as the
result of the implementation of a program. They are, however, based upon the
extremely poor state of existing services and the initial program emphasis on
rehabilitation.
2.        For each cost item, inflation has been taken into account after
assessing the real constant 1981 cost for each year.
3.        Staff expenses have been based upon a constant real cost/employee
and the expected number of employees each year.
4.        Materials and Services cost has been based upon historical assess-
ment showing these costs to average about 3% of plant in operation.
5.        Depreciation has been assessed at 5% of cost for each year of use.
6.        Transfers out of Works in Progress have been based upon historical
analysis which shows construction becomes a revenue-earning asset after two
years. For the first three years of the program, this ratio has been main-
tained; thereafter, transfers are made after 18 months, reflecting the higher
percent of final connection operations taking place at that time.
7.        Plant in Operation is based upon the program's agreed construction
program.
8.        Subscriber Accounts Receivable performance is expected to improve
following the A. D. Little study and recommendations. The projections have
assumed the improvement will be from 1980-81 of 30% of revenues gradually
down to 15% by 1985-86.
9.        Long-Term Debt and Interest thereon has been incorporated according
to signed agreements. Unfunded debt has been charged interest at the average
rate of existing debt. Government debt contribution bears an interest rate
of 5%, 'which inttexest rate is the c-urrent rate chxarged by Government for
such loans.



- 79 -
ANNEX 31
EGYPT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF E1GYPT NATIONAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS ORGANIZATION (ARENTO)
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
A - Selected Reports and Studies on the Sector
1. Arab Republic of Egypt Telecommunication Sector Study (1978) by
Continental Telephone International (CTI) Volumes 1 to 9 and
Annexes.
2. Report No. 11 Communications System in Rural Egypt
Ahmad Kamel - Cairo University - MIT Technology Planning
Program 1980.
3. USAID Project Papers - EGYPT - Telecommunication Project
Telecommunications II Project July 1979, Telecommunications
III Projeczt August 1979.
4. Project Agreement USAID and Egypt for Telecommunications I, II
and III.
5. Law No. 153 of 1980 establishing the National Organization for
wire and wireless telecommunications.
6.  Agreement. between the Government of Egypt and a European
consortium consisting of Siemens Germany, Siemens Austria and
Thomson CSF France dated September 17, 1979.
B - Selected Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
1. Managerial and Technical Advisory Services Contract 1980
Arthur D. Little/Continental Telephone and ARENTO.
2.  Tariffs for telegraph and telephone services in accordance
with amendment to Presidential Decree No. 359 of 1978 issued
under Presidential Decree No. 140 of 1979.






BRD -11323R2
29R~ ~~                -0                                                                                                                                 33 3'  S                            DORUEMEEED OEFD
!Mederranean                                  Sea
A ESANDRI                                                                                                               SAI B   BAlD
Q90   0   i z   S  S     S   WQFrE;    j        i          7                b                         2     2    2            9            :~di S  Si  L
\   ~           ~~~~~~~          ~        ~      ~     ~         ~ ShI,I,k                                                                                       i,,h
ARAB REPUJBLC OF ECYPT                                                                 A                  RA
A.R.E. NATIONAL  TELECOMMUNICATION   ORGANIZATION                                     tordon             . QASDoI el                                 FDslo,aI 9-d      , sf
HIGH CAPACITY TRANSMISSION  SYSTEMS AND TRUNK AUTOMATIC EXCHANGES                     DA B0RRAGE              U                 ArbEl Ho.
-30-          sI\, 0;Z                                                                                        1 L\ 
I.RO SURFACEC   S0ADS                            /    /                                                       If ir .\
20'  - - - nTERU R -D ANEET TD A R 0                                          //
T-1~ ~~~ ~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D
ODR                    DUDEt NOrWS'                                            [n  u i        |X '\ i   
~~~~~~I 1- IBEUD
---                    30,0 GAL AA NF  9SR TlNK                                    .1h    .                                                                                Y 
GA- R   1 wER - I.-Til                                                      un- 
+    lENT-T-OAA8IIOnTs                                    Abdel Cd-d!                 SUEF                                              R  Z.f.,.-:k               Ab,\
-24            ---NENTONLSUORE                                                             $    XE NSE                                                                   ,/D                                                        29-
U                        ~~~~~~~~~~~Al
24                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~L MINYA/\                                                                       4         Sl
EVIF25  xj : j->rEPusooBi                                                                                    25 /                               o 
..........000. of                                                                 DIDOETUDS
- ~     ~       e A o -  - *   -   /                                              t  /                                             . t 0,, UOL   OO OAIr  O
ELDUN                     ,ATR0,~~~~~~~~. ..... 000 .. 
sm,,                                      3D'                                       31/                                           32'                                          33'                                          34
I  Z  JM, ARASIA                                       Al S                                                                                                             %,                   A  O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~II 



