Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13468-CHA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
SICHUAN POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
JANUARY 20, 1995
Industry and Energy Operations Division
China and Mongolia Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of December 1, 1994)
Currency   =  Yuan (Y)
Y 1.00   =    100fen
$1.00   =  Y 8.5
Y 1.00   =  $0.11
WEIGIITS AND MEASURES
km          Kilometer (= 0.62 miles)
kWh         Kilowatt hour (= 860.42 kcals)
GWh  =      Gigawatt hour (1,000,000 kilowatt hours)
TWh  =    Terawatt hour (1,000,000,000 kilowatt hours)
kW    =     Kilowatt (1,000 watts)
MW   =      Megawatt (1,000 kilowatts)
GW    =     Gigawatt (I million kilowatts)
kV    =     Kilovolt (1,000 volts)
kVA   =     Kilovolt-ampere (1,000 volt-amperes)
MVA  =      Megavolt-ampere (1,000 kilovolt-amperes)
mf   =      Milligram
m     =     Cubic meter
tce         tons of standard coal equivalent
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BERIWREP - Beijing Economic Research Institute for Water Resources and Electric
Power
CNPC       - China National Petroleum Corporation
CRISPP     - China Reform, Institutional Support and Preinvestment Project
EAR        - Environmental Assessment Report
EHDC       - Ertan Hydroelectric Development Corporation
GEF        - Global Environment Facility
GNP        - Gross National Product
HIPDC      - Huaneng International Power Development Corporation
MOEP       - Ministry of Electric Power
MOF        - Ministry of Finance
SAA        - State Audit Administration
SDB        - State Development Bank
SEDC       - Sunblast Energy Development Company
SEPA       - Sichuan Electric Power Administration
SEPC       - Sichuan Electric Power Company
SIC        - Sichuan Investment Company
SOEs       - State-Owned Enterprises
SEIC       - State Energy Investment Corporation
SPC        - State Planning Commission
SPG        - Sichuan Power Grid
SWEPDI   - South West Electric Power Design Institute
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



CHINA
SICHUAN POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
LoAN AND PRoJEcr SUMMARY
Borrower:         People's Republic of China
Beneficiary:      Sichuan Electric Power Company (SEPC)
Amount:            $270.0 million equivalent
Terms:            Twenty years, including a five-year grace period, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate.
Onlending Terms:  The proceeds of the loan would be onlent from the Borrower
through Sichuan Province to the Beneficiary under a subsidiary loan
agreement on the same terms and conditions as the Bank loan, with
the Beneficiary bearing the foreign exchange risk.
Project Objectives
and Description:  The main objectives of the proposed project are to: (a) alleviate an
acute shortage of electricity by the construction of a 500-kV
transmission network for connecting the ongoing Ertan hydroelectric
project to the Sichuan power grid, as well as reinforcing the
existing power transmission system; (b) assist in designing and
implementing a time-bound program to implement power subsector
reforms in Sichuan Province; (c) support the implementation of
further power tariff rationalization; (d) promote transfer of
contemporary technologies for extra-high voltage transmission
networks; (e) strengthen institutional capabilities for environmental
management and resettlement planning; and (f) upgrade
management and operation capabilities through well-focused staff
training programs. The proposed project would include:
(a) construction of a new 500-kV transmission network consisting
of about 2,260 km of 500-kV transmission lines, five transformer
substations (5,250 MVA) and one 500-kV switching station, and
reinforcement of the existing transmission network; (b) carrying
out of environmental management and resettlement programs;
(c) extension of technical assistance for implementation of SEPC's
reform plan, organization improvements, and development of
accounting and financial management systems; and (d) provision of
engineering and construction management services and training.



- ii -
The feasibility study and design report for the project was
completed by consultants in 1993.
Benefits and Risks: The project will greatly increase the critically needed power
transmission capability of Sichuan Province and the Southwest
China power grid as a whole. The project is clearly part of the
least-cost development program for meeting future power supply
needs. The internal economic rate of return of the full Ertan
hydroelectric generation and transmission project is estimated at
about 17 percent; the rate of return for the transmission investment
alone is considerably higher. Other intangible benefits are also
important, such as enterprise reform and institutional development,
improved power grid operation, and the favorable influence on
society at large by helping relieve hardships caused by the acute
power supply shortages. Also, through the project, the Bank will
be able to support the Governments power subsector policy and
further pursue its sectoral objectives in China. The technical and
economic feasibility of the project has been well established. In
view of the advanced preparatory works, risks associated with
project construction, cost overruns, and implementation delays are
within reasonable limits and manageable with the agreed supervision
arrangements and involvement of competent engineering
consultants. Particular attention will be given to the safety aspects
of the project, and to capabilities and performance of major
contractors. Failure to implement the power subsector institutional
and pricing reforms in an efficient and timely manner is another
risk that would be addressed through active and continuous sector
work and supervision of the project. The economic risks would be
minimal. Both the borrower and the beneficiary have given
assurance that tariff increases required for SEPC to achieve its
financial targets will be forthcoming, and China's record in this
regard has been good. The project has been designed to comply
with applicable Bank and Chinese standards in order to minimize
the environmental impact. An environmental management program
will be included under the project to prevent and reduce the
possibility of developing any adverse environmental problems.



Estimated Costs:                                             Local    Forein      Total
($ million)
A. Transmission Network Expansion
Preparatory works                                    68.2        0.0       68.2
Civil works and installations                        123.7      0.0       123.7
220-kV transmission system                           128.4       0.0      128.4
500-kV transmission lines                            130.0      60.2      190.2
500-kV substations equipment                         40.1      175.4      215.5
B.  Resettlement and Rehabilitation
Land acquisition and relocation                       12.2       0.0       12.2
C.  Technical Assistance
Preparation/lImplementation
Engineering and administration                   12.0       4.2        16.2
Institutional Development
Environmental protection                          0.3       0.5        0.8
Reform plan and management information systems    1.0       1.7        2.7
Training                                          1.0       3.3        4.3
Base Cost                                   516.9    245.3        762 2
Contingencies:
Physical                                         46.6      15.1       61.7
Price                                            37.9      12.6       50.5
Total Proiect Cost                          601.4     273.0       874.4
Interest during construction /a                          151.2      53.1       204.3
Total Financing Reuired                     752.6    326.1      1.078.7
FInancing Plan:
State Development Bank                                   526.8      37.2       564.0
Sichuan Investment Company                               150.5       10.6      161.1
Sichuan Electric Power Company                            75.3       5.3        80.6
IBRD                                                       0.0     270.0       270.0
IDA (CRISPP) /b                                            0.0       3.0         3.0
Total                                       752.6     326.1     1.078.7
/a  Interest during construction (IDC) is based on onlending rates for projected disbursements of loan
proceeds. The foreign currency portion of IDC is based on the Bank's variable loan rate.
/b CRISPP (Credit 2447-CHA).



- 1v -
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY                       1995  1996  1997   1998   1999  20
--------------------- ($ million) -----------------------
Annual                         22.5  64.2  75.1   62.8  36.1    9.3
Cumulative                     22.5  86.7  161.8  224.6  260.7  270.0
Poverty Category:      Not applicable.
Economic Rate of Return: 17 percent
Map:                   IBRD 25932R



v 
CONTENTS
1    The Energy Sector  .................................                                                 1
A.    Overview    ...................................                                                1
B.    Energy Sector Issues .............................                                            2
C.    Energy Sector Strategy   ...........................                                          5
D.    Bank Role in the Energy Sector ......  .                  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  6
2    The Power Subsector  ...............................                                                 8
A.    Background   .........  .               ..  .  .  ..  .  .  .  ..  .  .  ..  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .    .  8
B.    Power Sector Reform   .......  .                .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  9
C.    Power Pricing  .................................                                             12
D.    Electricity Conservation and Environmental Protection  ...                      .....        13
E.    Power System  Planning and Technology Transfer  ...........                                  14
F.    Role of the Bank in the Power Sector  ..................                                     15
3    The Beneficiary  ...................................                                                18
A.    Legal Status and Organization of SEPC   .................                                    18
B.    Action Plan to Commercialize SEPC  ...................                                       19
C.  Management ..................................    22
D.    Staffing and Training   ............................                                         22
E.    Planning, Budgeting and Control  .....................                                       23
F.    Accounting   ..................................                                              23
G.    Audit ......................................                                                 25
H.    Billing and Collections   ...........................                                        25
I.     Electricity Tarifs  ...............................                                         26
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited China in June/July
1994. The report was prepared by V. Mastilovic (Task Manager), S. Kataoka (Senior
Power Engineer), H.E. Sun (Financial Analyst), R. Taylor (Senior Economist), N. Berrah
(Senior Economist), J. Fritz (Environmental Engineer), Y. Zhu (Resettlement Specialist),
and K.C. Ling (Consultant). Peer reviewers comprised: W. Cao (technical), M. Layec
(economic), and S. Shum (institutional and financial). The Division Chief is Richard
S. Newfarmer, and the Department Director is Nicholas C. Hope.



- vi -
4     The Power Market and Progmm   ........................                                                28
A.    The Sichuan Power Grid   ..........................                                             28
B.   Load Forecast .                ................................                                  29
C.    Power Development Program    .......................                                            29
D.    Electricity Conservation  ...........................                                           30
5   The Project  .              ....................................                                        32
A.    Project Objectives  ..............................                                              32
B.    Project Description  ..............................                                             32
C.    Cost Estimate  .................................                                                35
D.    Financing Plan   ................................                                               35
E.  Procurement ....                                                                                 ...............................    37
F.    Project Implementation   ...........................                                            38
G.    Disbursement  .........                      ........................                           38
H.    Environmental Considerations  .......................                                           41
T.     Relocation Aspects ..............................                                              42
J.     Project Risks   ..........                    .......................                          42
K.    Monitoring and Reporting   .........................                                            43
6   Fiancial Aspects .                  .................................                                   44
A.  Introduction .                .................................                                   44
B.    SEPC's Past and Present Financial Performance  ....                           ........          46
C.    Financial Performance Targets .......................                                           47
D.    Future Finances .........                      .......................                          48
7     Economic Justification   ..............................                                               50
A.    Project Benefits .             ...............................                                  50
B.    Least-Cost Analysis  .........                       ....................                       50
C.    Economic Rate of Return  ..........................                                             51
8     Agreements and Recommendation   .......... .............                                              52
ANNEXES
1.1  Primary Energy Output in China (1949-93) .57
1.2     Total Production and Consumption of Energy vs. GNP Growth                                           58
2.1     Installed Capacity, Electricity Generation, and Consumption in the Power
Subsector .59
2.2     Electricity Consumption by Sectors  ......................                                          60
2.3     Major Ongoing Power Projects with External Financing   ...                           ......         61
2.4   Future Thermal Power Projects under BOT and BOO Arrangements .                                        62



- vii -
3.1    Action Plan for Commercialization of SEPC   ................                         63
3.2    Performance Indicators for Sichuan Power System  ..... .             .  .  .  .  .  .    .  68
3.3    Staffing of SEPC .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  69
3.4    Schools and Training Centers Under SEPC   ...... .             .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  70
3.5    Power Pricing in Sichuan Province  .......  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  71
4.1    Installed Generating Capacity of Sichuan Power Grid   ....  . ......                 78
4.2    Transmission Network of Sichuan Power Grid  ...... .               .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  79
4.3    Energy Generation of Sichuan Power Grid ...... .              .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  80
4.4    Energy Consumption by Category of Consumers in Sichuan Province  .                    81
4.5    Energy Forecast for Sichuan Power Grid ...... .             .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  82
4.6    SEPC's Power Development Program  (1994-2003) ..... .                .  .  .  .  .  .    .  83
5.1    Project Description  ................................                                85
5.2    Consulting Services (Terms of Reference) ...... .             .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  96
5.3    Accounting and Financial Management Systems  ..... .               .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  102
5.4    Management Development and Training  ...... .               .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  106
5.5    Project Cost Estimate ...............................                               111
5.6    Procurement Schedule  ..............................                                114
5.7    Key Dates of Project Implementation  .....................                          115
5.8    Schedule of Disbursements  ...........................                              117
5.9    Environmental Management Program  .....................                             118
5.10 Land Acquisition and Relocation .126
5.11 Bank Supervision Input into Key Activities .136
5.12   Framework for Project Monitoring and Reporting  .............                       137
6.1    Actual Financial Statements of SEPC (1989-93)  ..............                       139
6.2    Forecast Financial Statements of SEPC (1994-2003) ....                ........      142
6.3    Major assumptions to Financial Projections  .................                       146
7.1    Economic Justification of the Project .....................                         148
8.1    Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File ...            .....      150
CHARTS
1.   Organization Chart of the Ministry of Electric Power ....              .......      153
2.   Organization Chart of the Sichuan Electric Power Company  ...              ....     154
3.   Project Construction Office  ........  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  155
4.   Implementation Schedule  ........  .            .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..  .    .  156



- viii -
MAP
EBRD 25932R  .......................................                                 159
TABLS iN TEXT
3.1   Electricity Consumption in Sichuan Province  ................                   25
4.1   Load Growth of Sichuan Power Grid .....................                         29
4.2   Load Forecast for Sichuan Power Grid .......            .............           30
5.1    Summary of Project Costs . ...........................                         36
5.2   Financing Plan for the Project ...........           ..............             37
5.3  Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements .39
5.4   Implementation Schedule: Estimated Annual Contractual and Other
Payments .40
6.1  SEPC's Key Financial Indicators, 1990-93 .46
6.2   Key Financial Indicators, 1994-2003  .....................                      48



1. THE ENERGY SECTOR
A. OvERvIEw
1.1       China has become the third largest producer of energy in the world. In 1993,
the country's primary commercial energy supply and consumption amounted to 1,117 and
1,122 million tons of standard coal equivalent (tce), respectively. Coal is the most
important source of energy, accounting for about 74 percent, and oil for 19 percent of the
total production. Hydroelectric power (5 percent), natural gas (2 percent), and small
quantities of oil shale and geothermal power make up the balance. The largest consumer
of energy is the industrial sector (70 percent), followed by households (14 percent),
services (10 percent), and agriculture (5 percent). Details of the primary energy outputs
are given in Annex 1.1.
Energy Resources
1.2       The main primary energy resources in China are coal, hydroelectric potential,
crude oil and natural gas. In 1993, the country produced 1.14 billion tons of raw coal.
By the year 2000, China aims to produce 1.4 billion tons of coal a year. However,
insufficient transport capacity makes it extremely difficult to move enough coal to the large
consuming centers in Central and East China. China is rich in water resources and has a
long tradition of harnessing them for energy and other uses, but only about 9 percent of
it has been developed. Most of the potential is located in the Southwest (70 percent),
about 1,500 km away from the main demand centers. The long gestation period for
hydroelectric projects has also inhibited the rapid development and utilization of
hydroelectric resources. The country produced 144 million tons of crude oil in 1993, and
the target output for the year 2000 is 200 million tons. In 1993, China produced
16.5 billion m3 of natural gas. About 44 percent of the current production is nonassociated
gas, mostly from Sichuan Province. The remaining gas production is associated with
onshore crude oil production.
1.3       Noncommercial biomass energy use currently amounts to about one quarter
of total energy consumption in China. Fuelwood and agricultural residues are the chief
biomass fuels, and they are consumed almost entirely by rural households. China is
promoting a variety of measures to achieve environmentally sustainable biomass supply and
consumption levels, including more efficient use of biomass, tree planting, and substitution
of other fuels for traditional biomass fuels.
1.4       Known uranium reserves in China are sufficient to sustain 15,000 MW of
nuclear power capacity for 30 years. China commissioned its first commercial nuclear
power plant (300 MW) in 1992. In 1994, Daya Bay nuclear power plant (2x900 MW) was



-2-
commissioned; 70 percent of its output is intended for nearby Hong Kong.  The
construction of a few additional plants is planned to start before the year 2000, primarily
in regions that lack coal and hydroelectric resources.
1.5       Other energy resources play a small role in energy supply and are used mostly
in remote areas. Geothermal energy has been found in many locations covering nearly all
the country. Although wind and solar energy have promising prospects, they are not
expected to affect the overall supply of energy significantly in the near future. Oil shale
deposits are large, but little is exploited because of lack of viable technology.
Institutions of the Energy Sector
1.6       The Ministry of Energy (MOE) that had maintained primary responsibility
within the Central Government for policy, planning and regulations for the energy sector
was disbanded in 1993 during a broad govemment reorganization, and a new Ministry of
Electric Power (MOEP) was established, along with a Ministry of Coal and the existing
China National Petroleum Corporation (CNPC). Chart 1 shows the organization of
MOEP. The State Development Bank (SDB), established in 1994, took over the previous
responsibilities of the State Energy Investment Corporation (SEIC) for project financing
in the coal and electricity subsectors. SDB is responsible for onlending funds for projects
of national importance and representing the Government in the joint financing of projects
with other parties. The State Planning Commission (SPC), on behalf of the State Council,
has the responsibility for review and approval of the strategic plans, investment programs
and general pricing policy of the energy sector.
Energy Investments
1.7       Energy investments in the 1980s were planned based on an expected economic
growth rate of 7.5 percent a year. Actual economic growth rates exceeded this target by
a significant margin, which has exacerbated energy shortages already existing at the outset.
Under the Seventh Five-Year Plan (1985-90), the Government gave high priority to energy
and also to the transport sector, a bottleneck in economic development. In 1993, China
dedicated 3.3 percent and 1.9 percent of its Gross National Product (GNP), respectively,
to develop infrastructure for energy production and transportation. It invested a total of
Y 80.4 billion ($14 billion) in the energy sector, representing 27 percent of state capital
construction, as against 21 percent in the early 1980s. The power subsector accounted for
61 percent of the total. About 20 percent of the investment requirements of the Chinese
energy sector are met by foreign loans and direct investments.
B. ENERGY SECTOR ISSUES
1.8      In addition to the already noted shortages, the main energy sector issues in
China are: (a) the efficiency of energy supply and use; (b) the dominance of coal and
associated environmental problems; (c) scale and technology in energy industries;
(d) rationalization of energy pricing policies; and (e) institutional, regulatory and enterprise
reform.



-3-
Efficiency of Energy Use
1.9       China's energy consumption per capita is low, but consumption per unit of
GNP is high compared with other countries. The high share in GNP of industrial output,
the structure of industry, the use of inefficient technology, and inadequate energy
management practices are major factors that contribute to this. Efforts to improve the
efficiency of energy use have been a cornerstone of China's energy policy. Particular
progress has been made in building a strong institutional framework for energy
conservation. During 1980-92, China's energy intensity per unit of GNP fell by about 30
percent in real terms (Annex 1.2). Nevertheless, further improvements in energy
efficiency are crucial. Energy supply targets for the 1990s imply that only about one half
of the increased energy services required will come from new energy supplies, while the
other half should come from energy efficiency improvements. This will require major
progress in addressing structural and systemic issues as well as still stronger programs to
upgrade inefficient technology and strengthen energy management.
Dominance of Coal and Associated Enviromnental Problems
1.10      Many of China's air pollution problems are related to the heavy use of coal
and its dispersed, small-scale application in industry and households. Environmental
problems occur at every stage of the coal chain; mining and disposal of mine waste, coal
washing, transport and handling, processing and combustion, and ash ultimately disposal.
The ambient concentration of particulates is the most serious problem; it is largely related
to the dominant small-scale use of coal, its high-ash content (20-30 percent), and the often
incomplete combustion. The average sulfur content of the coal is relatively low (about
1.1 percent), but because coal is used so extensively sulfur dioxide emissions are
increasing.
1.11      The environmental implications of continued increases in coal use highlight the
need for the strict enforcement of environmental regulations and more investment to
conserve energy to mitigate the environmental effects of unnecessary coal consumption.
Incorporation of modern technology, achievement of suitable scale economies, and
elimination of backward small-scale capacity units is a key to improving coal utilization
in many subsectors such as thermal power generation. The scope for substituting cleaner
fuels remains limited. The country has insufficient proven natural gas resources; its
production of oil is increasingly absorbed by transport and petrochemicals; and large
hydropower resources are located far away from major consuming centers.
Scale and Technology in Energy Industries
1.12      Coal Subsector. Over half of the coal produced in China comes from small-
scale mining operations. Exploitation of large coal reserves through uncoordinated small-
scale mining has often led to inefficiencies in production and a waste of coal resources.
In the larger mines, productivity and safety could be increased by making greater use of
mechanized systems and applying more efficient mining methods.



- 4 -
1.13      Power Subsector. Large-scale power development in China is beneficial from
the standpoint of both energy conservation and environmental protection. Modem thermal
power plants, with unit capacities of 600 MW, are far more efficient than smaller units
(para. 2.28). The boilers of the modem utilities also support better pollution control, thus
raising the efficiency of particulate removal.
1.14      Petroleum Subsector. In the petroleum subsector, there is a need to employ
more modem equipment and technology at all stages of exploration and development;
seismic survey and related data processing, exploratory drilling, and enhanced oil recovery
in order to increase production from aging fields. Improvements in operating and
maintenance practices are also needed to increase the efficiency of the subsector.
Energy Pricing
1.15      Energy price reform has proceeded steadily during recent years, resulting in
substantial increases in real energy prices. In the mid-1980s, dual-track energy pricing
was developed, whereby energy supplies allocated under the national plan were priced at
"oin-plan" prices, at levels well below incremental production costs or border prices, while
higher, market-based prices were charged for energy supplied through the market ("outside
of the plan"). Over the years, in-plan prices increased in real terms, and the portion of
energy allocated at in-plan prices greatly declined.
1.16      The Govemment has declared its commitment to abolish low, in-plan prices
for all the chief forms of energy by the end of 1995, with the exception of a few consumer
categories (e.g., ammonia-based fertilizer producers). The country is now in the process
of completing this transition to market-driven prices. In general, average consumer energy
prices are now close to the economic costs of supply in the principal demand centers.
Distortions remain, however, in both the structure of prices and inequitable treatment of
different producers and consumers, requiring further concerted action to complete the
transition to a truly efficient pricing system suitable for the emerging market economy.
1.17      In 1994, the Government is completing implementation of full deregulation of
coal prices, so that all coal will be supplied at market-driven prices which are generally
in line with the economic costs of domestic production and distribution and are close to or
above international export price parity levels.
1.18      The average retail price levels of major light petroleum products now are equal
to or exceed border prices. Average prices of crude oil and heavy fuel oil, however, have
been kept substantially lower. In 1992, the Government indicated that crude oil prices
would be increased to intemational levels by the end of 1995. In July 1994, crude oil
prices were sharply increased, closing the gap with intemational prices in the case of
second class crude. Natural gas well head prices were increased by 40 to 50 percent in
1992, and as part of a gas pricing reform action plan under the Sichuan Gas Development
and Conservation Project (Loan 3716-CHA) by a further 80 percent in 1994. Producer
prices for natural gas remain distorted and the Sichuan Project provides for continuing
price reform to provide better incentives to find and develop more resources.



- 5 -
1.19      Major progress has been made in increasing electricity prices; in East China,
for example, average consumer prices now approximate the long-run marginal costs
(LRMC) of supply. Substantial improvements also have been made in producer prices in
1993 and 1994. Although average levels still need to be increased to better reflect
economic costs in some areas, such as Sichuan Province, many of the remaining problems
in the electricity pricing system lie with its structure, unnecessary complexity, lack of
transparency, and continued inequitable treatment of different types of producers and
consumers (para. 2.21).
Economic System and Enterprise Reform
1.20      The process of transformation from a command economy to a market-based
economic system was initiated in China in the late 1970s. It has gained momentum in
recent years, fueled by past successes and the strong economic performance of the more
liberalized sectors of the economy. Considerable progress has been made in putting in
place the appropriate macroeconomic policy framework for the transition to a market
economy, from trade to price liberalization, to encouragement of foreign investment and
nonstate enterprise development, to decreased involvement of Government agencies in the
management and operations of state enterprises. Since mid-1992, efforts to reform China's
state-owned enterprises (SOEs) have stepped up sharply, with the promulgation of new
regulations granting greater autonomy to enterprises, and reorganization of the Government
to reduce its role in enterprise operations. A wave of initiatives also has been launched
to untie the social obligations which constrict SOEs and provide a more market-oriented
operating environment, through reforms in the financial sector, fiscal system, pricing,
housing and the social security system. These reform efforts are indicative of the
Govemment's resolve to transform gradually the state-owned enterprise system into a
structure of truly independent corporations. However, given the complexity and multi-
dimensional nature of the enterprise reform, it will take time to complete the process.
1.21      System reform in the energy sector has been following the trends in the other
parts of the economy. In the power subsector, the pace and depth of the reform program
has increased especially since mid-1992; the Government is proceeding with a far-reaching
program to commercialize the country's power companies, to revamp the regulatory and
legal framework within which these companies operate, and to develop more diversified
sources of financing, including private participation (para. 2.18). In the oil and gas sector,
recent achievements include the further opening of concessions to international oil
companies, major price reforms, and the introduction of competition among the various
newly created subsidiaries of CNPC.   Emphasis is now  being given to the
commercialization and corporatization of CNPC, as part of the drive towards greater
market orientation (see China: Sichuan Gas Development and Conservation Project, SAR).
In the coal sector, progress in reform has been slower.
C. ENERGY SECrOR STRATEGY
1.22      Sector reform now plays a central role in China's energy development strategy.
To reduce the prevailing energy shortages in today's environment of rapid economic



- 6 -
growth will require further major improvements in the efficiency of the supply system, in
domestic and foreign capital mobilization, and in energy use. The Government is
committed to the reforms needed to make these improvements, including the
commercialization of enterprises, the achievement of greater autonomy with respect to the
government, regulatory and legal reforms to provide the framework for more market-
oriented enterprises, promotion of competition, completion of price reforms, and adoption
of a variety of new means to mobilize financing.
1.23      Efforts to improve the efficiency of energy use remain a comerstone of
China's energy policy; it is well recognized that China's economic development goals
cannot be attained without further major efficiency gains. Focus on environmental issues
in China's energy policy also has increased sharply in recent years. While heavy reliance
on coal is an unescapable necessity in China for the foreseeable future, improvements in
the efficiency of coal use and reduction of pollution from coal are recognized as critical.
The Govemment's strategy focuses on (a) strengthening environmental policy and
regulation of emissions, (b) restructuring and renovation of inefficient, polluting industrial
capacity, (c) achievement of greater efficiency and enhanced pollution control through
development of large-scale power and industrial plants that properly capture scale
economies, and (d) transfer and development of more efficient and cleaner industrial and
coal utilization technology.
D. BANK ROLE IN THE ENERGY SECTOR
1.24      The Bank has supported 14 projects in electric power development, 5 in
hydrocarbons (including one natural gas project), and one in coal. In these projects,
particular progress has been achieved in the Bank's support for transfer of modern
technology, development of efficient large-scale energy production facilities, promotion of
modem management practices, improvements in power system planning, rationalization of
energy pricing, and greater attention to environmental issues. With the Bank's assistance,
the Chinese have developed capabilities to assess properly the economic costs of electric
power and coal projects, and formulate their price reform strategies. In the case of electric
power, a joint effort to establish LRMC and pricing principles for East China has been
followed up through the development of provincial tariff reform action plans under recent
power loans. A strengthening in environmental and resettlement policies and programs has
been achieved through Bank assistance to develop and apply new methodologies and
approaches for environmental impact assessments and resettlement planning, and adoption
of environmental and resettlement procedures in strict conformity with Bank and national
standards.
1.25      The Bank's assistance program for energy in China places special emphasis
on energy conservation, improved coal utilization and sector reform. Through sector
work, technical assistance and lending operations, the Bank is pursuing a program of
assistance to increase energy efficiency, improve coal utilization and reduce air pollution
stemming from coal use. A dialogue with the Government has been established through
three joint studies, Efficiency and Environmental Impact of Coal Use (Report No. 8915-
CHA, 1991), Environmental Strategy Paper (Report No. 9669-CHA, 1992), and the



-7 -
Energy Conservation Study (Report No. 10813-CHA, 1993). Further technical assistance
and pre-investment work is under way with support from the Global Environment Facility
(GEF), including a joint study by Chinese agencies, the Bank and UNDP, to examine
options for greenhouse gas emission control (China: Issues and Options in Greenhouse Gas
Emissions Control, 1994). A program of new GEF investment projects is being
developed, including projects to promote the development and production of high efficiency
industrial boilers, encourage energy conservation investment in industrial enterprises, and
others. Because the issues involved concern energy use across the economy, investment
and policy support also will continue to be provided through industry and
urban/environment Bank lending operations, as well as those in the energy sector.
1.26      The Bank is actively involved in providing assistance for China's reform
efforts in the oil, gas sector and power subsectors. Following completion of a successful
joint workshop in China on petroleum sector reform in 1992, a major technical assistance
effort has been launched with Japan Grant Facility assistance to review (a) establishment
of an appropriate legal and regulatory framework for the oil and gas sector, (b) competition
policy and petroleum market development, and (c) institutional restructuring of CNPC.
The Bank's power sector assistance program includes sector work, technical assistance and
lending operations, at central, regional and provincial levels. At the central level, a 1993
study, "Strategic Options in Power Sector Reform in China," supported by the Institutional
Development Facility (IDF), provided a vehicle for dialogue between the Bank and key
national and provincial representatives. Follow-up sector work culminated in the recent
sector report "China Power Sector Reform:  Towards Competition and Improved
Performance," Report 12929-CHA, 1994. The dialogue at regional and provincial levels
is being developed primarily through lending operations, which focus on implementation
of key aspects of power sector reform and extension of the reform program from advanced
coastal provinces to less-developed interior provinces.



-8 -
2. THE POWER SUBSECTOR
A. BACKGROUND
2.1       China is the fourth largest producer of electricity in the world. By the end of
1993, China's total installed capacity reached 182.9 GW, with 75.6 percent based on
thermal power and 24.4 percent based on hydropower (Annex 2.1). China has 13 power
networks with capacities of 1 GW or more. They include five regional power grids (East
China, North China, Northeast China, Central China and Northwest China), which
coordinate the systems of several provinces together, and eight major separate provincial
grids. The total length of the extrahigh voltage transmission lines reached 8,660 km and
the capacity of substations amounted to 30.9 GVA. Including all aspects of the power
supply, regardless of ownership, transmission and distribution losses in China's power
system amount to about 16 percent of generation.
2.2       Total power generation in China reached 836 TWh in 1993, of which thermal
power accounted for 82 percent. The share of hydroelectric power has remained fairly
stable over the last decade and the Government has maintained a strong commitment to
hydropower development, but the distance of major resources from load centers inhibits
more rapid development. In thermal power, coal-fired plants provide about 90 percent of
generation. The share of oil-fired generation, accounting for most of the balance, has
declined sharply since the early 1980s. Natural-gas based generation is virtually negligible
and is expected to remain so barring unforeseen major natural gas discoveries.
2.3       Although China's current power development program emphasizes addition of
200-600 MW units, over one half of China's thermal power capacity is still in units below
200 MW. Only about 15 percent is in units of 300 MW or more, compared to 60-80
percent in industrialized countries. The average gross conversion efficiency of thermal
units over 6 MW has improved steadily over the 1980s, reaching 31.8 percent in 1992.
This efficiency level is not unreasonable given the low average unit sizes in operation, but
is substantially lower than the 36-37 percent typical of systems with larger units.
2.4       Industry continues to dominate electricity consumption in China, accounting
for 76.6 percent of electricity use in 1993; 6.3 percent was consumed by agriculture,
8.9 percent by residential users, 6.3 percent by municipal and commercial consumers, and
1.9 percent in transportation/communications (Annex 2.2). Although service is of uneven
quality, rural access to electricity is high; 96 percent of the nation's villages and about
80 percent of rural families now have access to electricity.
2.5       Between 1980 and 1993, total power generation in China grew at an average
rate of 8.0 percent per year. Growth was particularly robust during 1985-88. It tapered



- 9 -
off during 1989-90, when economic growth slowed, but picked up once again, with
increases in generation of 9 percent in 1991, and 11 percent in 1992 and 1993. Industrial
demand has continued to drive overall power demand; 74 percent of incremental electricity
use between 1985 and 1993 was in the industrial sector.
2.6       Despite the strong growth in electricity output, most areas of China continue
to suffer from severe power shortages. Since GNP grew by 9.3 percent per year during
the 1980-93 period, the elasticity of electricity consumption growth relative to GNP growth
was only 0.86, an exceptionally low elasticity for any country over a sustained period, and
particularly for an industrializing country such as China. Chinese officials estimate that
there is a shortfall between peak power demand and supply of 10-20 percent. Daily load
curves are relatively flat, as industries have had to respond to power shortages during the
peak daytime periods through rescheduling of work shifts. The minimum load factor in
the Sichuan power grid in 1993, for example, was 82 percent.
2.7       China's GNP is expected to grow by at least 8.0-9.0 percent per year during
1994-2000. This rapid economic growth will put tremendous pressure on China's electric
power industry to avoid yet worse shortages. Building further upon the gains achieved
over the last 10 years, the country's programs to increase the efficiency of electricity use
must be greatly intensified. Even so, China's electric power construction program for the
1990s will almost certainly be the world's largest.  Assuming that an aggressive
conservation effort can enable an electricity demand/GNP growth elasticity of 1.0 to be
sustained, electricity demand could be expected to continue to grow at average rates of
8-9 percent per year during 1994-2000. This implies an increase in production from
621 TWh in 1990 to 1380-1480 TWh in 2000, and a growth in installed capacity from
138 GW in 1990 to 300-330 GW in 2000. To keep pace with this demand growth, China
would need to add some 17-20 GW of capacity per year, compared to the 14 GW added
in 1991 and 13 GW added in 1992.
2.8       The principal issues which must be addressed in order to successfully meet
China's development challenge in the power sector are discussed in the sections below.
B. POWER SECTR REFORM
Achievements
2.9       General. Reforms in China's power sector during the 1980s involved a series
of incremental adjustments, largely responding to the need to mobilize additional
investment capital to finance rapid growth. Taken together, however, these adjustments
have resulted in a sector structure that is largely unrecognizable from that of the previous
three decades. In 1980, the power sector was fully controlled, managed and funded by
Central Government departments, led by the Ministry of Water Resources and Electric
Power. By the early 1990s, however, the sector had become much more decentalized and
less vertically integrated. Particular progress has been made in diversification of financing
sources, institutional restructuring, and electricity pricing reform.



- 10 -
2.10      Diversification of Financing Sources.  Following change in investment
funding from Government grants to loans in the early 1980s, the Government encouraged
the development of financing for new projects from additional sources including provincial
and local governments, independent corporations, and, in some cases, private foreign
partners. Since the mid-1980s, the Government has allowed power produced from power
plants financed through these nontraditional sources to be sold at prices that provide for
adequate debt servicing and reasonable profit. The share of Central Government financing
in power sector investment has fallen sharply, from 91 percent in 1980 to 30 percent in
1992. Empowered with rights to impose surcharges to accumulate funds for investment
in power construction, provincial and local governments have become a key source of
financing, providing about 40 percent of the investment funding for the sector in 1992.
2.11      Newly formed corporations also have become important players. The Huaneng
International Power Development Corporation (HIPDC) was formed in 1985 with the aim
of attracting foreign capital and technology for power plants located mainly in coastal
areas. HIPDC had a mandate to raise funds from the intemational financial market, and
it has tapped bilateral and suppliers' credits, and commercial bank loans. It is now seeking
foreign equity participation. The recently established Sunburst Energy Development
Corporation (SEDC) is another window for the Government's investment in cofmancing
with the local govemments and foreign sources in energy projects, with three large thermal
power projects now under implementation.
2.12      As an independent power producer, HIPDC operates its 15 plants (5,800 MW
total) under a build, own, and operate (BOO) framework. Build, own and transfer (BOT)
schemes also have been introduced in China, most notably the privately financed Shajiao
B thermal power plant in Guangdong Province. Current Govemment policy encourages
greater foreign direct investment in the sector (para. 2.18, and Annexes 2.3 and 2.4!.
2.13      Institutional Restructuring. Provincial power companies have become the
utilities in charge of management and operation of the bulk of the nation's power system.
The newly created MOEP is charged with overall sector coordination and policy guidance,
and is no longer involved in enterprise management. Regional power entities are charged
with responsibilities for regional grid coordination and dispatching.
2.14      The nature of the provincial power companies varies substantially, but few
remain as monopolies of the power supply systems in their respective provinces. At the
distribution level, about one third of the country's urban distribution companies and five
sixths of the country's rural distribution utilities are separate economic entities. At the
generation level, semi-independent joint-investment plants and fully independent power
plants have been developed in many areas, selling power to the provincial power
companies.
The Current Reform Agenda
2.15      In line with stepped-up national reforms towards a market economy begun in
mid-1992, the Government recently initiated a broad program of sector reforms in the



- 11 -
electric power industry. The reform agenda includes: (a) further commercialization of
power companies, including provision of greater autonomy; (b) rationalization of power
tariffs; (c) realignment of the regulatory and legal framework for the sector, including the
promulgation of a National Electricity Law, and (d) strong encouragement for further
diversification in financing for power development, including private sector participation.
2.16      Commercialization and Corporatization. The goal is to develop the nation's
power companies into efficient, commercial, autonomous entities, fully responsive to
market forces. The most important steps towards this goal, which also will be supported
in Sichuan through this project, are:
(a) Separation of government functions from power companies. To transform
companies into commercial entities, government regulatory functions must be
entrusted to agencies separate from the power companies, and the power
companies should be given the mandate to operate as business-oriented
enterprises.
(b)  Strengthening of power company autonomy. In particular, provincial power
companies need to be granted greater financial autonomy, including expanded
rights to undertake investments and to raise funds.
(c)  Adoption of modem, commercial accounting and financial reporting practices.
In line with the introduction of international accounting practices, efficient cost
accounting and financial reporting systems are necessary to enable power
company managers to control costs and accept financial accountability.
(d)  Clarification of asset ownership rights.
(e)  A narrowing in power company operations to core activities, and gradual
elimination of social welfare responsibilities, initiated through current efforts
to "spin off" peripheral operations, and deepened as reforms proceed in the
social security system, unemployment insurance, etc.
(f)  Corporatization in the form of limited liability or limited shareholding
companies.
2.17      Legal and Regulatory Reform. China is in the process of developing an
overall legal and regulatory framework for operations in the power industry. The existing
legal framework consists of a multitude of inconsistent regulations and rulings, developed
over many years. There is a need to establish both the principles and model contracts for
establishing more transparent and efficient economic relationships between the various
entities now involved in the sector, including different grids, semi-autonomous joint-
investment power plants and independent power producers. To meet the needs of the new
market-oriented environment, the Central Government is preparing a new Electricity Law,
which will provide the umbrella principles for the legal and regulatory system for the
sector, for possible promulgation in 1995. The Central Government also is preparing a



- 12 -
series of more specific regulations, consistent with the principles of the proposed Law.
The emerging new regulatory system for the sector will include different government
regulatory functions at central and provincial levels, and will include the separation of
government oversight functions from power company management.
2.18      Further Diversification of Fnancing Sources and Private Participation.
Financing of China's major power expansion program during the 1990s (para. 2.7) will
require aggressive efforts to mobilize increased resources through all potential financing
channels. The Government recognizes that domestic sources of financing and borrowings
from international multilateral and bilateral institutions will not be sufficient to meet the
sector's financing needs. Accordingly, the Government is encouraging direct foreign
investment in the power industry. Independent power production schemes that have
already been developed or are slated for future expansion include privately owned BOT
schemes and Chinese/foreign joint venture BOO schemes. Many other such schemes are
in the negotiation stages, but progress is slow because the Government has no clear
regulatory framework and policies to encourage competition at entry. Rapid expansion of
this form of foreign investment may also require Government acceptance of higher rates
of return to investors and acceptance of a greater share of risks especially foreign exchange
convertibility and other policy-related risks. Competitive bidding for power projects would
be the best means of establishing the market rate of return to international investors.
C. POWER PRICG
2.19      Electricity price reform in China has involved a series of incremental changes
taken over the last 10 years. In the mid-1980s, multiple-track pricing was introduced for
both producers and for consumers, in line with the shift away from full vertical integration
in the industry (para. 2.13). This strategy was successful in increasing overall tariff levels
in most regions but, by the end of the decade, the power pricing system had become too
complex and difficult to manage. Recent reforms have therefore focused on simplification
and rationalization of the system.
2.20      Producer Prices. A full overhaul was completed during the summer of 1993
of the state catalog prices charged for power produced by plants financed by the Central
Government. Prices for the electricity produced from all new power plants are now set
by contract to cover financing and operating costs, on a plant-by-plant basis, and rolled
into the power tariff. Cost recovery through the tariff system for new investments is thus
ensured. The electricity tariff applied for plants built with grant financing before 1985 has
been revised and rationalized, and now includes an improved mechanism for automatic
adjustment in prices to reflect annual changes in fuel costs. Revision of producer prices
for old power plants to provide for an appropriate rate of return on revalued assets is
expected shortly.
2.21      Consumer Prices. Consumer electricity prices include summations of the state
catalog prices; the costs of the growing other sources of power supply not financed through
the Central Government; and a series of local fees and surcharges. While the situation
varies somewhat between regions, the nature of the existing pricing system is such that



- 13 -
average consumer prices can now be expected to approximate LRMC levels in areas with
rapid load growth, such as the coastal provinces. Prices in less-developed areas relying
heavily on hydroelectric power, such as Sichuan Province, may still be somewhat below
LRMC levels, but should gradually be brought into line with growth in new capacity.
2.22      While tariff levels are approaching satisfactory levels in most regions, the
structure of consumer prices, however, remains too complex, lacks transparency, and is
inequitable. In most areas, unfair "old" administered rates and "new" guidance rates
continue to be applied to different consumers. Some consumers are protected from high
cost electricity supply charges and certain local surcharges because they still hold "in-plan"
quota allocations, but other new or small consumers must pay high prices well above actual
supply costs.
2.23      Directions for Further Reform. While the 1993 reforms brought major
improvements, further reforms are still necessary to increase tariff levels in the regions
where they still remain somewhat under the cost of economic supply, and to simplify and
rationalize the power tariff system. Reforms to both increase the price level and to
simplify and rationalize the consumer tariff in Sichuan will be supported under the
proposed project (paras. 3.28-3.31).
D. ELECTCIY CONSERVATION AND ENVIRONMENTAL PRoTECTIoN
Electricity Conservation
2.24      The industrial sector is the key to more efficient use of electricity (para. 2.4).
At a macro level, the most important factors determining China's ability to produce more
economic output with less electricity are the share of industry in future growth and changes
in industrial structure. Other especially important issues include the rate of modernization
in industrial process technology and China's ability to produce and disseminate high
efficiency electricity-using equipment, such as transformers, motors, fans, pumps, and
cooling equipment.
2.25      China has over 10 years of experience in the active promotion of electricity
conservation, with a solid record of achievement. The strength of its program lies in the
well-developed institutional framework. Electricity conservation is handled by the network
of Three Electricity Offices, with offices at central, provincial, prefectural and county
levels throughout the country. These offices are under the leadership of local Economic
Commissions, and coordinate their work with provincial power companies. They monitor
electricity intensity and use pattems in all major enterprises, promote adoption of
conservation technologies and electricity management improvements, and assist, at times,
in organizing funding for efficiency improvements.
2.26      Further improvements in the efficiency of electricity use are imperative if
China is to realize its economic growth goals. Three areas that are receiving increased
attention include: (a) improvements in coordination between industrial planning and
electricity demand and supply planning at local levels; (b) expansion of programs to reduce



- 14 -
losses in power distribution systems; and (c) development, production and dissemination
of high efficiency equipment, including variable-speed motors and modem appliances.
Environmental Protection
2.27      Thermal power production currently accounts for about one quarter of China's
coal consumption, and this share is expected to increase gradually. Improvements in the
efficiency of coal use in this sector not only alleviate pressure on the coal production and
transportation system, but also have a major impact on particulate, and sulfur and carbon
dioxide emissions.
2.28      The achievement of economies of scale in thermal power production, through
expanded development of large generating units, is an issue of overriding importance.
Particularly disturbing is the recent rapid growth of small coal-fired power plants, in unit
sizes of 50 MW or less. While national policy emphasizes the addition of 300 MW and
600 MW units, new projects have lagged behind demand, largely due to difficulties in
mobilizing the necessary large investment resources. As a consequence, local governments
are continuing to invest in large numbers of new small plants. Compared with a state-of-
the-art plant, these plants consume over 60 percent more coal per unit of electricity
produced. This results in at least 60 percent higher sulfur dioxide emissions (depending
upon the coal used), and roughly 60 percent greater emissions of carbon dioxide.
Particulate emissions from the small plants are proportionally even higher, due to use of
inefficient particulate control technology. If a sufficient pipeline of large-scale projects
cannot be brought on stream in a timely fashion, there is little doubt that this problem will
worsen.
2.29      Jn terms of emission control in large- and medium-scale plants, China has
made substantial progress in particulate control, through deployment of high-efficiency
electrostatic precipitators. As the country has large reserves of low sulfur coal, China is
just beginning to employ sulfur dioxide control devices in the power sector. Top priority
should be given to areas that must rely on local high sulfur coal, such as in Southwest
China. In these regions, thermal power plants often bum coal of over 4 percent sulfur
content (e.g., 5-10 times the level typical through most of North and East China), and
development of sulfur dioxide control strategies and corresponding investments are now
urgent in these areas.
E. POWER SYSTEm PLANNING AND TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER
2.30      Power System Planning. Support for strengthening China's capabilities in
least-cost generation planning in both East China and Sichuan was provided under previous
Bank loans. As provincial systems become more complex, increased emphasis is required
on transmission and distribution planning.
2.31      Modern Technology Transfer. For China to achieve its ambitious goals for
the power sector, the transfer of appropriate modem technologies will be crucial. This is
particularly important for thermal power plants, where increases in the steam parameters
- ~~ - - - - - - - -_- -



- 15 -
and unit sizes can improve efficiency and reduce atmospheric emissions. Technology
transfer is also needed for large hydroelectric projects, particularly in connection with
project management to reduce construction times, generating equipment quality and
environmental assessments.
F. ROLE OF THE BANK IN TEI POWER SECTOR
2.32      The Bank has supported the Government's efforts to foster efficient and
sustainable development of the power sector through sector work, policy dialog, and a
series of lending operations. In previous years, the Bank's participation in the power
sector in China has particularly focused on institution building, price reform, improvements
in system planning, and the transfer of appropriate modern technologies.
2.33      The Bank has helped to finance 14 large power generation, load management
and transmission projects (six thermal, seven hydro, and one transmission). Through these
operations, the Bank has helped to introduce:  (a) latest techniques in generation,
transmission and distribution planning, and system operations and control; (b) modern
equipment for generation, pollution abatement and system control; (c) new methods of
project planning, design, construction management, and environmental impact assessment;
and (d) improved financial planning and utility management.
2.34      All of the power projects financed by the Bank are being implemented in a
satisfactory manner, generally on schedule, and within budget. The first two operations,
Lubuge Hydroelectric Project (Loan 2382-CHA) and the 500-kV Xuzhou-Shanghai
Transmission Project (Loan 2493-CHA) have been successfully completed. The Yantan
Hydroelectric Project (Loan 2707-CHA) is also nearing completion. Several initial
problems in the implementation of the Shuikou Hydroelectric Project (Loan 2775-CHA and
Loan 3515-CHA) were resolved and commissioning was almost on schedule. The
construction of the Ertan Hydroelectric Project (Loan 3387-CHA), Daguangba
Multipurpose Project (Loan 3412-CHA and Credit 2305-CHA) and Tianhuangping
Pumped-Storage Hydroelectric Project (Loan 3606-CHA) is now progressing well. The
six thermal power projects were Beilungang (Loan 2706-CHA), Wujing (Loan 2852-CHA),
Beilungang Extension (Loan 2955-CHA), Yanshi (Loan 3433-CHA), Zouxian (Loan 3462-
CHA) and Yangzhou (Loan 3718-CHA). Wujing was completed on schedule. Beilungang
encountered some delays due to poor coordination of suppliers during erection and
commissioning. Unit No. 1 was put into commercial operation in 1992 and Unit No. 2
was commissioned in 1994, about one year behind schedule. Yanshi and Zouxian are
proceeding on schedule.
2.35      The lessons learned from lending operations for the power projects in China
have been taken into account in preparing the proposed project. These lessons basically
include: (a) improving procurement and contractual arrangements; and (b) enhancing the
role of project management and the use of engineering consultants. Particular attention has
been given to the environmental aspects of the projects. Supported by the use of CRISPP
and other technical assistance funds, implementing agencies have shown improvements in
carrying out management development, staff training and studies. Commitments related



- 16 -
to meeting financial performance targets and enterprise reform are also being fulfilled more
consistently.
The Current Bank Power Sector Assistance Program
2.36      To support the Government's ambitious program in power sector reform
(paras. 2.9-2.23), and in keeping with the Bank's assistance policies in the power sector,
the Bank has developed a new power sector assistance program in China that places central
focus on reform. This program is discussed in detail, together with complete analysis of
the related issues in the recently issued report "China Power Sector Reform: Towards
Competition and Improved Performance (Report 12929-CHA, 1994)."
2.37      In line with the Bank-wide power policy (The World Bank's Role in the
Electric Power Sector, 1993), the Bank's power sector assistance program includes an
integrated package of sector work, technical assistance and lending operations, at central,
regional and provincial levels. At the central level, a strong dialog on reform has been
developed through completion in 1993 of a study entitled "Strategic Options in Power
Sector Reform in China," involving the Bank and key national agencies, with support from
IDF. Arising from this study was the recently completed Power Sector Strategy Paper.
Specific follow-up also was provided with a study aimed at identifying options for
mobilizing domestic and foreign savings in the power sector. In the area of regulatory
policy, a new initiative has been launched with central authorities, with IDF support, to
provide technical assistance for the development of an improved legal and regulatory
framework for the power industry.
2.38      The dialog at the regional/provincial level is being developed primarily through
lending operations. While the concentration of each operation varies, all new power sector
lending operations in China are being designed to focus on implementation of key aspects
of the overall reform program. Some operations, such as the Yangzhou and Zhejiang
Projects, concentrate on deepening the reform program in relatively advanced provinces,
and the implementation of reform initiatives that can serve as models for other areas.
Other operations, such as this proposed project, concentrate on extending the reform
program to less-advanced inland regions, in part through dissemination of experiences
gained elsewhere.
2.39      The Power Sector Reform report identified six main points to provide the focus
for Bank assistance:
(a)  Clarification of ownership and movement towards corporatization of power
enterprises. Key goals are to delineate ownership and regulatory functions and
clearly separate them from enterprise management. Corporatization also will
protect the autonomy and commercialized operation of power enterprises.
(b)  Promotion of competition in generation and contractual arrangements to
promote market mechanisms, with proper regulation of monopolistic segments.



- 17 -
(c) Further rationalization of electricity pricing, focusing in the short term on
unification of industrial tariffs, to provide equal treatment to consumers and
gradually to reduce cross-subsidies.
(d)  Promotion of new sources of financing and further involvement of domestic
and foreign equity investment in wholly foreign-owned projects and joint
ventures.
(e)  Improved investment planning and technical efficiency, taking further
advantage of potential economies of scale and means to reduce losses in the
power system.
(f)  Reduction of the environmental impacts through energy conservation and
promotion of modem technologies and effective pollution control techniques.
2.40      Achievement of these objectives will require establishing a stronger legal and
regulatory framework for the power subsector.  The Bank will therefore continue
assistance efforts in several areas, but will especially strengthen the ongoing, more
integrated dialog on legal and regulatory reform issues with central authorities, and support
the Government's efforts to introduce the Electricity Law and design and implement
detailed regulatory procedures.
2.41      As explained in Chapter 3, the proposed project supports the Bank strategy in
the power sector in a number of areas. Through this project, the Bank will support the
implementation of an ambitious program of tariff reform, and the process of transforming
SEPC-one of the largest provincial power companies in the country-from its current
status as a company just beginning to emerge as a commercial entity distinct from the
government to a commercially managed, self-sufficient, and autonomous power
corporation.



- 18 -
3. THIE BENEFICIARY
3.1       China is in the process of reforming its state enterprise system through
progressive development of a suitable corporate legal system. It has thus come a long way
from carrying out its economic agenda through state enterprises wholly owned, controlled
and operated by line departments and agencies of the Government. The Law of the
People's Republic of China on Industrial Enterprises Owned by the Whole People enacted
by the National People's Congress in 1988 has introduced the concept of semi-independent
management and allowed more operational autonomy. Following the promulgation of the
Company Law in late 1993 that became effective July 1, 1994, the Government is actively
promoting the transformation of state enterprises into shareholding or limited liability
companies.
A. LEGAL STATUS AND ORGANIZATION OF SEPC
3.2       The Beneficiary of the proposed loan is the Sichuan Electric Power Company
(SEPC), an independent economic entity that possesses the legal status of a wholly owned
state company under its Charter (registered with the Industrial and Commerce
Administration on December 25, 1992), formulated pursuant to the Law on Industrial
Enterprises (para. 3.1), and the Scheme of Structural Reformation of Power Network in
China, approved by the State Council. SEPC's Charter is a self-implementing legal
instrument.
3.3       The registered capital of the SEPC is Y 3.3 billion. The Charter empowers
SEPC to obtain funds from various sources such as: (a) investments from the state, the
province, and local governments; (b) loans from financial sources such as banks and
financial organizations both domestic and foreign; (c) electricity sales and charges for
specific power use; (d) stocks and bonds; and (e) joint ventures with foreign companies.
SEPC is also authorized to use its retained profits for investment purposes. Although
SEPC has the corporate powers to invest and issue bonds, these activities are regulated and
government approvals are required therefor at various levels.
3.4       SEPC has been entrusted by central and provincial governments with the
management and administration of generation, transmission, distribution and electricity
supply in Sichuan Province.  The scope of SEPC's business includes undertaking
construction of power projects funded either by the state or by local finance. The
functions and powers of SEPC have been outlined in the Charter. Pursuant to this
document, SEPC has the power to obtain loans from and to enter into contracts with
various organizations including foreign institutions (with the permission of the concerned
govemment authorities).



- 19 -
3.5       The Charter does not provide for the establishment of a Board of Directors
ostensibly to manage the company, and SEPC plans to develop a management system led
by a Board of Directors as part of its overall reform program. Currently, however, the
overall management and administration of SEPC is entrusted to a General Manager
(assisted by four deputy General Managers) appointed by MOEP in consultation and
agreement with the Sichuan Provincial Government. The General Manager is the legal
representative of the company and responsible for its operations.  The exercise of
managerial and administrative powers (e.g., hiring and firing of staff and labor) is,
however, controlled by "relevant state rules and regulations." SEPC has pursuant to the
Charter established various administrative rules and regulations including regulations on
power grid management. SEPC has adequately carried out its mandate and effectively
coordinated power system development and operations in Sichuan Province. SEPC
exercises control over the electric power enterprises operating in Sichuan Province on the
basis of contractual arrangements. These arrangements include only a general nonstandard
formula for pricing that is based on the government's pricing policy. The actual prices are
established by the State Pricing Bureau. SEPC also has the requisite authority to receive
the proceeds of the proposed Bank loan through the Central Government, to carry out the
proposed project, and to enter into a project agreement in respect thereof with the Bank
subject, of course, to necessary government approvals.
B. ACTION PLAN TO COMMECILIZE SEPC
3.6       The 1980s and early 1990s brought major changes in the structure of the
power industry in Sichuan. Although SEPC is at the core of the system, controlling 54
percent of the total generating capacity in the province, much of its function today is to act
as a purchaser and seller of power to other entities. The industry now includes a variety
of domestically financed independent power producers (IPPs), joint-investment plants,
small hydroelectric and thermal plants controlled by local governments or individual
enterprises, and independent rural power networks. The 3,300 MW Ertan Hydroelectric
Power Plant, which will become the largest generating facility in the province, is being
developed with Bank support by an IPP-the Ertan Hydroelectric Development Corporation
(EHDC).
3.7       As institutions, however, SEPC and its sister agency, the Sichuan Electric
Power Administration (SEPA), had remained largely untouched until early 1994 by the
power reform process taking place in many other parts of China. SEPA, a provincial-level
government agency under the supervision of MOEP, remained responsible for both
government functions and the commercial operation of the provincial utility until 1993.
SEPC was formed from SEPA in 1993, with responsibilities for the commercial
management of the provincial utility. In early 1994, however, SEPC was just beginning
to develop as an entity, and in many ways its functions and operations remained
indistinguishable from those of SEPA.
3.8       In contrast with a number of the coastal provinces such as Jiangsu and
Zhejiang, where power sector reforms are more advanced, the process of transforming



- 20 -
SEPC into a commercially oriented power corporation is just beginning. The following
issues must be addressed in the process:
(a)  although SEPC has been established as a separate legal entity, its operations
and management are fully intertwined with those of SEPA, the government
department responsible for overseeing Sichuan's power industry;
(b)  during the last few years, SEPC's net income, rate of return on fixed assets
in service, and debt service converge have all shown a declining trend, and
without new tariff reform, SEPC will have no surplus to finance new capital
investments;
(c)  the company's original charter does not conform with the new Company Law,
and the ownership of the company's various assets are not defined; and
(d)  although SEPC is implementing accounting reforms in accordance with
national regulations, the financial management system of the company and its
many subsidiaries remains founded upon previous government administration
principles.
3.9       A key objective of the proposed project is to implement an integrated package
of reforms to address these issues and transform SEPC into a commercialized provincial
electric power corporation. In consultation with the Bank, SEPC and SEPA have prepared
an Action Plan for the Commercialization and Corporatization of SEPC, which includes
an integrated, time-bound package of reform measures (Annex 3.1). The Action Plan was
approved by MOEP on September 19, 1994. The objective of the reform package is to
develop SEPC into a limited liability company in full conformity with the Company Law,
separated from the government, financially autonomous and self-sufficient, with clearly
defined ownership structures and rights, and operated according to modern commercial
management principles and procedures. SEPC's Action Plan includes an integrated, step-
by-step program of measures to achieve this objective by 1998. The principle features of
the package include:
(a) SEPC will reform its internal accounting and financial management system,
beginning at the outset of 1995.  The authority and responsibilities of
subsidiary power plants and power supply bureaus will be clarified, and
improved, commercially oriented management mechanisms, such as internal-
transfer tariffs, will be introduced. Diagnostic analysis and the design of a
new financial management system will be completed by June 1997, and
implemented in 1998.
(b)  SEPC and SEPA will complete a study assessing the structure of the power
industry in Sichuan, identifying needs for further structural reform, and clearly
demarcating an optimal role for SEPC as the province's core utility and
manager of the unified power grid. Recommendations will be submitted to
relevant authorities for approval in 1996.



- 21 -
(c) A package of tariff reforms will be implemented, including (i) adjustments in
the level of tariffs applied to SEPC's own generating facilities, in order to
conform with the financial covenants of this project (para. 6.12); (ii)
implementation of time-of-day and seasonal tariffs for all customers supplied
at the 100 kVA level or above by the end of 1995, accounting for about 60
percent of power sales; (iii) application of time-of-day and seasonal tariffs to
the sales of all power stations above 10 MW, between 1995 and 1997; (iv)
gradual implementation of reforms to unify the two-track system of
administered and guidance consumer prices into one consumer tariff, with
completion in all prefecture in the province in 1997, and (v) development and
implementation of improved power purchase agreements between IPPs and
SEPC, beginning in 1995.
(d)  During 1995-97, the variety of service-sector, manufacturing, construction and
research and design enterprises affiliated with SEPC will be separated from
SEPC and put under independent operation, some as subsidiaries. The cost
of noncommercial social services currently performed by SEPC will be
assessed, and more transparent compensation mechanisms reviewed with
relevant government authorities.
(e)  SEPC and SEPA will implement a plan to incorporate SEPC and fully separate
government functions from the company by 1998. The plan includes: (a)
preparation of a detailed corporatization program, and its approval by mid-
1995; (b) reorganization of existing or new joint-investment plants into
independent legal entities, including domestic shareholding companies or
international-domestic joint ventures; (c) completion of a revaluation of state-
owned assets and clear definition and demarcation of ownership rights of
existing assets by mid-1997; (d) separation of government functions from
SEPC by 1998, beginning with the assignment of sole responsibility for
government functions to one SEPA manager from among the leading managers
of SEPA/SEPC, and assignment of separate staff to implement SEPA's
responsibilities, by January 1995; and (e) completion and approval of a revised
SEPC charter by the end of 1994, to better conform with the spirit of the
Company Law, followed by registration of a fully reformed charter for SEPC
as a limited liability company, in 1998.
3.10      Technical assistance is provided under this project to assist SEPC to implement
the approved Action Plan (para. 3.9). Assurances were obtainedfrom the Government that
it would take necessary measures to enable SEPC to implement the Action Plan in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank. Furthermore, assurances were obtainedfrom SEPC that
it would prepare by September 30, 1995, in consultation with the Bank, a detailed program
for implementation of the Action Plan and, thereafter, implement the Action Plan,
undertake organizational improvements, and develop and implement improved accounting
and financial management systems in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.



- 22 -
C. MANAGEMENT
3.11      Recent performance indicators for the Sichuan Power Grid reveal high plant
capacity factors and rather low transmission and distribution losses (Annex 3.2). SEPC
prepares accounting information in a timely fashion and operates an effective billing and
collection system (para. 3.26). However, the successful upgrading of management systems
and procedures, and the strengthening of financial planning, deserve special attention as
a critical aspect of SEPC's commercialization reform program (para. 3.18). The proposed
project includes specific training in utility management and financial planning for this
purpose (para. 5.9).
3.12      SEPC is capable of formulating its own expansion program and implementing
power projects by itself. However, for a large project such as the one proposed, outside
assistance will be required for the preparation of bid documents, bid evaluation, contract
negotiations, and construction management (para. 5.6).
D. STAFFING AND TRAINNG
3.13      As of December 31, 1993, SEPC had a total staff of 73,131, of which about
19 percent were engineers and technical staff, 10 percent administrative staff, 68 percent
workers, and the rest others. Except for the core group of key technical and managerial
personnel who are assigned by the State, almost all of SEPC's employees are recruited
locally. Most of the employees are hired on a permanent basis, except for laborers
contracted for construction. The company is currently reforming is personnel policies to
provide for improved performance-based review and accountability, and to reduce total
staff levels. Total personnel is being reduced by 17 to 20 percent during 1993-94,
followed by further planned reductions in 1995. SEPC has 22 functional divisions and
offices, and its organization structure is presented in Chart 2. Details of SEPC's staffing
are shown in Annex 3.3.
3.14      SEPC is understaffed in engineering and technical areas, financial control and
planning and management, especially in dispatching operations of large power grids.
SEPC runs one technical school/training center for skilled workers, two electric power
institutes for technicians, and two staff colleges.  There are 1,503 teaching and
administrative staff in all these training and educational centers, which have a total
enrolment of 6742 students (details in Annex 3.4 . This training capacity is basically
sufficient to meet SEPC's long-term needs. However, the skills of teaching staff and
quality of teaching facilities need to be upgraded and modernized. Training needs to be
designed to help senior managerial, financial and technical staff adapt to the new situations
brought about by a larger and more complex power grid. The training component included
in the proposed project is designed to meet these needs. It also covers upgrading and
equipping of SEPC's training institutions and project-related training for technical staff
(paras. 5.11-5.12).



- 23 -
E. PLANNIG, BUDGEiaNG AND CONTROL
3.15      Power bureaus and companies are responsible for developing annual and five-
year production and investment plans that are integrated into the national plans and are
approved, through MOEP's auspices, by SPC. In the past, financial planning was confined
to attaching monetary values, predetermined by MOE, to the quantities being planned.
Although a power bureau's plan might be revised to reflect changes, it would ordinarily
not be revised to reflect differences between estimated prices and actual prices.
3.16      However, with the economic changes in the 1980s, prices have begun to move
toward market levels and the Government has begun to finance more investments through
loans rather than grants. Centralized control is being relaxed and replaced by greater
financial autonomy and responsibilities for the power entities. To address these changes,
SEPC will need to adjust its planning system to include modem financial planning.
3.17      MOEP recognizes the importance of financial management in the power
subsector in China and are organizing a comprehensive training program for all the power
institutions under its control. Many of the power bureaus/companies have been equipped
with computers and software for planning, budgeting, and accounting functions.
Information from the bureaus/companies can be transferred to MOEP and consolidated into
regional and national data.
3.18      The new systems represent a good first generation of automated management
information; however, they still are not sufficiently flexible to take into account price
changes at the local level or those associated with large-scale debt service obligations.
Currently MOEP, with assistance from the Bank, manage a number of seminars in China
and overseas covering computer-based management information systems as well as tariffs,
cost control, project financing, comparative accounting systems, and the organization and
structure of financial management. After SEPC installs the new financing management
information system to be financed under the proposed project (para. 5.8), it will be able
to significantly upgrade the existing financial planning, budgeting and control system.
F. AccouNTING
Enterprise Accounting
3.19      All the state-owned enterprises in China, including SEPC, follow a uniform
enterprise accounting system according to detailed regulations established by the Ministry
of Finance (MOF). The old accounting framework in effect before July 1, 1993 was
developed in the context of a highly centralized planned economy. With a view to
complementing China's move toward a market-oriented economy and strengthening
enterprises' financial management, MOF introduced new regulations covering accounting
rules and financial affairs on July 1, 1993. The revised accounting principles are generally
consistent with international accounting standards. Within this broad framework, specific
accounting standards are being developed with the assistance of the Bank under the
Financial Sector Technical Assistance Project (Credit 2423-CHA).



- 24 -
3.20      The main differences between traditional Chinese accounting practices and
international practices relate to: (a) the approach for determining and accounting for equity
and for separating those items now accounted for through special funds that relate to
liabilities, such as provision for payments to employees; (b) the need to including
construction in progress and related liabilities in the accounts, which are now only included
after construction have been completed; (c) the introduction of the concept for provision
against probable losses, such as provision for doubtful debts and for stating inventories at
the lower of cost and net realizable assets; (d) the need to deduct general administrative
expenses allocated to products not sold from operating income during the year the expanse
items incurred; (e) the need to treat overall costs as capital expenditures; and (f) the need
for recording sales on an accrual basis. These differences have been generally addressed
in the new regulations. Given the conceptual and practical gaps between the old and new
regulations, implementation of the new accounting system is a challenge to SEPC.
Particularly, it is essential for SEPC to implement a new accounting and financial
management systems that will recognize commercial practices in a market-oriented
economy and provide transparent information for investors, govemment lenders, and the
public in general. Under the proposed project, training in modern financial management,
including international accounting practices, would be provided to financial staff of SEPC.
3.21      The proposed project would include a technical assistance component to
support SEPC in making a speedy and smooth transition to the new accounting system,
based on the principles promulgated by MOF in 1993 and upgrading its financial
management system, including provision of software and hardware, as well as enhancement
of its staff skills, would be included (para. 5.8 and Annex 5.3). Training in modern
financial management, including international accounting practices, would also be provided
to senior managers and financial staff of SEPC (para. 5.10).
Revaluation of Fixed Assets
3.22      The Chinese traditional accounting system has not required revaluation of fixed
assets. In the past, the revaluation of assets probably would not have had a major impact
on enterprises' financial status because of low inflation and low foreign content in existing
assets. However, with recent inflation and the depreciation of the renminbi, the need to
revalue assets is more compelling. Under the revised accounting principles, enterprises
in certain categories such as joint ventures with foreign partners or merged enterprise will
have to undertake asset revaluation. Regular revaluation of fixed assets is recognized in
China as being essential for the future corporatization of power entities and for a better
foundation for managing state assets. Following the guidelines for how to undertake asset
revaluation issued by the State Council in 1993, all power entities in China are revaluing
their fixed assets. A proforma revaluation of SEPC's assets (using projected domestic
inflation rates as indexes to revalue SEPC's assets with a steep increase of about 50
percent in 1993) was performed during appraisal of the proposed project. The resulting
estimated average rate of return on assets for the period 1994 through 2003 fell to 13.5
percent, compared to 18.2 percent on a historically valued basis.



- 25 -
G. AuDrT
External Audit
3.23      Under the proposed project, SEPC's accounts will be audited by Sichuan
Provincial Audit Bureau under the supervision of the State Audit Administration. This
arrangement is satisfactory. Assurances were obtained from SEPC that it would furnish
the Bank with the audited project accounts, statements of expenditures, and financial
statements of SEPC within six months after the end of each fiscal year. In addition,
Sichuan Provincial Audit Bureau would be required to: (a) include in the audited financial
statements a summary of any differences in the basis of accounts due to the conversion to
new accounting policies; (b) provide a management letter summarizing any significant
errors that may have been discovered during the audit, and any major weaknesses in
internal control; and (c) provide on request a copy of its audit plan.
Internal Audit
3.24      SEPC has developed an internal auditing section (staffed with qualified
accountants) that periodically examine the accounts of each operating unit. The objective
of these examinations is primarily to test for accuracy and compliance with MOF
regulations. The internal auditing section is not expected to review the appropriateness of
accounting regulations or procedures; such reviews are considered to be the responsibility
of MOF and MOEP. However, the section will serve as liaison between external auditors
and the project entity. The Bank will review the internal auditing function during project
implementation with a view toward increasing its efficiency and usefulness to SEPC.
H. BLING AND COLLECrIONS
3.25      As of December 31, 1993, electricity consumption in Sichuan Province,
distributed according to the consumer categories, is shown in Table 3.1.
Table 3.1: ELEwCrrY CONSUMPTION
IN SIcHuAN PRoVJNcE (1993)
Customer category    Consumption (GWh)       %
Heavy industry             24,810            70
Light industry              4,714            13
Agriculture                  919              3
Residential                 2,721             8
Conmercial                   264              1
Others                     1,917              5
TotW                    35.345           100



- 26 -
3.26      SEPC conducts its billing and collection activities through 15 power supply
units. All major industrial consumers receiving supply over 320 kVA are charged in
advance three times per month at approximate 10-day intervals. The last two bills,
rendered on about the sixteenth and twenty-fifth days of the month, are based on estimated
usage derived from the consumer's contractual power consumption. The first bill,
rendered on about the sixth day of the month, is also based on estimated usage but includes
an adjustment to reflect the previous month's actual usage as computed from a meter
reading. All other customers are billed once a month based on actual usage.
3.27      Industrial, commercial and bulk consumers pay their bills through direct debit
from their bank accounts. Urban residential and low voltage agricultural consumers
receiving power directly from SEPC render payments to local branches of the National
Bank. Payment is due within five days of receipt of the bill. Regulations stipulate that
consumers who do not pay within this period are to be charged a fine of 0.03 percent per
day of delay, and that after several notices those who still refuse to pay their bills are to
be disconnected from the power supply. These billing and collection arrangements have
established a reliable cash flow from sales. There were no arrears from consumers in 1993
for SEPC.
I. ELEcRIcrry TARIFFS
3.28      Electric power pricing in Sichuan Province is described in detail in Annex 3.5.
As in other parts of China, the pricing system includes three components: (a) state catalog
prices, which are applied to the generation of capacity directly controlled by SEPC, and
form the basis of SEPC's own revenue; (b) prices for purchased power, which are
negotiated on a plant-by-plant basis at levels enabling loan and interest repayment plus a
reasonable profit margin, and (c) additional fees and surcharges, which are levied on the
various consumer categories, primarily to raise additional funds for capital investment in
the sector. There are two types of consumer tariffs: administered prices, which include
the state catalog prices plus the additional fees, and guidance prices, which include state
catalog prices, mark-ups for the higher cost of purchased power, plus the additional fees.
3.29      Electricity prices in Sichuan Province are among the lowest in China. Both
the average unit revenue level accruing to SEPC from the state catalog prices and the
average consumer price levels in Sichuan are some 65-75 percent of the levels in the
coastal provinces of Jiangsu and Zhejiang. Average consumer prices in Sichuan in 1994,
represented by the cases of Chengdu and Deyang Prefectures, were about 70-80 percent
of the estimated long run average incremental cost (LRAIC) of supply, calculated in
economic shadow prices. This gap between average consumer prices and the estimated
economic cost of supply contrasts with the situation in the coastal provinces, where average
consumer prices approximate or exceed the LRAIC of supply.
3.30      Sichuan's existing multiple-tier consumer tariffs are relatively complex, and
provide different rates for similar types of consumers without clear economic rationale.
The province is relatively advanced, however, in the development and implementation of
time-of-day and seasonal tariffs.



- 27 -
3.31      The Action Plan for Commercialization and Corporatization of SEPC
supported under this project includes a program of tariff reform (para. 3.9). Under the
financial covenants of the project (para. 6.12), tariff levels will be steadily increased to
enable SEPC to make a reasonable contribution to its future investment program (para.
6.12). These increases also will bring average tariff levels up to the economic cost of
supply. In addition, the Action Plan includes a major program to eliminate the complex
multiple-tier consumer pricing system by 1997, in favor of a unified consumer tariff
applied to all consumers in a given consumer category and service area.



- 28 -
4. THE POWER MARKET AND PROGRAM
A. THE SICHUAN POWER GRID
4.1       The proposed project would be located in Sichuan Province, which is
experiencing remarkable economic growth; its industrial output increased in 1993 about
21 percent in spite of acute power shortages. Many problems with power supply in the
area have so far been averted by improved power subsector performance, especially energy
conservation and load management measures. Also, increased capacity will be needed in
view of the Government's open-door policy and the consequent foreign investments and
private sector developments, which require an adequate supply of high quality power.
Sichuan is expected to match the degree of market orientation that other provinces already
display.
4.2       In 1993, the Sichuan Province had a total installed generating capacity of
10,527 MW; 5,968 MW thermal, and 4,559 MW of hydropower (Annex 4.1). The major
generating facilities include eight hydro and 12 thermal power plants owned by SEPC, two
thermal power plants owned by Huaneng, and a number of captive and other local plants.
The captive power plants total about 1,015 MW in installed capacity. Electricity generated
in the province in 1993 amounted to 47,087 GWh. SEPC's operated power plants
produced 27,145 GWh, about 58 percent of the total.
4.3       The transmission system in Sichuan Province in 1993 consisted of 5,064 km
of 220 kV lines, and 9,257 km of 110 kV lines. SEPC owns and operates nearly all
220 kV, and 110 kV networks. The system also includes transformer substations, with a
total capacity of 6,356 MVA in 220 kV and 8,117 MVA in 110 kV (Annex 4.2).
Information related to the status of the Sichuan Power Grid, such as issues of the existing
power system, scope of the network reinforcement, and the least-cost solution for further
improvements in the system reliability and reducing losses is available in the Project File
(Annex 8.1).
4.4       The growth of energy generation and requirements in Sichuan Power Grid
(SPG) between 1987 and 1993 is shown in Annex 4.3 and summarized in Table 4.1.
SPG's peak demand has increased more rapidly than energy requirements. The system has
a maximum daily load factor of about 93 percent and an annual load factor of 82 percent.
The peak load usually occurs in September/October.
4.5       In 1993, electricity consumption of SPG amounted to 35,345 GWh; of which
industry, 84 percent; agriculture, 2.6 percent; residential, 8 percent, commercial and other
municipal customers in the cities, 3.4 percent; and the transport/telecommunication sector,
2 percent (Annex 4.4.



- 29 -
Table 4.1: LoAD GRowTu OF SICHUAN PowER GRID (SPG)
Year           Energy requirement (GWh) /a     Peak demand (MW)
1986                   21,035                         2,894
1987                   22,449                         3,088
1988                   24,418                         3,188
1989                   26,848                         3,488
1990                   28,229                         3,666
1991                   30,518                         3,926
1992                   33,051                         4,290
1993                   35,345                         4,874
Average annual growth   7.6%                          7.7%
/a Including generation and purchased energy.
B. LOAD FORECASr
4.6       Load forecasts for the years 1994 through 2005 have been developed as part
of the economic planning process carried out by SEPC. The forecasts were obtained by
applying a combination of statistical methods and planning targets to every major consumer
category. In particular, industrial loads were estimated on the basis of a market survey
and the projected industrial output growth and electricity intensities for different categories
of industry. Rural loads were estimated based on past trends for drainage and irrigation,
rural industries loads, and lighting. Municipal loads were estimated based on market
surveys of hotels, buildings, and government projects. Specific demand management and
energy conservation measures have been fully incorporated in the load forecasts. Details
of the energy forecasts for SPG are given in Annex 4.5 and summarized in Table 4.2.
4.7        The load growth forecasts appear to be reasonable considering that (a) power
shortages have been occurring for a long time, and there is considerable suppressed
demand for electricity; and (b) Sichuan Province has been one of the fastest growth areas
in China. This load growth is expected to sustain a GNP growth of about 8-9 percent in
real terms up to the end of the century. Without further implementation of the province's
electricity conservation programs (para. 4.10), growth in demand would be yet higher.
C. POWER DEVEOPMENT PROGRAM
4.8       A study of the least-cost investment program  was made by the Beijing
Economic Research Institute for Water Resources and Electric Power (BERIWREP) in
1993 and revised in 1994. The study is based on an optimization of the SPG's expansion
program for the period 1994-2010. The analysis shows that the development program for
SPG should be based primarily on the construction of the Ertan Hydroelectric Project with
other base-load thermal power plants. The study also confirms that there are no other



- 30 -
Table 4.2: LOAD FORECAST FOR SICHUAN POwER GRID (SPG)
Year             Energy requirement (GWh)        Peak demand (MW)
1993 (actual)              35,345                      4,874
1994                        39,000                     6,180
1995                       42,300                      6,730
1996                       45,900                       7,330
1997                        49,800                      8,000
1998                       54,000                       8,700
1999                        58,000                      9,400
2000                        62,000                     10,000
2005                        87,000                     14,100
Average annual growth:
1994-2000                   8.3%                       10.8%
1994-2005                   7.2%                       8.5%
alternatives better than the proposed project (paras. 7.4 and 7.5) to meet the future power
supply requirements.
4.9        A summary of the power development program  (1994-2005) for the SPG
system is given in Annex 4.6. They demonstrate that the power system will be short of
energy supply and capacity up to the year 1998. Only after completion of the Ertan
project would the power system have an adequate reserve margin in energy and peaking
capacity.
D. ELEc crrY  CONSERVATION
4.10       Similar to most other provinces in China, Sichuan operates a well-organized
program for electricity conservation (demand-side management). The program is jointly
implemented by the Provincial Economic Commission and SEPC, and their respective
subunits at prefecture and county levels. The program focuses primarily on (a) close
monitoring of unit electricity consumption levels in individual industrial enterprises, as part
of the power consumption quota system; (b) assisting enterprise managers to identify areas
for electricity savings; (c) implementation of electricity conservation measures in power
stations and the transmission and distribution network; and (d) promotion of new
electricity-saving technologies. Electricity conservation plans are prepared each year, and
results evaluated the following year, for overall improvement in the efficiency of electricity
use per unit of industrial output, electricity conservation within the electric power system,
reduction in unit electricity consumption levels in specific enterprises, and adoption of
electricity-saving equipment and specific technical renovation measures by consumers.



- 31 -
4.11      During 1990-93, unit electricity consumption per unit of gross industrial output
in Sichuan Province fell by about 14 percent. Within the electric power system, electricity
conservation measures focused particularly on replacement of inefficient fans and pumps
in older power plants, distribution line upgrading and renovation, replacement of high-loss
transformers, and addition of capacitance for power factor correction. Electricity-saving
technologies for consumers specially promoted during the last few years have included
computerized energy management systems, more efficient fans and pumps, more efficient
lighting equipment, and a wide variety of specialized industrial process equipment. End-
use technical electricity conservation initiatives monitored by SEPC yielded a total savings
of about 550 GWh during 1990-93.



- 32 -
5. THE PROJECT
A. PRoJEcr OWEcnvEs
5.1       The proposed project is consistent with the Government strategy of
modernizing the power subsector and improving its efficiency. The main objectives of the
project are to: (a) alleviate an acute shortage of electricity by the construction of a 500-kV
transmission network for connecting the ongoing Ertan hydroelectric project to the Sichuan
power grid, as well as reinforcing the existing power transmission system; (b) assist in
designing and implementing a time-bound program to implement power subsector reforms
in Sichuan Province; (c) support the implementation of further power tariff rationalization;
(d) promote the transfer of contemporary technologies for extrahigh voltage power
transmission networks; (e) strengthen institutional capabilities for environmental
management and resettlement planning: and (f) upgrade management and operation
capabilities through well focused staff training programs.
B. PROJECT DEsCRWUON
5.2       The proposed project would comprise the erection of a new 500-kV
transmission network for connecting the Ertan hydroelectric plant to the Sichuan power
grid and also for forming a 500-kV backbone transmission network in Sichuan Province.
The Ertan project, appraised in 1991 and supported by Bank loan 3387-CHA, includes the
construction of a 240m high dam and an underground powerhouse complex with an
installed capacity of 3,300 MW, resettlement of about 30,000 people, an environmental
management program, consulting services, studies and training. There are no changes in
its original description as described in the Staff Appraisal Report of June 11, 1991 (Report
No. 8470).
5.3       The Sichuan power transmission project consists of:
(a)  Transmission Network Expansion
(i) design and erection of about 2,260 km of 500-kV transmission lines;
(ii) design and construction of five 500/220 kV transformer substations
(5,250 MVA) and one 500-kV switching substation;
(iii) reinforcement of the existing transmission network;
(iv) carrying out of environmental management and monitoring programs;



- 33 -
(b)  Resettlement and Rehabilitation.  Relocation of persons affected by
transmission network expansion;
(c)  Technical Assistance
(i) Strengthening of SEPC's capability to implement the Action Plan,
undertake organizational improvements (including management and
operational capabilities), and develop improved accounting and financial
management information systems;
(ii) strengthening of enviornmental management and monitoring and
resettlement capabilities of SEPC; and
(iii) provision of engineering and construction management services and
training.
A detailed description of the project components is given in Annex 5.1.
Project Origin and Design
5.4       The proposed project was first brought to the attention of the Bank in 1988 by
the Govemment. An identification mission for the transmission network of the project
visited the project in October 1993. The project feasibility study and design report were
prepared by the South West China Electric Power Design Institute (SWEPDI) in 1993, and
revised and updated in 1994. The project was approved by the SPC in 1993. An
Environmental Assessment Report (EAR) for the power transmission network was prepared
in 1993 by SWEPDI in accordance with the Chinese and Bank environmental review
procedures and guidelines for power projects. The EAR has been approved by all
Govemment authorities, and its summary was submitted to the Bank. The design of the
project is at an advanced stage, and appears to be satisfactory in its overall concept.
Consulting Services
5.5       SWEPDI has been retained by SEPC to assist in detailed design and project
implementation. It is one of the most experienced design institutes in China, and has
completed the design of several large power projects.  SWEPDI has over 1,200
professional staff and is equipped with modem facilities and laboratories. International
engineering consultants have also been selected in accordance with the Bank Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants. SEPC's engineering staff have visited a number of large
hydropower power plants and high voltage transmission networks and shared experience
in building large and complex power projects.
5.6       The consulting services for the project comprise two stages: Stage I for
project preparation and Stage II for project implementation. Stage I services include
reviewing and updating of feasibility study, special studies and verifying of designs for
500-kV transmission lines and substations, reviewing of bidding documents prepared by



- 34 -
SEPC and SWEPDI, assistance in bid evaluation, construction planning and training of
staff. Stage II services include project management, contract administration, scheduling
and reporting, construction supervision and quality control, cost control, etc. Terms of
Reference for the consulting services are given in Annex 5.2.
5.7       The total cost of engineering services is estimated at about $4.3 million for
about 160 staff-months. The Government has approved $3 million out of the CRISPP
(Credit 2447-CHA) funds for financing Stage I services. The balance would be financed
under the proposed project.
Reform Plan, Organization Improvements, and Management Information Systems
5.8       SEPC will implement the reform plan and develop more modem computerized
financial systems, which would take account of the new accounting regulations introduced
in China (para.3.10). These would be eventually established on a computer network
serving SEPC's activities. SEPC also plans to send its representatives to visit other
countries to obtain a better idea of accounting and financial systems being used elsewhere.
The scope of the assistance to develop the modern accounting and financial systems,
together with the terms of reference, is given in Annex 5.3.
Management Development and Training
5.9       To meet the long-term needs of SEPC's staffing requirements and to further
develop SEPC's management capability, a comprehensive training program is included
under the proposed project. It consists of the following: (a) training in institutional
development and enterprise reform matters; (b) training in utility management and financial
planning; (c) project-related training for technical staff; and (d) upgrading and equipping
of SEPC's training facilities.
5.10      High level management, planning and financial staff will receive training in
modem management and decision-making techniques, particularly in utility reform and
management, planning of investments, environmental and resettlement matters, engineering
economics, power pricing, financial operations and management information systems.
Engineering personnel will also receive training in their specific fields, especially related
to construction of transmission lines in rugged mountainous areas at high altitude, line
maintenance, etc. Part of the training will be carried out in China in the form of seminars,
conducted by Chinese and foreign experts. This will then be followed by study tours and
overseas training through visits to a few selected utilities and modem power transmission
networks.
5.11      Project-related training will include: (a) on-the-job training for the engineering
and construction management staff to be implemented by working together with the foreign
consultants; (b) training of engineering staff under the contract for major project
equipment; and (c) training of operation and maintenance staff at other similar power
transmission networks in China and abroad. The cost of such training will be included in
the equipment contracts.
_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~---     -------



- 35 -
5.12      About 150 staff members, with total staff-months of 247, will be trained
abroad, of which 117 staff-months are for senior management, 16 staff-months for legal
staff, 74 staff-months for technical staff, 30 staff-months for financial staff, and 10 staff-
months for environmental and resettlement staff (see Annex 5.4 for details). In addition,
176 people will receive training with a total staff-month of 146 by foreign suppliers of
goods and services. Training in China will involve 520 staff, totaling 605 staff-months.
Assurances were obtained from SEPC that it would carry out the management development
and training progran in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
C. COST ESTMATE
5.13      The total cost of the project is estimated at $874.4 million equivalent excluding
interest during construction (IDC), of which $273 million (31 percent) represents the
foreign exchange component. Annex 5.5 contains, in detail, the estimated cost of the
project, which is summarized in Table 5.1. The cost estimates reflect late 1994 prices and
are based on the recent tendering information available for similar projects, including
prices of bids for major equipment and control systems. Physical contingencies are
calculated at 10 percent for preparatory, land acquisition and relocation, civil works, and
transmission line materials; and 5 percent for imported substation equipment, and studies
and services. Price-contingency allowances for foreign costs estimated in US dollars are
calculated according to anticipated international price increases of 2.2 percent a year on
average for the period 1994-2001. The price escalation for costs expressed in local
currency is calculated according to projected domestic inflation rates of 9.0 percent for
1995, 8.0 percent for 1996, 7.2 percent for 1997 and 6.5 percent thereafter.
D. FINANCING PLAN
5.14      The total financing requirements (including IDC of $204.3 million equivalent),
are estimated at $1,078.7 million equivalent. SDB, SIC, and SEPC would share the
financing of the local costs, IDC, and principal repayments of the Bank loan during the
project implementation period. Their contribution to the local project financing has been
confirmed to be as follows:  SDB-70 percent of the total; SIC-20 percent; and
SEPC-10 percent. It has also been agreed that part of the total domestic financing would
be in the form of self-financing, and the balance in the form of loans. The loans will have
a variable interest rate (currently about 11 percent a year) and 15 years maturity, including
five years' grace. The local financial arrangements are acceptable to the Bank.
5.15      The proposed Bank loan of $270.0 million will cover direct foreign exchange
costs, excluding IDC. Details of the financing plan are summarized in Table 5.2. The
Bank loan will be used to finance the following project items:
(a)  major power transmission network equipment, including power transformers,
shunt reactors, switchgear, protection and control, etc;
(b)  goods and materials for transmission lines;



- 36 -
Table 5.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSM
Foreign
Decription                                Local    Foreign       Total      Local   Foreign      Total      as % of
(Y million)                    (S  million)              Total
A. Tranmssion Network
Preparatory works                     592.9         0.0       592.9      68.2        0.0        68.2        0.0
Civil Works & instatlations          1,076.1        0.0      1,076.1    123.7        0.0       123.7        0.0
220kVtranmiaionsystem                1,117.2        0.0      1,117.2    128.4        0.0       128.4        0.0
500 kV tranumnision lines            1,131.6      523.4      1,655.0    130.0       60.2       190.2       31.6
500 kV substations                    348.5    1,526.2       1,874.7     40.1      175.4       215.5       81.4
B. Resettlement and Rehabilitation
Land acquisition & relocation          106.2        0.0        106.2      12.2       0.0        12.2        0.0
C.  Technical Assistance
Preparation/fnnlImentation
Engineering & administation       104.4       36.5        140.9      12.0       4.2         16.2      25.9
InstitUtiOnil Dcvclooment
Environmental protection            2.7        4.4          7.0       0.3       0.5          0.8      61.7
Reformplan & fincial MLS            8.7        14.4        23.1       1.0       1.7          2.7      62.3
Training                            8.3       29.2         37.5       1.0       3.3          4.3      78.0
Total Bae Cost             4.496.7    2.134.1       6.630.8    516.9     245.3         2.        32.2
Contingencies:
Physical                                  405.4      131.6        537.0      46.6      15.1         61.7      24.5
Price                                   1,266.9      426.4      1,693.3      37.9      12.6        50.5       24.9
Total Proiect Cost          6.169.2    2.692.0      8861.3    601.4    273.0          874.4      31.2
Interest During Construction             1,315.6      461.7       1,777.3    151.2      53.1        204.3      26.0
Total FinancingReauired    7,484.8    3.153.7    10.638.6    752.6    326.1          1.078.7     30.3
Notes:  1. Baw cots are at late 1994 prices and prevailing exchnge rate of Sl = Y 8.7.
2. Interest during construction ([DC) is bawed on onlending rates for projected disbursements of loan proceeds. The
foreign currency portion of IDC is based on tde Bank's variable loan rate.
(c)    construction and maintenance equipment;
(d)    consulting services for engineering and construction management;
(e)  environmental management program;
(f)    assistance for reform  plan, organization improvements, and development of
accounting and financial management systems; and
(g)    management development and staff training.
5.16           The proposed Bank loan will be made to the People's Republic of China at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate for a 20-year term, including 5 years' grace.
Proceeds of the loan would be onlent from the Government to SEPC with terms and



- 37 -
Table 5.2: FINANCING PLAN FOR THE PRoJECr
($ million equivalent)
Local cost  Foreign cost   Total cost
State Development Bank (SDB)                   526.8        37.2        564.0
Sichuan Investment Company (SIC)               150.5        10.6        161.1
Sichuan Electric Power Company (SEPC)          75.3         5.3          80.6
IBRD                                            0.0        270.0        270.0
IDA (CRISPP)                                    0.0          3.0         3.0
Total                                    752.6       326.1      1.078.7
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Assurances were obtained from the Government that
it would onlend through Sichuan Province the proceeds of the proposed Bank loan to SEPC
under a subsidiary loan agreement with a term of 20 years, including a 5-year grace
period, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate. SEPC will bear the foreign exchange
risk. Execution of the subsidiary loan agreements between the Government, Sichuan
Province and SEPC, and approval of the Loan Agreement by the State Council will be
conditions of effectiveness for the loan.
E. PRocuREmET
5.17      In the past, the main issues in connection with procurement of works and
goods in the power subsector in China included reluctance to use consulting services,
delays in the procurement process and in domestic contract approval, lack of coordination
and clarity of responsibility among agencies involved in the procurement process, and very
often inappropriate contract packaging. However, significant improvements have been
made more recently in the sphere of procurement and these are expected to be continued
under the proposed project. Expatriate engineering consultants will assist SEPC in the
procurement process, and the Model Bidding Documents following the Bank's Standard
Bidding Documents, would contribute to efficient procurement. Necessary efforts are also
being made to improve coordination and avoid undue delays in the procurement process.
The project's civil construction works and some local goods (not financed by the Bank)
will be procured through local competitive bidding (LCB). Project circumstances justify
the use of LCB for these works and goods, since foreign bidders are not expected to be
interested in civil works that are labor-intensive, contract values are not large enough, and
local prices are well below the international market. Furthermore, Chinese contractors are
well-experienced and competent in carrying out such construction works. If foreign firms
wish to participate in LCB for these works, they would be allowed to do so in accordance
with local procedures, which are acceptable to the Bank and considered appropriate for the
efficient execution of the project.



- 38 -
5.18      Major equipment for the transmission network component of the project will
be procured through ICB. Goods manufactured in China will be eligible for a preference
in bid evaluation of 15 percent of the c.i.f. price or the actual import duty, whichever is
lower. Some specialized equipment estimated to cost less than $300,000 per contract up
to an aggregate amount of $4 million will be procured through limited international bidding
(LIB) in accordance with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines. Goods, instruments and
accessories needed for construction and operation of the power transmission network,
including equipment for environmental monitoring and training, estimated to cost less than
$300,000 per contract up to an aggregate amount of $2 million will be procured by
shopping or through direct negotiations with suppliers. Consulting services and training
will be obtained following the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants. All
consultants' contract costing $100,000 or more for firms and $50,000 for individuals would
be subject to the Bank's prior review. The Model Bidding Documents for Procurement
under ICB and LCB in The People's Republic of China would be used to the maximum
extent possible. All procurement documents pertaining to bidding packages for goods
financed by the Bank and estimated to cost more than $5.0 million equivalent will be
subject to the Bank's prior review procedures (about 95 percent of Bank-funded purchases).
Although the Bank will not finance the civil works (para. 5.17), they have to be carried
out efficiently, on time, and within a budget that will satisfy the economic and financial
parameters of the operation. The proposed procurement arrangements are summarized in
Table 5.3, and the related procurement schedules for various packages are given in Anne
56.
F. PRoJEcr IMPLEMENTATION
5.19      Construction of the 500-kV transmission network is on the critical path of the
major undertaking related to the Ertan Hydroelectric Project (para. 5.2). SEPC will be
responsible for project implementation and operation. A specialized construction unit has
been established to manage site construction activities; its organizational structure is shown
in Chart 3. Preparatory works including access roads and construction power supply have
been started. The bidding documents for the procurement of the main equipment and
systems are expected to be issued in December 1994 and to be opened in April 1995. The
first line is expected to be completed by October 1998. The operation of the entire project
is expected in early 2001. Thus, the project completion date would be June 30, 2001 and
the closing date of the Bank loan would be December 31, 2001. Chart 4 presents the
implementation schedule for the various components of the project. Key dates of project
implementation are given in Annex 5.7, and estimated annual payments are summarized
Table 5.4.
G. DIssu6EmEwr
5.20      The Bank loan will be disbursed against: (a) 100 percent of the foreign
expenditures for directly imported equipment and materials quoted on a c.i.f. basis; (b) 100
percent of local expenditures ex-factory for locally manufactured items, and 75 percent of
local expenditures for other items procured locally; and (c) 100 percent of the expenditure
for consulting services and training. For expenditures pertaining to (a) training; and



- 39 -
Table 5.3: SUMMARY OF PROPOSED PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMEN
($ million)
Total
Proposed Method               project
Project item                            ICB          Other /a      NBF /b       costs
Works
Preparatory works                         -            -            78.9         78.9
Land acquisition & relocation             -            -            13.9         13.9
Civil works & installations               -            -           143.8        143.8
Goods
Transmission line materials &            72.7          -           300.1        372.9
systems                                (69.3)                                  (69.3)
Substation equipment &                  197.0         6.0           35.3        238.3
systems                               (187.3)        (6.0)                    (193.3)
Services
Engineering and administration            -           17.9            -          17.9/c
(1.3)                      (1.3)
Environmental protection                  -            0.9            -           0.9
(0.5)                      (0.5)
Accounting and financial MIS              -            2.9            -           2.9
(1.8)                      (1.8)
Training                                  -            4.7            -           4.7
(3.7)                      (3.7)
Total                                  269.7         32.5          572.2       874.4/c
(256.6)      (13.4)          (0.0)      (270.0)
/a LIB and shopping for minor equipment and instruments, direct negotiations with suppliers for training
and environmental monitoring equipment and hiring of consultancy services.
/b NBF = Not Bank Financed.
/c The CRISPP-related financing included.
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank loan.
(b) contracts for goods valued at less than $5 million equivalent, reimbursement will be
made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures.  Documentation supporting such
expenditures would be retained in the SEPC offices and made available for review by the
Bank's supervision mission. To facilitate disbursements under this project, a Special
Account will be established with an authorized allocation of $15 million, representing
approximately  four months of average project disbursements.   Applications for
replenishment will be submitted monthly or when the amounts withdrawn equal 50 percent
of the initial deposit, whichever comes sooner. Annex 5.8 presents the disbursement
schedule for the proposed Bank loan as well as a standard profile of disbursements for all



Table 5.4: IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDuLE: ESrimATED ANNUAL CONTRACIUAL AND OTHE  PAYMENTS
($ million equivalent)
Proiect Year /a                               Total
Project element                         1994      1995   1996      1997      1998    1999    2000   2001   paymets  Remarks
& before
Works
Preparaory works                        2.7      10.3   18.3    12.7       14.1    10.0    10.8    0.0          78.9    LCB
Land acquisition and                    0.0       3.4    1.7      3.3       2.6      1.4      1.1    0.5        13.9    NBF
relocation
Civil works and installations           0.0       9.5   30.9    35.9       30.1    16.1    13.4    8.0         143.8    LCB
Goods
Transmission line                       0.0      33.8   89.5    99.3       65.3    42.1    27.3   15.6         372.9    ICB
materials and systems                          (14.3)  (19.5)   (18.6)    (11.4)    (5.4)                    (69.3)
Substation equipment                    0.0      35.6   69.9    54.2       52.9    13.8    10.1    1.9        238.3    ICB
and systems                                    (29.2)  (61.7)   (46.6)    (45.3)    (7.9)    (2.6)           (193.3)
Services
Engineenng services & administration    1.0       3.9    2.3      2.2       2.2      2.3      2.0    2.0        17.9/b   Other
(0.0)   (0.3)    (0.3)    (0.3)    (0.3)                      (1.3)
Environmental protection                0.0       0.4    0.5       -         -       -        -       -         0.9     Other
(0.3)   (0.3)    -         -        -        -       -        (0.5)
Reform plan and financial MIS           0.0       0.7    0.7      0.7       0.8      -        -       -         2.9     Other
(0.4)   (0.4)    (0.5)    (0.5)     -        -       -        (1.8)
Training                                -         1.1    1.2      1.2       1.2      -        -       -          4.7    Other
(0.9)   (0.9)    (0.9)    (1.0)                               (3.7)
T-ot-al                               3.7     98.8  214.9   209.4    169.3    85.7    64.7   28.0           874.4
(0.0)    (45.1)  (83.2)   (67.0)    (58.5)   (13.7)    (2.5)   (0.0)    (270.0)
/a   Based on calendar year.
/b  Includes the CRISPP-related financing.
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank loan.



- 41 -
sectors in China. The disbursements are expected to be completed in six years, very close
to the standard disbursement profile for China. The last year is for payment of retention
money.
H. ENVIRONMENTAL CONSIDERATIONS
5.21      In accordance with OD 4.01 (Environmental Assessment), the Sichuan power
transmission component of the project is designated as Category B. The EAR (para. 5.4)
for both components have been approved by the Sichuan Environmental Protection Bureau,
MOEP and the National Environmental Protection Agency. They have been reviewed by
the Bank; it is considered that all environmental aspects of the project are satisfactorily
addressed and in compliance with all environmental policies and procedures. The project
has been designed and will be carried out in accordance with current technological
practices and it is expected to cause minimum disturbance to the environment.
5.22      The Sichuan power transmission project is a greenfield operation, located in
a mountainous and semirural agricultural area.  Alternative routes for the power
transmission lines and transformer substation sites had been considered. The selected
routes requires the least amount of land, affects the least number of people, and offers the
smallest impact on the natural and human environment. Also, appropriate technologies
will be applied in the power facilities design. Annex 5.9 presents the environmental
management program, including a summary of key environmental issues associated with
the project and their anticipated impacts, the mitigating plan to assure these impacts are
minimized, and the monitoring program with which environmental impacts will be
measured and compared with the predictions in the EAR. Strengthening of SEPC's
institutional capabilities for environmental management will be carried out under the SEPC
management development and staff training program (para. 5.12). Monitoring equipment
in an amount of $0.8 million will also be provided under the proposed project.
5.23      Key environmental issues investigated in the EAR include: worker health and
safety, transmission line impacts (electric field, noise, and bird flight), and the influence
of the construction labor force on the local infrastructure. All mitigating measures for air,
water, and land impacts are designed to meet appropriate Chinese requirements and/or
World Bank environmental guidelines whichever is stricter. In the absence of either,
international standards or codes of practice will be utilized.  Environmental issues
associated with the project and addressed in the EAR have been discussed at public
meetings that were held by Sichuan Province. The local public and authorities supported
the project and the recommended mitigating measures offered in the EAR. The mitigation
plan recommended in the EAR will be fully implemented.
5.24      All environmentally related issues considered were deemed manageable, and,
with the mitigation plan offered in the EAR, should result in a minimum environmental
impact by the project. Assurances were obtained from SEPC that it would carry out the
environmental management program in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.



- 42 -
I. RELOCATION AsPEcrs
5.25      According to the resettlement action plan prepared by SEPC the proposed
project will require acquisition of 163 hectares (ha) of farmland, demolition of 290,557
square meters of floor space, and relocation of 1,991 households or 8,126 people. In
addition, about 80 ha of land will be used temporarily during the project construction.
Almost all relocations are due to the transmission lines. The affected people will need to
move only a short distance from their existing houses (100-200 meters). They will be
given adequate compensation to rebuild their houses within the same villages, often with
better quality. During the construction, some standing crops of trees will be damaged,
which will be compensated after consultation with affected villagers. For those who will
be displaced economically, they will be given high priority to be employed by SEPC as
regular maintenance workers. According to the resettlement action plan, a well organized
resettlement unit has been set up by SEPC to handle the resettlement planning and
implementation.  Arrangements for relocation, which have been made through a
participatory process with land users and local authorities, appear to be satisfactory. The
Chinese have had extensive experience with World Bank policies and requirements for
resettlement, and have, in the past, achieved good results in their implementation. A
summary of the resettlement action plan, including details on the affected people, their
losses, and how those losses would be compensated to ensure no adverse impact on their
standard of living, is presented in Annex 5.10.
5.26      Institutional strengthening of the resettlement unit is included in the project.
In addition, an experienced resettlement team from SWEPDI has been actively involved
in the preparation of the resettlement program and related action plan. The monitoring of
progress in the resettlement and rehabilitation program will be subcontracted by SEPC to
SWEPDI. Assurances were obtained that SEPC would carry out land acquisition,
relocation and rehabilitation of persons affected by the project in accordance with a
resettlement plan acceptable to the Bank.
J. PRoJEcr RiSKS
5.27      In view of the advanced preparatory works, risks associated with project
construction, cost overruns, and implementation delays in both the Ertan hydroelectric
plant and the proposed project are within reasonable limits and would be manageable given
the continuous supervision arrangements, involving foreign and Chinese consultants, that
have been put in place. Particular attention will be given to safety aspects of the project,
and to capabilities and performance of major contractors. The economic risks are minimal
(para. 7.8).
5.28      Financial risks may result from delays in the availability of local funds. This
is a generic problem to all new investment projects in China at this time. However, this
risk has been mitigated through SDB's reconfirmation of assurances to provide 70 percent
of the total local financing requirement in a timely manner. In addition, SEPC's ability
to achieve the financial target covenants under this project will require approval of
substantial tariff increases by the central and provincial governments, and there is risk that



- 43 -
delays in approvals will compromise SEPC's ability to achieve adequate financial self-
sufficiency. Assurances would be obtained from the beneficiary and borrower that
sufficient tariff increases will be implemented without delays (paras. 6.11-6.12). China's
record in meeting similar financial assurances provided in connection with previous power
projects has been good. Implementation of the power sector reforms in an efficient and
timely manner is another risk that would be addressed through the provision of technical
assistance and close project supervision. The project's nonquantitative risks are considered
to be minimal. The borrower and beneficiary will ensure the proper coordination of all
project participants and delineation of authorities. Other potential risks could include the
continuity of goods supply, funding shortages, contract management difficulties, and
effective implementation of the environmental program. No major environmental problems
are expected under this project, and the implementation of the proposed environmental
management program (including a monitoring process) would assure the adequate quality
of the environment at the project routes and in the nearby areas.
K. MoNIRING AND REPORTING
5.29      Satisfactory procedures for monitoring, evaluating, and reporting on the project
have been agreed by SEPC. The Bank would be furnished with semiannual and annual
project progress reports. The timely implementation of the project is critical and depends
on adequate financial resources being made available when needed. For this reason, the
annual project progress reports would include, inter alia, SEPC's proposals regarding
project costs and financing plan for the following year. The scope and content of the
project progress reports have also been agreed. In view of the experience with similar
power projects in China, regular project supervision would be required. Bank supervision
input into key activities is presented in Annex 5.11, and a framework for project
monitoring and reporting in Annex 5.12.



- 44 -
6. FINANCLAL ASPECTS
A. INIRODUCTION
6.1       SEPC follows MOF financial regulations applying to state-owned enterprises.
These regulations have gradually evolved over the last decade from a system in which all
investment funds were provided by the Government and all surpluses remitted to it, to one
that provides some autonomy and incentives for efficiency.
6.2       Prior to 1987, surpluses of a power entity were remitted to the Government
through sales (25 percent), income (55 percent after debt service), and adjustment
(28.5 percent) taxes as well as other levies. This system left power entities with almost
no internally generated funds to finance new investments other than small renovations.
Consequently, a conservative and passive approach was taken by many power entities.
Actual capital expenditures fell far short of requirements and severe shortages of electricity
have been experienced.
6.3       Beginning from 1987, the contract responsibility system was introduced to
increase autonomy and accountability of enterprises. Under this system, power entities
were required to submit a fixed amount of income and adjustment tax to the Government
each year and agreed to carry out all technology renovation projects at given costs to meet
some specific parameters, in particular, the unit coal consumption target. Employees
compensation was also linked to electricity sales and production costs. Starting from 1992,
power entities are allowed to accelerate depreciation of fixed assets by 20 percent to
increase their self-financing capability and, by 1993, they are exempt from submitting
25 percent of the depreciation funds to the Government. However, power entities still
have to rely on tax exemptions and lax debt repayment schedule to maintain their
operations and only retain about 5-15 percent of their net income for future expansion
program. Mobilization of investment funds from provincial and local governments,
independent enterprises, such as Huaneng, and foreign sources has helped finance
expansion, but financing gaps still remain.
6.4       The authorities are aware of the above systemic issues. In the absence of
deepened enterprise reforms, the gap in financing the required sector investment would
continue to increase in the 1990s. As a first step, the Government is now committed to
the implementation of the July 1992 regulations of the State Council ("Regulations on
Transforming the Operating Mechanisms of State-owned Industrial Enterprises") in the
power sector, giving power entities expanded financing, investment and asset management
rights. Second, MOEP and SPC have provided built-in mechanisms for improving the
financial status of provincial power companies through the 1993 reform of the state catalog
electricity prices. The state catalog prices are the rates charged for generation of power



- 45 -
capacity financed by the central government, and form the basis for the revenue accruing
to provincial power companies such as SEPC (see Annex 3.5). In addition to increases in
catalog price levels, the 1993 reform established the principle that power from all new
plants (retroactive to April 1, 1993), including those financed by the central government
as well as those financed through other means, would be priced at levels enabling principle
and interest payment of debt. There will be a phase-in period to have the full debt service
requirements reflected in the prices. The new policy guarantees at least a break-even
position for power entities and leaves them with all depreciation funds for new
investments. It will encourage power company managers to take a more aggressive
approach in investment.
6.5       The new accounting principles and financial rules effective on July 1, 1993
will also have far-reaching impacts on the sector. First, they require power entities to
clarify and separate debt from equity. This is an important step for power entities moving
toward limited liability companies and eventually shareholding companies. Diversification
of ownership is critical to mobilizing more resources to the sector. Secondly, under the
new profit allocation system specified in the new financial rules issued by MOF, the
adjustment tax and special fund allocations have been abolished. The management of
power entities are given greater autonomy in making decisions on profit distribution.
Thirdly, enterprises are permitted to design their own internal accounting and financial
management system based on the business needs. Overall, the new financial rules together
with other reforms, such as state assets management, fiscal and financial sector reforms,
will lead the state to gradually play a more indirect ownership role in the management of
power entities. With new autonomy and increased accountability power entities will also
have to improve their budgetary and cost controls as well as cash management in order to
stay competitive in a market-oriented environment.
6.6       The Govemment promulgated a series of important new tax laws at the end
of 1993. From 1994, the contract responsibility system is replaced with a transparent and
simplified tax system. A corporate income tax rate of 33 percent is being applied to all
domestic enterprises. The Govemment will then only collect income tax from enterprises
based on a unified rate. Dividend distribution for Government equity contribution in
enterprises will be decided by the management in consultation with various owners or
Board of Directors. The old sales taxes (about 25 percent of sales) levied for power
generation and distribution were also consolidated into a new value-added tax (VAT) of
17 percent. The new tax policy does not necessarily reduce the tax and remittance burden
for power entities. However, it eliminates the lengthy and complicated negotiations
between enterprises and the Govemment. More importantly, it is really conducive to
strengthening the planning and financial management functions of the power companies.
6.7       SEPC's financial performance in the past was poor compared with most other
power companies in China. It had to rely on the lax repayment schedule to maintain its
operations. However, as many critical reforms, such as property rights, investment, fiscal,
financial, trade, are gradually laid out by the Govemment, SEPC's future finances will be
subject to greater uncertainties. Therefore, strengthening the financial management is
critical for SEPC to stay financially viable in a market-oriented economy. Toward this



- 46 -
end, the proposed project would continue the process of institutional building already
initiated under previous Bank-financed projects, including (a) a component to improve and
upgrade SEPC's accounting and financial management system (para. 5.8); (b) training in
financial management for SEPC (para. 5.12); and (c) agreements with SEPC on financial
performance targets that would provide a framework for financial discipline (para. 6. 11).
B. SEPC'S PAsr AND PREsENT FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
6.8        SEPC's income statements, fund flow statements and balance sheets for the
period 1990-93 are set out in Annex 6.1. Salient points and features highlighting its past
and present finances are summarized in Table 6.1.
Table 6.1: SEPC's KEY FINANCIAL INDICATIORS, 199093
(Million Yuan)
Growth Rate
% p.a.
Year ended December 31            1990      1991      1992       1993      (1990-93)
Electricity Sales (GWh)          23,152    24,808    26,635    29,905         8.9
Average Revenues (fenlkWh)        10.62     13.21      15.49     20.55       24.6
Operating Revenues                 2458     3,277     4,126      6,146       35.8
Operating Income /a                 367       577       536       396         2.7
Net Income                          116       300       248       161        11.8
Net Fixed Assets in Operation     4,032     4,166     4,684      7,869        9.3
Capital Expenditure                 880     2,827      1,596     1,954       30.5
Operating Ratio (%)                85.0      82.4      87.0       93.6
Rate of Return (%) /b               2.9       7.3       5.3        4.0
Debt Service Coverage (times)       1.7       1.9       2.1        1.3
Current Ratio                       1.2       1.2        1.2       1.2
Debt as % of Debt and Equity       53.4      62.8      64.5       57.9
/a  Operating revenues less the aggregate of fuel, power purchases, administration, operation and
maintenance, and depreciation.
/b Based on historically valued average net fixed assets in operation.
6.9        During the period 1990-93, SEPC reported modest profits in its financial
statements as it deferred or capitalized a substantial amount of interest payment each year.
Moreover, SEPC's positive cash positions were maintained by lax debt service schedule.
Despite the impressive sales growth of 29 percent and more than doubled operating
revenue over the period, SEPC's finances had been weakened. Its net income, rate of
return on fixed assets in service, and debt service coverage have all been on a declining
trend. The operating ratio deteriorated to about 94 percent in 1993 from 85 percent in
1990. The most serious problem faced by SEPC is that it has no surplus to finance any
new capital investments. With a significant portion of interest and principal payments



- 47 -
being deferred, SEPC's self-financing ratios were 0 percent and 2 percent in 1992 and
1993, respectively.
6.10      SEPC's total average revenue increased by 94 percent during the past three
years, but this was primarily due to a tripling of the unit cost of purchased power.
Although included in SEPC's total revenue, the funds collected from the sale of purchased
power are largely offset by the costs. Purchased power costs increased from less than
8 fen/kWh in 1990 to 25.8 fen/kWh in 1993. The average revenue that SEPC received
for its own generation, based on the catalog prices, increased by less than 50 percent
between 1990 and 1993, rising to 16.5 fen/kWh in 1993.
C. FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE TARGETS
6.11      As the Government is taking steps to reform rules governing enterprise
accounting and financial affairs and to increase the financial autonomy of enterprises, the
self-financing ratio is becoming a more meaningful indicator. In addition, the indicator
serves as an effective tool to ensure adequate tariff levels. It is particularly relevant in
SEPC's case. SEPC needs to gradually build up its own financing capability in order to
realize its planned investment program, as 100 percent debt financing is neither feasible
nor financially sound in today's environment. Given SEPC's present financial position in
comparison with other power companies in China, a gradual approach is appropriate.
6.12      Even by taking this approach, the magnitude of required tariff increases is
large. With the large investment program anticipated and the low current state catalog
tariff, major adjustments need to be initiated, beginning with the 1995 state catalog prices.
In order to just break even in 1995, projections show that SEPC's average state catalog
price must be increased by a minimum of about 28 percent from the 1994 level. As shown
in Table 6.2, substantial further increases in real tariff levels also will be needed during
the remainder of the 1990s for SEPC to make a reasonable contribution to its future
investment program. With a view to promoting this reform and prudent financial
management, assurances were obtainedfrom SEPC that it would:
(a)  take all necessary measures, including but not limited to tariff adjustments, to
ensure that its internal cash generation is sufficient to meet (i) cash operating
expenses; (ii) interest charged to operations; (iii) income taxes; (iv) gross
increases in working capital; (v) loan repayments in 1995, and to maintain
self-financing ratios of no less than 1O percent in 1996, 15 percent in 1997,
20 percent in 1998, 25 percent in 1999, and 30 percent thereafter;
(b)  not incur additional debt unless a reasonable forecast shows its internal cash
generation would provide a debt service coverage ratio of no less than 1.2
times during 1996-97 and 1.5 times thereafter; and
(c) by April 30 of each year, commencing in 1996, furnish to the Bank a rolling
eight-year financial plan containing projected income statements, statements
of sources and uses offunds, and balance sheets.



- 48 -
D. FUTInRE FINANCES
6.13            The projections of SEPC's finances for 1994-2003 are presented in Annex 6.2,
and the salient features of these finances are highlighted below in Table 6.2. The
projections are based on the assumptions contained in Annex 6.3. The average prices
shown depict the minimum tariff adjustments needed to allow SEPC to achieve the above
financial performance targets.
Table 6.2: KEY FNANCIAL INDICATORS, 1994-2003
(Million Yuan)
Year Ended December31                       1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003
Energy Sales (GWh)                        33,000 36,500 39,800 43,500 47,400 50,900 54,500 58,300 62,400 66,800
Average Price (fen/kWh)                    24.50  28.99  32.93  37.17  41.23  47.90  55.76  58.52  58.79  64.94
SEPC'a Own Avg. Price                    20.10  25.71  29.94  34.47  38.65  45.17  53.00  54.48  53.26  60.84
Purchased Power's Avg Price              32.54  35.66  39.45  43.17  47.25  54.31  62.70  68.25  72.29  77.48
Operating Revenue                          8,082  10,590 13,118 16,151 19,549 24,394 30,384 34,090 36,671 43,378
Tariff in Real Terms of 1994 Prices
Average Price (fen/kWh)                   24.50  27.74  29.05  30.48  31.64  34.52  37.73  37.18  35.08  36.38
SEPC's Own Avg. Price                    20.10  24.61  26.42  28.27  29.66  32.55  35.86  34.61  31.78  34.08
Purchased Power's Avg. Price             32.54  34.13  34.80  35.40  36.26  39.14  42.43  43.36  43.12  43.40
Operating Income                           1,222  2,233  3,049  3,927  4,902  5,863   7,970  7,768  7,479  10,416
Annual Capital Expenditure                 3,243  3,940  5,026  6,119  6,920  6,431   7,535  9,176  10,249  9,650
Rate Base                                  8,345  10,069 12,048 13,999 18,411 23,568 27,589 31,076 34,740 39,984
Long-term Debt                            11,147 13,027 15,408 18,281 20,958 22,266 24,481 27,689 30,431 32,152
Debt Service                               1,265  2,023  2,336  2,634  2,909  3,885  5,116  5,145  5,096  6,597
Cash in Banks                              1,228    792    537    317    193    595   1,259   1,854  2,381   3,194
Rate of Return
Historically Valued Asets (%)              11.8   17.3   19.3   20.9   19.6   18.5   21.3   18.7   15.9   18.9
Revalued Asseta(%)                         10.0   13.1   14.9   15.5   13.7   13.8   15.8   13.8   11.3   13.1
Self Financing Ratio (%)                     7.1    0.0   10.0   15.0   20.0   25.0   30.0   30.0   30.0   30.0
Operating Ratio (%)                         85.0   78.9   76.8   75.7   74.9   76.0   73.8   77.2   79.6   76.0
Debt/Total Capital (%)                      59.4   59.6   59.4   59.0   57.5   54.3   51.5   50.4   49.2   46.3
Debt Service Coverage                        1.1    1.1    1.3    1.4    1.6    1.5    1.5    1.5    1.6    1.6
6.14            Table 6.2 shows the projected levels of increases in purchased power prices,
prices for SEPC's own generation, and the weighted average of these two that will be
required to meet the financial covenants. The prices for purchased power will be
determined on a plant-by-plant basis, at "debt repayment price" levels, allowing for full
debt service based on 10-year payback period after commissioning of new power plants.
For plants invested by independent investors, such as Huaneng, in addition to the debt
repayment requirement based on even shorter payback period, seven years in Huaneng's
case, the pricing formula further incorporates a reasonable level of profitability. The
pricing formula for the electricity supplied by Ertan Hydroelectric Development
Corporation will be decided by the ongoing tariff study.
6.15            SEPC's financial position, however, depends on the revenue that it collects
from its own generation. In order to meet the expansion plan and projected cost increases
in the future and comply with the financial performance targets set forth above, SEPC's



- 49 -
average tariff will need to increase by an estimated 12.2 percent in current terms or
4.7 percent in real terms a year from 1994 to 2003. Given the current low tariff level on
SEPC's own generation, SEPC needs to have a step increase of 28 percent in 1995 to
break even and a total increase of 81 percent in three years to achieve a very modest self-
financing ratio of 10 percent in 1996. Moreover, in order to reach the final target of
30 percent self-financing ratio by 2000, SEPC's own tariff will have to be more than
tripled, an annual increase of 18 percent in current terms and of about 10 percent in real
terms over the next seven years.
6.16      Although the rate of increases in the state catalog prices needed to achieve a
reasonable self financing ratio for SEPC are large, much of the increase should stem from
the entry of new generating plant into the rate base. Based on the principles established
by the Government in the 1993 state catalog price reform, prices for new plant controlled
by provincial power companies such as SEPC will be set at "debt repayment' levels.
Because of the rapid load growth, the bulk of the tariff increase required will be met
through implementation of the new pricing principles. Even by 1996, about one third of
SEPC's own generation is expected to come from plants built since 1993. By 2002, the
share rises to over one half.
6.17      During the period 1994-2003, SEPC is projected to maintain relatively high
rates of growth necessitated by the prospective strong economic growth in Sichuan
Province. Based on the latest demand forecast and expansion plan assumptions, energy
sales are expected to increase by about 123 percent over 1993 levels, representing a
compound annual growth rate of about 8.4 percent. SEPC's annual investment program
is expected to expand by almost fourfold over the period, an annual increase of 17 percent.
Net fixed assets in operation are projected to grow by about 446 percent, an annualized
growth rate of about 18.5 percent during the period. Moreover, to meet forecast power
shortages, rapid increases in both the quantity, from 12,900 GWh to 24,250 GWh, and
costs of purchased power, an augmentation by almost five times, over the projection period
are expected. The electricity supplied by Ertan Hydroelectric Power Plant after reaching
full generating capacity in 2001 is projected to account for two thirds of SEPC's purchased
power. Based on the assumption of 35 fen/kWh in 1994 prices for Ertan's power, the
projected cost for purchased power will grow by more than 19.5 percent per annum and
constitute over 44 percent of SEPC's operating cost in 2003.
6.18      From 1993 on, SEPC's performance is anticipated to improve gradually and
steadily as the tariff level of SEPC's own generation be raised to meet the financial targets,
from 16.5 fen/kWh in 1993 to 60.8 fen/kWh in 2003, tariff structure is further
rationalized, and self-financing as well as debt service requirements emerge as dominant
factors in pricing formulation. Based on the projected minimum tariff level, about
13.9 percent increase per annum for its own generation and 11.6 percent for purchased
power from 1993 to 2003, both revenues and net income are expected to grow
considerably over the period.  Operational ratios are projected to revert from over
93 percent in 1993 to 76 percent by 2003. Moreover, the rate of return on historically
valued assets and on revalued assets will also improve from single digits in the early 1990s
to the high teens, averaging 18.2 and 13.5 percent, respectively, over the period of 1994-
2003.



- 50 -
7. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
A. PRoJECT BENEFI
7.1       The proposed Sichuan Transmission Project is an essential component of the
electric power development program in Sichuan Province because it is required for the
output of the 3,300 Ertan Hydroelectric Project to be used. The Ertan plant is expected
to provide over one quarter of the electrical energy needs of the provincial grid in the year
2000, and to play a backbone role in system regulation. Without construction of the
500-kV transmission line to connect the Ertan plant to the main grid in the East Sichuan
Basin, and associated investments to reinforce the transmission system of the grid so that
it can proper receive Ertan's power, over 80 percent of Ertan's output cannot be utilized.
The Ertan plant has been under construction for over three years. By the beginning of
1994, 51 percent of the total investment cost of Ertan already was sunk. Without
completion of the transmission project, this investment would essentially be wasted. An
economically attractive investment package from the beginning, the economic benefits that
can be derived from the incremental costs of completing the Ertan plant and associated
transmission facilities are now exceptionally high. Conversely, failure to complete the
transmission project in time to properly use Ertan's generation would be very costly, as
it would most likely result in prolonged high levels of unserved load.
7.2       Completion of the Ertan plant and transmission line also is environmentally
attractive, compared to the principal alternative. In Sichuan, the least-cost alternative to
Ertan to meet the projected load forecast is development of coal-fired thermal power
plants. This alternative would result in the combustion of more than 8 million tons of
additional raw coal per year. In addition to the negative global environmental impact,
increased use of the low-quality, high-sulfur coal of this region could be expected to result
in yet more severe local air pollution impacts than common in other parts of China.
B. LEAST-COST ANALYSIS
7.3       The proposed project is unquestionably part of the least-cost expansion
program for the Sichuan Power Grid. A variety of expansion sequences from 1994-2010
were prepared and analyzed in detail by SEPC and the Beijing Economic Research Institute
of Water Resources and Electric Power (BERIWREP). Staged commissioning of the Ertan
project in 1998, 1999 and 2000, the earliest dates now feasible, remains part of the least-
cost sequence under a wide variety of assumptions. Using updated economic shadow
prices, and discounting at 12 percent into 1994 terms, the present value cost of a 'second
best" expansion sequence-without the Ertan project or transmission investments-exceeds
that of the with-project expansion program by Y 10.8 billion ($1.2 billion) (Annex 7. 1).
More than any other single indicator, this large cost savings compared to the next best
alternative shows the economic attractiveness of completion of the Ertan plant and
transmission facilities.



- 51 -
7.4        Confirming the earlier decision to proceed with the Ertan project,
commissioning of the Ertan plant and transmission facilities as planned also remained part
of the provincial grid's least-cost expansion plan in the recent study even when the sunk
investment costs in Ertan were included.
7.5       The economic studies of the project also considered different transmission line
routes, configurations and timing. Two alternative routes for the 500-kV transmission line
were rejected as higher cost options. Completion of three lines of 500-kV connection of
Ertan with the main grid by 2000, when the last unit of Ertan goes into operation, is
clearly urgent. The studies concluded, however, that completion of a fourth line is best
delayed until 2003, when additional generating capacity near to Ertan also would be
brought on line.
C. ECONOMIC RATE OF REnrRN
7.6       The internal economic rate of return (IERR) for the full Ertan Hydroelectric
Project (including sunk costs) and the investments in the 500-kV transmission line and
system reinforcements project is conservatively estimated at 17 percent. An economic
price of 33 fen/kWh, in 1994 prices, was used as a minimum proxy for the economic value
of electricity benefits, based on the existing power sales price of the independent Luohuang
Thermal Power Plant to the Sichuan Power Grid. Assuming an economic price of 37 fen/
kWh in 1994 prices, in line with the estimated average producers' tariff level required to
meet the project's financial covenants, the IERR would be 18 percent. Actual consumer
willingness to pay for power from Ertan is likely to be substantially higher than these
prices, especially for power during the dry season.
7.7       In a more accurate reflection of the returns of the economic decision that is
now being made, the IERR for the incremental costs to complete the Ertan Project and its
associated transmission is estimated at 29 percent. Finally, consideration of only the costs
and benefits of the proposed transmission project yields an IERR of 37 percent.
Sensitivity Analysis
7.8       The proposed transmission project carries very little internal economic risk.
If the transmission project were completed as planned but the generation stream from Ertan
were delayed by two years, leaving the line initially idle, the IERR of the transmission
investment would fall from 37 percent to 26 percent. With a cost overrun of 30 percent,
the transmission project IERR would still be 30 percent.
7.9       The chief economic risk associated with the project is the risk of negative
impact on the Ertan project and Sichuan's economy if there is a delay in the commissioning
of the transmission line. Under current plans, the Sichuan Power Grid will have
inadequate reserve margins in energy and peaking capacity prior to completion of the Ertan
plant and transmission line (para. 4.9), and delay will only exacerbate this shortage and
cause high costs to the economy through increased unserved load.



- 52 -
8. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
8.1       The following assurances were obtained at negotiations:
(a)  From the Borrower that it would:
(i) take necessary measures to enable SEPC to implement the Action Plan
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.10); and
(ii) onlend the proceeds of the proposed Bank loan through Sichuan
Province to SEPC on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 5.16).
(b) From SEPC that it would:
(i) prepare by September 30, 1995, in consultation with the Bank, a
detailed program for implementation of the Action Plan and, thereafter,
implement the Action Plan in a manner satisfactory to the Bank (para.
3.10);
(ii) furnish the Bank with audited project accounts, statements of
expenditures, and financial statements within six months of the end of
each fiscal year (para. 3.23);
(iii) carry out the management development and training program as agreed
with the Bank (para. 5.12);
(iv) carry out the environmental management program  in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 5.24);
(v) carry out relocation of persons affected by the project in accordance
with a resettlement plan acceptable to the Bank (para. 5.26);
(vi) take all necessary measures to ensure that its internal cash generation is
sufficient to meet (a) cash operating expenses, (b) interest charged to
operations, (c) income taxes, (d) gross increases in working capital, and
(e) loan repayments in 1995; and to maintain a self-financing ratio of no
less than 10 percent in 1996, 15 percent in 1997, 20 percent in 1998,
25 percent in 1999, and 30 percent thereafter [para. 6.12(a)];



- 53 -
(vii) not incur additional debt unless a reasonable forecast shows its intemal
cash generation would provide a debt service coverage ratio of no less
than 1.2 times during 1996-97 and 1.5 times thereafter [para. 6.12(b)];
and
(viii) fumish to the Bank, by April 30 of each year a rolling eight-year
financial plan containing projected income statements, statements of
sources and uses of funds, and balance sheets [para. 6.12(c)].
8.2       Execution of the subsidiary loan agreements between the Borrower, Sichuan
Province and SEPC, and approval of the Loan Agreement by the State Council would be
conditions of effectiveness of the loan (para. 5.16).
8.3       Subject to the above agreements, the proposed project is suitable for a Bank
loan of $270 million to the People's Republic of China. The loan would be for a term of
20 years, including a 5-year grace period, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.



- 54 -



- 55 -
ANNEXES



- 56 -



- 57 -                      ANNEX 1.1
PRIMARY ENERGY OUTPUT IN CBINA (1949-93)
Year            Raw       Crude       Natural           Electricity
coal       oil         gas        Total        of which:
(in6t)    (106t)     (108m3)       output    Hydropower
(TWh)         (TWh)
1949            32.0        0.12        0.07         4.3         0.7
1955            98.0        0.97       0.17         12.3         2.4
1960           397.0        5.20       10.40       59.4          7.4
1965           232.0       11.31       11.00        67.6        10.4
1970           354.0       30.65       28.70       115.9        20.5
1975           482.0       77.06       88.50       195.8        47.6
1980           620.0      105.95      142.70       300.6        58.2
1981           622.0      101.22      127.40       309.3        65.5
1982           666.3      102.12      119.30       327.7        74.4
1983           714.5      106.07      122.10       351.4        86.4
1984           789.2      114.61      124.20       377.0        86.8
1985           872.3      124.89      129.30       410.7        92.4
1986           894.0      130.69      137.60       449.5        94.5
1987           928.1      134.14      138.94       497.3       100.2
1988           979.9      137.05      142.64       545.2       109.1
1989         1,054.2      137.65      150.49       584.7       118.4
1990         1,079.9      138.31      152.98       621.3       126.4
1991         1,087.4      140.99      153.96       677.5       124.7
1992         1,115.0      142.10      157.90      754.2        131.5
1993         1,141.0      144.00      165.60       836.4       150.7
Source: MOEP.



TOTAL PRODUCTION AND CONSUMPTION OF ENERGY VS. GNP GROWTH
1978  1979  1980  1981  1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993
Production
(million tons of standard
coal equivalent)         628   646   637   632   668   713   779   855   881   913   958  1,016  1,039  1,048  1,073  1,117
Proportion (%)
Coal                     70.3  70.2  69.4  70.2  71.3  71.6  72.4  72.8  72.4  72.6  73.1  74.1  74.2  74.1  74.3  74.2
Crude oil                23.7  23.5  23.8  22.9  21.8  21.3  21.0  20.9  21.2  21.0  20.4  19.3  19.0  19.2  18.9  18.5
Natural gas               2.9   3.0   3.0   2.7   2.4   2.3   2.1   2.0   2.1   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0
Hydropower                3.1   3.3   3.8   4.2   4.5   4.8   4.5   4.3   4.3   4.4   4.5   4.6   4.8   4.7   4.8   5.3
Consumption
(million tons of standard
coal equivalent)         571   586   603   594   621   660   709   767   809   866   930   969   980  1,038  1,087  1,122
Proportion (M%)
00
Coal                     70.7  71.3  72.2  72.7  73.7  74.2  75.3  75.8  75.8  76.2  76.2  76.0  75.6  76.1  76.1  73.2
Crude oil                22.7  21.8  20.7  20.0  18.9  18.1  17.4  17.1  17.2  17.0  17.0  17.1  17.0  17.1  17.1  19.4
Natural gas               3.2   3.3   3.1   2.8   2.5   2.4   2.4   2.2   2.3   2.1   2.1   2.0   2.1   2.0   1.9   2.0
Hydropower                3.4   3.6   4.0   4.5   4.9   5.3   4.9   4.9   4.7   4.7   4.7   4.9   5.3   4.8   4.9   5.4
GDP Index
(constant prices)        100.0  107.6  116.0  121.2  131.8  145.4  166.9  188.2  203.5  225.7  251.2  262.1  272.7  295.0  333.4  379.0
Energy Intensity Index
(consumption/GNP)        100.0  95.4  91.0  85.8  82.5  75.9  74.5  71.5  69.7  67.2  65.0  65.1  62.6  61.6  57.3  51.9
Notes: (1)  Excluding bio-energy, solar, geothermal and nuclear energy.
(2)  All fuels are converted into standard coal with thermal equivalent of 7,000 kilocalorie per kilogram. The conversion factors are:
1 kg of coal (5,000 kcal) =0.714 kg of standard coal
I kg of crude oil (10,000 kcal) = 1.43 kg of standard coal                                                        >
1 cubic meter of natural gas (9,310 kcal) = 1.33 kg of standard coal
(3)  The conversion of hydropower is based on the specific consumption of standard coal for thermal power generation of the year.
Source: China Statistical Yearbook 1991.1.



- 59 -                            ANNEX 2.1
INSTALLED CAPACITY, ELECTRICITY GENERATION AND
CONSUMPIION IN THE POWER SUBSECTOR
Installed                        Electricity               Electricity
Capacity (MW) /a                 Generation (GWh) /a         Consumption lb
Year  Hydro      Thermal      Total     Hydro      Thermal      Total        (GWh)
1949     163       1,686      1,849        710       3,600      4,310          3,460
1952     188       1,776      1,964       1,260      6,001      7,261          6,277
1957    1,019      3,616      4,635      4,820      14,515     19,335         16,407
1962   2,379      10,686     13,065      9,042      36,753     45,795           n.a.
1965   3,020      12,056     15,076      10,414     57,190     67,604         56,802
1970   6,235      17,535     23,770     20,450      95,420    115,870           n.a.
1971   7,804      18,478     26,282     25,060    113,300    138,360         101,274
1972   8,700      20,801     29,501     28,820     123,630    152,450        123,600
1973   10,299     23,626     33,925     38,900    127,860    166,760         135,106
1974   11,817     26,291     38,108     41,440     127,410    168,850        135,708
1975   13,428     29,978     43,406     47,630     148,210    195,840        156,969
1976   14,655     32,492     47,147     45,640    157,490    203,130         164,698
1977   15,765     35,686     51,451     47,670     175,740    223,410        181,691
1978   17,277     39,845     57,122     44,630    211,920    256,550         210,239
1979  19,110      43,906     63,016     50,120    231,827    281,947         233,577
1980  20,318      45,551     65,869     58,211    242,416    300,627         251,639
1981  21,933      47,069     69,002     65,546    243,723    309,269         258,976
1982  22,959      49,401     72,360     74,399    253,279    327,678         275,299
1983  24,160      52,280     76,440      86,450    264,990    351,440        297,126
1984  25,547      54,373     79,920      86,780    290,207    376,987        319,600
1985  26,120      60,373     86,493     92,374    318,315    410,689         348,353
1986  27,542      66,276     93,818     94,480    355,091    449,571         357,057
1987  30,193      72,704    102,897     100,229    397,092    497,321        420,019
1988  32,698      82,799    115,497    109,177    435,888    545,065         464,013
1989  34,570      92,060    126,637    118,475    466,200    584,675         495,135
1990  36,050    101,844    137,894    126,350    494,986    621,318          527,154
1991  37,884     113,589    151,473    124,845    552,649    677,494         575,219
1992  40,681     125,852    166,533    131,466    622,723    754,189         644,696
1993  44,593     138,318    182,911    150,743    685,686    836,429         698,255
/a On a countrywide basis.
Lk Energy consumption not including uses by stations and line losses.
Source: MOEP.



- 60 -                      ANNEX 2.2
ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION BY SECTORS La
Total          Industry       Agri-  Resi-  Trans-   Municipal
consumption                Sub-   cul-  den-   porta-      and
Year    (TWh)      Heavy Light  total  tural  tial    tion   commercial
1985     411.7    63.8   15.9  79.7   7.7    5.4    1.5          5.7
1986     456.7    64.9   15.8  80.7   7.1    5.5    1.5          5.2
1987     498.5     64.0   16.4  80.4   7.2    5.7    1.5         5.2
1988     546.7    62.8   17.0  79.8    6.9   6.3    1.6          5.4
1989     586.5    63.0   16.2  79.2   7.0    6.7    1.7          5.4
1990     623.0    62.2   16.0  78.2   6.9    7.7    1.7          5.5
1991     680.4    61.2   16.2  77.4   7.1    8.0    1.7          5.8
1992     745.5    61.2   15.9  77.1    6.8    8.5    1.8         5.8
1993     820.1     61.2   15.4  76.6   6.3    8.9    1.9         6.3
La On a countrywide basis, including station uses and line losses for power industry.
Source: MOEP.



- 61-                                         ANNEX 2.3
MAJOR ONGOING POWER PROJECTS
WITH EXTERNAL FINANCING OTHER THAN IBRD
Inlled                         Coognac-                                      Loan
apac ity                       tion                                        amount
(Unit x MW)    Location         period        Source of finance             (S mln)
A. HYDRO POWER
East China
Mianhuatan                      4 x 150        Fujian        1995-2002       ADB                            200.0
North China
Shianling pumped storge         4 x 200        Hebei         1990-96         OECF                            100.0
Zhangjiawan                     4 x 250        Hebei         1996-2001       ADB                            250.0
Central China
Wuqiangqi hydro                  5 x 240       Hunan          1988-95         OECF                           200.0
lingintan                        8 x 300       Hunan         1994-99          ADB                            100.0
Geheyan                          6 x 200       Hubei         1988-95          Canada
Southwest China
Trienshengqiao (11) hydro        4 x 220        Guizhou       1988-96         OECF                           478.5
Tnenshengqiao (I) hydro          4 x 300       Guizhou        1991-2002       OECF                            160.0
Hongjiadu hydro                  3 x 180       Guizhou        1995-2001       ADB                            200.0
South China
Guangzh- Pumped Stoage (1)       4 x 300       Guangdong    1988-94           France                         200.0
uarngzhou Pumped Storage (11)    4 x 300       Guangdong    1994-98           ADB                            290.0
Joint financing                 71.1
Other Part
Huanggou                        4 x 300        Heilongliang   1999-2004      OECF
Gongbuoxia                       5 x 300       Qinghai        1997-2005       OECF
Jitintai                         4 x 415       Xinjiang       1997-2002       OECF
Subtotal                          15 82020496
B. THERMAL POWER
North China
Sanhe                           2 x 300/350    Hebei         1994-98         OECF                           250.0
Hejin                           2 x 3001350    Shanxi        1994-98         OECF                           250.0
Central China
Ezhou                           2 x 300        Hubei         1992-97         OECF                           250.0
liujiang                        2 x 300/350    Jiangxi       1994-98         OECF                            250.0
Subtotal                         2.700                                                                        L
C. TRANSMISSION & SUBSTATION
Tienahengqiao(1)-Guangdong        1,200km       -             1994-98          OECF                           140.0
axC)
Subtotal                                                                                                      140.0
Total                            14.620 MW in gnerating capacity
1.200 km for 500-kV transmisaion line                                     3,189.6
Source: MOEP.



- 62 -                        ANNEX 2.4
FUTURE THERMAL POWER PROJECTS UNDER
BOT OR BOO ARRANGEMENTS ta
Installed
capacity      Construction
Projects                       (No. x MW)         period          Location
Waigaoqiao (phase 2)            2x800 or        1997-2002         Shanghai
2xl,000
Jiaxing (phase 2)               4x600           1996-2002         Zhejiang
Ligang (phase 3)                2x600            1995-98           Jiangsu
Yangcheng                       6x350           1995-2001          Shanxi
Tuoketuo No. 2                  4x600           1999-2005      Inner Mongolia
Daihai                          4x600           1997-2001      Inner Mongolia
Datong No. 2                    2x600           1998-2002          Shanxi
Shalingzi (phase 2)             2x600           1996-2000          Hebei
Shuangyashan                    2x600           1997-2001       Heilongjiang
Zhuhai                          2x660           1995-2000        Guangdong
Beihai                          2x350           1996-2000         Guangxi
Shenzhen East                   4x660           1997-2003        Guangaong
Rizhao                          2x350            1995-98          Shandong
Shiliquan                       2x300           1997-2000         Shandong
Laicheng                        2x600            1995-98          Shandong
Shiheng (phase 2)               2x300            1996-99          Shandong
Hanfeng                         2x600           1996-2000          Hebei
Meizhouwan                      2x600            1993-97           Fujian
Songyu                          2x350            1993-97           Fujian
Hanchuan (phase 2)              2x300           1998-2003          Hubei
Gaobeidian                      2x145            1995-99           Beijing
2x180
Dalian (phase 2)                2x350            1995-98          Liaoning
Dandong                         2x350            1995-98            Jilin
Nantong (phase 2)               2x350            1996-98           Jiangsu
Fuzhou (phase 2)                4x660            1995-98           Fujian
Yueyang (phase 2)               2x350            1996-99           Hunan
Luohuang (phase 2)              2x350           1996-2000          Sichuan
Shantou (phase 2)               2x350           1997-2000        Guangdong
Yingkou (phase 2)               2x600           1997-2000         Liaoning
Shajiao C                       3x660            1994-96         Guangdong
Yahekou                         2x350
Huanggang                       2x600
LA    BOT: Build-Own (Operate)-Transfer
BOO: Build-Own-Operate
Source: MOEP.



- 63 -                        ANNEX 3.1
ACTION PLAN FOR
TILE COMMERCIALIZATION AND CORPORATIZATION OF
THE SICHUAN ELECTRIC POWER COMPANY
(translation from Chinese language)
1.          The Chinese Government recently has undertaken, or is about to undertake,
a variety of measures, including promulgation of a series of new economic laws and
regulations, to further promote the reform to a market economy and establish a modern
enterprise system. These measures provide a solid basis for the completion of a socialist
market economic system in China, and unprecedented favorable conditions for the
development of the country's power industry. To develop the power industry efficiently,
it is now necessary to make a transition in the management structure of the electric power
industry to better suit the market system.
2.          Accordingly, the Sichuan Electric Power Company (SEPC) and Sichuan
Electric Power Administration (SEPA) have worked out the following action plan for the
corporatization of SEPC and commercialization of its operations. This plan takes account
of the CCCCP's "Decision on Several Problems in Establishing the Socialist Market
Economy," the "Company Law of the People's Republic of China," and the "Regulations
for Transfer of the Operating Mechanisms of Enterprises Owned by the Whole People."
It also takes account of the opinions of the World Bank expressed during preappraisal and
appraisal of the Sichuan Transmission Project, combined with the actual conditions
prevailing in Sichuan Province.
3.          The Action Plan will be submitted to the relevant authorities for approval,
and will be implemented according to the approved version of the Plan. I/
A. OBJEC'nvEs OF THE REFORM
4.          SEPC, by law a self-operated legal entity with independent accounting and
responsibility for its own losses and profits, is the most influential and largest enterprise
in Sichuan Province today. Based on the needs of the modern enterprise system, SEPC
will be restructured into a corporation, with its operations commercialized. Under the
planned economy, enterprise and government functions were combined in this company,
with sole ownership of all assets. Following the requirements of the 'Company Law,"
SEPC will be transformed into a corporation in which property rights are clearly
demarcated, mandates and responsibilities are clearly defined, government and enterprise
functions are separated, and management systems are scientific. It will be a 100 percent
1/  The Action Plan was approved as is by the Ministry of Electric Power on September 19, 1994.



- 64 -                        ANNEX 3.1
state-owned, limited-liability company. As the reform deepens, this will be further
transformed into a limited-liability or shareholding company floating shares on the
domestic and international financial markets, in order to mobilize capital from home and
abroad, and thus strengthen the company's investment capability and accelerate
development of the Sichuan power industry.
B. ACTION PLAN FOR THE REFORM
5.          Reform  of SEPC's Accounting and Fmancial Management System.
Starting from July 1, 1993, SEPC has already begun to adopt an internationally accepted
accounting and financial system. SEPC will complete, in a timely manner, corresponding
reform and adjustments in operations and management. In order to commercialize the
company's operations, and with financial assistance under the World Bank Sichuan Power
Transmission Project, SEPC will begin to implement a new financial management
information system and structural reforms to the financial management system in 1995, for
the purpose of operational commercialization. Using international technical assistance,
diagnostic analysis and the design of a new system will be completed by June 1997.
Implementation will then be completed in 1998.
6.          Ownership in the Sichuan electric power industry is being diversified with
a number of different electric power business entities involved. Given this reality, and the
fact that SEPC is the core electric power enterprise in Sichuan and the central manager of
the transmission network, SEPC and SEPA will actively review the nature of structural
reform in the Sichuan power industry, in order to foster an environment conducive for
commercialized operations. Accordingly, it is necessary to complete a comprehensive
study and evaluation of the structure of the electric power industry in Sichuan and
associated reforms, and to submit recommended options for further reform in 1996 for the
approval of relevant departments.
7.          The study will focus on the improvement of the efficiency of the power
industry, and pay special attention to the establishment of an fair power purchase and sales
arrangements and the introduction of competition. Considering the abundant international
experience in this area, SEPC will undertake this study with international technical
assistance, as suggested by the World Bank, and discuss with the provincial authorities the
possible involvement of the provincial government as an active participant.
Power Pricing Reform Action Plan
8.          SeasonallTime-of-Day Tariffs. Based on existing pilot cases, time-of-day
and seasonal tariffs will be applied to all the customers supplied at 100 kVA level and
above by 1995, which will cover 60 percent of total power sales. Between 1995 and 1997,
all power stations above 10 MW will adopt time-of-day and seasonal tariffs.
9.          Unification of Consumer Prices. Between 1995 and 1996, guidance tariffs
will be unified at city and prefecture levels. Consumer prices will then be unified into one
tariff by the end of 1997. The difference in tariffs between old power plants and new



- 65 -                        ANNEX 3.1
joint-investment power plants will be gradually narrowed, and eventually eliminated in
three to five years.
10.         Tariff Levels. To ensure that SEPC can operate with a profit and make a
reasonable contribution to its future investment program, and to fulfill the necessary
financial assurances in connection with the Sichuan Power Transmission Project, SEPC
will propose new tariff levels to the government and implement them upon approval.
11.         Power Purchase Agreements. Starting from 1995, SEPC will, step by step,
develop and implement improved power purchasing agreements, particularly with
independent power producers. SEPC will ensure equitable treatment of all producers,
ensuring reasonable profits and leading to economic dispatch.
Service and Noncommercial Functions/Relationship with Subsidiaries
12.         During 1994-97, in order to achieve commercialized operations under the
modern enterprise system, service and social-benefit operations and enterprises will
gradually be separated from SEPC, and operated independently. The relationship of these
enterprises to the parent company or its branches will follow a parent-subsidiary company
model and other models.
13.         During 1995 and 1996, the separation of social-sector and other service-
related operations from SEPC will continue. By the end of 1995, all manufacturing,
construction and installation enterprises directly owned by SEPC will be put under
independent operation. The various research and design institutes owned by the company
also will be gradually put under independent operation during 1995-97.
14.         During 1995-98, SEPC will initiate and improve the management reforms
in its subsidiary power plants and power supply bureaus, which will enjoy relative
independence. As experience is gained, authority and responsibility will be clarified, and
commercial mechanisms will be further introduced into internal operations through the
introduction of internal-transfer tariffs and adoption of subordinate unit business accounting
practices. In the meantime, SEPC will explore internal management structural reform to
improve its own productivity and profitability. These internal organizational reforms will
be implemented based on the results of the technical assistance component provided under
the Bank loan (para. 6).
15.         With relevant government approval, and following the progress in power
tariff reform, SEPC will define the nature and scope of noncommercial social services
currently performed by the company, and complete an assessment of expenditures incurred
or losses sustained due to provision of these services. Compensation mechanisms or other
means to resolve these issues will then be discussed with relevant government authorities
during 1995-97.



- 66 -                       ANNEX 3.1
Corporatization Action Plan
16.         At this stage, SEPC will reorganize newly built power plants and newly
expanded power plants with the proper conditions into shareholding enterprises or mobilize
international funds by setting up joint ventures and cooperative enterprises.  These
enterprises will be organized as independent legal entities responsible for their own profits
and losses.
17.         SEPC and SEPA will prepare an implementation plan for the reorganization
of SEPC into a proper limited liability company, in full conformity with the Company
Law, and for the final separation of govemment functions from the company. This
implementation plan will be submitted for the approval of relevant authorities, including
the Ministry of Electric Power (MOEP), by the end of 1994 or the beginning of 1995.
18.         Separation of govemment functions from enterprise functions should be an
important principle for Sichuan Electric Power Limited Liability Company and it will be
reflected in the implementation plan.
19.         Establishment of the Sichuan Electric Power Limited Liability Company
(SEPLLC). Following completion of revaluation of existing assets, and issuance of
regulations concerning the supervision and management of state-owned assets in this
industry, work to clearly demarcate and define the ownership rights to existing assets will
be completed by mid-1997. Various business enterprises, supplementary and service-
related operations, research and educational institutions will either be separated or put into
independent operations by 1997. The independent enterprises will be organized as
subsidiaries.
20.         Enterprises that are owned by multiple investors will be reorganized into
independently operated limited-liability or shareholding companies. Companies in which
SEPC is the largest shareholder will be reorganized as subsidiaries of SEPC.
21.         Power distribution companies, transmission assets and generation assets
solely owned by SEPC, or certain enterprises or social-service operations that cannot be
independently operated may remain as Sichuan Electric Power Limited Liability
Company's subsidiaries under the company's direct control.
22.         By 1998, SEPC will be registered as the Sichuan Electric Power Limited
Liability Company.
23.         Separation of Government and Enterprise Functions. SEPA and SEPC
will prepare a brief analytical report clearly defining the government functions and
enterprise functions currently carried out by these two organizations; following the issuance
of the Electricity Law, SEPA and SEPC will propose a plan for the separation of the
government and enterprise functions according to the Electricity Law. The plan, upon
approval by the government, will be gradually implemented in collaboration with the
establishment and operation of Sichuan Electric Power Limited Liability Company.



- 67 -                        ANNEX 3.1
24.         The objective is to separate functions of SEPA from those of Sichuan
Electric Power Limited Liability Company (SEPLLC). The company will be operated
fully as a business entity according to the Electric Law and other laws and regulations.
A transitional period is needed for the separation of the dual functions since the
combination of the two functions has a history of several decades. The completion of
separation is expected by 1998.
25.         As a transitional measure to full separation of government functions from
SEPC, beginning in January 1995, a SEPA manager will be designated from among the
leading managers of SEPA/SEPC and given sole responsibility for carrying out provincial-
level government functions in power industry regulation. At the same time, staff and
subunits will be assigned sole responsibility for government functions in the power sector,
under the leadership of the designated manager.
26.         Revision of Company Charter. To better conform with the spirit of the
Company Law, SEPC will revise its existing company charter, and obtain approval of the
revised charter by the end of 1994.
27.         By 1998, SEPC will, based on the development of the reform, prepare a
revised "Sichuan Electric Power Limited Liability Company Charter" in conformity with
the Company Law for final approval and registration of SEPLLC in place of SEPC.
Organization Measure for Reform
28.         SEPA and SEPC will set up a joint reform executive team by the end of
1994 in charge of planning and implementing the above-mentioned reforms.
Sichuan Electric Power Administration
Sichuan Electric Power Company
September 1994



- 68 -                            ANNEX 3.2
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS FOR
SICHUAN POWER SYSTEM
1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993
Installed Capacity (MW)
Whole province           5,605.9  6,048.1  6,575.6  7,489.7  8,690.9  9,565.3 10,527.1
SEPC                     3,733.0  3,933.0  4,114.5  4,644.9  5,024.0  4,982.0  5,646.7
Energy Generation (GWh)
Whole province            26,287  29,402   32,695   34,565   37,958  41,940  47,087
SEPC                      19,696  21,751   23,284  24,017  25,208   24,708   27,145
Energy Generation (GWh)
Thermal                   11,604  13,152   14,684   14,854   15,505   16,830   19,586
Hydro                     14,683  16,250   18,011   19,711   22,453   25,110  27,501
Net energy purchased (GWh)    1,856   1,648   2,305   2,867    3,652   6,138    8,200
Capacity Factor (%)
SEPC                        64.8    64.7    65.8    65.2    61.1    57.0    59.1
Peak Demand (MW)
SPG                        3,088   3,188    3,488    3,666   3,926    4,290    4,874
Energy Sales (GWh)
SEPC                      18,475  20,111   21,985  23,154   24,823   26,656   29,920
Station Use (%)
Whole province              6.06    6.16     6.41    6.60        -       -        -
SEPC                        6.40    6.37     6.64    6.82    7.13     7.10     6.95
Line Losses (%)
Whole province             10.81   10.91    10.84    9.86    9.71     9.66     9.46
SEPC                        8.84    8.54     8.46    8.19     8.19    8.29     8.30
Average Coal Consumption (g/kWh)
SEPC                        428      422     412      406     401      387     382
Number of Employees         66,943  68,892   69,771   72,065   73,511   73,504  73,131
Sales per Employee (kWh)
SEPC                     27S,985 291,925  315,102 321,291  337,680 362,643  409,126
Source: SEPC.



- 69 -                      ANNEX 3.3
STAFFING OF SEPC
(As of December 31, 1993)
Number of units   Number of staff  Percentage
By Functional Units
Headquarters                        1                 285           0.4
Generation                         18              26,531          36.3
Supply and services                15              26,918          36.8
Construction and installation       5              11,920          16.3
Education                           5               1,284           1.8
Design                              1                 288           0.4
Manufacture and repair              3               3,251           4.4
Miscellaneous                       9               2,654           3.6
TltI                           57               73.131         10.0O
By SMially
Staff
Administration                                     7,194           9.9
Technical                                         10,333          14.1
Engineers and technicians                          3,390           4.6
Subtotal                                       20.917           28
Workers
Junior                                             4,475           6.1
Average skilled                                    9,414          12.9
Highly skilled                                    34,395          47.0
Apprentices                                        1,724           2.4
Subtotal                                        50.008          6.4
Others                                              2,206           3.0
Total                                           73,131         100Q
By Schooling Received
Postgraduates                                         353
College graduates                                   3,160
Graduates of polytechnical institutes               5,391
Graduates of secondary technical school             8,371
Others                                             55,856
Source: SEPC.



-70 -                        A*NNEX 3.4
SCHOOLS AND TRAINIG CENTERS UNDER SEPC (1993)
Name of school                       Enrollment         Staff       Graduates
Chungqing Staff College La               604           134             113
Chengdu Staff Colege lb                  485           115             114
Chungqing Technical Institute           1,876          454             477
Chengdu Hydro Power Institute          2,102           457             450
Chungqing Technical School for
SkiUed Workers                        1,675           343             593
iDta1                               6.742         L50             1;747
La Chungqing Staff College is operating a TV University.
l2 Chengdu Staff College is using as a training center for short-term courses and a
correspondent school for SEPC's staff on different subjects.
Source: SEPC.



- 71 -                        ANNEX 3.5
POWER PRICING IN SICHUAN PROVINCE
Overview of the Power Pricing System
1.          As in other provinces, the power pricing system for electricity supplied
through the Sichuan Power Grid includes three components:
(a)   State Catalog Prices. These are the prices charged for electricity generated
by capacity financed by the Central Government and managed by provincial
power companies such as SEPC. This capacity includes (i) virtually all
power plants constructed before 1985, primarily with grant funding, and (ii)
plants, or shares of plants, constructed with loan funds allocated by the
Central Government since 1985. The state catalog prices provide the basis
for the revenue of SEPC and other provincial power companies. Since the
1993 reform in state catalog prices, prices built into the state catalog price
tables for electricity from capacity constructed since 1985 should allow for
full repayment of loans and interest, plus a small profit margin. State
catalog price tables are reviewed, revised and reissued every year by
MOEP, in consultation with provincial governments.
(b)   Prices for Purchased Power. Prices for power purchased by provincial
power companies such as SEPC from capacity not financed by the Central
Government are determined on a plant-by-plant basis, at levels allowing full
repayment of loans and interest, usually over a period of 10 years, plus a
reasonable profit margin. These types of plants include joint-investment
plants (financed through a combination of central, provincial and local
government funding sources), plants of independent power producers such
as the Huaneng Corporation, and plants owned by local governments or
industries that sell surplus power to the grid.
(c)   Additional Fees and Surcharges. A variety of surcharges are levied on the
various consumer categories, primarily for different types of investment
funds for the power sector. The most common and important include
provincial and local government power investment surcharges, surcharges
to raise funds for special projects (e.g., the Three Gorges Project), and local
fees to raise funds for distribution system investment.
2.          In most parts of China two types of consumer tariffs remain. Administered
prices, or "in-plan prices," include the state catalog prices plus the additional fees and
surcharges. These prices are charged for electricity supplied to enterprises under in-plan
quotas, generally set at 1985 consumption levels. Guidance prices include state catalog



- 72 -                        ANNEX 3.5
prices, markups for the higher cost of purchased power, plus the additional fees and
surcharges.
Power Pricing in Sichuan Compared to Other Provinces
3.          Complexity. While the power pricing system in China is complicated in
general, the current system in Sichuan is particularly complex.  One factor is the
interaction between the Sichuan Power Grid and the province's numerous semiautonomous
or autonomous local plants and systems. SEPC's power purchasing arrangements number
in the hundreds. Especially in the countryside, there are ever-changing combinations of
different categories of grid and local supply, priced in different ways for different
consumers.
4.          During the 1980s, Prefectural and County Power Supply Bureaus allocated
new sources of supply, under the guidance price system, separately to individual
consumers, with different prices for each supply source. By the early 1990s, this system
had become unmanageable. The province is reforming the system, to pool all of the
sources of supply subject to guidance prices together, and charge consumers a weighted
average price, as is now common in most other parts of China. Because the reform will
result in some enterprises paying more, and some paying less, than before, the reform is
being pursued over several years, prefecture-by-prefecture. The unreformed guidance
price system remained in force in 5 of the province's 14 prefectures in July 1994. In
Deyang Prefecture, where the reform has not yet been implemented, there are 14 separate
sources of "out-of-plan" supply, each priced and allocated to consumers separately.
5.          Low Price Levels. Electricity prices in Sichuan are among the lowest in
China. Both the average unit revenue level accruing to SEPC from the state catalog prices
and the average consumer price levels in Sichuan are only some 65-75 percent of the levels
in the coastal provinces of Jiangsu and Zhejiang. Consumer prices are significantly below
the long-run average incremental costs of supply (see below). Recently, however, prices
levels in Sichuan have been increasing more sharply, so that the gap compared to other
provinces is narrowing somewhat. Based on increases in the state catalog price, SEPC's
unit revenue levels are projected to rise by 21 percent in 1994, compared to 1993. In
Zhejiang, by comparison, the average state catalog price was increased by about 8 percent
between 1993 and 1994.
6.          One reason for the relatively low state catalog prices in Sichuan is the
relatively high share of hydroelectric generation. During the late 1980s and early 1990s,
the driving factor behind the increases in catalog prices throughout China was the
increasing costs of coal supply and delivery, which directly resulted in increased operating
costs. There has been greater resistance to increases in prices for power from existing
hydroelectric facilities, which were financed on a grant basis prior to the mid-1980s, to
levels approaching the incremental costs of new capacity. State catalog prices also are
relatively low in other provinces with a concentration of hydropower, such as Fujian.



- 73 -                        ANNEX 3.5
7.          Another factor is that the certain types of industries which are eligible for
subsidized electricity prices according to national policy, such as the chemical fertilizer
industry, account for a larger share of the overall load than in most other provinces. Sales
based on the special subsidized prices accounted for about 9 percent of SEPC's total sales
in 1993.
8.          Factors contributing to the low levels of consumer prices compared with the
coastal provinces, in addition to the low state catalog prices, include the facts that
(a) power supplied at the at the catalog prices (as opposed to power purchased from
independent or quasi-independent producers) accounts for a higher share of total sales, and
(b) price levels for power purchased from other sources by SEPC are somewhat lower.
In Sichuan, sales at administered prices account for about 60 percent of SEPC's sales,
while sales at guidance prices based on power purchased from outside of SEPC account
for about 40 percent. In the fast-growing coastal provinces, sales at administered prices
account for one half or less of total sales. In Sichuan, average guidance price levels also
are lower than on the coast, in part due to a high portion of power from small hydro plants
in the total amount of purchased power. Prices for power from small hydro plants tend
to be relatively low, as much of the power is supplied during the wet season when its value
to the overall system is less.
9.          Tine-of-Day and Seasonal Tariffs. Compared with other areas, Sichuan
Province is particularly advanced in implementation of time-of-day and seasonal tariffs.
Beginning in 1993, the province has been implementing a program to apply both daily peak
and off-peak rates, and wet, dry and shoulder season rates for major consumers. By 1995,
these tariff schedules will apply to about 60 percent of SEPC's total sales. (See also Table
2 and para. 16 below.)
The Electricity Price Buildup in Sichuan
10.         State Catalog Prices. The state catalog prices for Sichuan Province in 1994
are shown in Table 1. Prices are highest for commercial sector use, followed by industry.
Large industrial consumers face both an energy charge and a demand charge; the demand
charge amounts to an average of 2-4 f/kWh for most consumers. Consumer categories
provided with special subsidized rates include certain metals and chemicals, chemical
fertilizers, and irrigation in poor counties. The 1994 prices for regular and large industry
increased by 11 percent and 14 percent, respectively, compared to 1993. With projected
shifts in the composition of the load and other adjustments, SEPC's average revenue, based
on these prices, is expected to reach about 20 f/kWh (US2.3/kWh) in 1994, up from
16.54 f/kWh in 1993.
11.         Purchased Power. Key sources of purchased power include several large
joint-investment or independent plants, including two owned by Huaneng Corporation, and
a large number of small hydro and captive thermal plants. Supply sources and their prices
vary in different parts of the province. In the case of Chengdu Prefecture, power from
three large plants supply accounts for about one half of the purchased power, with selling
prices to the grid of 21.7 f/kWh (Chengdu Power Plant), 25.2 f/kWh (Jiangyou Power



- 74 -                        ANNEX 3.5
Plant), and 27.8 f/kWh (Luohuang Power Plant), and retail prices set 3-5 f/kWh higher,
plus the additional surcharges and fees. The other one half of purchased supply comes
from small hydro plants, with selling prices to the grid of 13.0-18.5 f/kWh, and small
thermal plants, with selling prices onto the grid of 27.5 f/kWh.
12.         Consumer Prices. As in other parts of China, surcharges added to the state
catalog prices in Sichuan to form the retail administered price schedule include (a) a local
surcharge for urban grid construction-levied, in this case, at 10 percent of the catalog
price for residential and commercial consumers, and 8 percent of the catalog price for
industrial consumers; (b) the national 0.4 f/kWh levy for mobilization of funds for the
Three Gorges Project; and (c) a surcharge to mobilize funds for provincial government
investment in power, amounting to 2.5 f/kWh in the case of Sichuan. Additional levies
in this case also include (a) a 5.5 f/kWh surcharge to pay for the higher cost of power
supplied by two particular large plants, (b) a 0.13 f/kWh fee to support small hydro plant
development, and (c) a 1.0 f/kWh surcharge to raise funds for Sichuan's Ertan
Hydroelectric Project.
13.         In Chengdu City, "out-of-plan" sources of purchased power are pooled
together and charged to consumers at one weighted average price of 28 f/kWh. Adding
in a 2 f/kWh fee for the Ertan project, guidance prices in 1994 were 30 f/kWh. In
Chengdu, the guidance prices were applied to 32 percent of total sales, and administered
prices were applied to the remaining 68 percent.
14.         Considering current load characteristics, the average consumer price in
Chengdu in mid-1994 is estimated at about 30 f/kWh (USC3.4/kWh). Consumer prices
in the neighboring Deyang Prefecture also were reviewed in detail, yielding about the same
average price.
15.         The administered and guidance price levels are now relatively close (adding
in the demand charge, typically amounting to 2-4 f/kWh, in the administered price for
large industry). In the case of Sichuan, a number of the surcharges that other provinces
often apply only in guidance prices are levied in the administered prices, whereas the
surcharges on guidance prices are relatively small.
16.         Table 2 shows the tariff for industrial consumers in use in Deyang Prefecture
in 1994. Rates are sharply differentiated according to season and time-of-day. During the
wet season, average prices are 10 percent below the catalog price, and during the dry
season, they are 20 percent higher. During each season, then, peak and off-peak time-of-
day rates apply. Added together, therefore, the price of peak load energy during the dry
season is four times the price of off-peak energy during the wet season. This tariff is
relatively advanced compared with those used in other parts of China. It provides a much
improved signal to consumers as to the actual costs of supply at different times-costs that
vary dramatically in Sichuan's system-and provides a good incentives framework for
proper load management.



-75-                          ANNEX 3.
Comparison of Consumer Prices and the Economic Cost of Supply
17.         Average consumer prices in Sichuan in 1994, represented by the cases of
Chengdu and Deyang, were about 70-80 percent of the estimated long-run average
incremental cost (LRAIC) of supply, calculated in economic shadow prices. This gap
between average consumer prices and the estimated economic cost of supply contrasts with
the situation in the coastal provinces, where average consumer prices are very close to, or
exceed the LRAIC of supply.
18.         As part of the economic analysis for this project, BERIWREP estimated the
LRAIC of the least-cost expansion program for the Sichuan Provincial Grid during 1994-
2010 at 40.5 f/kWh (USC4.7/kWh). Incremental supply costs in Sichuan are low because
of (a) the availability of inexpensive hydropower (the investment costs for most of the
projects in Sichuan's hydropower expansion program are less than $1,000/kW); (b) the
availability of low-cost coal (shadow-priced at about $31/ton of 6,000 kcal/kg coal
delivered), and; (c) relatively low costs for development of new thermal power capacity,
as in other parts of China. Incremental distribution system investment and operating costs
in BERIWREP's calculations include only those costs incurred by SEPC or its
subdivisions, amounting to only about 10 percent of total incremental costs. Actual
distribution system costs are substantially higher, but much of the cost is paid for by
consumers, through their own investment, connection fees and other means not included
in the average consumer price. Hence, BERIWREP's estimate may be the most
appropriate calculation to compare with the estimated consumer price levels.
19.         Compared with the weighted average price levels for different consumer
categories in Chengdu City, commercial sector prices are close to the economic cost of
supply, while industrial prices are on the order of 75-80 percent of supply cost. Prices for
residential, agricultural and industries with special subsidies are the furthest from the cost
of supply.



- 76 -                             ANNEX 3.5
Table 1: STATE CATALOG PRICES IN SICHUAN PROVINCE, 1994
Demand charge
Enerev charge (f/kWh)        Maximum       Substation
Low                   35 kVA       load        capacity
Consumer categories             voltage     1-10 kVA   & above   (Y/kW/mo)
(Y/kVA/mo)
Residences                       22.0        21.0
Commercial sector                30.6        29.8
Regular industry                 21.1        20.6       19.8
Large industry                                14.2      13.5         13.5         9.0
Special subsidies
Certain metals & chemicals                 13.2      12.5         13.5          9.0
Calcium carbide                            12.2       11.5        13.5          9.0
Chemical fertilizer /a                      6.1       5.8         13.5          9.0
Agricultural production          16.6         16.1      15.3
Irrigation in poor counties       7.6         7.4        7.1
/a Small- and medium-scale chemical fertilizer plants are charged 12.2 f/kWh for 1-10 kVA supply and
11.7 f/kWh for supply at 35 kVA and above.
Source: SEPC.



- 77 -                      ANNEX 3.5
Table 2: ELzeImcrrY PACES FOR INwSRL CONSUMERS,
DEYANG PREFEcIURE, SIcHUAN PROVINCE, 1994
(f/kWh)
Regular industry       Large industry /a
LV      1-10kV   235 kV    1-10kV  235 kV
Catalog price              21.10    20.60     19.80      14.20    13.50
Wet-season average price
(decreased 10%)          18.99     18.54     17.82     12.78    12.15
Dry-season average price
(increased 20%)          25.32     24.72     23.76      17.04    16.20
ase Taiff
Wet season
Peak                    28.49     27.81    26.73      19.17    18.23
Off-peak                 9.50      9.27     8.91       6.39     6.08
Shoulder season
Peak                    31.65     30.90    29.70      21.13    20.25
Off-peak                10.55     10.30     9.90       7.10     6.75
Dry season
Peak                    37.98     37.08    35.64      25.50    24.30
Off-peak                12.66     12.36     11.88      8.52     8.10
Surcharges
Small hydro fee           0.13      0.13      0.13      0.13     0.13
Three Gorges fee          0.40      0.40      0.40      0.40     0.40
Two-plant fee             5.50      5.50      5.50      5.50     5.50
Ertan fee                  1.00     1.00      1.00       1.00    1.00
La Energy charge only.
Source: Deyang Prefecture Power Supply Bureau.



- 78 -                              ANNEX 4.
INSTALLED GENERATING CAPACITY OF
SICHUAN POWER GRII)
(as of end-1993)
No. of
Installed      units     Commissioning   Dependable  Annual
Name of plant                  capacity      & sizes           date         capacity    output
(MW)         (MW)                           (MW)       (GWh)
A. SEPC
1.  Changshou                132           13 (1-15)      1954/64         120          625
2. Gongzui                   700            7 x 100       1971/77         700        3,690
3.  Yinxiuwan                135             3 x 45       1971/72          59          713
4.  Mofanggou                 37.5         3 x 12.5       1971/73           10         210
5.  Yuzixi                   320             8 x 40       1972/87         320        1,760
6.  Nanyahe                  120             3 x 40       1983/84          31          650
7. Tongjezhi                 450            3 x 150       1992/93         450        3,210
8.  Longchi                   10.5    5 (1.85 - 2.5)      1957/59           0           45
9.  Others                    48.7
Subtotal                   1.953.7
Th"rmai
1.  Chongqing                600             4 x 50       1960/69         600
2 x 200       1986/87
2.  Huayingsham              300             2 x 50       1978/79         300
2 x 100       1980/82
3. Wanyuan                    24             2 x 12       1971/74          24
4. Chengdu                   325             5 x 25       1958/65         325
1 x 200         1990
5. Jiangyou                  860             4 x 50       1966/71         860
2 x330           1991
6.  Wutonqiao                112             1 x 12          1977         112
2 x 50       1979/87
7.  Yibin                    500             2 x 50          1970         500
2 x 100          1974
1 x 200         1993
8.  Baima (Neijiang)         400            2 x 200       1988/89         400
9. Panzhihua                  36             3 x 12       1966/67          36
10. Hemenkou                 200             4 x 25       1966/70         200
2 x 50       1972/85
11. Xinzhuang                100             2 x 50       1975/77         100
12. Baihe (Kaixian)          100             2 x 50       1991/92         100
13. Others                   136
Subtotal                   3.693.0
Total                      5.646.7
B. Huaneng Plants               828.3
C. Local Plants               3,037.4
D. Captive Plants              1,014.8
GRAND TOTAL (MW)    10.527.2
Source: SEPC.



- 79 -                        ANNEX 4.2
TRANSMISSION NETWORK OF SICHUAN POWER GRID
(As of end 1993)
Province as a whole        Owned by SEPC
Number of      Circuit   Number of        Circuit
lines      length        lines        length
(km)                      (km)
A. Transmission Lines
220 kV                     114         5,064.1       106         4,795.0
110 kV                     397         9,257.4       324         7,379.2
35 kV                    1,425        20,410.5       408         4,862.3
TQW otal                  1^9334,736.0                           16.996.5
Province as a whole         Owned by SEPC
Number of    Capacity     Number of    Capacity
substations   (MVA)        substations    (MVA)
& transformers            & transformers
B. Substations
220 kV                 33/55         6,356.0       33/55        6,356.0
110 kV                186/307        8,116.7      162/273       7,361.4
35 kV                 613/967        3,967.7      208/332       1,881.2
Toal                  832/1,329      18,440.4     403/660       15.598.
Source: SEPC.



- 80 -                           ANNEX 4.3
ENERGY GENERATION OF SICHUAN POWER GRID
(Above 0.5 MW Only - Unit: GWh)
Name of plant               1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993
GRAND TOTAL            26.287   29.02  3695  43.565  37.957  41.940  47.087
Hydro              116i4   13.152  14.684  14.854  15.505  16.830  19.586
Thermal           14.683   16.25   18.011  19.711  22.452  25.110  27.501
A. SEPC Plants          1.9696.0 21.751.0 23,284.0 24.017.0 25.208.0 24.708.0 27145.0
1. Changshou Hydro     518.8   500.5   692.7   580.4   514.7   542.3   597.8
2. Gongzui Hydro      3,268.2  3,404.0  3,448.8  3,298.1  3,215.8  3,172.6  2,997.5
3. Yinxiuwan Hydro   1,999.3  2,357.3  2,356.7  2,343.1  2,387.1  2,326.3  2,220.1
4. Mofanggou Hydro    190.2   179.8   190.7   214.4   196.1   154.2   148.1
5. Nanyahe Hydro       522.9   568.3   614.7   644.8   560.4   630.0   583.8
6. Tongiezhi Hydro         -        -       -        -       -        -  1,211.4
7. Chungqing Thermal 3,171.7  4,178.6  4,203.6  4,290.9  4,210.9  3,200.1  3,721.8
8. Huayingshan Thermal 2,158.3  2,204.9  2,208.6  2,118.5  2,208.8  1,959.5  1,923.6
9. Wanyuan Thermal    181.7   159.0   169.8   168.8   170.6   164.0   165.2
10. Chengdu Cogenerationl,092.9  1,027.6  1,032.2  1,463.4  2,137.1  2,050.5  2,086.6
11. Jianyou Thermal    1,492.2  1,346.2  1,303.8  1,285.1  1,759.3  3,157.2  3,834.2
12. Wutongqiao Thermal   34.8     7.5     4.0    78.0    79.4    83.1    89.4
13. Douba Thermal    2,012.4  2,202.1  2,076.3  1,915.9  2,009.1  1,855.7  1,812.6
14. Baima Thermal      725.8  1,049.2  2,444.1  3,071.7  3,240.9  2,834.4  2,083.4
15. Panzhihua Thermal   191.5   232.9   208.5   223.9   226.6   233.5   225.2
16. Hemenkou Thermal  1,242.8  1,416.1  1,463.1  1,402.4  1,438.9  1,447.6  1,378.9
17. Xinzhuang          630.6   656.5   661.5   709.8   657.3   624.0   681.2
18. Baihe                  -       -        -       -    52.3   199.1   420.2
B. Huanen2 Plants              -       -    27.0   119.0   770.0  2.301.0  3.151.3
C. Local Plants          5003.  6138.  7.471.0  8363.  7.206.0  8859. 13.255.7
D. Captive Plants        1.550.0  1.493.0  1.883.0  1.959.0  2.479.0  3.470.0  3.534.2
E. Others                   38.0    20.0    30.0    35.6  2.294.0  2.602.0        -
Source: SEPC.



- 81-                               ANNEX 4.4
ENERGY CONSUMPTION BY CATEGORY OF
CONSUMERS IN SICHUAN PROVINCE_
(Unit: GWh)
Category of users             1987     1988     1989     1990     1991      1992     1993
A. Agriculture                 436      370      364      394      579      626      919
1. Irrigation              174      102       90      120      137      110      155
2. Forestry                  5        2        2        2        3        2         3
3. Cattling                  6        8        8       10       13        15       19
4. Others                  251      258      264      262      426      499      742
B. Industry                 19.506   21.106   23.292   24.177   25.833   27.750   29.524
1.  Heavy               16,058   17,520   19,611   20,257   21,912   23,736   24,810
2.  Light                3,448    3,586    3,681    3,920    3,921    4,014    4,714
C. TrEprtalion                 554      593      593      591      619      659      732
D. Commercial                   70       90      100      107       165     201       264
E. Residential               1.232    1.528    1.736    2.117    2.162    2.610    2.721
1. Municipal               936    1,175    1,317    1,632    1,635    2,010    2,061
2. Rural                   296      353      419      485      527      600       660
F. Others                      651      731      763      843    1.60    1.205    1.185
Total                   22.449   24.418   26.848   28.229   30.518   33,051   35.345
/a Including generation and purchased energy.
Source: SEPC.



- 82 -                          ANNEX 4.5
ENERGY FORECAST FOR SICHUAN POWER GRID
1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000   2005
A. Energv Requirement (GWh)
Agriculture   546.6   571.6   593.3   615.7   638.5   655.8   670.3   855.5
Industry    27,593.2 29,653.2 32,050.8 34,633.3 37,432.9 39,994.0 42,562.0 56,877.4
Transport    1,043.7  1,154.6  1,267.8  1,391.9  1,526.9  1,659.0  1,793.7  2,888.8
Building      282.0   314.6   348.5   386.0   427.1   468.2   510.7   829.0
Tertiary     1,613.4  1,849.6  2,086.4  2,352.9  2,651.6  2,959.5  3,287.0  5,792.8
Residential    2,515.6  2,834.4  3,125.5  3,445.5  3,796.1  4,141.3  4,496.3  7,576.5
Line loss &
station use  5,405.3  5,922.0  6,427.7  6,974.7  7,526.9  8,122.2  8,680.0 12,180.0
Total         39.000  42.300  45900  49.800   558000  62.000  87.000
B. Peak Load (MW) 6.180   6.730   7.330   8.000   8.700   9.400  10.000  14.100
Utilization hours of
maximum load6,311    6,285   6,262   6,225   6,207   6,170   6,200   6,170
Source: SEPC.



- 83 -                        ANNEX 4.6
SEPC'S POWER DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (1994-2003)
A. GENERATION PROJEcTs
Construction    Scheduled
Installed  No. of   Unit    starting    commissioning
Name of plant           capacity   units    size      date           date
(MW)              (MW)
A. Hydro
Tongjiezi              150      1        150      1991          1994
Baozhushi              700      4        175      1994          1994/96
Zhilanba               102      3         68      1994          1994/95
Taipingyi              260      2        130      1994          1995/96
Yaoheba                120      1        120      1994          1996
Ertan                3,300      6       550       1991          1998-2000
Yele                  220       2        110      1995          1999/2001
Lizipin                120      3         40      1998         2000/02
Pubugou              3,300      6       550       1997         2003/05
Tongzilin             400       4        100      1995         2000/02
Jinping              3,000      6       500       2000          2010/12
Pengshui             1,080      6        180      1998         2007/10
B. Thermal
Jiangyou             1,200      2        600      1998          2002/03
Baima                  200      1        200      1993          1995
Chungqing             200       1       200       1993          1995
Luohuang Extension     700      2        350      1994          1997
Huangjiachuang II      600      2        300      1997          2000/01
Guangan               600       2        300      1994          1997/98



- 84 -                       ANNEX 4.6
B. 500-KV TRANSMISSION NErWORK
Transmission lines                Length (km             Commissioningd
Ertan - Zigong                      3 x 470              1998, 1999, 2000
Zigong - Chongqing                  2 x 162              1994, 1998
Zigong - Chengdu                    2 x 190              1999, 2000
Chongqing - Changshou                100                 2000
Ertan - Panzhihua                   46                   1999
Pubugou - Xingjin                   2 x 200              2003, 2005
Xingjin - Longwang                   1 x 65              2003
Longwang - Deyang                    1 x 65              2004
Pubugou - Ziyang                    2 x 235              2004
Hongxian - Zigong                    1 x 90              2004
Luohuang - Changshou                 1 x 95              1999
Hongxian - Luzhou                    I x 95              2004
Luzhou - Qijiang                     1 x 129             2005
Qijiang - Luohuang                   1 x 60              2001
Qijiang - Chengjiaqiao              1 x 70               2001
Substafions                     Capacity (MVA)          Commissioning date
Zhaojue Switching Station                                1993
Honggou (Zigong)                     1 x 750             1998
Chengjiaqiao (Chongqing)            2 x 750              1998
Longwang (Chengdu)                  2 x 750              1999
Changshou                            1 x 750             2000
Panzhihua                            1 x 750             1999
Xingjin                             2 x 750              2003, 2005
Deyang                               I x 750             2004
Gucheng                              I x 750             2003
Ziyang                               1 x 500             2004
Hongxian                             1 x 500             2004
Luzhou                               1 x 500             2004
Qijiang                              1 x 500             2001
Source: SEPC.



- 85 -                      ANNEX 5.1
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
General
1.         The Ertan Hydroelectric Project is located in the southwest corner of
Sichuan Province. The proposed 500-kV transmission lines from Ertan will go northeast
to the Honggou substation near Zigong. From there, the lines will head north to the
Longwang substation, near Chengdu and northeast to the Chongqing, Chengjiaqiao and
Changshou substations.
2.         The alignment for the Ertan 500-kV transmission system covers two
geographic areas. The first is the area between the Ertan Dam and substation, and
Honggou substation near Zigong. The line passes through the Liang Mountains, and
crosses the Ming River into the low hill country of the western portion of the Sichuan
Basin in the center of the Province. Of the total length of transmission line from Ertan to
Honggou, 80 percent is in the mountainous area, and 20 percent is in the hilly land within
the Basin.  The highest elevation is over 3,200 meters where the line goes over
Daliangshan mountain chain and Luogi mountain. The area is generally sparsely
populated, mountainous and presents significant icing problems.  In this area, the
environment potentially may have a greater impact on the project and project design, than
the project will have on the environment.
3.         In the hilly areas of the Sichuan Basin, the line goes through agricultural
areas with rural populations and farmland until it reaches the Honggou (Zigong) substation.
4.          The second area includes the lines connecting the Honggou substation to the
Longwang substation to the north near Chengdu and the Chengjiaqiao and Changshou
substations to the northeast. This area is generally hilly farmland of the Sichuan Basin
with moderately high population density.
The Scope of the Project
5.         The 500-kV Ertan Transmission System includes the following:
(a)   Design, material procurement and construction of approximately 2,260 km
of 500-kV transmission lines.
(b)   Design, material procurement and construction of one 500-kV switching
station and five 500-kV/220-kV substations.



- 86 -                      ANNEX 5.1
(c)   Design, material procurement and construction of a communication,
protection and control system.
(d)   Extension and improvement of the 220-kV grid system.
Detailed Description
6.          Transmission Lines. The 500-kV transmission grid will be designed and
constructed to connect the Ertan hydroelectric station with the 220-kV grid system of the
Sichuan Electric Power Company (SEPC). The 500-kV transmission grid will consist
initially of three 500-kV lines out of the Ertan hydroelectric station, with a possible fourth
500-kV line in the future. The selection of the corridors was based on the assumption that
the fourth line would be constructed. Each circuit will be designed to carry 1,500 MW
under emergency or maintenance conditions. The lines will be arranged in a single circuit
configuration on two separate corridors. The separation between the corridors varies from
1 km to as much as 50 km. Each corridor will accommodate two single circuits with a
minimum separation between circuits of 100 m. The line segments that comprise the
proposed 500-kV grid are shown in Table 1.
Table 1: TRANSMISSION LINE SEGMENrs
Line name                         Length (km)               Remarks
Ertan - Zigong Line #1                 470                 Single circuit
Ertan - Zigong Line #2                 470                 Single circuit
Ertan - Zigong Line #3                 470                 Single circuit
Zigong - Chongqing #1                  162             Under construction LA
Zigong - Chongqing #2                  162                 Single circuit
Chongqing - Changshou                  100                 Single circuit
Zigong-Chengdu #1                      190                 Single circuit
Zigong-Chengdu #2                      190                 Single circuit
Ertan - Panzhihua                       46                 Single circuit
Total Length                      2.260
la The Zigong-Chongqing #1 line is currently under construction for 220-kV operation
in the initial stage and will be converted to 500 kV in 1999.
(a)   Conductors
7.          Conductors were selected on the basis of two operating conditions of Ertan
transmission lines. Under normal conditions, with three lines in service, transmission load



- 87 -                       ANNEX 5.1
from Ertan is 3,300 MW. Under emergency conditions, with two lines in service,
transmission load from Ertan is 3,000 MW.
Table 2: CONDUCOR AND BUNDLE CoNHGURATIoNs
No. of
conductors
Loading zone          Conductor type        per bundle       Bundle spacing
(mm)
Light               ACSR 400/50 (54/7)          4                 450
Medium              ACSR 400/50 (54/7)          4                 450
Heavy              AACSR 465/60 (54/7)          4                 450
Extra heavy       AACSR 957/121 (54/19)         2                 600
8.          For the extra heavy zone because of the severe icing conditions, extra strong
conductors will be utilized in a two-conductor bundle configuration. The two conductor
bundle configuration was selected because the ice build-up on a two-bundle configuration
is less than the ice build-up on a four-bundle configuration. In addition, the subconductor
bundle spacing was increased to 600 mm to prevent ice bridging between the
subconductors during icing and prevent the subspan oscillation.
(b)   Overhead Ground Wires
9.          The ground wires were selected to sustain without breaking, the ice loads
of the line, and the phase to ground fault current of the line for a duration equal to the
breaker operation time without exceeding the thermal limit of 400 C. A summary of the
design characteristics for each loading zone is given in Table 3.
(c)   Insulators
10.         The elevation of the line routes from Ertan to Zigong varies from 500 to
3,200 meters. It is estimated that 20 percent of the total length of the line is located in
high mountain areas, 62 percent in mountain areas and 18 percent in hilly areas. The
difference in relative air density between the low and high elevations is significant and
sections of the line located in higher elevations will require more insulators and more gap
clearances. The proposed line insulations are given in Table 4.



- 88 -                       ANNEX 5.1
Table 3: GRoUND WIRE DESIGN CHARACTERISrlCS
Description                           Light  Medium       Heavy  Extra heavy
Line length, km of single circuit     1,714        68       200           60
Design ice thickness, mm                 10        20        30           50
Check ice thickness, mm                   -         -        45           70
Maximum wind speed, m/s               35/30        30        30           50
Ground wire type                   GSW-70 GSW-100  GSW-120    GSW-230
Table 4: IUNE INSULATION
Number of Insulators per Elevation Range
Insulator           Insulator                 1,000 -     1,800 -    2,500 -
assembly             strenith   < 1,000 m     1.800 m    2500m    3.200 m
Xp - 16            160 kN           30         31          32         33
Xp - 21            210 kN           26         27          28         29
Xp - 30            300 kN           24         25          26         27
Gap Clearances (m) per Elevation Range
1,000-       1,800-       2,500-
< 1,000 m       1,800 m      2.500 m       3.200 m
Power frequency            1.25 m        1.4 m         1.6 m       1.75 m
Switching surge            2.70 m        3.0 m         3.3 m       3.60 m
Lightning                  3.70 m        3.8 m         3.9 m       4.00 m
(d)   Steel Towers
11.         Structures of the line will be of galvanized steel lattice type towers. They
will be designed to sustain the structural loads at the different loading zones and withstand
the electrical stresses at the different elevation ranges. The following structures are
proposed for the transmission lines:



- 89 -                             ANNEX 5.1
DESIGN SPANS
Attachment
Line   height of
Loading    Structure                             Horizontal  Vertical   angle   towers
zone      designation       Tower type              (m)       (m)    (degree)    (m)
Light      93LM-111   Suspension, delta, guyed       450        700        0       24 - 36
93ZM-111   Suspension, delta, self        450        700       0       24 - 39
93ZM-1 12  Suspension, delta, self        550        850       0       24 - 48
93ZM-113   Suspension, delta, self        650        100       0       24 - 48
93MJ-1 11   Suspension, delta, guyed      450        850     0-10      27 - 33
93ZM-211   Suspension, delta, self        450        700       0       24 - 36
93ZB-211   Suspension, horiz., self       450        700       0       24 - 39
93ZB-212   Suspension, horiz., self       550        850        0      24 - 48
93ZB-213   Suspension, horiz., self       650        100       0       24 - 48
93ZB-214   Suspension, horiz., self       850      1,250        0      24 - 48
93BJ-211    Suspension, horiz., self      450        850     0-10      27 - 33
93ZM-212  Suspension, delta, self         550        850        0      24 - 48
93MK-211   Suspension, delta, self      1,200      1,500        0      24 - 48
93JT-211   Tension, delta, self           550        800     0-30      24 - 30
93JT-212    Tension, delta, self          550        850    30-60      24 - 30
93HT-211   Tension, delta, self           550        850     0-30      21 - 27
93JK-211   Tension, delta, self           100      1,400     0-30      21 - 30
Medium     93ZB-121   Suspension, horiz., self       400        650        0       24 - 39
93ZB-122   Suspension, horiz., self       500        750       0       24 - 39
93JT-121    Tension, delta, self          450        850     0-30      24 - 30
93JT-122    Tension, delta, self          450        850    30-60      24 - 30
Heavy      93ZB-131   Suspension, horiz., self       400        600        0       24 - 39
93ZB-132   Suspension, horiz., self       500        750        0      24 - 39
93JT-131    Tension, delta, self          450        850     0-30      24 - 30
Extra      93ZB-151   Suspension, horiz., self        450       700        0       24 - 39
heavy      93JT-151    Tension, delta, self           450        850     0-30      24 - 30
Substations
(a)    General
12.           The expansion plans for the 500-kV Ertan Transmission Project include the
following five substations and one switching station:



- 90 -                       ANNEX 5.1
*     Zhaojue Switching Station
*     Honggou (Zigong) Substation
*     Chongqing Chengjiaqiao Substation
*     Chengdu Longwang Substation
*     Panzhihua Substation
*     Changshou Substation
(b)   Zhaojue Switching Station
(i)   Configuration - 500 kV
Insulation:       The switching station will be designed for a
1,550-kV BIL
Bus Arrangement: Breaker and one half
No. of Bays:      Eight
Shunt Reactors:   Each of four incoming lines will be connected
with a high voltage shunt reactors with a total
capacity of four (150-180) MVAR
(ii)   Main Equipment
13.         The Zhaojue switching station will be the backbone of interconnecting and
transferring power generated at the Ertan hydroelectric station. The switching station is
located at relatively high altitude (2,100 meters) and heavy icing zone. To provide high
reliability and minimize the operation and maintenance cost of the station, the equipment
selected for the switching station shall be of the GIS type.
(c)   Honggou (Zigong) Substation
14.         The substation will have three voltage levels 500 kV, 220 kV and 35 kV.
One set of main 500/220/35-kV transformer with a total capacity of 750 MVA will be
installed in this substation.
15.         The 500-kV substation will be designed for eight bays in a breaker and a
half configuration. Three bays will be used for the 500-kV lines to Zhaojue, two bays for
the 500-kV lines to Longwang, two bays for the 500 kV to Chenjiaqiao and one bay for
the 500/220-kV transformation.
16.         The 220 kV will be designed for six outgoing lines in a double busbar
configuration with tie breaker connections between the busbars.
17.         To meet power system requirements (150-180), MVAR high voltage shunt
reactors will be connected to the three incoming lines from Zhaojue Substation. In
addition, low voltage capacitors and reactors with a capacity of 200 MVAR and 240
MVAR, respectively, will be installed at the 35-kV side of the main transformer.



-91-                         ANNEX5.1
(i)   Configuration
Voltage Levels:    500 kV, 220 kV and 35 kV
Insulation:       1,550-kV BIL for the 500 kV, 900-kV BIL for
the 220 kV and 200-kV BIL for the 35 kV
Bus Arrangement: Breaker and half for the 500 kV, double
busbar for the 220 kV
No. of Bays:      Eight for the 500 kV, six outgoing lines for
the 220 kV
Shunt Reactors:   Three (150-180) MVAR 500-kV shunt reactors
connected to the lines from Zhaojue
substation, one 240-MVAR 35-kV shunt
reactor connected to the 35-kV side of the
transformer
Capacitors:       200-MVAR 35-kV capacitors connected to the
35-kV side of the transformer
(ii)   Main Equipment
18.         The Honggou (Zigong) 500-kV/220-kV  substation will be the main
interconnection terminal for transferring power generated at the Ertan hydroelectrical
station to the major load centers of Chengdu and Chongqing. Its reliability is essential for
normal operation of the Ertan 500-kV transmission system. The substation is located in
an acid rain zone, and also in an area that is in relative proximity to salt and chemical
heavy industry. Heavy pollution and high humidity prevalent in the area will impose
serious operational problems for an open air substation at 500-kV level. To provide high
reliability and minimize the operation and maintenance cost of the substation the equipment
selected for the substation shall be of the GIS type. The 220-kV substation will be of the
conventional open air type (AIS) with SF6 breakers, live tank design.
(d)   Chengjiaqiao (Chongqing) Substation
19.         The substation will have three voltage levels 500 kV, 220 kV and 35 kV.
20.         The 220-kV substation side is already constructed and connected to the 220-
kV grid system. The 220-kV substation is designed for a maximum of 14 outgoing lines
out of which 13 have been constructed and connected to the existing 220 kV grid.
Modifications will be made to the existing substation to connect the two circuits from the
two main transformers.
21.         Two sets of main 500/220/35-kV transforrner with a total capacity of 1,500
MVA will be installed in this substation.
22.         The 500-kV substation will be designed for five bays in a breaker and a half
configuration. Two bays will be used for the 500-kV lines to Honggou, one bay for the
500-kV lines to Changshou and two bays for the 500/220-kV transformation.



- 92 -                       ANNEX 5.1
23.         The 220-kV has been designed for 14 outgoing lines in a double busbar
configuration with tie breaker connections between the busbars.
24.         To meet power system requirements, low voltage capacitors and reactors
with a capacity of 150 MVAR and 150 MVAR, respectively, will be installed at the 35-kV
side of each of the main transformer.
(i)   Configuration
Voltage Levels:    500 kV, 220 kV and 35 kV
Insulation:       1,550 kV BIL for the 500 kV, 900 kV BEL for
the 220 kV and 200 kV BIL for the 35 kV
Bus Arrangement: Breaker and half for the 500 kV, double
busbar for the 220 kV
No. of Bays:      Five for the 500 kV, 14 outgoing lines for the
220 kV
Shunt Reactors:   300 MVAR 35-kV shunt reactors connected to
the 35-kV side of the transformers.
Capacitors:       300 MVAR 35-kV capacitors connected to the
35-kV side of the transformers.
(ii)   Main Equipment
25.         The 500-kV substation will be of the conventional open air insulation design
with three line-ups of SF6 breakers.
26.         The 220-kV substation will be of the conventional open air type (AIS) with
SF6 breakers, live tank design.
(e)   Longwang (Chengdu) Substation
27.         The substation will have three voltage levels 500 kV, 220 kV and 35 kV.
28.         The 220-kV substation side is already constructed and connected to the 220-
kV grid system. The 220-kV substation is designed for a maximum of 10 outgoing lines,
and out of which seven have been constructed and connected to the existing 220-kV grid.
Modifications will be made to the existing substation to connect the two circuits from the
two main transformers.
29.         Two sets of main 500/220/35-kV transformers with a total capacity of 1,500
MVA will be installed in this substation.
30.         The 500-kV substation will be designed for four bays in a breaker and a half
configuration. Two bays will be used for the 500-kV lines to Honggou and two bays for
the two main 500/220-kV transformers.



- 93 -                       ANNEX 5.1
31.         The 200-kV substation has been designed for 10 outgoing lines in a double
busbar configuration with tie breaker connections between the busbars.
32.         To meet power system requirements, low voltage capacitors and reactors
with a total capacity of 150 MVAR and 360 MVAR, respectively, will be installed at the
35-kV side of the main transformers.
(i)   Configuration
Voltage Levels:    500 kV, 220 kV and 35 kV
Insulation:       1,550 kV BIL for the 500 kV, 900 kV BIL for
the 220 kV and 200 kV BIL for the 35 kV
Bus Arrangement: Breaker and half for the 500 kV, double
busbar for the 220 kV
No. of Bays:      Four for the 500-kV, 10 outgoing lines for the
220 kV.
Shunt Reactors:   360 MVAR 35-kV shunt reactors connected to
the 35-kV side of the transformers
Capacitors:       150 MVAR 35-kV capacitors connected to the
35-kV side of the transformers
(ii)   Main Equipment
33.         The 500-kV substation will be of the conventional open air insulation design
(AIS) with two line-ups of SF6 breakers.
34.         The 220-kV substation will be of the conventional open air type (AIS) with
SF6 breakers, live tank design.
(f)   Panzhihua Substation
35.         The substation will have three voltage levels: 500 kV, 220 kV, and 35 kV.
36.         The 220 kV substation will be designed for a maximum of six outgoing
lines.
37.         One main 500/220/35 kV transformer with a total capacity of 750 MVA will
be installed in this substation.
38.         The 500 kV substation will be designed for two bays in a breaker and a half
configuration. One bay will be used for the 500 kV line to Ertan, and the other bay for
the main 500/220 kV transformer.
39.         The 220 kV substation will be designed for six outgoing lines in a double
busbar configuration with tie breaker connections between the busbars.



- 94 -                       ANNEX 5.1
40.         To meet power system requirements, low volage reactors with a total
capacity of 240 MVAR will be installed at the 35 kV side of the main transformer.
(i) Configuration
Voltage Levels:    500 kV, 220 kV, and 35 kV
Insulation:       1,550 kV BIL for the 500 kV, 900 kV BIL for
the 220 kV, and 200 kV BIL for the 35 kV
Bus Arrangement: Breaker and half for the 500 kV, double
busbar for the 220 kV
No. of Bays:      One (1) for the 500 kV, six (6) outgoing lines
for the 220 kV
Shunt Reactors:   240 MVAR 35 kV shunt reactors connected to
the 35 kV side of the transformers
(ii) Main Equipment
41.         The 500 kV substation will be of the conventional open air insulation design
(AIS) with one line-up of SF6 breakers.
42.         The 220 kV substation will be of the conventional open air type (AIS) with
SF6 breakers, live tank design.
(g)   Changshou Substation
43.         The substation will have three voltage levels: 500 kV, 220 kV, and 35 kV.
44.         The 220 kV substation will be designed for a maximum of eight outgoing
lines.
45.         One main 500/220/35 kV transformer with a total capacity of 750 MVA will
be installed in this substation. The 500 kV substation will be designed for two bays in a
breaker and a half configuration. One bay will be used for the 500 kV line to Chenjiaqiao,
and the other bay for the main 500/220 kV transformer.
46.         The 220 kV substation will be designed for eight outgoing lines in a double
busbar configuration with tie breaker connections between the busbars.
47.         To meet power system requirements, low voltage capacitors and reactors
with a total capacity of 150 MVAR and 150 MVAR, respectively, will be installed at the
35 kV side of the main power transformer.



- 95 -                       ANNEX 5.1
(i)  Configuration
Voltage Levels:    500 kV, 220 kV, and 35 kV
Insulation:       1,550 kV BIL for the 500 kV, 900 kV BEL for
the 220 kV, and 200 kV BIL for the 35 kV
Bus Arrangement: Breaker and half for the 500 kV, double
busbar for the 220 kV
No. of Bays:      One (1) for the 500 kV, eight (8) outgoing
lines for the 220 kV
Shunt Reactors:   150 MVAR 35 kV shunt reactors connected to
the 35 kV side of the transformer
Capacitors:       150 MVAR 35 kV capacitors connected to the
35 kV side of the transformer
(ii) Main Equipment
48.         The 500 kV substation will be of the conventional open air insulation design
(AIS) with one line-up of SF6 breakers.
49.         The 220 kV substation will be of the conventional open air type (AIS) with
SF6 breakers, live tank design.



- 96 -                       ANN 5X.s.2
CONSULTING SERVICES
(Terms of Reference)
Scope of the Consulting Services
1.          Consulting Engineer (hereinafter the Engineer) shall provide consulting
services for the 500-kV Sichuan Power Transmission Project to the Owner (SEPC) and the
Design Institute (SWEPDI), comprising the following tasks:
A. STAGE I SERVICES FOR PROJECT PREPARATION
Task 1:     Review of feasibility study and design report.
Task 2:     Special studies and review of design of the 500-kV transmission lines in
high mountainous and heavy icing areas.
Task 3:     Review of design of the 500-kV substations and switching station.
Task 4:     Review of the bidding documents for ICB procurement and assistance for
bid evaluations.
Task 5:     Consulting services for construction planning.
Task 6:     Training service.
Task 7:     Other services.
2.          Task 1 includes the review and updating of the feasibility study and design
report prepared by the Southwest China Electric Power Design Institute.
3.          Task 2 includes:
(a)   Review  of design codes, criteria, and standards for foreign EHV
transmission lines in heavy icing areas. Optimization of basic technical
requirements of design for the projects. Development and optimization of
design criteria, taking into consideration variation in altitude, icing and wind
conditions and contamination levels;



-97 -                          ANNEX 5.2
(b)   Studies of icing or frost characteristics, verification of design icing thickness
and preparation of an ice thickness map for corridors of the 500-kV lines;
(c)   Optimization for selection conductors and earth wires in high altitude and
heavy icing areas, especially regarding mechanics characteristics of phase
conductor structure, corona features and measures for prevention of
galloping. Assessment of wind conditions along the 500-kV line routes;
(d)   Review of electrical features of insulators, insulation compensation of
transmission lines in high altitude and heavy icing areas.  Insulation
coordination including power frequency overvoltage, switching surges and
lighting, establishment of gap clearances and optimization of shielding and
grounding requirements;
(e)   Review of design of metal fittings (hardware), spacers and insulators for
heavy icing and high altitude;
(f)    Optimization of steel tower, number of structure types and tower spotting
for 500-kV lines, loading combination and overload safety factors for the
design of tower;
(g)   Optimization of steel tower foundation, treatment of geological defects,
measure for stabilization of side slope;
(h)   Measures for prevention of impacts on telecommunication lines and radio
facilities resulted from EHV transmission lines; and
(i)    Environmental impacts of EHV transmission lines, related regulations,
environmental protection and assessment of width of corridor. Assessment
and evaluation of interference to communications.
4.          Task 3 includes:
(a)   Review of design for power sources requirement for the switching station;
(b)   Review  of insulation coordination and electrical rating and corona
characteristics of electrical equipment located in high altitude area;
(c)   Optimization of conductor structure, mechanical characteristics of large
sectional heat resistant aluminum  alloy conductors.   Assessment of
protection schemes, bus configuration and grounding layouts; and
(d)   Environment impact studies, such as evaluation of contamination, corrosion,
electromagnetic interference, noise, etc.



- 98 -                       ANNEX 5.2
5.          Task 4 includes:
Review of the bidding documents for the following items which will be
procured under ICB, comprising:
(i) transmission line materials (conductors, ground wires, insulators)
(ii)  500-kV/220-kV power transformers
(iii)  500-kV GIS switchgear
(iv)  500-kV SF6 circuit breakers
(v)  500-kV/220-kV substation equipment
(vi)  PLC
(vii)  SCADA
(viii)  protection relays
(ix)  UPS
(x)  communications  (microwave,  fiber  optic  and  mobile
communications)
(xi)  dispatching automation and stability control
Assistance for the bid evaluation for the items procured under ICB.
6.          Task 5 includes:
(a)   Construction methodology for specific items faced by the project such as
application of balloon or helicopter in construction of transmission lines in
rigorous mountain areas;
(b)   construction schedule.
7.          Task 6 includes:
Training of Owner's engineers for design and methodologies for EHV
transmission and substation technologies with particular attention to high
mountainous and heavily icing area.
8.          Task 7 includes:
(a)   Advice for operation and maintenance of the 500-kV power grid; and
(b)   Any other services as required by the Owner.
B. STAGE H SERVICES FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Task 1:     Project management.
Task 2:     Contract administration for transmission line materials and substation
equipment.



- 99 -                         ANNEX 5.2
Task 3:     Scheduling and reporting.
Task 4:     Construction supervision and quality control.
Task 5:     Cost control.
9.          Task 1 includes:
(a)   Establishment of methodologies of various phases of the project construction
management, implementation schedules, erection procedures and
commissioning procedures;
(b)   Review of the contractor's plan for equipment delivery schedule and
dispatching schedules of site supervising engineers;
(c)   Providing the Owner's construction personnel the field training for site
construction management and establish and expedite the equipment
installation training schedule;
(d)   Assisting the Owner in solving the problems encountered during project
implementation and in managing deficiencies of products found during site
construction;
(e)   Assisting the Owner in reviewing the qualifications of various contractor's
representatives for qualified site services.
(f)    Assisting the Owner in coordinating the interfaces and interferences between
contractors during construction and commissioning stages; and
(g)   Assisting the Owner in setting up programmable computer system for
information/document control which includes:
(i) all communications, letters, telexes, faxes, relating to site
construction, among the Owner, contractors, consultants, and other
selected organizations;
(ii) daily records of quantities of work performed under the Contract;
(iii) daily diary of all events occurring at the job site connected with the
progress of the work;
(iv)  as-built records and marked drawings on a weekly basis at project
site;
(v)  quality control and quality assurance records including test data;



- 100 -                       ANNEX 5.2
(vi) documents recording authorized changes in the work on a weekly
basis; and
(vii) records of all Contractor's claims and their disposal on a weekly
basis.
10.         Task 2 includes:
(a)   Assisting the owner in setting up programmable computer-aided system for
equipment and material management including site storage system for parts,
equipment and materials, outdoor and indoor installation;
(b)   Assisting in cooperation with Task 1 team, the Owner in controlling
delivery of the parts/equipment/material from various contractors in order
to meet with project schedule; and
(c)   Assisting the Owner in managing construction machinery to meet the
requirement of construction schedule.
11.         Task 3 includes:
(a)   Assisting the Owner to establish a master and submaster implementation
schedules including monthly and weekly schedules;
(b)   Assisting the Owner to monitor and expedite the master and submaster
schedules. The schedule control shall include review of progress of
interfacing and coordination among contractors, so that interfaces
coordination should be carried out in a timely manner;
(c)   Assisting the Owner to manage monthly progress reports provided by each
island contractor and establish and expedite schedules of design and site
construction information exchange; and
(d)   Assisting the Owner to prepare semiannual progress reports to be submitted
to the Bank.
12.         Task 4 includes:
(a)   Assisting the Owner in setting up and implementing quality control system
and quality assurance system during site construction and commissioning
stages, including:
(i) monitoring of performance of construction and technical supervision
thereof to ensure compliance with contracts;
(ii) documenting the progress and quality of all stages of construction
including daily records of progress, events and oral instructions,



- 101 -                        ANNEX 5.2
weekly updating of as built records and marked-up drawing,
recording of quality control and quality assurance records including
test data;
(iii) monitoring of contractor's quality control activities, review of test
results, and recommendation of remedial actions; and
(iv)  review and approval of contractor's submissions with respect to
sequence and timing of work, equipment, materials, temporary
works, detailed working or construction drawings and other
documents submitted in accordance with the contracts.
13.         Task 5 includes:
(a)   Assisting the Owner in establishing and implementing methodologies for
project cost control and accounting system;
(b)   Establishing and assisting to maintain a cost control system that continuously
monitors in foreign and local currency, incurred costs, committed costs and
cost estimate variations due to actual geological conditions, design changes,
additional work, escalation and currency fluctuations; and
(c)   Assisting in the six-monthly updates of cost estimate to completion and
projected disbursement schedules for each financier.



- 102 -                       ANNEX 5.3
ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
(Terms of Reference)
Objectives and Background
1.          The Sichuan Electric Power Company (SEPC) is seeking a loan from the
World Bank to finance the Sichuan Power Transmission Project. It is proposed to include
in the proposed loan funds for financing the cost of consulting services for implementing
the SEPC's reform plan, and upgrading SEPC's accounting, budgeting, and financial
management systems. The objective of these services is to assist SEPC making a smooth
and speedy transition to the new accounting framework that follows international
accounting principles and standards and strengthening SEPC's financial management. This
also includes introduction of computerized financial management information systems that
will enable managers to obtain timely information on the costs of all aspects of the
company's activities. The new systems would facilitate better budgetary control and
reporting on costs and finances to managers responsible for incurring expenditures and also
for external reporting to the Government, shareholders, lenders and the public.
A. ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
2.          SEPC, like all state-owned enterprises has maintained its accounts in
accordance with China's uniform accounting system, which has been applied for many
years under China's centrally planned economy. The Ministry of Finance has been
responsible for issue of regulations relating to accounting by state enterprises in China.
However, from July 1, 1993 new regulations covering accounting rules and financial
affairs are being introduced to strengthen the financial management of enterprises. These
new regulations largely reflect International Accounting Standards.
3.          The new regulations will lead gradually to replacement of state control by
accountability mechanisms which will allow greater financial autonomy to enterprise
managers. This will require enterprises to develop better budgetary and cost control
systems. Financial statements will need to be adjusted to provide full disclosure of their
financial position; e.g., the ownership and value of fixed assets will need to be updated to
establish the amount of equity or value of share capital and the value of construction
works-in-progress and related sources of funds will need to be brought to account.
Enterprises will be permitted to retain profits after taxes and depreciation funds to finance
expansion needs. This will mean that managers will then have to establish better cash
management and reporting for government, lenders, shareholders and the public. Public
accountability will replace state control as enterprises begin to obtain funds for expansion
from financial markets through borrowing and issues of shares.



- 103 -                       ANNEX 5.3
Scope of Services
Phase 1-Diagnostic Phase to Determine System Requirements
4.          Review in depth all existing accounting systems, including (a) policies,
procedures, documentation, and reporting formats; (b) transactions and activities at all
levels, such as power plants, supply bureaus, substations, etc; both those that are presently
on manual systems or computerized.
5.          Identify (a) differences between SEPC accounting practices under the new
regulations issued by MOF and international accounting standards; (b) issues/problems
existing within SEPC to record its transactions and activities in accordance with
internationally accepted accounting standards.
6.          Conduct a survey of the requirements of managers for financial information
and identify the functions and activities for which costs will be needed to be reported and
controlled.
7.          Assess SEPC's (a) existing organizational structure, including the
relationships and linkages between SEPC and the external units under it; (b) present
policies and procedures for planning and financial management, including pricing,
investment financing, cost controls and financial reporting.
8.          Review existing computer hardware and software.
Phase 2-Detailed Design of New Systems
9.          Using information collected under phase 1, prepare a detailed plan for
upgrading and improving existing systems, including a new chart of accounts, reporting
formats, disclosures, accounting policies and procedures, required documentation to cover
each segment of electricity supply, e.g., generation, transmission, and distribution, most
suitable for SEPC's business need. This will also require identification of priorities and
selection of suitable hardware and software especially a new general ledger package and
mainframe hardware that would be linked to computer terminals or PCs.
10.         A new chart of accounts should be prepared incorporating appropriate
budgetary control techniques for planning, measurement and control of costs.
11.         The level and frequency of reports should be determined and detailed
formats and contents agreed for each level of management. These would be submitted for
management review and approval. Reporting formats and contents as well as their flows
should be designed and step-by-step flow charts should be prepared.
12.         Internal and external auditors would have to be consulted and their needs for
adequate controls and checks taken into consideration in developing the new systems.



- 104 -                       ANNEX 5.3
13.         The staffing and skills required to implement the new systems would need
to be identified. An appropriate training program would also need to be prepared. In
connection with the new accounting and financial management information system, a
recommended new organization chart for SEPC's financial department should be prepared.
14.         Work sessions need to be organized to assist SEPC managers and financial
staff to fully understand the proposed changes.
15.         A detailed work plan and timetable for implementation of the new systems
would be prepared. This would show how the new and improved systems would be
progressively interfaced with existing systems to ensure a smooth transition.
Phase 3-Implementation
16.        Implementation of system improvements, including the organizational and
staffing changes, according to the scope and pace in the implementation plan.
17.         Procurement and installation of new hardware and software.
18.         The new and/or modified systems should be tested and installed preferably
at the start of the fiscal year and run in parallel with old systems until the new ones are
fully operational.
19.         New accounting procedures and manuals would be prepared to assist staff
responsible for operating the new systems.
20.         Full documentation of the new systems should be prepared including user
procedures.
21.         Training should be given to financial and other user staff (both formal and
on-the-job) who will operate and maintain the new systems and prepare reports. Training
should also be given to managers who will make decisions based on information provided
by the new systems.
B. APPROACH AND OUTPUT
Approach to the Work
22.         The consultants would be expected to work under the direction of a Steering
Committee set up by the SEPC. A proposed method of approach and a detailed work plan
should be prepared showing the tasks to be undertaken by each member of the team and
the time period in consultant weeks which each would provide. A Chinese counterpart
team of accountants should be subcontracted by the consultant. The work plan for the
study would show how this support would contribute to each phase of the services. The
foreign consulting team should represent appropriate capabilities and experience in
accounting system design and implementation, training, and public utility industry
accounting practices.



- 105 -                      ANNEX 5.3
Outputs
23.        The main output of the work would be reports at the end of Phases 1 and 2
and subsequently under Phase 3, the accounting procedures manuals and documentation of
the systems, including all accounting policies, procedures, and reporting formats. Progress
reports should be provided quarterly to the Steering Committee.



- 106 -                       ANNEX 5.4
MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING
A. OnJEcTvEs
1.          The management development and staff training program is designed to
enhance SEPC's managerial, technical and financial capabilities. The main objectives of
the program are:
(a)  to enable SEPC to function as an autonomous entity for the efficient and
accelerated development of its long-range investment program; and
(b)   to staff SEPC with professionally skilled personnel capable of handling
power development and financial planning, modem construction,
management and business operations.
B. SCOPE
2.          The training program will consist of the following four main categories:
(a)   Training in institutional development and enterprise reform matters;
(b)   Training in utility management and financial planning;
(c)   Project-related training for technical staff by working together with
consultants and those financed under vendors' contracts; and
(d)   Upgrading and equipping of SEPC's training facilities.
C. ORGANIZATION OF TRAINiNG
3.          SEPC will be responsible for planning and organizing the training program
with the approval and support of MOEP. The training program will be conducted both
abroad and in China. Initial training activities would aim at providing a general overview
of the selected topics by a series of training seminars in China. Both local and foreign
experts will be invited to give lectures on these specific topics. Study tours and overseas
training will then be followed for senior management and financial and technical staff.
Particular attention will be paid to the selection of candidates to be trained and their
adequate preparation before sending them abroad for training.



- 107 -                      ANNEX 5.4
D. IIPLEMENTATION
4.         Implementation plan for the management development and staff training
program is presented below:
(a)   Domestic Training. About 420 staff of various fields, totaling 305 staff-
months will be trained in China (Table 1); plus 11 staff-months of foreign
experts will be required for training in China.
Table 1: DoMEsTIc TRAINNG
Foreign
experts            Estimated
No. of   Duration   Staff-  (staff-   Training   cost
Categories        trainees  (months)  month  months)   period    ($'000)
Senior mgmt.
staff               60     0.5         30       2      1994-96     40
Business mgmt.
staff              110     0.5         55       2      1995-97     40
Legal staff          30        1         30      1       1994-96     20
Financial
mgmt. staff        110       1         110      2      1994-96     40
Technical
staff               80       1          80      3      1995-97     60
Environment &
resettlement        30       1          30      1      1994-96     20
Total            420                 X       11                 220
(b)   Overeas Training. Study tours and overseas training will be conducted in
1994-97 for 144 staff, totaling 247 staff-months. The number of trainees,
duration of training, staff-months and timing of different specialties of
personnel are shown in Table 2.



- 108 -                       ANNEX 5.4
Table 2: OVERSEAS TRAINNG
Estimated
No. of     Duration     Staff-    Training      cost
Categories         trainees    (months)    month       period      ($'000)
Senior mgmt.
staff               41            1         41       1994-96       328
Business mgmt.
staff               38           2          76       1994-96       608
Legal staff            8           2         16        1994-96       128
Financial
mgmt. staff         15           2          30       1994-96       240
Technical
staff               37           2          74       1995-97       592
Environment &
resettlement         5           2          10       1994-96        80
Ibtal            144                     247                    1,976
(c)   Project-Related Training for Technical Staff. A total of 176 trainees with
a total staff-months of 146 will be trained in manufacturers' offices and
factories. Another 100 staff totaling 300 staff-months will be trained in
China for line construction and substation equipment erection. Details are
shown in Table 3.
(d) Training Equipment. Total training equipment to be procured is estimated
at about $1,104 million as detailed in Table 4.
(e)   Estimated Training Cost. The total training cost will be Y 1.0 million
equivalent in local currency and $3.3 million in foreign currency (Table 5).



- 109 -                       ANNEX 5.4
Table 3: PRoJer-RELATED TRAING PROGRAM FOR TECHNcAL STAF
Training                   Estimated
No. of    period    Staff-             cost
Category of staff           trainees  (months) months  Timing    ($'000)
A. Training for Design and Engineering Staff
Design staff                   20         1       20    1994/95      100
Engineering staff              34         1       34    1994/95      170
12                        2S 54Q
B. Training for Electrical and Mechanical Staff
Project management             32         1        32    1994/96      160
Construction and erection      30         1       30    1994/96      150
Operation and maintenance      60       0.5       30    1995/97      150
IQal                      122                  92                 460
C. Domestic Training for Construction Personnel
Operations                     50         3       150    1996/97
Maintenance                    50         3       150    1996/97
Tota                      100                 30Q



-110-                          ANNEX54
Table 4: PROCuEMENT OF TRANG EQUIPMENT AND SOFTWARE
Unit       Estimated
Categories                          Quantity            price         cost
(set)           ($'000)       ($'000)
Digital real-time simulating
system for power system (RTDS)
(hardware and software)                 1            350             350
Power system transient simulating
program (PSCAD/EMTDC)                   1             34               34
Substation simulating system
(hardware and software)                 1            150              150
Information management system (MIS),
including subsystem (FMIS)
(hardware and software)                 1            450             450
Other software                                         110             120
Total                                                             ,104
Table 5: SUMMARY OF TRAINNG COST
Estimated
No. of                         cost
Categories                             trainees    Staff-months     ($'000)
Domestic training                        420            305             220
Overseas training                        144            247           1,976
Training equipment and facil-
ities procurement                         -              -           1,104
Tota                                 5 6            552           3,300/a
La This cost does not include the cost of project-related training, which will be
financed out of contracts of consulting services and equipment.



-111-                        ANNEX 5.5
PROJECT COST ESTIMATE
Description                               Local       Foreign       Total
---------------- ($ million) ---------------
1.  Prepartor Work
Base cost                           68.2           0.0        68.2
Physical contingencies               6.2           0.0         6.2
Price contingencies                 4.6            0.0         4.6
Taxes and duties                    0.0            0.0         0.0
Total                             78.9           008
2. Land Acquisition & Relocation
Base cost                           12.2           0.0        12.2
Physical contingencies               1.0           0.0         1.0
Price contingencies                 0.8           0.0          0.8
Taxes and duties                    0.0           0.0          0.0
Toal                      139                               13.9
3.   Civil Works & Installation
Base cost                          123.7           0.0       123.7
Physical contingencies              10.9           0.0        10.9
Price contingencies                 9.3            0.0         9.3
Taxes and duties                     0.0           0.0         0.0
Total                            143.8           Q0         143.8
4.   220-kV Transmission System
Base cost                          128.4           0.0       128.4
Physical contingencies              12.8           0.0        12.8
Price contingencies                  8.6           0.0         8.6
Taxes and duties                     0.0           0.0         0.0
Total                            149.9           Q         149.9



- 112 -                       ANNEX 5.5
Description                                Local        Foreign        Total
-------------- ($ milion) -------
5.   500-kV Transmission Lines
Base cost                           130.0          60.2        190.2
Physical contingencies               13.0           6.0         19.0
Price contingencies                  10.7           3.1         13.8
Taxes and duties                      0.0           0.0          0.0
IQTl                               5l3:           6          2230
6.   500-kV Substation Equipment
Base cost                            40.1         175.4        215.5
Physical contingencies                2.0           8.8         10.8
Price contingencies                   2.9           9.1         12.1
Taxes and duties                      0.0           0.0          0.0
lotal                              4iAID        193.3       2Z38.2
7.   Engineering & Administration
Base cost                            12.0           4.2         16.2
Physical contingencies                0.6           0.1          0.7
Price contingencies                   1.0           0.1          0.1
Taxes and duties                      0.0           0.0          0.0
IT                                 136             41         17.9
8.   Environmental Program
Base cost                             0.3           0.5          0.8
Physical contingencies                0.0           0.0          0.0
Price contingencies                   0.0           0.0          0.0
Taxes and duties                      0.0           0.0          0.0
IQIAl                               QA              50
9. Technical Assistance
Base cost                             1.0           1.7          2.7
Physical contingencies                0.1           0.1          0.1
Price contingencies                   0.0           0.1          0.1
Taxes and duties                      0.0           0.0          0.0
Tota                                IA            2L8            2



-113 -                        ANNEX 5.5
Description                                Local       Foreign        Total
($ million) --------
10. Training
Base cost                            1.0            3.3         4.3
Physical contingencies               0.0            0.2         0.2
Price contingencies                  0.0            0.2         0.2
Taxes and duties                     0.0            0.0         0.0
IQta                               116Q.                       4.7
11.  Total Proect Costs
Base cost                          516.9         245.3        762.2
Physical contingencies              46.6           15.1        61.7
Price contingencies                 37.9           12.6        50.5
Taxes and duties                     0.0           0.0          0.0
GRA   TOTAL,                      OLA           273     874.4



PROCUREMENT SCHEDULE
(1)         (2)           (3)          (4)         (5)            (6)
Conductor                             Microwave
insulator OH  Substation    Substation    dispatching  Construction
groundwire &    equipment    equipment    automatic    maintenance
Steel     accessories    no. 1 /a    no. 2 Lb     equipment     equipment
Begin preparation of bidding documents     05/01/94     05/10/94      05/01/94     08/01/94     01/01/94      07/20/94
Approval by Chinese government             09/24/94     10/14/94      10/25/94     01/25/94     05/25/95      10/30/94
Review by the World Bank                    10/15/94    11/15/94      11/25/94     02/25/95     06/25/95      11/25/94
Issue bidding documents                    10/20/94     11/20/94      12/01/94     03/01/95     07/01/95      12/01/94
Bid opening                                01/10/95     02/05/95      03/01/95     06/01/95     10/01/95      03/01/95
Bid evaluation                             02/20/95     03/20/95      04/30/95     07/31/95     11/30/95      04/30/95
Approval by Chinese government             03/15/95     04/25/95      05/30/95     08/30/95     12/30/95      05/30/95
Confirmation by the World Bank             03/30/95     05/30/95      06/30/95     09/30/95     01/30/96      06/25/95
Contract discussion and signing            05/05/95     07/30/95      08/01/95     11/01/95     03/15/96      08/10/95
/a Power transformer, GIS, reactor.
/b Disconnecting switch, SF6 switch, arrester, UPS, protection, PLC and automation complex in substation.



KEY DATES OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
(a) TRANSMISSION LINES
Key dates                       Ertan-    Ertan-    Ertan-    Ertan-   Zigong-   Zigong-   Zigong-  Zigong-   Chongqing-
Zigong   Zigong   Zigong  Panzhihua  Chongqing Chongqing  Chengdu  Chengdu   Changshou
No. 1    No. 2    No. 3                No. 1      No. 2     No. 1    No. 2
Construction contracting       02/15/95  10/01/95  06/01/96   08/01/97    03/01/98   11/01/95   08/01/96  02/01/97    08/01/97
Enter construction site        04/01/95  01/01/96  10/01/96   10/01/96    05/01/98   01/01/96   10/01/96  04/01/97    10/01/97
Start foundation works         07/01/95  04/01/96  01/01/97   01/01/98    07/01/98   04/01/96   01/01/97  07/01/97    01/01/98
Start tower erection           02/01/96  11/01/96  08/01/97   07/01/98    09/01/98   09/01/96   08/01/97  01/01/98    07/01/98
Start stringing                07/01/96  05/01/97  02/01/98   11/01/98    10/01/98   01/01/97   02/01/98  06/01/98    01/01/99
Testing and acceptance         07/01/97  04/01/98  01/01/99   05/01/99    11/01/98   07/01/97   08/01/98  01/01/99    07/01/99
Normal operation               07/01/98  03/01/99  02/01/00   04/01/00    12/01/98   07/01/98   07/01/99  01/01/00    06/01/00
Project completion                                                                                                12/31/00



KEY DATES OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
(b) SUBSrATIONS
Zhaojue Switching Station
Honggou Substation    Longwang   Panzhihua   Changshou
Chengjiaqiao Substation  Substation   Substation   Substation
Equipment procurement contract signing           08/01/95           08/01/95    08/01/95    08/01/95
11/01/95           11/01/95    11/01/95    11/01/95
Construction contract signing                    09/01/95           06/01/96    02/01/97    06/01/97
Enter construction site                          10/01/95           07/01/96    03/01/97    07/01/97
Start excavation                                 02/01/96            11/01/96    07/01/97    11/01/97
Start erection                                   02/01/97            11/01/97    07/01/98    11/01/98
Testing and acceptance                           09/01/97           06/01/98    02/01/99    06/01/99
02/28/98           11/30/98    07/31/99    11/30/99
Start operation                                  06/30/98            2/28/99    10/30/99   2/28/2000



-117-                        ANNEX5.8
SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
($million)
Bank FY and           Semester     Cumulative     Project    Bank profileLa
semester             -------- ($ million) ---------  --------------   -------------
1995
First                   -            -            -               0
Second               22.5         22.5          8.3               6
i199
First                22.6         45.1         16.7              18
Second               41.6         86.7         32.1              26
1997
First                41.6        128.3        47.5               38
Second               33.5        161.8        59.9               50
i998
First                33.5        195.3         72.3              58
Second               29.3        224.6         83.1              66
999
First                29.2        253.8         94.0              74
Second                6.9        260.7         96.5              78
200
First                 6.8        267.5         99.0              82
Second                2.5        270.0        100.0              86
La Bank-wide standard disbursement profile for the power sector in China (August
1993).



- 118-                        ANNEX5.9
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
A. BACKGROUND
1.          Environmental factors were incorporated into the selection process for the
route alignments and preliminary design for the 500-kV Ertan transmission system from
the Ertan Hydroelectric Project to Zigong, Chengdu, and Chongqing. Considerable efforts
were made to avoid populated areas, productive farmland, industrial facilities, and natural
conservancy areas, as well as forests, historic landmarks, and scenic areas. The main
residual adverse environmental impact effects of this project include: steel transmission
towers and substations taking farmland and other lands with resultant displacement of
1,983 families [an average of 96.3 families or household, 393.7 individuals, per
100 kilometers (km) of transmission line], the felling of trees during construction, the
interference of electromagnetic fields with communications, and potential health risks to
people and animals. All applicable national and local environmental protection policies
have been incorporated into project planning and design.
2.          With the adoption of preventive measures, the project complies with
applicable environmental protection requirements.  Expenditures for mitigation and
monitoring measures are relatively low and technological skills are locally available. The
effects of high elevation and heavy ice loading of the line are important environmental
characteristics that affect project planning. Ice prevention measures and electromagnetic
considerations will be comprehensively studied as the project design stage continues.
Environment and its Relationship to the Project
3.          The 500-kV Ertan Transmission system will be a very important segment
of the Sichuan electric network, transferring up to 3,300-MW of electric power from the
Ertan Hydroelectric Project to the load centers of the heavily populated Sichuan Basin.
The selected route consists of two parallel transmission corridors with, initially, three
single phase 500-kV lines from Ertan to the Zigong substation. From there, two lines will
go towards Chongqing and two towards Chengdu.
4.          The alignment, and the environmental studies, can be considered as covering
two distinct geographical areas, the Sichuan Basin, and the mountainous area to the
southwest, where the Ertan Project is located. In the western mountain area, the geologic
texture is complex, and the forest resources are rich, with considerable climatic change
with increasing elevation. The population is sparsely distributed, and industry and
agriculture are underdeveloped. However, in the eastern hilly land region of the Sichuan
Basin, the climate is warm, with concentrated populations and relatively developed industry
and agriculture.



- 119 -                       ANNEX 5.2
5.          The highest elevations along the route are over 3,200 meters, and heavy ice
accumulations and geologic problems including mudflow, landslides, and potentially high
earthquake magnitudes are environmental factors that had to be considered in project
design.
6.          In the thickly forested mountains, wildlife, including the giant and lesser
pandas, monkeys, and other rare animals and Chinese medicinal plants are found. A
critical high area between Ba-Pu and Wahou has been designated as the Da Feng Ding
Natural Protected Zone. This area contains important panda habitat and virgin forest land,
however, the transmission lines will be at some distance from this zone.
Incorporation of Environmental Considerations into Project Design
7.          During the design of the project, effective measures have been adopted to
eliminate or minimize adverse impacts. For example, the need for clearing of forests for
transmission lines was kept to a minimum during the development of the alignment. Also,
based on the national environmental protection policies, the selected transmission
alignments were designed to avoid the natural conservation zone for the protection of panda
and other rare species by a minimum of 5 km from boundary of the zone, and are located
near roads at a lower elevation than the significant habitat for endangered species. The
minimum distance from the transmission line alignments to the bamboo forest home of the
panda is 16 km. Elsewhere, the alignment is designed to minimize effects on forest and
agricultural land, and other natural and sociocultural resources.
8.          In China, only the foundations of the towers and newly built or extended
roads will require land acquisition. The land under the transmission lines will not be
acquired, but houses may have to be relocated. Land requirements for each tower will be
approximately 225 square meters. The land under the lines between the towers will remain
the property of the original owner. Assuming an average distance between the towers of
395 meters, and a total line distance of 470 km, approximately 27 ha of land will have to
be acquired for construction of towers for each circuit between the Ertan and Zigong
Honggou Substations. In addition, approximately 23 ha will be required for the towers for
the lines to Chengdu and Chongqing, and approximately 10.5 ha will be required for new
or extended roads. Likewise, 45 ha will be required for construction of the substations,
for a total land acquisition of approximately 159 ha.  The compensation paid for
agricultural land is about 10 to 20 times that of the annual value of the crops. Payments
are also made to the local government or other land owners for the expropriated
nonagricultural land.
Relocation and Resettlement
9.          After planning the transmission alignments so as to avoid the necessity of
displacing houses to the extent practical, it will still be necessary to displace some housing
for project construction. Approximately 2,000 families (houses), 8,100 individuals, will
be displaced to accommodate the transmission alignments for more than 2,000 km of
transmission line, one switching station, and the four located substations. Approximately
265 families will be displaced for the construction of each of the three circuits from Ertan



- 120 -                       ANNEX 5.9
to Honggou. Within the more densely populated basin area, 1,183 families would have
to be relocated for the construction of the four proposed lines. The houses to be removed
for the construction of the transmission lines are relatively scattered, particularly in the
mountainous areas between Ertan and Zigong. Approximately 56 houses per 100 km for
each of the Ertan to Zigong lines, and approximately 186 houses per 100 km of line for
he lines within the densely populated basin will have to be relocated. Normally, the
location of the new houses will be between 100 and 1,000 meters away for the original
position.
10.         Compensation and relocation assistance will be provided by SEPA and the
local governments. Compensation will be based on the number of square meters of
housing a family has, the value of crops, etc. This compensation will be provided both
in terms of money, and assistance in finding alternative locations to rebuild in the general
area. In addition, SEPA will provide assistance in terms of building materials and other
requirements for rebuilding.
Monitoring and Mitigation Plans
11.         An environmental protection facility will be established to conduct
environmental monitoring programs and supervise the implementation of the preventive or
mitigation measures. The estimated annual expenditures for environmental protection
monitoring are 790,000 Yuan. Until the Ertan Project goes on line, these costs will be
included as part of the overall project construction cost. After that, the program will
continue and will be paid for from operating revenues.
B. ENvRoNMENTAL CONSTRUCTION IACS
12.         Project construction will require land acquisition, cutting forests, damage
to crops, and excavation of earth. In addition, blasting will create high level explosive
noise. Construction will also have adverse impacts on the wildlife, native vegetation, and
nearby residents. The following measures have been identified for consideration, and
adoption if justified, during construction in order to minimize the impact on the
environment:
(a)   Adopt the stringing of lines under tension.
(b)   Adopt small piece erection techniques.
(c)   Arrange the stringing of line after the fall harvest in agricultural areas.
(d)   Forbid using the explosive method to connect wires, and use noise control
measure during excavation.
(e)   Adopt aerial ropeways to transport the parts.



- 121 -                        ANNEX 5.9
(f)   Rent existing houses for construction offices rather than building new
facilities.
(g)   Assess the possibility of using helicopters for construction.
13.         The weight of the bulky equipment for the substations and the switching
station can reach up to 180 tons, and their dimensions may be up to 8 m by 4 m. In order
to ensure the safety of people and of shipments of the large components, it will be
necessary to investigate the condition of the transportation routes to be utilized in moving
the equipment to the site where it is needed. This will include the status of the roads and
railways, the bearing capacity and dimensions of the bridges and tunnels, as well as the
loading and unloading capacity of the train yards. Where necessary, these facilities will
be rebuilt, reinforced, or avoided to prevent accidents during the shipment of equipment.
14.         Detailed planning will be conducted to minimize and control runoff and
erosion at the construction sites. The soil erosion prevention measures include revegetation
of the disturbed surfaces, or their conversion into agricultural land. In addition, the
contractors will be required to utilize suitable prevention measure to limit construction
noise, dust, and smoke so as to minimize their impacts on the surrounding residents and
the environment.
15.         Project design will be such that intemational standards of worker safety will
be included in all bidding documents of project equipment. Dangerous equipment will be
designed to meet ASME standards of safety and will be so specified. Polychlorinated
biphenyls (PCBs) are illegal in China and their use is therefore prohibited in the project.
16.         The construction labor force will consist of a fixed of 1,000 to 2,000 skilled
workers and a variable number of unskilled workers numbering about 3,000 at the period
of maximum activity. It is estimated that the plant will take two to three years to build.
Most of the skilled workers will move to the area without their families, and unskilled
workers will consist mostly of local farmers with about half of them living on-site and the
other half commuting. Therefore, housing and infrastructure will be needed for the skilled
workers and some unskilled labor (about 3,000 units in total). For workers living on-site,
Sichuan Electric Construction Company will build temporary housing on-site as well as
medical facilities, shopping, sewage and fire protection. Water supply and electricity will
be supplied from Yang City.
17.         About 650 workers are needed to operate and maintain the network, of
which roughly 60 percent will be married. SEPC will construct apartments for married
workers in Yang City, and apartments for single workers at the plant site. Since Yang
City has a population of over 400,000, the addition of transmission network personnel
should not present a significant burden on the city infrastructure. At the plant site, SEPC
will construct sewage facilities, a clinic, shops, dining facilities, clubhouse and library.
It will also supply electricity. Operating plant personnel living at the plant site should not
present a significant impact on the local community level.



- 122 -                       ANNEX 5.2
18.         Noise estimates indicate that the project will conform with Chinese standards
and World Band guidelines.
Operational Impacts
(a)   Substations
19.         Five substations will be constructed in conjunction with the above
transmission lines. They are Panzhihua, Honggou, Chengjaqiao, Changshou, Longwang,
and the Zhaojue 550-kV Switch Station. The initial total capacity is 5,250 MVA, but the
final capacity will be 7,500 MVA.
20.        It is anticipated that each 500-kV substation and switching station will have
approximately 100 employees. SEPA will provide housing for the employees and their
families. Dormitories will be provided near the station for single employees and housing
near town will be provided for families. An average of 24 m2 of living area will be
provided per person. The total living area for each station will be approximately 0.5 ha.
21.         The project construction area will a approximately 2.9 ha, 1.2 ha for living
areas, and 1.7 ha for working areas. A total of approximately 590 employees will be
required for project construction. 350 people would come from the civil work construction
company, and 240 people would come from the equipment installation company.
(b)   Forests and Economically Important Trees
22.        In China, the regulations stipulate that, when a transmission line passes
through forest land, a cleared right-of-way must be established with a width that must be
at least two times the width of the line plus the height of the trees. However, the felling
of trees destroys the ecological balance and may cause soil erosion. The protection of
forest resources is an important policy of China, and therefore, the need for clearing of
forests for transmission lines was kept to a minimum during the development of the
alignment. Where possible, selective cutting techniques or other avoidance measures will
be utilized.
23.        In China, transmission lines are not permitted to pass through designated
scenic locations or natural conservation zones unless there is no other alternative. The
selection of transmission alignments should also avoid passing through areas of virgin
forest and economically important trees. Triangularly arranged steel towers can reduce the
width of the transmission corridor by 13 to 15 m compared with that of parallel arranged
steel towers. Thus, it is planned that triangularly arranged towers be utilized in forested
and densely populated areas because they can decrease by 20 to 30 percent the required
removal of trees and buildings. In mountain areas, if the net height of the lines above the
valley trees is over 30 m, the trees may not need to be cut.



- 123 -                       ANNEX 5.2
(c)   Wildlife and Vegetation
24.         As mentioned above, there are some rare animals and plants in the mountain
areas through which the line has to pass. For their protection, China has defined the area
of critical habitat for several endangered species in the project area as the Da Feng Ding
Natural Conservation Zone. This zone contains elevations in excess of 4,000 meters, and
giant panda and other endangered species are found there in the bamboo forest at high
elevations. There are also reports of a few tigers still present. Based on the national
environmental protection policies, the selected transmission alignments were designed to
avoid the natural conservation zone for the protection of panda and other rare species by
a minimum of 5 km from the boundary of the zone, and are located near roads at a lower
elevation than the significant habitat for panda and other endangered species. The
minimum distance from the transmission line alignments to the bamboo forest home of the
panda is 16 km.
(d)   Farmland
25.         According to national land laws, the land occupied by the tower foundation
shall be expropriated. Because of the national population explosion and the importance of
maintaining farmland in production, it is important to minimize the use of farmland for the
project. The 500-kV power system of Sichuan is still weak. Therefore, to ensure greater
reliability, double circuit towers are not allowed. The selected transmission alignments
avoid impacting farmland to the maximum practical extent. Some 80 percent of the Ertan
to Zigong transmission line is through mountainous areas where uncultivated land is about
60 percent of the area, and only 5 percent is cultivated land. The remaining 35 percent
is forest land where cutting will be minimized to the extent practical.
(e)   Industrial Facilities and Mineral Resources
26.         Chinese design criteria stipulate the required safe distances between a
transmission line and potentially dangerous facilities, as well as from factory buildings,
storehouses, etc. The minimum safe fire protection distance between the transmission line
and any first class dangerous workshop, storehouse, and combustible material stockyards,
as well as combustible gas storage tanks cannot be less than 1.5 times the height of the
tower. The fire protection distance between the transmission line and workshops that
discharge combustible gas cannot be less than 30 meters.
27.         Furthermore, there are basic requirements for transmission lines approaching
or crossing highways, railways, river, telecommunication lines, power lines, etc. These
requirements have been followed in the design of the transmission line. The route should
also avoid passing over mineral deposits that potentially could be exploited.
28.         The transmission lines will be designed in such a fashion that the maximum
electric field strength at ground level will be 9 kV/m and the maximum noise level (rainy
days) will be 62 db(A). There are no Chinese or World Bank standards for electric field
strengths, but the maximum value is considered safe (within the limits experienced by
using an electric heating blanket) and is expected to cause only minor damage to plant life.



- 124 -                       ANNEX 5.9
Additionally, the population along the transmission line will be relocated, so no one in the
area should be permanently exposed to the maximum field. The electric field intensity
diminished rapidly with distance and should not present a problem to local residents.
Noise levels on the average comply with World Bank and Chinese standards. The rainy
day extreme, evaluated at the point of maximum intensity (underneath the power line) is
62 db(A), slightly higher than the Chinese nor [60 db(A)]. Where most of the people live,
noise levels have been determined to be 45-50 db(A), which is within the Chinese norm
and World Bank guidelines.  Both electric field and noise monitoring along the
transmission route are part of he overall monitoring program.
C. MrITGATION MANAGEMENT AND MON1TORING PLAN
29.         The main characteristics of the project area are high elevation and heavy ice
and snow. The corresponding preventive measures are considered in this report and will
be comprehensively addressed at the preliminary design stage of the project. As for the
interference problems of electromagnetic field on the overhead communication lines along
the same route, they can be solved by changing the communication line to optic fiber
cable.  An environmental protection facility will be established to conduct the
environmental monitoring programs and supervise the implementation of the preventive or
mitigation measures.
General Considerations
30.         Besides SEPA, the organizations responsible for the environmental protection
of the project include: Panzhihua Electric Engineering Bureau, Xichang Electric
Engineering Bureau, Loshan Electric Engineering Bureau, Yibid Electric Engineering
Bureau, and Zigong Electric Engineering Bureau. They are charged with the monitoring
of both the project and the environment in order to identify, and correct, potential
problems. The main monitoring items include:
Meteorological Observation Station
31.         The ice observation station was established in 1982; the monitored items
include: air temperature, humidity, precipitation, ice cover, inductive current of ice and
water, wind velocity and direction, etc. The main purpose is to forecast the ice covering
on the line. The observations will continue.
Earthquake Forecasting
32.         The earthquake observation stations along the transmission line will forecast
the possibility of an earthquake.
ESDD Observations
33.         Twenty ESDD  observation stations have been established along the
alignment to determine air quality and level of significant pollution and identify the likely
effects on the insulators of the transmission line.



- 125 -                       ANNEX 5.9
Monitoring of Health of Humans and Domestic Animals
34.         The environmental protection facility will monitor the condition of the
vegetation, wildlife, and fish along the transmission alignment in order to identify potential
problems, thus protect the environment from unnecessary damage.
Monitoring the Electromagnetic-Environmental Compatibility
35.         The ground electric field, radio interference, radio signal field intensity, and
corona audible noise, will be monitored.
Estimated Expenditures for Environmental Protection Mitigation and Monitoring
36.         Estimated annual expenditures for environmental protection mitigation and
monitoring are given in Table 1. Until the Ertan Project goes on line, these costs will be
included as part of the overall construction cost. After that, the program will continue and
will be paid for from operating revenues.
Table 1: EsrMATED ANNUAL EXPENDrTURES FOR ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
MIGATION AND MONITORING
Item                                                    Estimated Expenditure
(10,000 Yuan)
Meteorological Observation                                       15
Earthquake Observation                                            5
ESDD Observation of Insulators                                   23
Organism and Human Health Monitor                                10
Vegetation, Wild Animal, & Fish Monitor                           5
Electromagnetic Environmental
Compatibility Monitoring                                        20
Toita



- 126 -                      ANNEX 5.10
LAND ACQUISITION AND RELOCATION
Scope of Relocation
1.          The Sichuan Power Transmission Project includes construction of a new
500-kV network consisting of about 2,300 kilometers (km) of transmission lines, five
transformer substations (5,250 MWA) and one switching station, and reinforcement of the
existing 220-kV transmission network. The components involve a certain amount of land
acquisition and relocation of existing residents. According to the relocation action plan
prepared by SEPC, the project will acquire a total of 163 hectares (ha) of land, demolish
290,557 square meters (m2) of floor space, and relocate 1,991 households or 8,126 people
(Table 1). In addition, as many as 81.4 ha of land will be required temporarily during the
project construction.
Table 1: SCOPE OF RELOCATION OF SICHUAN POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Number of   Amount of        Amount of   Number of
relocated    removed          land         people
Item                    households   floor space     acquisition    affected
(m2)           (ha)
500-kV transmission
lines (2,052 km)         1,982        289,117        106.0          8,094
Shaojue switch
station                     0               0          4.9              0
Five transformer
stations                    9           1,440        52.0              32
Total                  1.991        290,557        162.9          8,126
Source: SEPC.
(a)   Transmission Line
2.          The project includes four sections of 500-kV transmission line located in the
southwest part of the project. The first section of the transmission line is from the Ertan
Hydroelectric Power Plant to the City of Zigong, with three separate circuits at 470 km



- 127 -                     ANNEX 5.1
each. The second section is from Ertan to the City of Panzhihua. The third and fourth
sections are from Zigong to two major power consumption centers in Sichuan: Chengdu
and Chongqing, with a total length of 704 km. The project will involve 6 cities and 13
counties. According to the design requirement, all houses within 40 meters (m) wide zone
under the transmission line will be removed. Generally, the relocated households will be
allowed to rebuild their houses near the original locations within the same villages. During
the construction, some standing crops will be damaged. But farmland under the power line
does not need to be permanently acquired; only a small amount of land area will be
acquired for the foundation of the towers, which average 1.3 mu or 0.08 ha per 1 km of
transmission line. According to the preliminary estimate, as many as 1,991 households
will be relocated, and a total of 289,117 m2 of houses will be removed (Table 2). The
affected people will be given replacement compensation at Y 80-150/n9 along with
residential plots provided by the same villages. The cost for providing the new residential
plots will also be paid by the project. The transmission lines component will be gradually
implemented in the next seven years. At present, only those circuits between Ertan and
Zigong have completed engineering designs, while the alignments for the other sections
of the transmission lines have not yet been finalized. As a result, in terms of the scope
of land acquisition and demolition for those sections, only a preliminary estimate is
provided. But compensation policies and standards adopted will be applied in all these
sections.
Table 2: DEMOLMTION AND RELOCATION ALONG 500-KV TRANSMIsION LINE
Length Households
of the    to be      Land     Demolished   Affected
Line component       line    removed   acquired   floor space   population
(km)                 (ha)       (m2)
Ertan-Zigong         1,410      795     80.3          98,626      3,390
Panzhihua-Ertan        45         5      2.6             551        21
Zigong-Chengdu        380       686     13.1         112,480     2,744
Zigong-Chongqing La    262      496     10.0          77,460      1,939
Total            2097      1.982    106.0         289,117     8.094
La It also includes a section from Chongqing to Changshou: the same situation as in
Zigong-Chengdu line.
Source: SEPC.



- 128 -                      ANNEX 5.10
(b)   Substations
3.          The Sichuan Power Transmission Project also includes construction of six
substations (one switch station and five transformer stations), which are in six different
cities or counties. According to a preliminary survey, the construction of these substations
and access roads will acquire a total of 56.9 ha of land area, which will demolish 1,440 n2
of floor space and displace nine households and 32 persons (Table 3). Most of acquired
land is low-yield farmland, with 80 percent being dryland and the rest of them as paddy
field. The requisition of farmland will also lead to job relocation for certain farmers.
Based on experience of similar projects at these locations, the number of labor relocations
caused by farmland acquisition is estimated at 741. The local county or city labor bureaus
will be responsible to assign nonfarm jobs for them. Most of them will be able to work
in local township and village enterprises.
Table 3: LAND ACQULSMON AND RELOCATION AMONG Six SUBSTATIONS
Households     Land       Demolished    Estimated
to be     acquired     floor space     labor
Items                      relocated      (ha)          (i2)       relocation
Shaojue Switch Station      0          4.94                0          37
500-kV transformer
stations at:
Panzhihua City             2  (6)    9.97               252          75
Honggou                    2  (7)    8.22               325         123
Longwang                   1  (4)   10.61               126         150
Chenjiaqiao                1  (5)   11.14               205         167
Changshou                  3 (10)   12.00               532         189
Total                   2   2    5-6-8              1440         741
Source: SEPC.
Purpose and Strategy of Resettlement
4.          For the project office, one main objective of resettlement efforts is to
minimize the scope of resettlement throughout the project design and planning. In order
to achieve such an objective, four basic principles have been followed in determining the
final alignment, which include (a) avoiding industrial enterprises and major infrastructure
facilities; (b) avoiding village settlements, urban area and individual houses; (c) avoiding
good-quality cultivated land; and (d) forbidding relocation of any ethnic minorities in the
region and protecting their cultural identity and local tradition. For example, for the
transmission line component, during the survey and design stage, the engineers worked



- 129 -                      ANNEX 5.10
closely with resettlement experts. They walked through the alignment and made many
routing changes to avoid significant relocation. For the substation components, similar
efforts have also been made in the process of site selection in order to avoid demolishing
houses or acquiring good-quality farmland.
5.          For those demolitions or land acquisitions that could not be avoided, proper
compensation and resettlement will be carried out so that the living standard of the affected
population could be restored or even improved. For the 1,982 households whose houses
are to be removed due to the construction of transmission lines, they will be able to rebuild
their houses within the same villages not far from the existing site, averaging 100 to
200 m. Since the scale of demolition and relocation is within a short distance and
relatively small in each county or township, and since local govemment will be responsible
to coordinate relocation and resettlement processes, no major impacts on social, cultural
or production activities will be expected on the local communities, except for short-term
inconvenience. During the line installation, a certain amount of damage on standing crops
may occur, which will be compensated according to local regulations. Based on past
experience, because the process always results in significant improvement of housing
conditions for the affected population and economic benefits for the local economy, local
communities generally welcome the project passing through their territories.
6.         In order to ensure smooth implementation of the resettlement program, one
important step is to develop a detailed resettlement action plan based on extensive
consultation with local government regarding compensation standards and baseline surveys.
For the transmission line component, because of relatively small-scale land acquisition and
relocation within each county or township, there is no surplus labor problem after land
acquisition. Since most farmland within the right-of-way will still be owned by the local
villages, no major disruption of local economy is expected. In the case of substations,
since land acquisition is more concentrated in one location, labor compensation may be
required. One typical approach is to provide nonfarm jobs in local township and village
enterprises. In addition, as part of the resettlement policy, SEPC will give the affected
population high priority to be employed as transmission line maintenance workers and
temporary construction workers.
Legal Framework
7.          Forming the legal basis for land acquisition and resettlement of the Sichuan
Power Transmission Project are both laws or regulations from the state, and
implementation measures from provincial and local municipalities. The state laws or
regulations include: "Land Administration Law" (1986) and "Administrative Regulation
of Urban Building Demolition and Relocation" (1991). The local implementation measures
include: "Sichuan Provincial Implementation Regulation of the Land Administration Law"
(1987), which specifies that during land acquisition, "construction unit has to pay land
compensation, young crop compensation, labor compensation, and attached property
compensation," and various related regulations or decrees adopted by local municipal or
county governments.



- 130 -                      ANNEX 5.1
8.          Under this project, since most land acquisition and relocation will take place
in rural areas, most such activities will be govemed by both the "Land Administration
Law" and its local implementation measures. According to the "Land Administration
Law," section 1, article 2: "for the public interest, the state could expropriate collectively
owned farmland." The essence of the policy is that when the state acquires farmland, the
land-using units will pay not only a basic compensation for land, crop and attached
properties, but also a job resettlement subsidy (articles 23 and 24 of "Sichuan Provincial
Implementation Regulation of the Land Administration Law"). The other type of land
acquisition is to acquire land use rights within the urban built-up area, such all urban lands
are owned by the state. In this case, according to "Administrative Regulation of Urban
Building Demolition and Relocation," the construction unit has to provide adequate
compensation or resettlement housing for the displaced families and affected enterprises.
9.          The job resettlement compensation for cultivated land acquisition will be
determined according to the existing ratio of amount of cultivated land per person. If the
existing villages with per capita of cultivated land above 1 mu, the resettlement
compensation will be set at three times the average annual output value per mu in the three
years before land acquisition. If the per capita land area is below 1 mu, the resettlement
compensation will be paid at four times the average annual output value. With a reducing
per capita cultivated land ratio, the resettlement compensation could increase up to 10
times the average annual output. If the land compensation and resettlement subsidy still
cannot guarantee the farmer's original living standard according to regulation, the total
land compensation and resettlement subsidy may be increased to a level no more than 20
times the average annual output value per mu in the three years before acquisition. A
detailed breakdown of the land acquisition compensation is presented in the next section.
10.         The compensation earmarked for resettlement will be used to generate
employment for displaced laborers or to provide pensions for the elderly. The country
government through its land administration bureau will be responsible for creating nonfarm
jobs for the affected farmers, or assisting local township and village enterprises to hire
displaced village laborers.
11.         Among various items in land compensation, only young crop compensation
and attached properties will be paid directly to individuals. The rest of land compensation
and resettlement subsidy will all be paid to townships and villages, which can be used for
a wide range of purposes that serve the community or can be distributed as stipends for
those who are too old to work. By law, accounts must be kept of all village/town funds,
including resettlement compensation. Financial reports have to be provided annually to the
next higher level of government.



- 131 -                       ANNEXS. 10
Compensation Determination and Payment 2/
12.         The site selection and land acquisition for both the transmission line and
substations components were approved by relevant city and county departments in 1993.
In 1994, the concerned cities and counties have also adopted detailed decrees that specify
detailed compensation policies and standards for land acquisition, building demolition, and
lost crops, and trees, etc. A list of such decrees for all affected counties is attached in the
resettlement action plan.
13.         For example, land compensation for the tower bases along the transmission
line will be Y 5,000-21,000 per mu (noncultivated land will be 50 percent of cultivated
land).
14.         In terms of cash crop compensation:
-     young crop: Y 300-900 per mu;
-     forest trees: Y 8-12 each;
-     bamboo: Y 0.2-0.4 per kg.
15.         For building compensation:
-     wood and brick structure: Y 60-130 per n2;
-     wood and mud structure: Y 40-80 per in2.
16.         For the purpose of estimating total land acquisition and resettlement cost,
a comprehensive compensation cost is used based on current practices in the affected
counties. Here, comprehensive cost for land includes cost for land compensation, labor
compensation and young crop compensation. The comprehensive cost for building
compensation includes house construction cost, transfer assistance, land adjustment cost,
as well as basic infrastructure cost. The comprehensive cost for land is Y 7,000-20,000
per mu; and the comprehensive compensation for building is Y 80-150 for a brick and
wood structure; and Y 60-100 for mud and wood structure. For some substation sites, due
to the relatively large number of nonfarm jobs to be provided, the resulting land
compensation could be as high as Y 53,000 per mu.
17.         The compensation for land will be given to affected villages, which could
be used to develop the village economy, social facilities, or distributed directly to all
members within the villages. (All cultivated land within the affected villages will be
redistributed after land acquisition.)
2/ These compensation standards may vary among different cities or counties. They are at least serving
as reference for negotiating final compensation amounts. In general, the negotiated compensation
amounts are much higher than these standards.



- 132 -                      ANNEXS. 10
Resettlement Institutional Responsibility
18.         In order to effectively implement the land acquisition and resettlement
program, a land acquisition and resettlement leading group has been set up, which is made
up of 4 to 5 staff from SEPC as well as the Southwest Electric Power Design Institute
(SWEPDI). The main responsibilities of the leading group is to provide overall leadership
and coordination during the process of resettlement planning and implementation, which
include:
(a)   participating in the process of preliminary design and alignment selection,
including surveys of land acquisition and affected households, consultation
with local communities; and estimation of compensation costs;
(b)   participating in the finalization of alignment design in the field with
SWEPDI, including verifying area of land acquisition, number of affected
households, and other lost properties; and formulating "Project Land
Acquisition and Building Demolition Table," which will be the basis for the
resettlement implementation plan;
(c)   discussing with relevant local government agencies on various compensation
policies and resettlement programs, which will then be formulated into local
decrees issues by the local governments;
(d)   negotiating  compensation  and rehabilitation  contracts with affected
communities, particularly for all substations; and processing land acquisition
applications with provincial and affected county land bureaus; and
(e)   supervising and coordinating individual contractors in implementing the
resettlement action plan. While SEPC and contractors will be responsible
to provide adequate compensation and coordinate rehabilitation, certain
aspects of resettlement, such as land readjustment, housing plot allocation
and approval, and reclamation of cultivated land, will be carried out by
local governments.
19.         For land acquisition and demolition under the transmission line component,
due to the small size of impacts and nature of the project implementation, negotiation and
implementation of compensation contracts will be carried out by individual construction
contractors.  Because of this practice, in China, the construction contractors for
transmission lines are always equipped with an experienced land acquisition and
resettlement team. In addition, each construction team within a contractor also has one or
two people with resettlement experience. The Bank mission visited some resettlement sites
along the Zigong to Chongqing Line, and found that resettlement implementation was
handled satisfactorily by the contractors. Under the leadership of SEPC and the land
acquisition and resettlement leading group, the responsibilities of these contractors include:



- 133 -                       ANNEX 5.1
(a)   participating in the formulation of "Project Land Acquisition and Building
Demolition Table" with design institution, and based on such document,
developing relevant resettlement implementation plans;
(b)   holding meetings with officials from affected counties, townships and
villages to exchange views on the scope of resettlement, compensation
policies, and implementation arrangements;
(c)   negotiating compensation contracts of rehabilitation measures with affected
townships, villages and individual households. A number of samples of
such contracts are included in the resettlement action plan; and
(d)   implementing the resettlement programs, and dealing with issues and
complaints raised by affected farmers.
20.         During the resettlement implementation, in addition to SEPC and individual
contractors, the relevant local government agencies will also be involved, which include
allocation and approval of new residential plots, readjustment of farmland within the
village and assigning nonfarm jobs for the surplus farm laborers.
Consultation and Grievance Procedure
21.         The resettlement planning and implementation process involves constant
consultation with local communities and individuals, from investigating the land acquisition
and building demolition, to negotiating the compensation and rehabilitation packages. The
agreed contracts are always the product of mutual agreement. If an affected person is not
satisfied with the compensation package or if, for any reason, the compensation does not
materialize according to the agreed schedule, he or she could go through a grievance
procedure specified in the resettlement action plan. In general, there are three different
ways for anyone to resolve his grievance. The first approach is to voice his or her
complaints to the responsible resettlement offices at township or county levels. Since these
resettlement offices are made of representatives from all relevant departments, they are in
much better position to resolve issues brought by affected individuals. If the person found
that such discussion does not yield any results, then he could bring his case to the relevant
construction contractors or the "Public Complaint Office" of SEPC.  The "Public
Complaint Office" has been widely used in China to address issues raised from local
government decisions or policies. The staff from that office, after hearing the complaint
from the affected individual, will arrange meetings with responsible agencies and resolve
the dispute. If such meetings do not bring any result, they could directly call attention
from the governor. Finally, if the affected persons are still not satisfied with the rulings
from the above two channels, he could, within 15 days, request an administrative review
of the case by the same or higher level of government, or to appeal directly in court. This
will follow the procedure of administrative appeal, since most land acquisition and
compensation decisions are determined by local government regulations or policies.



- 134 -                     ANNEX 5.10
Budget and Timetable
22.        Based on preliminary budget projections, resettlement costs will total
approximately Y 140.41 million (see Table 4). This includes a 10 percent reserve fund
and a 24 percent inflation contingency. In addition, a detailed cost breakdown for all
project components, including both unit cost and total amount is included in the
resettlement action plan. Table 5 presents an implementation schedule of land acquisition
and resettlement for each project component. As the table shows, the overall land
acquisition and resettlement will be completed within five years (1995-99). A much more
detailed schedule for Ertan to Zigong (a), indicating the different steps involved for
implementing the relocation and resettlement program was included in the resettlement
action plan.
Table 4: RELOCATION CoSw EsgIMATE FOR
SICHUAN POWER TRANSMISSION PojEer
(Y million)
Transmission        Substation
Items                          line component       component       Total
Building demolition              33.07               0.17        33.24
Land acquisition                 19.61              36.35        55.96
Temporary land leasing            1.66               0.67         2.33
Labor compensation                0.00               8.16         8.16
Young crop compensation           2.58               0.00         2.58
Standing tree compensation        3.87               0.00         3.87
Subtotal                     60 80              45L3         106.16
Reserve fund                      6.08               3.27         8.35
Inflation contingency            18.90               7.00        25.50
Total                         878               546          140.11
Source: SEPC.
Monitoring and Evaluation
23.        By signing the contract with the China Electric Power Construction
Consultancy Group-Southwest Company, a consultancy arm of SWEPDI, the project has
established a resettlement monitoring and evaluation team. The Southwest Company has
extensive experience in designing transmission line projects, including both engineering and
resettlement components, and was involved in the early survey of land acquisition and
resettlement for this project. The main responsibilities of the monitoring team is to



- 135 -                     ANNEX5.10
Table 5: IMLEMENTATION SCHEDULE FOR 500-KV TRANSMISSON IJNE
AND SUBSTATIONS
Land acquisition       Building relocation
Ertan-Zigong I                 Sep 95 - Mar 96          Apr 96 - Jun 97
Ertan-Zigong II                Apr 96 - Dec 96           Jan 97 - Mar 98
Ertan-Zigong III               Jan 97 - Sep 97          Oct 97 - Dec 98
Zigong-Chengdu I               Oct 96 - Jun 97           Jul 97 - Mar 98
Zigong-Chengdu II              Oct 97 - Jun 98           Jul 98 - Jan 99
Zigong-Chongqing               Jan 96 - Sep 96          Oct 96 - Jun 97
Chongqing-Changshou             Jan 98 - Sep 98         Oct 98 - Jun 99
Ertan-Panzhihua                Oct 97 - Jun 98           Jul 98 - Mar 99
Shaojue Switch Station                      Oct 95 - Mar 96
Panzhihua Transformer Station                Jan 97 - Aug 97
Honggou Transformer Station                  Jul 95 - Mar 96
Longwang Transformer Station                 Jul 96 - Mar 97
Chenjiaqiao Transformer Station             Apr 95 - Dec 95
Changshou Transformer Station               Oct 97 - Jun 98
Source: SEPC.
monitor the implementation of land acquisition and resettlement for the Sichuan Power
Transmission Project, and to provide evaluation reports to SEPC. The objective of
monitoring and evaluation is to ensure that the resettlement program is implemented
smoothly and to see whether resettled people restore their living condition and income level
after relocation. A detailed work plan for carrying out the monitoring and evaluation has
been developed, which included CVs for key staff, the objective, main contents, and basic
approach. In addition, it also specified the reporting format and schedules during the
project implementation.



- 136 -                                ANNEX 5. 
BANK SUPERVISION INPUT INTO KEY ACTIVITIES
Approximate                                                Expected skill            Staff inputs
dates            Activity                              requirements               (staff-weeks)
09/95           SUPERVISION MISSION                    Engineering                    5.0
Project Implementation                Financial analysis
Start-up                              Procurement
Environment
Compensation/social
experts
06/96           SUPERVISION MISSION                    Engineering                   4.0
Status of the Project                 Financial analysis
06/97           SUPERVISION MISSION                    Engineering                    5.0
Status of the Project                 Economic/financial
analysis
Environment
06/98           SUPERVISION MISSION                    Engineering                   4.0
Status of the Project                 Financial analysis
Execution of the Studies
06/99           SUPERVISION MISSION                    Engineering                   4.0
Status of the Project                 Financial analysis
Environment
Compensation/social
experts
06/2000           SUPERVISION MISSION                    Engineering                   4.0
Status of the Project                 Financial analysis
06/2001           SUPERVISION MISSION                    Engineering                    4.0
Status of Project Completion          Financial analysis
and compliance with covenants
02/2002           SUPERVISION MISSION                    Engineering                    5.0
Preparation of PCR                    Economic/financial
analysis
Note: Supervision missions will be coordinated with other Bank-financed power projects in China.



- 137 -                      ANNEX 5.12
FRAMEWORK FOR PROJECT MONITORING
AND REPORTING
1.          Framework for project monitoring would be discussed and agreed with
SEPC. Monitoring will take a series of target dates for major events in the project
implementation program (Annex 5 7.
2.          Key indicators for development impact monitoring, inter alia, include:
(a)   implementation of the Action Plan to commercialize SEPC;
(b)   reform of SEPC's accounting and financial management systems;
(c)   adjustments in the level of power tariffs;
(d)   separation of government functions from SEPC; and
(e)   provision of technical assistance to help implementation of the Action Plan.
3.          Records of selected performance indicators would be maintained by
comparing the forecast against actual results for:
(a)   activities of engineering consultants;
(b)   procurement, i.e., preparation of bid documents, bid opening, contract
awards;
(c)   environmental management program implementation;
(d)   construction progress;
(e)   progress in staff training;
(f)   progress of studies;
(g)   energy production and purchases;
(h)   maximum demand;
(i)   electricity consumption;
()    power losses;



- 138 -                          ANNEX 5. 12
(k)    quality of power supply;
(1)    number of outages and their duration;
(m)   number of customers by category;
(n)    staff statistics;
(o)    tariff levels and movements;
(p)    changes in project cost estimates and related financing;
(q)    rates of return on revalued net fixed assets;
(r)    self-financing ratio;
(s)    operating ratios;
(t)    debt/equity ratios;
(u)    debt service coverage; and
(v)    current ratio.



- 139 -                              ANX   6.1
ACTUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF SEPC (199093)
Table 1: INcOME STATEMENT
(Y million)
Yr Ended December 31                               1990        1991        1992         1993
Oeratina Revenues
Sales Increase (%)                                5.4          7.2         7.4         12.3
nerwgy Sales (GWh)                             23,152       24,809      26,635      29,906
Average Price (fenAlWh)                          10.62       13.21       15.49       20.55
Total Onerai2 Revenues                        2.458        3.277       4,127       6.146
92M&tin  Costs
Fuel                                              764          816         795        1,034
Purchased Power                                   197         506        1,204       2,462
Operation & Maintenance                           317         415          515         943
Administration                                    110          133         177         297
Sales Tax                                         496         561          603         693
Deprociation                                      207         270          297         323
Total OReratine Costs                         2.091        2.700       3.590       5.751
ODREAm rtinQIcme                                368         577          536         395
Other Income (Losses)                                (2)        (16)         (37)          3
Interest Chrged to Opertion                           0           0           0           92
Not Income Before Income Tax                    366         561          499         307
Income Tax                                          249         261         251          146
Not Income                                      117         300          248         161
Rate of Retum on Average Net Fixed Assets
in Sevice                                          2.9         7.3         5.3         4.0



- 140 -                            ANNEX 6.1
Table 2: BALANCE SHEa=
(Y million)
Year Ended Decmber 31                           1990       1991        1992       1993
ASSETS
Curreat Aseb
Cash                                          484        710       1,216       1,178
Inventories                                   335        285         384         404
Accounts Receivable                           982       1,264      1,207       1,055
Total Current Assets                        1.801      2.260       2.807      2.637
Fixed A - st
Plant in Service                            6,134       6,542      7,139      12,021
Les: Accumulated Deprociation              (2,103)    (2,376)      (2,456)    (4,152)
Net Plant in Service                       4.032       4.166       4.684      7.869
Construction WIP                            2,623       5,284      6,234       7,734
Total Fixed Assets                         6.655       9.450      10.918     15.603
Deferred and Intangible Assets                   30          42         101        214
Total Ases8.485                                       11.751     13.82       18.454
LIABILMTES &EOUITWY
Curfent Liabilities
Accounts Payable                            1,273       1,484      1,931       1,813
Short-term Liabilities                         43         31          51         134
Other Payable                                 239        360         392         174
Total Current Liabilities                  1.55         1.75                  2.21
Long-term Liabilities                          3,700      6,202       7,382      9,454
Equity                                         3,230      3,675       4,071      6,880
Total Liabilities & Eauity 8v485                      11.751      13.826     18.454
Long-term Debt % as of LT Debt and Equity       53.4       62.8        64.5        57.9
Current Ratio                                   1.16       1.21        1.18        1.24



- 141 -                            ANNEX 6. 1
Table 3: FUNDs FLOW STATEMENT
(Y million)
Year Ended December 31                           1990        1991        1992       1993
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Internal Cash Generation
Net Income                                     117         300         248         161
Depreciation                                   207         270         297         323
Connection Charge                               53          67         120        257
Total Internal Sources                        377         638         666         741
Other Bank Borrowings                             734       2,804       1,386       1,759
Total Sources of Funds                       1.110      3.442       2.051       2.500
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
Capital Expenditure                               880       2,827       1,596       1,954
Operational Reauirements
Changes in Worling Capital                    (147)        (86)       (457)        121
Changes in Connection Charge Funds              10           6          12          26
Loan Repayment                                 193         306         252         357
Total Operational Reauirements                 56         226        f12 i9
Total Applications of Funds                   936       3.053       1.402       2.458
In(de)creases in Cash                             174         389        649          42
Annual Debt Service Coverage (times)              1.7         1.9         2.2         1.3



FORECAST FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF SEPC (1994-2003)
Table 1: PROJEcTED INCoME STATEMENT
(Yuan Million)
Year Ended December 31                              1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003
Sales Increase (%)                                   10.3   10.7    9.0    9.1    9.1    7.4    7.0    6.9    7.1    7.1
Energy Sales (100 GWh)                               330    365    398    435    474    509    545    583    624    668
Average Price (fen/kWh)                             24.50   28.99   32.93   37.17   41.23   47.90   55.76   58.52   58.79   64.94
SEPC's Own Avg. Price (fen/kWh)                   20.10   25.71   29.94   34.47   38.65  45.17   53.00   54.48   53.26   60.84
Purchased Power's Avg. Price(fenlkWh)             32.54   35.66   39.45   43.17   47.25   54.31   62.70   68.25   72.29   77.48
Sales Revenue                                   8.082  10.590  13.118  16.151  19.549 24.394  30.384  34.090  36,671  43,378
OmeatingC Costs 
Fuel                                              1,404   1,809   2,194   2,420   2,741   2,993   3,264   3,664   4,334   5,188
Purchased Power                                   3,031   3,517   4,235   5,261   6,449   8,679  11,320  13,002  13,926  14,622
Operation & Maintenance                           1,153   1,379   1,535   1,978   2,343   2,861   2,933   4,052   4,764   5,634
Administration                                      352    407    466    529    597    674    776    892   1,026   1,180
Sales Tax                                           530    774    989   1,260   1,548   1,914   2,390   2,631   2,763   3,550
Depreciation                                        391    471    649    776    969   1,410   1,731   2,081   2,378   2,788
Total Operating Costs                           6,860    8.358  10.068  12.224  14.647  18.531 22.414 26.323  29.191  32.963
Operatine Income                                1.222   2.233   3.049   3.927   4.902  5,863   7.970   7.768  7.479  10.416
Nonoperation Income                                    3       4       4       4       4      5       5       5       6      6
Interest Charged to Operations                       491    731    836    889    966   1,266   1,656   1,799   1,556   1,710
Net Income Before Income Tax                      734   1505   2.217   3.042   3.940  4,602   6.319   5 974   5,930   87
Income Tax                                           242    497    732   1,004   1,300   1,519   2,085   1,972   1,957   2,875
Net Income                                        492   1.008   1.485   2.038   2.640   3.083   4 234  4.003   3.973   5,837



Table 2: PRojECD BALANCE SHEET
(Yuan Million)
Year Ended December 31                              1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash                                            1,228    792    537    317    193    595   1,259   1,854   2,381   3,194
Inventories                                       492    626    739    889   1,167   1,403   1,670   1,926   2,257   2,668
Receivables                                     1,437   1,765   2,077   2,243   2,444   2,710   3,038   3,125   3,056   3,615
Total Current Assets                           3.157   3.182   3.353   3.449   3.804   4.709   5.967   6.905   7.694   9.477
Fixed Assets
Plant in Service                               13,363  16,332  18,442  21,659  29,012  34,352  40,195  45,137  51,980  60,793
(less) Accum. Depreciation                      4,543   5,014   5,664   6,440  7,409   8,819  10,549  12,631  15,008  17,797
Net Plant in Service                           8.820  11.318  12.778  15.219 21.604 25.533  29.646  32.507  36,972  42.997
Construction WIP                                9,636  10,611  13,531  16,438  16,009  17,106  18,804  23,044  26,457  27,302
Total Fixed Assets                             18.456  21.929  26.310  31.657  37,613 42.639  48,450  55.551 63.429  70.299
Intangible and Deferred Assets                       214    214    214    214    214    214    214    214    214    214
TOTAL ASSETS                                  21.827  25.325  29.876  35.319 41.630 47.562  54.630  62.670  71.337  79.989
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities
L-T loans due in 12 months                      1,292   1,500   1,744   1,942  2,619   3,461   3,346   3,541   4,887   5,376
Accounts Payable                                1,435   1,593   1,807   1,936  2,071   2,589   3,208   3,657   4,017  4,491
Short-term Loans                                  150    163    176    189    201    214    228    243    259    276
Due to Government                                 195    213    230    246    263    280    298    317    338    360
Total Current Liabilities                      3 072   3 469   3 957   4.313  5.154   6 544   7 079   7 758   9.500  10.501
Long-term Debt                                    11,147  13,027  15,408  18,281  20,958  22,266  24,481  27,689  30,431  32,152
Equity                                             7,607   8,829  10,511  12,724  15,518  18,751  23,070  27,223  31,405  37,335
TOTAL LIABILITIES & EOUITY                    21.827  25.325  29.876  35.319 41.630 47.562  54,630  62.670  71.337  79.989
Debt as % of Debt & Equity                          59.4   59.6   59.4   59.0   57.5   54.3   51.5   50.4   49.2   46.3
Current Ratio                                        1.3    1.2    1.1    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.1    1.2    1.1    1.2



Table 3: PROJECE    FUD6 FLow  STATEMENT
(Yuan MiLion)
Year Endd Decmber 31                                 1994    1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003
SOURCES OF FUNDS
nqt_ea SOucS Of fud
Net Income                                           492   1,008   1,485   2,038   2,640   3,083   4,234   4,003   3,973   5,837
Depreciation                                         391    471    649    776    969   1,410   1,731   2,081   2,378   2,788
Distribution Imprv. Funds                            283    311    343    377    415    456    502    552    607    668
Total Internal Sources                           1.166   1.791   2.477   3.191   4.023   4.950   6.466   6.636  6.957   9.293
n     IBRD Loans                                       0     392    724    583    509        118      23       0      0       0
Ertan line PCBC Loans                                 21    459   1,257   1,470   1,276     815    657    300         0      0
Other Loans                                        2,558   2,102   1,650   2,082   2,599   2,903   3,975   5,263   5,946   5,271
IDC Borrowed                                         407    426    496    680    912    933    906   1,186   1,683   1,825
TotalBofings                                     2.986   3.379   4.126   41    5.296   4.769   5.561   6.749   7.629   7.097
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS                           4.152   5.169   6.603   8.006   9.319   9.719  12.027  13.384  14.587  16.390
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
CaD1ta1 E3"ditre
Proposed Ertan-line Project                           21    851   1,981   2,053   1,785    933    680    300          0      0
Other ConsbwtiOn                                   2,815   2,663   2,549   3,386   4,222   4,565   5,949   7,690   8,566   7,824
Interest During Cmstruction                          407    426    496    680    912    933    906   1,186   1,683   1,825
Total Caital ExuenditUre                         3 243   3.940   5.026   6.19   6.920   6.431   7L.     9.176  10.249   9.650
*O Ona1 Re uirements
Inc/dec in Working Capital                            37    272      182    158    315    (46)   (56)   (140)  (135)   458
Inc/dec in Distribution Imprv.                         0       4      4       5       5       6       6       7       7       8
Loan Repayment                                       774   1,292   1,500   1,744   1,942   2,619   3,461   3,346   3,541   4,887
Benefit Funds ExpenditU                              47      98      146    201    261    306    418    401    397    574
Total Oupctiot  Requirements                       858   1.666   1.832   2.108   2.524   2 885   3 828   3.614   3.811   5.927
TOTAL APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS                      4.101   5 606   6.858   X26   MU 44   9.316  11.363  12J790  14.059  15.577
Increase/Decrease in Cash                              50   (436)  (254)  (221)   (124)   402    663         595    528    813
Annual Debt ServiceCoverage                           1.1    1.1    1.3    1.4    1.6    1.5    1.5    1.5    1.6    1.6



Table 4: KEY FINANCIAL INDICAToRS
(Yuan Million)
Year Ended December 31                             1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003
Energy Sales (100 GWh)                             330    365    398    435    474    509    545    583    624    668
Average Price (fen/kWh)                           24.50  28.99   32.93   37.17  41.23   47.90  55.76  58.52  58.79  64.94
SEPC's Own Avg. Price (fen/kWh)                20.10  25.71   29.94   34.47   38.65   45.17  53.00  54.48   53.26  60.84
Purchased Power's Avg. Price (fen/kWh)         32.54  35.66   39.45   43.17  47.25   54.31   62.70  68.25  72.29  77.48
Opeating Revenue                                  8,082  10,590  13,118  16,151  19,549 24,394  30,384 34,090  36,671  43,378
Opeating Income                                   1,222  2,233   3,049   3,927  4,902   5,863  7,970  7,768  7,479  10,416
Annual Capital Expenditure                        3,243  3,940  5,026   6,119  6,920   6,431   7,535  9,176  10,249  9,650
Rate Base                                         8,345  10,069  12,048  13,999  18,411  23,568  27,589 31,076  34,740 39,984
Long-term Debt                                   11,147  13,027  15,408  18,281  20,958  22,266 24,481  27,689  30,431  32,152
Debt Service                                      1,265  2,023   2,336   2,634  2,909   3,885  5,116  5,145  5,096  6,597
Cash in Banks                                     1,228    792    537    317    193    595   1,259   1,854  2,381   3,194            LA
Rate of Return
Historically Valued Assets (X)                    11.8   17.3   19.3   20.9   19.6   18.5   21.3   18.7   15.9   18.9
Revalued Assets (%)                               10.0   13.1   14.9   15.5   13.7   13.8   15.8   13.8   11.3   13.1
Self Financing Ratio (%)                            7.1    0.0   10.0   15.0   20.0   25.0   30.0   30.0   30.0   30.0
Operating Ratio (%)                                85.0   78.9   76.8   75.7   74.9   76.0   73.8   77.2   79.6   76.0
Debt/Total Capital (%)                             59.4   59.6   59.4   59.0   57.5   54.3   51.5   50.4   49.2   46.3
Debt Service Coverage                               1.1    1.1    1.3    1.4    1.6    1.5    1.5    1.5    1.6    1.6



- 146 -                       ANNEX 6.3
MAJOR ASSUMPTIONS FOR SEPC's
FIANANCL PROJECTIONS
A. INcoMiE STATEMENT
1.          Energy sales reflect SEPC's projected expansion program.
2.          Tariffs are assumed to be adjusted so that the average revenues would be
adequate for achieving the minimum financial performance targets.
3.          General local inflation rates are assumed at 12 percent in 1994, 9 percent
in 1995, 8 percent in 1996, 7.2 percent in 1997, 6.5 percent in 1998-99, and at 6 percent
thereafter.
4.          Fuel costs are based on 1993 actual price paid for coal and are assumed to
increase by 5 percent per year in real terms and also to escalate with the projected local
inflation rates.
5.          Purchased power is based on 1994 actual purchased price and is assumed
to increase with the projected local inflations for electricity from Huanen, small hydro
plants, local power plants, and both intergrid and local transfers. Purchase price for
electricity from power plants under Huaneng Corporation is based on "new plant, new
price policy" and derived by full recovery of operating cost and debt service requirement.
Purchase price for electricity from Lrtan Corporation will be decided by the ongoing tariff
study. 35 fen/kWh of 1994 price and increased with projected local inflation rates are
assumed for projection purpose.
6.          Operation and maintenance costs based on 1993 actual expenses include
payroll and materials are assumed to increase by 10 percent in real terms and escalate with
projected local inflation rates. Maintenance cost is assumed to increase per year by 2.5%
of annual increase in the gross fixed assets.
7.          Administration cost is based on SEPC's 1993 actual expenditure and is
assumed to increase by 6 percent per year in real terms with projected local inflation rates.
8.          Sales tax is assumed at the following percentage of each year's operating
revenues:



- 147 -                       ANNEX 6.3
1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999   2000    2001    2002    2003
6.6     7.3     7.5     7.8     7.9     7.8     7.9     7.7      7.5     8.2
9.          Depreciation is assumed to be 6 percent of gross fixed assets in operation
at the beginning of the year.
10.         Income tax is expected to be assessed at 33 percent of taxable income.
B. BALANCE SHEET
1.          Inventories are assumed to increase per year by 3 percent of annual fixed
assets additions.
2.          Accounts receivable is assumed to decrease gradually from 64 days of
average collection period in 1994 to 30 days by 2002 onwards.
3.          Accounts payable are assumed to decrease gradually from 88 days of costs
for fuel, purchased power, and sales tax in 1994 to 60 days in 1998.
4.          Construction work-in-progress reflects the aggregate construction work-in-
progress of SEPC's own construction units and other construction units work as contractors
for SEPC.
5.          Due to Government is expected to increase with the projected local inflation
rates each year.
C. FUNDS FLOw STATEMENT
1.          Distribution Improvement Special Fund represents the receipts of
consumer connections and is assumed to increase by 10 percent per year based on 1993
actual collection.
2.          Distribution Improvements represent 90 percent of the year's receipts of
the Distribution Improvement Special Fund.



- 148 -                       ANNEX 7.1
PROJECT ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
1.          Economic analysis fcr the project included preparation and comparison of
a variety of scenarios for the expansion of the Sichuan Power Grid, calculation of a project
internal rate of return, and relevant sensitivity analysis. The analysis was based on studies
and updates prepared by BERIWREP, in conjunction with SEPC, using BERIWREP's
GESP model for least-cost generation system planning. These studies are in the Project
File. Additional information also is available in the Staff Appraisal Report and relating
documents for the initial Ertan Hydroelectric Project (1991).
Shadow Pricing
2.          All economic analysis was based on shadow prices. A discount rate of 12
percent in real terms was used. For the least-cost analysis, the shadow foreign exchange
rate (Y 9.0/$1.0) and official foreign exchange rate (Y 8.7/$1.0) at the time of appraisal
were used. Costs of imported goods and services were priced at their estimated financial
cost (e.g., a conversion factor of 1.0 was used). Domestic costs were shadow priced at
a standard conversion factor (SCF) of 0.97, except for certain key items for which specific
conversion factors were used, most notably domestically produced power generating
equipment and coal. The shadow price for coal was established at Y 318/ton of coal
equivalent or Y 273/ton of 6,000-kcal/kg raw coal. This is an export parity price,
assuming an FOB price for 6,000-kcal/kg coal at Qinhuangdao of $35/ton and a shadow
price for railway transportation of 7.5 f/tkm.
Last-Cost Analysis
3.          Least-cost analysis was based on the stochastic reliability criterion of loss
of load probability (LOLP). Acceptable LOLP was set at no more than four days. Due
to the high proportion of hydropower in the Sichuan system, LOLP calculations were based
on typical dry hydrological conditions. Although a variety of other scenarios were
completed initially, the principal least-cost system expansion scenarios in BERIWREP's
final report included:
(a)   Program I. This was the least-cost expansion program, as outlined in
Annex 4.6. The transmission project included completion of three lines by
2000, with a fourth line in 2003. Including only the incremental cost of the
Ertan project, the present value of the investment and operating cost of this
program, in 1994 prices, was Y 145.9 billion.
(b)   Program II. This program was identical to Program I, except that all of
the costs of the Ertan project, including sunk costs, were included. The
present value cost totaled Y 153.4 billion.



- 149 -                       ANNEX 7.1
(c)   Program M. The Ertan project and the associated transmission project
were excluded from this scenario, to assess the next best option. Without
Ertan, new thermal power plants in both the East Basin region and the
Dukou region near Ertan would be part of the least-cost expansion plan.
The present value cost totaled Y 156.7 billion.
(d)   Program IV. This program was identical to Program I, except that the
fourth line in the transmission project would be completed in 2000. The
present value cost was slightly higher than for Program I, at Y 146.2
billion.



- 150 -                       ANNEX8.1
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE
IN THE PROJECT FILE
Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Project
1.    Project Report for The 500-kV Ertan Transmission System, Sichuan Electric Power
Administration, March 1994.
2.    The Environmental Impact Assessment Report for Sichuan Power Transmission
Project (Final Report), Sichuan Electric Power Company, September 1994.
3.    Relocation Action Plan for Sichuan Power Transmission Project, Sichuan Electric
Power Company, August 1994.
4.    Ertan Hydroelectric Project, Project Report for the World Bank, The Second Stage
Loan, Ertan Hydroelectric Development Corporation, Chendgu, April 1994.
5.    Procurement Schedule and Construction Organization, Sichuan Electric Power
Administration, June 1994.
6.    Economic Evaluation of Ertan Transmission Project, Beijing Economic Research
Institute of Water Resources and Electric Power (BERIWREP), November 1993.
7.    The Evaluation Report on Consultants' Proposals, SEPC, April 1993.
8.    Financial Analysis of Ertan Transmission Project, BERIWREP, April 1994.
Selected Worksheets
1.    SEPC Financial Forecast
2.    Cost Tables
3.   Implementation Schedules and Charts



- 151 -
CHARTS



- 152 -



- 153 -                                      CHART 1
CHINA
SICHUAN POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Organization Chart of MOEP
Ministrv of Electnc Power
|Minster Shi Dazhen
Vice Ministers: Zhao Xizheng Zha Keming Lu Yanchang Wang Shucfeng
Ch nis Electnc:ty Councii-          --      -
MOEP's Intemal Organzat7ion]           |Groups & Provincial Companies             Provincial Companies
M: OEP s Intemal Organization |             JUnder Auspices of MOEP                  under Groups
-  Generai Office                                                        Jilin Power Company
-   OeptofPlanning                             Electnc PowerGroup            Heilongliang Power Company
D ept. ot Planning
-   Dept. of Policies & Legislation
Dept. of Economical Regulation                                          Shanxi Power Company
& Control of State Property                                       - Hebei Power Company
-   Dept. of Personnel & Education         4Electnc Power Group ]           -inner Mongolia Power Company
D Oept. ot Intemational Cooperation                                      -   a
Dept. ot Science & Technology
Dept. of Safery & Production
Coordination                                                         Shanghai Power Company
-DepL of Capital Construcbon                   East China             -Jiangsu Power Company
Coorcination                          Electnc Power Gioup         -JAnhui Power Company
D ept. of Hydropower Development                                          AZhua  Power Company
& Rural Elecctsnficabon                                              Zhejiang Power Company
Hubi PwerCompany|
MOEP's Affiliated Enterpnses & Institutions                                      ue Per
Central China           - Henan Power Company           |
-    Nabonal Power Dispatching &               Electnc Power Group         - Hunan Power Company          I
Communication Center                                          -Jiangxi Power Company
-   Infom,ation Center
-   Logistics Bureau
Planning Design & Engineenng lnstitutses                                 Gansu Power Company
-   Researcn Institutes                            QNorthwest             -Ginghai Power Company
-   Uniersities & College                      Electnc Power Group        -Ningxia Power Company
-   Specialized Corps.
-   Scholarly Societies & Associabons                                          i      P
-Huaneng Group, Electnc Power Enterpnses
-South China Electnc Power Joint Venture Corporation           |
-Shandong Power Co.                                            |
-Fujian Power Co.                                              |
-Sichuan Power Co.                Provincial Companies
Guangxi Power Co.            non-directly under MOEP _
Yunnan Power Co.
EGuizhou Power Co.                   Guangdong Power Co.
Hainan Power Co.
Xizang Industry & Power Admin.
EKNV56702F



CIINA
SICHIlAN POwVER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Sichuan Electric Power Company ISEPCI
Organization Chart
General
Manager
Deputy                 Depuly           Deputy
GtnL Manager            Cbhid Enginecr         CCcf Accounlan    Gn. Manager            Ccn. Manager    GCen Manager
Power Prodlct_o                                                     Finance             Planning & Int'l    - apitsl Construclio
20
2.                                                     -~~~~~~~~~~1    l. W    *2
-4 ~~~~~~  *1                  U~YC 1              -.          a                                    
0                          -~~~~~~~     
aX                                                                                               at  2
a9itii  00  1il



- 155 -                                     CHART 3
m   Ficid Ornice of Design
.-    i'lalllllllg Dep:lrlmenl  |   |Institute  
LI        - Constrtiction Dcpa3rt ent
Contracting
_                          4  ~~~~~~~~Comprehensive MfTairs|
_                             H      Loc~~~~~~~~~~al Procurement |
Procurcnicnt Dcpartmnctic
ntriational Procurement
Local Finance
Fesgn Finance
z  eJ    Construction Mnnagemcrpt
O s                               _     ~~~~~~~~~Conlsultanlt omce
<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Z  Z      RI'e egucatinagem7ent
_                             _       ~~~~~~~~~~~~Genlerntl 0mce  W     Forcign fars
v:                                                        ;t      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Legal Affrairs
_                                                          i    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Files hlanagement
Quality Assuiraiice 
.   ,   m        ~~~Departmlent 
Cd ~ ~   ~     ~     ~     ~     -          Operation
|  P roduclon rrep rllion  LTraining
_manuals di ReguLations



CHART 4
CHINA
SICHUAN POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
(a) Transmission Lines (Table 1)
Description                 1994          1995           1996           1997          1998           1999          2000
Procurement (ICB)
Construction Preparation
. z jo      Land Acquisition & Relocation                                _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _
00
Z          Civil Works and Installation                                    _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _
wi          Test and Acceptance
Procurement (ICB)
S           Construction Preparation
o E     Land Acquisition & Relocation                                                          _  _  _  _  _  _ .
Civil Works and Installation                    I  I  I- IIL
Test and Acceptance
Procufement ([CB)
C0          Construction Pfeparation
* 60       Land Acquisition & Relocation---------
2  11    Civil Works and Installation- --                                                          - ----
Test and Acceptance
rConstruction Preparation
E   Land Acquisition &Relocationmi                                                                    -     m
Civil Works and Installation                                                             m       - -  
LTTest and Acceptance>
EKIW56702c



CHINA                                                               CHART 4
SICHUAN POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
(a) Transmission Lines (Table 2)
Description                 1994          1995           1996          1997           1998          1999           2000
I-           Construction Preparalion
c            Land Acquisition & Relocalion
c,Z lo       Civil Works and Installation
o            Test and Acceptance             _____________________r
C)
C:
is       ~~C-onst ruction P re paratlion__
C:
c        ~~~Construction Preparation__
0,"          Land Acquisition & Relocation                                          _  _  _  _  _  _
o Z         Civil Works and Installation                                               _   _  _  _  _  _
0 
0
CY)          Test and Acceptance
oZ O         Construction Preparation
- b        Land Acquisition & Relocation                                                         _  _  _    +        + -
C-) 60
0)z       Civil Works and Installation--                                                        ----.
C *-
Tcest and Acceptance
V  Construction Preparation
0 CYJ        Land Acquisition & Relocalion------
aZ 0)        Civil Works and Installation-                                                                    ---
0c
Test and Acceptance
cm:)     ~Construction Preparation
Land Acquisition & Relocation-------
o CS        Civil Works and installation----                                                                            --
Test and Acceptance
EKJW567O2B



- 8SI -



MAP SECTION



IBRD 25932R
99:                       'r,9'    .                    <                          104'                                    C       H I N A                            "
C                                         SICHUAN POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
CONSTRUCTION    EXISTING    FUTURE   PROJECT
.           ESI        -        HYDRO POWER PLANTS
S _   !    h  *   f             THERmAL POWER PLANTS
A       500kV SUBSTAT ONS
0 ~< @ SHUNT REACTORS
CONVERTER STATIONS
- -   .   . -   "   \  ^  500kV AC TRANSMISSION LINES
-A ~\\          ,        <,    * .s                           9- -                                                     400 -750kV DC TRANSMISSION LINES
Jiongyou *
-'                 ~~~~~~~To;pihyi 
. 50 ,  00    ,                                                                                                                                         A-'
The boonoo<os, cob's.                                                                                                                                       7.
e"'"o o-    "'i-  fl
ctnevErormotoio snorer/                                                                                             \~-                                 | Ceoogshouti 
or V-s  mop  do  rot                                                                             // /\                       ,       ,zj                 __   ^,
reply  on fhe port of
The W., d   Bo-k G-op   vttqo , - a3* f
o-y endcrsem t    e o  roe optli                                                                                                      Chongqiop--
butos of ony  ,-r rosy,                                                                                                  *BOro
-1 .:t -2 f                                                       ;      /
S- -                                                                      -      Zroe   ,1  o  - f-t// o i<
= ! >- Z t.7 gy X , - ~~~~~~~~~~~ O  .0
RIVERS
H-  ,-                                      .                                       / Heenko.i t  PROVINCE CAPITAL
Xezfhtoog S   --     c                                                             PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES
PROVINCE BOUNDAR ES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
OCCOBER 994



I



