;'lAssessment/AnRaly$sis 
cAS epolbs                                               SW 
'ttit ,., w' i '' ....    ,j                       ~~~~~~~Report E0090
t¢if 4 ,';' i ,., . '   :  . .,  ,,,,,,* ,,,, ,(,,,1  ,    . . .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
:XrX~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,
j$^/+t,,'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ii 
.    '   0   @  t  ; i,~~~~~~~~..   .  ...   ..7 



THE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
ASSESSM:ENT REPORT
FOR
CHINA
SIcHuAN POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
(Final Report)
Document for
The World Bank Appraisal
BA-OOS-B
Sichuan  Electric Power  Company
Chengdu, China  Sep., 1994



-. U
*     t *ilA*E~~~~~~~~~~~-a-
$   {..*S;~~~~~~~~ 1-p
*   i,$- "a 
.       @~~~~~~~



OR   t1 Cs 1
1.  _     'fl, ; Ctv'W$ FIrfrmr:r_
M>, siN            rnF.1 -S        A . oA  sH         E.
%  h  a h t O  d   .. F>,¢^s .   akt* { 
,_  ;rcM t                                                    a
ssi~~~~~c                                                        Urua  k{wt             
iW r     'HIP, ) 1;    -    ;oup                                Bi   ! 
I'-Al                                       >4 I4i ' RI
:%'  v..P4 ^t                     Mt          +
vct. ..                    .                               FRI
.~1x t>'I Y



ta  byeXaReRSSWiBCv                 '-W 
' }XE'B1t ° 4A,L W' 40    Ww' s 
Xi+ ffiX e WW X a W7f
y A- Vf *z-f 7g ag jV 7Y  gg 7;Urtwg    
'A .w-        ta±. 4 t.         - 'tk E kf V  4 W J 
'                                 rt b' >    4-V Ir  -Dal 
W 'SS#Rg'X'wt-~W  'FXt   °X V
>w--,Ir   -ff 4' Mt iWRt 3  so. k;W     I tV
WsCf't 1'%4W          4flY  M4flY  'q'f l4
i~ rt   Y I j u   )-~Iae -rt-fl.. 49R Al
* S w W + w ~ ~  *               - g N e   v4 W '
ES''  4      -i> \$;     E  S      9   g
NK§ 414 N- 1k',) fia  is > 'MB Xw 'Il fl 9     _
od h9iX$ 7:Y



40 -,           o s;-. i 
4Wt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
C   ,tg,§             t      . b    ,' .           a                                                                  - r  i                                    I
'ME   1  '  -h'          x,   * 6'' .:i ffi           .1 
a-   Ž--      rt       o               6-          ={1 
W-         *'iI- *-X fl                                                                                                                        *r
-is -4 9Z $                                                                                                              -Ilk tzdeA
.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4                                                   -.S



China Sichuan Power Transmission Project
(Ertan 500kV Transmission Project)
Environmental Impact Assessment
CONTENTS
1 Preface
1.1 General
1.2 Scope and the Purpose of EnvironIment Impact Assessment
2  Brief Description of the Project
2.1 Project Owner
2.2 Proposed Project
2.3 Necessity of the Project and Constuction Scale and Schedule
2.4 Location of the Project
2.5 Introduction to the Project
3  Environmental Conditions of the Impacted Region
3.1 Ertan to Zigong Honggou 500 kV Transmission line
3.1. 1 Natural Environment
3.1.2 Ecological Resource
3.1.3 Social Environment
3.1.4 Quality of Life
3.2 500 kV Substations and Switching Station
3.2.1 Zhaojue 500 kV Switching Stadon
3.2.2 Panzhihua 500 kV Substation
3.2.3 Zigong Honggou 500 kV Substation
3.2.4 Chengdu Longwang 500 kV Substation
3.2.5 Chongqing Chenjiaqiao 500 kV Substation
3.2.6 Changshou 500 kV Substation
4  Environmental Impact Forecast, and Control and Treatment Measures
4.1 Transmission Line Impacts on Environment
4.1.1 Impact on the Forest and Economic Trees
4.1.2 Potential Impact on Industrial Facilities and Mineral Resources
4.1.3 Impact on Wildlife and Conservation Areas
4.1.4 Impact on the Surrounding Scenery and Anesthetics
4.1.5 Construction Impacts
4.1.6 Occupation of Farmland
1



4. 1.7 Relocation
4.2 Impact of the Environment on the Transmission Line
4.2.1 'Unfavorable Geological Conditions
4.2.2 High Elevations
4.2.3 Heavy Icing
4.2.4 Air Pollution
4.2.5 Forest Fire
4.3 Electromagnetic Environmental Compatibility
4.3.1 The Impacts of the Ground Electric Field on the People, Domestic
Animal and Preventive Measures
4.3.2 The Impacts of the Transmission Line on the Wired and Radio
Facilities
4.3.3 The Impacts of Audible Noise and Preventive Measures
4.4 Envirom-nental Assessment of 500 kV Substations
4.4.1 Land Occupation, Relocation and Felling of Trces
4.4.2 Construction Impacts and Mitigation
4.4.3 Operational Impacts and Mitigation Measures
4.4.3.1 Electromagnetic Field Effects
4.4.3. 1.1 The hnpacts on the Wired and Radio
Communication Facilities
4.4.3.1.2 The Inpacts of the Electromagnetic Field on
Human
4.4.3.2 Noise Control
4.4.3.3 Waste Water Treatment
4.4.3.4 Greening Design
4.5 Envirorunmental Impacts on the Substation
s  Analysis of Alternatives
5.1 Technical and Econoomical Comparisons of Route Schemes
5.2 Relative Electromagnetic Impact Evaluation and Impacts of the Three
Alternative Aligmnents
6 Mitigation Management and Monitoring Plan
6.1 Offices Responsible for Environmental Protection, Supervision and
Monitoring
6.2 Major Monitoring Programs
6.2.1 Meteorological Observation
6.2.2 Earthquake Forecasting
6.2.3 The ESDD Observations
6.2.4 Health and Sanitation Monitoring
6.2.5 Vegetation, Wildlife and Fish Monitoring
6.2.6 Electromagnetic Environmental Compatibility Monitoring
2



7 Estimated Expenditures for Environmental Protected Mitigation and
Monitoring
7.1 Estimated investment for transmission line Environmental Protection
7.2 The Estimated Expenditure for the Environmental Protection Mitigation
and Monitoring
7.3 The Investment for the Substations Environmental Protection Mitigation
and Monitoring
8 Public Participation
9 Conclusions
FIGURES
A. Ertan to Zigong 500 kV Tansmission Line Corridors and.Panzhihua, Zigong
Honggou 500 kV Substations, Zhaojue 500 kV Switching Station Site Location
(FIGURE A, DRW. No.50-XO5I K-X6-0 1)
B. Zigong-Chengdu, Zigong-Chongqing and Chongqing-Changshou 500 kV
Transmission Line Corridors and Longwang, Zigong Honggou, and Chargshou
500 kV Substations Site Location (FIGURE B, DRW. No. 50-X05 1K-X6-02)
ANNEXES
A.   Ecological Resource (Nature Reserves)
B.   The Polity and Rules for the Administration of Forest Reserves Issued by
State and Local Government
C.   Cultural Property
D.   Special Sections and Its Construction Methods in Er-Zi 500 kV
Transmission Line Project
E.    Brief Introduction to the Environmental Protection Mitigation and
Monitoring Departments (SRIEP and SEMC)
FIGURES OF ANNEXES
1.    Dafengding Nature Reserve Sketch Map (Figure 1)
3



2.    Mt. Luoji Nature Reserve Sketch Map (Figure 2)
3.    The Special Construction Methods Sketch Map (Figure 3)
4.    Cable way Map (Figure 4)
5.    The Park of Helicopter and Storage Yard for Er-Zi 5OOkV Transmission
Lines (Figure 5)
TABLES IN TEXT
1.    The Construction Scale of the Initial and the Final Stage of the
Transformation Projects
2.    Minimum Vertical Distances from Transmission Lines Overhead
3.    The Inductive Voltage Permitted Value of wired Telecommunication
Devices
4.   The Interference Protection Distance of Different Radio Station Classes
5.    The Information of Land Taken and Relocation for Substation Projects
6.    The Economical and Technical Comparisons of Ertan-Zigong 500 kV
Transmission Line Alternatives
7.    Relative Electromagnetic Impact Evaluation
8.    Relative Impacts of the Three Alternative Aligunents
9.    The Estimated Investment Expense of Er-Zi 5OOkV Transmission Line
Environmental Impact
10.   The Estimated Expenditure of the Environmental Protection MGPrt*_.ing
4



1 Preface
1.1 General
In 1976, a report entitled <<Iransmission lines and Environment> was submitted
by CIGRE No.22 Research Committee. This report pointed out that overhead
transmission lines have little effect on the natural environment, because they do
not pollute the air, soil or water. Envirormental considerations were incorporated
into the selection process for the best route alignment and preliminary design for
the 500 kV Ertan transmission and transformation systems. Considerable efforts
were made to avoid populated areas, good farmland, industrial facilities, nature
reserves, forests, historic landmarks, and scenic areas. The primary effects of
trnmission lines on the environment are the steel tower which occupy land and
affect the landscape, and the felling trees duning construction. In addition, the
corona and electromagnetic field caused by transmission lines may have hannful
effects on people, domestic animals and communication lines. On the other hand,
the natural environment can have adverse effects on tras=mission line planning,
construction, operation and maintenance. Potential adverse effects include ice and
snow sticking to the conductors, unfavorable geological conditions, and
earthquakes.
Three altemative routes were designed and evaluated, and on the basis of
environmental and other considerations, the middle altemative was chosen (see
Figure A, DRW. No.50-XO5lk-X6-01). The chosen route was judged to have the
least enviromnental impact of the three. The project complies with applicable
environmental protection requirements.
All the environmental protection departnents located along the transmission line
route have taken part in the environmental impact preventive research.
1.2 Scope and the Purpose of Environmental Impact Assessment
The Ertan hydroelectric power station transmission project include 500 kV
transmission lines and 500 kV transformation projects. The transmission line
projects include Ertan to Honggou substation near Zigong via Zhaojue (3 x 470
km transmission lines), Honggnu substation to Chenjiaqiao substation near
Chongqing (one 162 kan transmission line), Zigong to Longwang substation to the
north of Chengdu( 2 x 190 kn transmission lines), Chenjiaqiao substation to
Changshou substation near Fuling (one 100 kn transmission line). 500 kV
transformation projects include Panzhffihua, Zigong Honggou, Chengdu Longwang,
Chongqing Chenjiaqiao substations as well as Zhaojue switching station. Adopted
geneal planning for the Ertan 500 kV transmission project, and according to the
l



locatl condition individual design and construct cvery 500 kV transmission line and
substation. Ertaii to Zigong H-onggou 500 kV transmission lincs are the main
transmission lines, which will tTansfer the uower generated in Ertan hydroelectric
station to the main cities whtich are locat-d in Sichuan basin. The length of the
transmission lines from Ezlan hydroelectric power station to Zigong Honggou 500
kV substation is seventy fivc percent of the total transmission line length of the
project.
Between Ertan and Zigong, the environmental condition is especially complex.
The other 500 kV transmission line segments are: Zigong to Chongqing
(Chenjiaqiao substation), Zigong to Chengdu (Longwang substation),
Chengjiaqiao to Changshou substation, they are all located at the Sichuan basin,
where the topographic, geologLcal conditions are relatively good.
The Environmental Impact Assessment focuses on the Er-Zi 500 kV transmission
lines route altematives (for every route, the assessment corridor of 30 km was
considered), and the 500 kV substations and switching station which have been
deternined in the feasibility Study of the project In this report, we only provide a
map (Figure B, Drawing No. 50-X051k-X6-02) concerning the route alternative
alignment of other transmission line segments.
The Purposes of the Environmental Assessment Report are to:
A. Forecast the short- and long-term adverse environmental impacts of the
project;
B. Adopt a series of protection measures so as to eliminate or/and minimize the
adverse environmental impacts during the construction and operation periods;
C. Establish the environmental facilities and carry out environmental monitoring
as well as supervise the implementation of protection measures; and
D. Calculate the investment needed for environmental protection.
2



Document of Sichuan Environmental Protection Administration
Reference No.:Chuan Huan Fa (1994) Kai Zi 038
Re: Review Comments of «c The Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA)
Report of Ertan Hydroelectric Station Transmission Project>
Sichuan Electric Power Administration:
Your document named <c Environmental hmpact Assessment Report of Ertan
Hydroelectric Station Transmission and Transformation Project>  ( Ref.
No.:Chuan Dian Chao Zi (1994) 3) has been received. This project is the sub-
project of Ertan hydroelectric power station, National Environmental Protection
Administration (NEPA) has already entusted Sichuan Environment Protection
Administration to approve the ELK report of Ertan hydroelectric power station
(Document ref. No.:(86) Huan Jian Zi 016). After the review by the relevant
engmeers, the following comments are given:
1. The Ertan transmission line is long, with high voltage and wide impacted area.
The selection of the Transmission line route has significant impact on the
environment. The selected transmission line routes not only considered the
economical factors, but also eliminated the environmental impact to the practical
extent, especially worth to mention is that the selected routes avoid natural
conservation zone, densely populated regions, so as to minimize the impact.
From the view of environmental impact, the selected middle route scheme is
feasible.
2. The << Environmental Impact Assessment Report>> compiled by South West
Electric Power Design Institute (SWEPDI), Ministry Of Electric Power,
relatively completed analyzed the potential environmental impact factors, the
corresponding preventive measures are feasible. We agree the analysis opinion
of environmental impact factors of the project.
3. The impact of transmission lines of Ertan transmission project on the
ecological environment and their potential electromagne Uc radiation are the main
environmental problems of the project.
3.1 The middle and west segments of the transmnission line will pass through Da
Liang mountainous region, except on Mt Luoji and Dafengding nature reserves,
with good vegetation and forest resources, the forest coverage rates of the other
parts are low, with weak ecological environment and landslip, mud flow and
landslide, etc- unfivorable geological conditions.
The construction of transmission lines must avoid passing through forest areas
and miniimize the felling of trees to the maximum practical extent, the excavation
4



and the storage of the excavated soil must fully consider the surrounding
environmental conditions, it is forbidden to create new landslide, mud flow and
landslip risks.
3.2 The west segment (Anning river valley ) and east Min river region, where
there are relatively dense human populations, corresponding measures should be
adopted to minimize electromagnetic impact on near by residents and animals.
Shield nets should be set up in the densely populated areas, the design must
strictly follow limited value requirements of transmission line induced current
for different distances, so as to ensure the safe operation of the transmission line.
4. Enhance the environmental impact monitoring. Due to the transmission line is
long, the electric voltage is high, and the enviromnental condition along the
transmission line corridor between Ertan and Honggou are very varied. In order
to protect human health and the environment against potential impacts and to
collect information about the impact of envizonment on transmission line, it is
necessary to establish monitoring facilities along the transmission line routes and
designate specified personnel to monitor the items which are mentioned in the
<«Environmental hmpact Assessment Report>>, local Electric Power Bureau
may be responsible for the monitoring.
Sichuan Environmental Protection Administration
Feb. 6, 1994
Key Words:Power Transfer, Environmental Analysis, Review
Copy: Sichuan Province Planning Commission
Sichuan Province Construction Bureau
Sichuan Province Territory Bureau
SWEPDI, Ministry Of Electric Power
5



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
Er-Zi - Ertan-Zigong 500 kV transmission lines
ESDD - Equivalent Salt Density Detection
SEMC - Sichuan Environr. ent Monitoring Center
SEPA - Sichuan Envirommental Protection Administration
SEPC - Sichuan Electric Power Company
SRIEP - Sichuan Research Institute of Environmental Protection
SWEPDI - South-West Electric Power Design Institute



2 Brief Description of the Project
2.1 Project Owner
The Owner of Ertan transmission project is Sichuan Electric Power Company
(SEPC), Ministry Of Electric Power, PRC.
2.2 Proposed Project Type
According to the classification principle of the loan project environmental
assessment of the World Bank, the project belongs to class A.
23 The Necessity of the Project and Construction Scale and Schedule
This pro3ect is the main transmission line of the Sichuan electric network system
and holds a very important position in the system. The Ertan hydroelectric station
which is under construction will transfer 3300 MW of electric power to the center
of Sichuan basin. The Ertan hydroelectric station is located at the Yalong river, 40
an north of Panzihihua, and 660 km south of Chengdu city. It is the largest
hydroelectric station currently under construction in China. Its construction began
in September 1991, and the expected test running date of the first unit is June
1998. It wfll be put into commercial operation in October 1998.
After evaluation of the <<Research Report of Power Transmission System Scheme
of Ertan Hydroelectric Station>> by the forner Ministry of Energy Power
(MOEP), it was decided that the planned 500 kV transmission lines between Ertan
and Zigong will be four circuits, three transmission lines will be constructed
initially.
The construction of the first line is expected to be completed by the end of 1997,
of the second by the end of 1998, and of the third by June 1999.
In order to distribute the generated electrc power of Ertan power station, five
Substations will be constructed at Panzhihua, Zigong Honggou, Chongqing
Chenjiaqiao, Changshou, Chengdu Longwang, as well as the Zhaojue 500 kV
Switching Station. The inifial total capacity will be 5250 MVA, and the final
capacity 7500 MVA.
.The construction scale of Substation and Switch-station is listed in table 1.
-3



Table I The Construction Scale of the Initial and the Final Stage
500 kV Main  500 kV TIL   220 kV T/L  High-Voltage
Name    Transformer    Number         Number      Reactance
(MVA)                                   (MVA) -
,            ! Ini. ! Fin.  Ini. f Fin. I Ini. | Fin. I Ini.  Fin.1
IPanzhihua SS  3x250 16x250 I1 (4161    9 1                  Y
HonggouSS  I 3x250 I 6x250 1  7  | 10 J  6      12 1 3X1501 4x150]
| Chenjiaqiao SI 6x250 I 6x250 |  3      8 1 12    14 
IChangshouSS(3x250 16X250    1       6 J  8  I1 1- 1
ILongwang SS (6x250  6x250 j2  (6-8 1101121  
IZhaoiue SW         I     1  6  |  8  1             14x1501 4x150J
2.4 Location of the Project
The Ertan to Zigong 500 kV transmission lines will across the boundary of the
Sichuan basin with the western mountain area and pass through the Liang
mountains. The proposed North, Middle,
South route schemes will pass through Panzhihua city, Xichang region, Leshan
region, Yaan region, Zigong city of Sichuan province and Zhaotong region of
Yunnan province. We have determined tiree route schemes along the three
parallel roads between Ertan and Zigong. This is shown on the attached drawing
(No.50-XO05K-X6-01, Figure 2). According to the decision arising from the
feasibility study, the rniddle route is recommended route.
2.5 Introduction to the Project
The project is to construct a 500 kV main transmission line to form part of the
Sichuan electric network in which it will hold a very important position. Its route
will pass through the Liang mountains, as well as other mountainous regions,
earthquake zones, and intensive lightning regions. The highest elevation of the line
will be 3200 meters, and along the route unfavorable geological conditions will be
experienced including areas subject to landslips, landslides, mud flows, and soil
erosion. In addition, about 100 km of the transmission line pass through a heavy
icing area. In order to obtain reliable data on icing a large scale ice observation
station has been established which has already provided ten years of continuous
records. Data obtained by the station show that the greatest ice weight that will be
experienced is 24 kg/rn (equivalent to an ice thickness of 90 mm). As a result the
4



construction and operating conditions will all be very difficult and of a type which
is rarely found in China or elsewhere.
Unlike normal transmission line projects the proposed line necessitates that many
special technical and economic problems be studied and evaluated. The feasibility
study of the project began in December 1990 and has been finished successfully.
j



3    Environmental Condition of the Impact Region
3.1 Ertan to Zigong Honggou 500 kV Transmission line
3.1.1 Natural Environment
The land around the proposed route can be divided into the eastern and western
areas, with the Ming river as the dividing line. The eastern area forms the Sichuan
basin and adjacent hilly land, whereas the westem area comprises mountains and
plateaux. Of the total length of the transmission line, 80% runs through the
mountainous areas, and 20% passes through hilly areas. In the mountainous area,
the geological structure is complex, there are areas prone to landslips, mud flows,
and soil erosion, and the basic potential earthquake intensity is 9 degrees ( about
equivalent to 5 on the Richter scale). This is quite high but there is ample
information for the proper design of towers to withstnd such a shock-
Between the east and the west extents of the transmission line there significant
differences in climate. The western mountainous area, where the Yalong river
runs, has a subtropical climate with just a wet and a dty season and subject to a
south-west monsoon. The middle section of the line pass through the west Sichuan
plateau area which has a plateau climate and great vertical differences: at the
higher altitudes, the average temperature is 5 to 10 degree, the minimum
temperature is -10 to - 25 degree, and ice is expected between October and March.
Road traffic in the region is frequently stopped because of ice and snow. The
greatest ice weight observed by the ice observation station is 24 kg/nL The easten
section of the line passes through the wet subtropical zone which experiences a
south-east monsoon and four seasons including a wet winter, a dry spring, and a
hot surnmer. The annual air temperature is 15 to 18 degree, and the minimum air
temperature is between -2 and -5 degree.
3.1.2 Ecological Resources
In some areas along the route the forests is rich, but most are newly-planted forest
Few areas could be termed virgin forest, and the average forest cover is about 30%   }
in the mountains, and about 10% O in the hills. The main trees include pine, Chinese
fir, birch, camphor, cypress etc. Adjacent but some way from the transmission line
route itself there are densely-forested mountamous regions where important and
threatened species of wildlife can be found such as giant and lesser panda, golden
monkey, etc. as well as rare Chinese medicinal plants.
Wihin the general area of the  transmission line there are two gazetted
conservation areas: Dafengding Nature Reserve and Mt. Luoji Nature Reserve.
6



Dafengding is located in the Daliang Mountains in Mabian, Meigu and Lebo
counties. At higher altitudes there are bamboo forests which form important panda
habitat. The selected transmission line routes avoid any possible impact on this
conservation area, by making the minimum distance between the Nature Reserve
boundary and the trnsmission line conidors over 5 kmn.
Mt Luoji Nature Reserve is about 30 km south of Xichang city, but its area lies
within the administrative area of the city, as well as within Dechang county and
Puge county. The selected transmission line routes avoid any possible impact on
this nature reserve.
Detailed information of these two nature reserves is given in Annex A.
Along the route, the main crops and other economic plants are potato, buckwheat,
coin, and tea in the moutainous area, rice, wheat, cotton, fiber crop, mulberry,
sugar cane, tobacco, etc. in the hilly land area.
3.1.3 Social Environment
The transmission lines will pass mainly through agricultural regions. During the
selection of the route great care was taken to avoid industrial areas. The main
socio-cultural impact of the line is its electromagnetic interference with overhead
communcation lines. There are a few areas with mineral resources (such as
copper, coal, lead, zinc, phosphorus) along the transmission line route but due to
their limited extent, they are not exploited.
Due to the generaly mountainous terrain, road transport svstems are not well
developed. There are, however, main roads and rilroads between Chengdu and
Kunmmng, and along the Jinsha river and the Ming river, as well as the airline
routes from Xichang, Yibin to major cities of Sichuan province.
Except for a few factories in villages and small towns, industry and agriculture in
the western mountainous areas are poorly developed. The population density in
the area is about 60 people per square kilometer. In the eastern hilly area, the
population density is about 625 people per square kilometer, with relatively
developed agriculture and industry.
3.1.4 Quality of Life
Since 1979, China's economy has developed rapidly and the people's quality of life
has greatly improved. In the mountainous region, the problems of obtaining
7



adequate food and clothing are already solved. National policies for the
development of agriculture as the foundation of the economy, according to the
local resource conditions, determined the long term industrial and agricultural
development plans. The development of highways has already been given a very
high priority. The abundant water resources have been utilized for small-scale
hydroelectric power stations to improve the local people's quality of life. Cultural;
physical and health facilities are improving. For example, in and around urban
areas 95% of school-age children attend elementary and middle school. The
socioeconomic conditions of the eastem hilly region have developed faster than in
the western region. With the improvement of the people's quality of life, local
tourism resources have been developed. For example, along the transmission line,
the tourist resources include Qiong Hai lake, Lu mountain in Xichang city, the
glacier relic of Luoji mountain, the Zigong dinosaur fossils, and Dafengding
Nature Reserve.
3.2 500 kV Substations and Switching Station
3.2.1 Zhaojue 500 kV Switching Station
Some 5 km to the north-east of Zhaojue town, and 0.5 km from Puti village is the
switching station. The elevation here is 2075-2100 meters. Since the west side of
the switching station is close to the Zhaojue-Puxiong road, the communi-
cations and transportation conditions are good. Around the site area are sparsely
scattered vegetation and arable land. There are no unfavorable geological
conditions such as landslides or faults across the site, so the site foundation is
relatively stable. The basic potential earhiquake intensity is 7 degrees.
There is no source of in dustrial pollution nearby and so the area has good
atmospheric environmental quality.
Zhaojue is an agricultural county, with very few industrial facilities. Apart from
the air and water immediately around the industrial plants the environmental
quality is good. The Zhaojue river water quality index and the well water quality
index are all widtin the potable water national standards of China. The Zhaojue
river water quality is shown below . (Source: Zhaojue county epidemic prevetion station)
Item                        Value          Unit
pH value                   7.1 - 7.8
Dissolved oxygen         7.3 - 20.1      mg/i
Chemical oxygen demand   7.11 - 8.43    mg/I
Chlorine                  0.60- 0.85     mg/I
8S'



Iron                       0.04 - 0.06     mg/i
Total hardness            6.22 -- 75.30   mg/i
Arsenic                     < 0.001        mgll
Chromium                    < 0.001        mg/l
Mercuy                      < 0.001        mg/i
Sulfide                        No
The likelihood of drought at the site section of Zhaojue river is 97 percent, the
water flow at the section is 0.5 cubic meter per second. Because of the wide bed of
the river, wells can be dug on the river beach to satisfy the need of station
operation and the staff living there (about 25 tons per hour).
The site occupies a total of 4.94 ha, and there is no problem of relocating any
residents.
3.2.2 Panzhihua 500 kV Substation
Some 15 kan south-east of Panzhihua city center is the substation. About 3 km to
the north of the site is Jinjiang train station. The terrain slopes from west to cast,
gently sloping down to the Jinsha river, the elevation difference between the
ground and the river is about 300 meters. The elevation of substation site is
1288.5-1345 meters, with a relative elevation difference of 66 meters. No
problematic geological conditions, such as landslides and paraclase, exist in the
site area, and so the site foundation is basically stable. The basic potential
earthquake intensity is 7 degrees.
Panzhihua city is a medium-sized industrial city, with the main industries being
mine exploitation, steel and smelting manufactung. The atmospheric pollution of
Panzhihua city is serious, with the main pollutants being suspended particles
containing various heavy metals. In the 1982, the total annual discharged amounts
of dust, sulfur dioxide, carbon dioxide, nitrogen oxides were 95,300 tons, 35,500
tons, 72,800 tons, 10,200 tons. The pollutants level at Huomeikou, Luoluopin, and
Midi districts are especially serious, but the substation is located in the relatively
clean Jinjiang district, far away from the pollution resources.
The Jinsha river is the main source of water for Panzhihua city but it also receives
most of the domestic and industrial waste water. Water quality monitoring of the
Jinsha river shows that in the section flowing through Panzhihua, the suspended
solid, colitic bacteria, total bacteria, and iron content all exceed their specified
stizidard. The pH value, ammonia, and nitrogen contents occasionally exceed the
standard.
9



The environmental protection bureau of Panzhihua city is improving the Jinsha
river water quality. It is proposed that the water for the operation and staff needs
of the substation will be taken from the Dukou steel plant, which is 3 kilometers
away from the site.
The site occupies a total area of 9.97 ha, 6.98 ha of which is dry land,' and 2.99
rice land. Two households currently within the site location will be removed (252
square meters).
3.2.3 Zigong Honggou 500 kV Substation
The substation site is located in the Tianpu village of Fushun county, south of the
site is the Zifu road (from Zigong city to Fushun county), and to the east, the
Yuantan to Washi road pazses nearby. The communications and transportation
conditions are good. The site terrain is hilly with five small hills, their natural
slope is less than 10 degrees and the maximum elevation difference is about 30
meters.
The site is located in farm land, 70% of which is dry-land, the remaining 30% is
irrigated. The site is located upwind of Yuantan town and is about 10 km away
from the area of chemical industries. The site is located in a slightly polluted area.
The Fuxi river water is polluted by industrial waste water and domestic waste
which are discharged upstream, and the former contains various poisonous metals
and cannot be used as irrigation or potable water. The water used for the
substation will be supplied from the Yuantan water treatment plant.
The site occupies a total area of 8.22 ha, 6.58 ha of which is dry land, and 1.64 is
irrigated land. Two households within the site location will be resettled (325
square meters).
3.2.4 Chengdu Longwang 500 kV Substation
The site is located 2 km from Longwang town of Qingbaijiang district, and 31 km
from Chengdu city. Two country roads run 600 meters away on two sides of the
site. The transportation conditions are good. The site is on a small hill, the relative
elevation difference between its summit and base is only about 20 meters. There
are no unfavorable geological phenomena associated with the site, and so the site
foundation is stable. The basic potential earthquake intensity is 7 degrees. The site
is located in an agricultural region, most of which is poor-quality dry fields. The
main crops include rice, wheat, corn, rape, etc. There are no sources of pollution
nearby, and the atmospheric environmental quality is good.
10



The substation is located in an area of poor water availability. It is proposed to
pump groundwater from a location near the Xi river as the reliable water resource
for the substationL
The site occupies a total area of 10.61 ha. Within the site area, one household will
be resettled (126 square meters).
3.2.5 Chongqing Chenjiaqiao 500 kV substation
The site is located at the Yupin, Chengjiaqiao town region of Ba county and is
about 50 Km away from Chongqing city. To the west of the site is the Longfong
river, to the east is Jiaoding mountain. The Xiyong train station is 6 kan away from
Chenjiaqiao town. There is a road which connects the site with the Chengdu-
Chongqing highway, and so the communications and transportation conditions are
very good. The substation site is situated in hilly land below a mountain. Gentle
slopes and shallow valleys are crisscrossed with weathered geomorphic features,
and there is a natural gully nnming through the site. The geological structure of the
site is simple with no fault, no landslide, or other unfavorable geological
phenomena. The site foundation is therefore stable. The basic earthquake intensity
is 6 degrees.
West of the site is the Longfeng river, the flow in which is not reliable. Water will
be pumped from a relaibale phreatic source 3 km to the west of the substation, the
discharge from which can meet the operation, living and fire fighting requirements
of the substation.
Apart from a few small-scale plants in Chenjiaqiao, there are no important sources
of mdustrial pollution. The environmental quality here is good.
The site occupies a total area of 11.14 ha, 7.8 ha of which is dry land, 3.34 is
irrigated land. One household within the site location will be resettled (205 square
meters).
3.2.6 Changshou 500 kV Substation
This substation lies 14 km to the north of Changshou county, near Weixin village,
Zbitong town. Vilage roads pass to the east and south-west sides of the site, and
so the transportation conditions are good. The site is located in hilly land. The
-elevation of the north-west side is higher than that of the souti-east side. The
average slope is 6 degrees. The basic potential earthquake intensity is less than 6
degrees. Most of the land around the site is dry and irrigated land, the main crops
being corn, potato, and rice. The site occupies a total area of 12 ha, 8.5 ha of
11



which is dry land, and 3.5 ha is irrigated rice fields. Witiin the site area, three
houses will be removed (532 square meters).
There are no sources of pollution around the site.
12



4   Environmental Impact Forecast, and Control and Treatment Measures
4.1  Transmission Line Impacts on Environment and Preventive Measures
4.1.1 Impact on the Forest and Economic Trees
Chinese regulations stipulate that when transmission lines pass through forest land,
a cleared right-of-way must be established with a width at least twice the width of
outer phase spacing plus the height of the trees.
The felling of trees can disturb the ecological conditions of an area and may cause
soil erosion. Protection of forest reserves in China is an important policy (see
Annex B «c The Policy and Rules for the Management of Forest Reserves Issued
by State and Local Government»>). Transmission lines are not permitted to pass
through virgin forest or areas of economic trees, or through scenic locations or
nature resenres, unless there is no other alternative. If the transmission lines do
pass through forest land, the height of the trasmission line across the forest land
is generally increased, and the felling of trees is minimized. After comparison, the
delta configuration steel tower can reduce the width of transmission line conidor
by 13 to 15 m compare with that of flat configuration steel tower, so in te forest
and densely-populated built-up areas, the delta configuration steel tower will be
adopted, because it can decrease by 20-30% the forest feUled and the buildings
removed. In the mountainous area, if the net height of the conductors above the
valley trees is over 30 m, the trees need not be cut.
4.1.2 Potential Impact on Industrial Facilities and Mineral Resources
Chinese design criteria stipulate the safe distance between transmission lines and
combustive, explosive and other dangerous facilities, as well as from factory
buildings, storehouse, etc. For example,the minimum safe fire protection distance
between transmission lines and any first class dangerous workshop, store house,
and combustible material stockyards, as well as combustible gas storage tanks can
not be less than 1.5 times the height of the tower. Furthermore, there are basic
requirements for the transmission line crossing or running along a highway,
railway, river, telecommunication line, power line, etc. These requirements must
be followed in designL
The minimum vertical distances between the transmission line and various
facilities under the line are shown in the following table.
13



Table 2 Minimum Vertical Distances from Transmission Lines Overhead
Permitted
Facility                     Minimum
Vertical
Distance
The Ground Surface of Non-esidential Areas                      12
The Ground Surface of Residential Areas                         14
The Ground Surface of Areas that Rarely Have People Passing Through  9
Frequently Used Railway Track                                   14
In Frequently Used Railway Track                                13
Highway                                                         14
Road                                                            12
Navigable River, The Maximum Flood Level in 5 Years             1 0
The Masdicad of Ship                                            6
Non-navigated River, The Maximum Flood Level                    7
The C-round Wire of Power Line                                  6
The Top of Tower of Power Line                                  B.5
I-II Communication Line                                        8.5
Ropeway    _.5
Source: Technical Design Rules for Overhead Transmission Lines, Issued by the Ministy
Of Energy ,PRC.
Near the transmission line corridor there are mine resjurces. The route should also
avoid passing over mineral deposits that potentially could be exploited . If it is not
possible, approval must-be sought from the local authorities.
Where transmission line runs parallel to a telecommunication line, the
electromagnetic field of the extra-high voltage transmission line can induce a high
potential. In order to avoid possible accidents during the construction and
maintenance of parallel lines, protectors and grounding devices should be
installed.
4.1.3 Impact on Wildlife and Conservation Areas
In order to protect rare and endangered species of wildlife, China has establshed,
and is still establishing, a variety of conservation areas. For example, in the
densely forested region between Meigu county and Mabian county, is the
Dafengding Nature Reserve established to protect vanous species of threatened
species, including the giant panda. Based on the national environmental protection
policy, the alignment of the transmission line was designed to avoid natrwe reserve
boundaries by a minimum of five kilometers. The elevation of the line at this point
14



is lower han the favored habitat for the threatened species. The minimum distance
from the transmission line to the bamboo forests occupied by the giant panda is
over 20 kdlometers. By running over rivers, there will be no impact on the aquatic
resources.
The selected transmission line routes have already avoid the possible impact on the
nature reserves within the study area (See Annex A).
4.1A Impact on the Surrounding Scenery and Anesthetics
Transmission line towers have visual impacts on surrounding landscapes. It is
necessary to carefully consider the harmony between the transmission line and
surrounding environment. Based on foreign experience, the following measures
have been considered:
A. Select a route which will have the least effect on the natural environment (for
example, the transmission lines will not be permitted to pass through forest), and
avoid installing towers on mountain ridges;
B. avoid passing through natural scenic areas and areas with cultural and
anesthetic values (See Annex C);
C. provide natural screning or concealment using natural topography;
D.  conceal the towers by painting them to blend into the background and to
reduce reflectivity; and
E. select the tower with a handsome appearance.
4.1.5 Construction Impacts
Project construction will require land acquisition, tree felling, loss of crops, and
earth excavation. In addition, blasting will cause loud noise, which will have
adverse effects on the residents and any wildlife near the construction site.
According to the construcfion experience, in order to minimi e the construction
iInpact on the environment, the following measures should be taken:
A. Adopt the stdnging of conductors under tension and minimize the width of the
construction passway to less than 4 meters;
B. adopt small-piece erection techniques;
15



C. if it can meet the requirements of the construction schedule, line stringing
should be done after the fall harvest in agricultural areas in order to minimize the
damage to the crops;
D. adopt compression method to connect conductors, and use noise control
measures during the excavation. Excavated soil will be stocked at specified
locations.
E. adopt aerial cable ways to transport the parts, if possible;
F. rent existing houses for construction offices rather than building temporary
facilities;
G. using helicopter, flying machines (e.g. model airplanes, airships, etc.) in
those sections that are in forest and have difficult access (See Annex D).
4.1.6 Occupation of Farmland
In China, the transmission line corridor does not require the expropriation of land,
only the foundation of tower and newly- built and extended roads will require land
acquisition. Thus, the land under the lines between the tower will sfll belong to
the onginal owner, and the plating of the crops will not be affected. The
expropriation of the land will follow the corresponding Chinese policy, the
compensation fee being about 10 to 20 times that of the value of the crops. This
policy is important because it minimizes the area of farmland lost to the project.
The selected transnmssion line route should avoid impacts to farmland to the
maximum practical extent; 80% of the transmission line runs through mountainous
country, where uncultivated land comprises about 60% of the area, only 5% is
cultivated, and forest land comprises 35%.
4.1.7 Relocation
In the mountainous areas the human population is sparsely distributed, but it
becomes dense in the hilly areas. The transmission alignments were planned so as
to avoid the necessity of displacing houses to the maximum extent practical. The
principles for the displacement of house are as following:
A. the route of the transmission line will not pass through residential regions;
B. relocation problems will be avoided to the maximum practical extent The
houses which will impact the safety of the constuction and opeation of the
16



transmission line, before they will be displaced, must get the agreement of the
owners and the local government;
C. the compensation fee is based on the square meter of the house and the price of
rebuilding a new house provided by the local government,
D. there are clear differences between the resettlement requirements of a
ransnission line and of a hydroelectric power station with a reservoir. For
example, in the Ertan-Zigong segment of this project the impacted individuals
number less than 2.4 per kilometer and relocation is still within the original
village. According to the policies of China, based on the principle of avoiding
impacts from the transmission line, the displaced house awner can.select a location
for the new house within his original village. Normally, the new house is only
about 100 to 1,000 meters away from the original position. Alternative housing
should be completed before relocation is needed. The compensation fee also
include the house foundation fee and the fee needed for the conversion of the
original house foundation to ihe farmland. Due to this favorable policy, house
owners are normally willing to move to a new location and to build a new house.
E. Transission Line Relocation
The criteria for house removal are:
A). under a no-wind deviation condition, -the houses that. are within the scope of
tansmission line outer phase and those that are within a further five meters on
both sides will be removed.
B).  under a maximum deviation condition, the houses which are within 8.5
meters net distance of the transmission line outer phase will be removed
C). outside the outer phase, under a no-wind deviation condition, the houses will
be removed where, one meter above the ground, the electrostatic induced electric
field intensity is over 4 kV/m.
F. Minority Nationality Region Relocation
Along Ertan to Zigong 500 kV transmission line, 27Q,akm will pass through
Liangshan Yi Nationality Autonomous Region, Zhaojue switch station is also
located within the region. This region has relative high density of Yi people, about
60 persons per square kilometer. The houses of Yi people are sparsely scattered.
The selection of transmission line route and switch station site is based strictly on
the policies of minority nationality, much attentions are paid to protect the culture,
local condition and customs of Yi people. The selected transmission line route
17



avoids passing through residential areas of Yi peoplc and the TDt is arrangied to
pass through uncultivated land and low-yield land as far as possible. The Ertan
transmission project has no Yi people relocation problem.
In this project, considerable attention has been paid to avoiding densely populated
areas; consequently, the nunber of houses which will be demolished is much less
than that of similar projects. For the Ertan-Zigong transmission line segment the
estimated average total area of the houses removed for the three circuits is about
32,900 square meters (265 families and 1140 individuals).        -    -
4.2  Impact of the Environment on the Transmission line
4.2.1 Unfavorable Geologic Conditions
The transmission line will pass through mountainous areas where the geological
texture is complex. The potential earthquake risks and intensities are high and
are a potential threat to the safety of the transmission line. Remote geological
sensing techniques have been used, so as to choose the zones of the least
unfavorable geological conditions. The calculation of the earthquake loading and
tower foundations is based on Chinese civil structure design regulations. In
addition, unequaled tower legs and unequaled foundations will be used to
niuniize disturbance to the earth surface.To the extent permitted by tower
strucualra stability,it is planned that each leg foundation will be get into the
existing topography to avoid extensive excavation.The lower portions of the legs
of the towers will be adjusted in length to compensate for differences in elevation
of the foundations.
4.2.2 High Elevations
The elevation of 67% of the transmission line is over 1000 meters, and the highest
elevation is over 3200 meters. The higher the elevation, the lower the air density
and the absolute humidity, so the discharge voltage of the insulator and the air
span decrease. In order to provide the necessary insulation level during standard
meteorological conditions, it is necessary to increase the standard insulation to
compensate for the conditions. The regulation of the insulation coordination uses a
method similar to that of the International Electrotechnical Commission(IEC). The
necessary meteorological data will be obtained from the meteorological
observation stations, which have been located along the transmission line route.
It has been proved that the flash-over voltage of the ice-covered insulator will
decrease, but whether the elevation variation has an impact on the flash-over
voltage of ice-coveied insulators wil be the subject of further research.
is



4.2.3 Heavy Icing                -*
The transmission line will pass through the Da Liang Mountains where the climate
can be extremely cold, and the ice loading of the conductor will be very heavy.
The characters of a heavy ice- covered transmission line are higher loads and
mateijal waste, as well as higher accident rate, and greater operating and
maintenance difficulties. During operation, ice dropping from the lines can cause
large vibrations, and the ice may form unevenly. If the line is too thin, it may
break or there may be insulator damage and/or frequent tripping problems. On the
other hand, if the line is unnecessarily thick there will be a wastage of cable
material.
It is clearly important to make the right design for the cable, the number of the
subconductors, the arrangement of subconductors and tower head, etc. An ice
observation station has been established along the transmission line route, and it
has provided some valuable data for design models. However, it is still difficult to
accurately forecast the ice covering value. Our design and operation experience of
Utansmission line in the heavy ice area are to try to avoid the-heavy ice zone, and
then to increase the reliability of the tmrnsmission line.
Ertan Hydroelectric station has four 500 kV circuits, in order to increase the
reliability, there are two tranission line pathways. In order to get the advanced
transmission line design technologies concerning the high elevation and heavy ice
loading, the project will invite foreign specialists to offer advice.
4.2.4 Air Pollution
The contamination flash-over vo]tage of the insulators will decrease- considerably
in the heavily-polluted air and induce the tripping of the line. Thus, the number of
the insulators will be determined by the leakage distance under the power
frequency voltage. Over twenty ESDD observation stations have been established
along the transmission line to correctly classity the pollutant classes.
4.2.5 Forest Fire
Forest fires could threaten the safety of the transmission line. The potential for fire
can be solved by clearing the right of way and creating a safety distance, and it is
necessary to enhance the supervision of potential fires along the transmission line,
especially in forest areas. The most effective fire preventive measure is to avoid
potential fire situations.
19



4.3   Electromagnetic Environmental Compatibility
4.3.1 The Impacts of the Ground Electric Field on People, Domestic
Animals and Their Preventive Measures
Around the extra-high voltage transmission lines, there exist insensitive
electrostatic fields. The electrostatic effect can create either transient electric
shocks or stable electric shocks to people and aniimals. Isolated conductive objects
located in the electric field will induce an electric charge. If the induction voltage
is relatively high, and a person comes into contact with the isolated conductive
object, the person will sense a tansient electric shock If the contact time is
longer, there will be a stable electric shock. If the discharge current through the
human body exceeds the safety limit, the person will suffer the first type electric
shock which can be very serious, the second electric shock will cause the victim
annoyance, itching etc. To avoid these adverse impacts, Chinese regulations
stipulate that it is forbidden for the first type electric shock to occur, and the
incidence of the second type electric shock must be reduced. The regulations thus
stipulate that, for isolated conductors, such as people, trucks or cars temporarily
beneath the transmission line, the induction current must not exceed 5 mA at one
meter above the ground, the maximum unperturbed field intensity of a 500 kV
transmission line must limited: for highway at 7 kV/m, farmland at 9.5 kVIm,
residential areas at 5 kV/in, and at the edge of the route passage at 4 kV/mL
The planting of trees or the installation of a shield net near buildings can reduce
the strength of the ground electric field. The test and research results of China
National Electric Science Research Institute have shown that the area of high
electric field beneath delta configuration steel towers is less than tat beneath flat
configuration steel towers, such that the area with a 4 kV/m electric field will be
reduced by 35%. It is therefore best to use the delta configuration steel towers in
the eastem region because of the high human population density.
4.3.2 The Impact of the Transmission line on Wired Communication and
Radio Facilities
The power frequency of the electric, and magnetic fields of transmission line will
interfere with the wired and radio telecommunication facilities and may cause
dangerous electromagnetic problems. In addition, the corona and the interval
discharge of the transmission line will cause radio interference.
hi order to effectively solve the interference problem between the tansmission line
and the telecommunication facilities, relevant regulations stipulate hat the impact
must be limited to ensure the safe and normal operation of the telecommunication
20



facilities. If the transmission line route cannot be avoided, it is necessary to
negotiate with the local telecommunication departnent and adopt acceptable
protection devices and measures.
The permitted value for various telecommunication devices are listed in table 3
and table 4.
Table 3
The Inductive Voltage Permitted Value of Wired Telecommunication Devices
Power Wire Situation   Comminication      Common   Ground      Noise
Device Type      Module    Voltage    Voltage
______________  Voltage (V)   (V).,    (mV)L
Grouding Fault    Wire                   650
(Transsit)     Cable                60% Udct 65% Udct
85% Uact 85% Uact
Communication Lines               650
Normal Operation     Communication Lines  _         _             4.5
Note: Udct means the direct current test voltage;
Uact means the altermative current test voltage.
Table 4
The Interference Protection Distance of Different Radio Station Classes
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___ _   m(M)
T1L Voltage Class (500 kV)
The Name of Devices                  Radio Station Class
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ~~~I  I  I  In
Broadcast           Radio Sta.            1200       900      500
Moni.Sta.            2000      1000       500
Short Wave Radio Dire. Sta.                         2000
Short Wave Radio Signal RPep. Sta.        1800      1100      700
TV Transfer & Reception Station VHF(I)              500
uHF(li)                400
Warning,Guiding Radar Sta.   VHF                    1600
UHF                    1000
Middle Wave Navigation Sta.                         500
Super-Short Wave Dire. Sta.                         700
Navigation Beacon Sta                               3000
Flying Beacon Sta.                                   900
Note: When these protection distances cannot be met, based on th actual condition,
calculate the safety distance, or determine it by experiments.
21



In China, the radio interference level (RI) of the transmission line corridor has
been linited by relevant regulations. It is required that, during sunny days when
the frequency is I Hz, the RI value can not exceed 50 dB 20 m from the edge of
the transmission line. According to experience, the formula recommended by
International Electric Engineering Committee when the elevation reaches 3,200 m,
using 4 x 400 square millimeter conductors, the RI value is 40 dB.
Due to the importance of the transmission line, construction and operation
conditions of the line will- have to be improved. In the mountainous area, the
transmission line route is normally along the same route as the overhead
telecommunication lines. The consequence is that there exists the potential for
interference and electromagnetic danger of the transmission line with the overhead
comaunication lines. For the class I telecommunication line from Xichang to
Xinshi, the recommended preventive measure against interference is to change
the line to the optical fiber cable. For the other Class II and III telecommunication
lines, the recommended preventive measures include installation of dischargers,
shielding of the line, and partially changing the route of the communication line.
4.3.3 The Impact of Audible Noise and Preventive Measures
With the increase of the factories and other kinds of noise sources, more attention
has been paid to the noise pollution problem, and noise control has become a very
important part of environmental protection in every country. People are aware that
the Extra High Voltage (EHV) trnsmission line is a new kdnd of noise source.
During the humid weather condition, the collision of water drops may create
corona Audible Noise (AN).
During humid weather conditions or rainy days, and when the frequency is
between 20 Hz to 20 KHz, the AN level is especially high. In order to protect the
environment, some countries have limits for ihe audible noise at the edge of the
transmission line corridor. For example, in America, the AN level is one of the
limiting factors for the design of the EHV transmission lines. In China, however,
there not yet any relevant regulations to limit AN.
As we know that the AN value is related to the electric field intensity on the
surface of transmission line, so careful selection of the arrangement of bundle
conductors can reduce the AN value. Calculations show that, in the eastern
densely populated area, using 4 x 400 square millimeter conductors during rainy
days, the AN value is 49.79 dB at a horizontal distance of 20 meters away from
the wire. That is below the control value of 55 dB, which is the stadard limiting
value in the United States. In addition, as the distance increases, the AN value
22



decreases, so the influence of the transmission line on residential areas far away
from the transmission line is slight.
4.4 Environmental Assessment of 500 kV Substations
4.4.1 Land Occupation, Relocation and Felling of Trees
For the transformers to be instaled in substation and switching station no PCB's
containing oils will be used.The main environmental impacts of-this project are
farm land occupation, relocation, and tree felling during construction.
While the project was being designed, efforts were made to select sites on slopes
or low productivity farmland, and to make the layout as compact as possible (using
Gas Isolate Switchguards(GIS) and hard bus), and to align the tansmission line
routes along the exising roads so as to shorten any new roads needed for access to
the substation sites. In addition, the selected sites avoided the forest land and
dense residential areas, thereby miniMizing the impact on forest land area and the
number of houses to be demolished.   . 
The information concerning the land occupation and the number of demolished
houses for the construction of the five substations and one switching station are
listed in following table 5.
Table 5
The Information of Lanal Occupation and Relocation for Substation Projects
Land Taken  ha)           Houses Demolished
Item      Dry       Wet       Total    Area   Household  Individual
_(sq m)
Panzhihua    6.98      2.99     9.97      252       2         6
Honggou      6.58      1.64     8.22      325       2         7
Longwang   10.61               10.61      126       1         4
Chengjiaqiao  7.798    3.342   11.14     205        1         5
Changshou    8.5       3.5     12         532       3        10
Zhaojue      4.94       /       4.94       /                  I /
Total       45.408    11.292   56.88     1440       9        32
23



4.4.2 Construction Impacts and Mitigation
Rain water runoff has erosion impact on the bare earth surfaces exposed during
construction. It is necessary to do detailed planning for the excavation and
refilling in order to control soil erosion. The relevant preventative measures
include limiting the slope of excavated ground to less than 6 percent, constructing
sewers and retaining wall, as well as planting grass, shrubs and trees on the
excavated earth surface, and changing the excavated area into farmland, etc.
Suitable preventive measures will be used to control the construction noise,
vibration, fly dust and to minimize or/and eliminate their impacts on the
surrounding residents and underground water, so as to meet the requirements of
environmental protection standards. During the construction phase of the
substations and the switching station, there will be temporary enviromnent
pollution and destruction. However, with suitable management and control
measures, it is possible to eliminate or minimiize the harm to the environment and
to limit the environmental impact wiftiin the permitted range.
4.4.3    Operational Impacts and Mitigation Measures
4.4.3.1  Electromagnetic Field Effects
4.43.1.1 Impact on the Wired and Radio Communication Facilities
Same as the Extra High Voltage(EHV) transmission line, the 500 kV substation
and switching station will also induce an electromagnetic field and a corona
discharge, which may interfere with the nearby communication lines and the radio
facilities, and cause dangerous electromagnetic effects. In order to prevent these
impacts, China has stipulated a series of rules and regulations, such as G136830-80
«The Tolerable Limits of Danger on Telecommunication Lines From Power
Lines>> and GB749-87<<he Protection Distance Between Overhead Power lines
and Receiving Station of AM Broadcasting>>, < Electromagnetic Environment
Requirements for Aeronautical Radio Navigation Stations>>, etc. These rules and
regulations are standards for the design and construction of electric engineering
projects. The field test and calculations show that as the distance increases, so the
impact of the electromagnetic field will decrease, until, when a certain distance is
reached, its impact is judged to be tolerable.
As mentioned above, the Chengdu Longwang and Chongqing Chenjiaqiao
substations are extension projects, based on the existing 220 kV substations.
During their initial design and construction, the possibility of fiurther extending the
500 kV substations has been considered.
24



The sites of the other substation are all located in the farmland areas, far away
from the city and town area, the selected site locations have already avoided the
electromagnetic impact on wired and radio facilities.
4.4.3.1.2 The Impacts of the Electromagnetic Field on Human
As mentioned in section 4.3, electrostatic fields exist around areas of extra high
voltage -transmission lines and facilities, and the electrostatic effect has adverse
impacts on the operators. In addition, it is necessaxy to prevent the adverse impacts
of electrostatic induction on other low voltage facilities.
Since there is a close relation between electrostatic effects and electric field-
intensity, the ground electric field intensity is used to represent the electrostatic
effect level. To minimize the impact of these electrostatic effects, Chinese design
regulatons stipulate the following lnimted value for the unpeturbed electric field:
The area within the electric distribution facilities:
Distribution instllation area:  -- -           10k/Mm
Operator worldng area:                          8 kV/m
Substation fence (not in the outgoing direction):  5 kVtm
Due to the discharge spark of electrostatic induction, the combustible and
explosive outdoor facilities and building should be sited 40 m away from the
charged body.
4.4.3.2 Noise Control
Noise is harmful to humans, and in today's society more and more attention is paid
to noise problems. The design of substations will adopt noise control measures. hI
China, it is required that, inside buildings, the continuous noise levels shall not
exceed the following values:
In the main control building:       55 - 65 dB
Office:                            60 - 70 dB
Duty room in the operation building:    85 - 90 dB
The main noise sources in the substation and switching station are electromagnetic
noise and corona noise.
25



The preventive measures are:
A. during the layout of the substation, the soundproof and silence fumction of
building and trees should be considered, so as to reduce the noise effect;
B. in the main control building, after the silencing and soundproofing measures,
the noise level in the main control room will meet the standard;
C. selection of equipment with low noise levels, for example, the reactor and
transformer noise level should be below 80 dB and 85 dB; and
D. under the highest operation voltage, during the night and in fair weather
conditions, there should be no visible corona in the high voltage facilities.
4.4.3.3 Waste Water Treatment
The expected waste waters from the substation and switching station comprise
production waste water, oily water from the oil system, as well as smaLl amounts
of domestic waste discharged from the substationL The design is based on the
principles of water saving and comprehensive treatment, and a water management
system will be established. Based on the characters of these waste waters, the
following treatment measures will be adopted:
A. Oily water will be discharged to an emergency oil pond. After separating the
oil and water, oil will be recovered and the remaining small amount of water will
be discharged. Due to the small amount of water to be discharged, it will not
influence the quality of the receiving water body.
B. Waste acid water from the accumulators will be teated by neutralization.m a
pond for that purpose .The pH value will be adjusted to within the specified range
5.5 to 9.0, then the water will be discharged.
C. Domestic waste water will be treated by biochemical disinfection to ensure
its quality meets the effluent standard requirements,and then it will be discharged.
4.4.3.4 Greening Design
Plants not only can beautif the environment but also can prevent dust, reduce
noise levels, as well as minimize radiation. According to the climate and soil
conditions, trees will be selected for their suitability, speed of growth, and ability
to prevent fire and dust They will be used for the greening of the substation area,
26



and this will create a more beautiful and comfortable working environment for the
employees.
4.5 Environmental Impacts on the Substation
The environmental impact -factors include air pollution, ice and snow, high
elevation, unfavorable geological conditions, earthquakes etc. These factors were
fully considered during the site selection. In this project, all substations and
switching station are located in light icing areas, the geological investigation
results show that the geological conditions of each site are fairly good, and the
potential earthquake intensity is only 6 to 7 degrees. Apart from the elevation of
the Zhaojue switching station ( 2075 - 2100 meters) and Panzihua substation
(1285 - 1345 meters), all the other substations are below 1000 meters.
Panzbihua, Longwang and Honggou substations are located near cities, and so it is
necessary to protect conductors against pollution. Air pollution and the high
elevation are the main environmental impact factors on the project
With regard to the problems of corona and insulation, wbich are related to the high
elevation, both China and other countries already 'have plenty of experience. This
will be used directly in this project. Each substation has and established ESDD
observation station, and will provide reliable data for the classification of pollutant
levels for insulation design.
27



5 Analysis of Alternatir-es
5.1   Main items of Ertan to Zigong 500 kV transmission lines north, middle and
south routes economical and technical comparisons are listed in table 6.
Table 6
The Economical and Technical Comparisons of the North, the Middle
and the South Route Scheme of Ertan-Zigang 500 kV Transmission Lines
East._SSaas                  Rank Iseis                                 ml. 1aste                                Sash Basis
I. Toau                                                                         tn  li saedesed lisaia
I teLtib at Raue  h4e)                              sn                                       410                    u30
D  e    a I -.  at -. .t   h.t o1   D. .ass -  _bs tsp pt of 11as  - LIs  Th.  a-I-a   .  lsated  at  La     a"
Nexsagll. aisle. alan1 tie.s     en i,sa os    tl..t  plains.. ait_   pIls slap1     Elsisreg in*1lsse.neu  iheqhli favsh.
Tapographlsel       " Is              rese  *tsl  asi ed.s    Tle awp-t  sla- Ih  IJg  el    ealy .1ea  .Lsla  elan sa   1r. LI*Ahlka.
I                                   -taeals   U. eseslal    asrtels Wel   S. ea.al asa_I sia.. Fre. _ Ial ha ZI1   is ti *ilaes_l ar. p.slpillee,  1sael,;
Ca.Silas                  Weeps, and  ssian   asielosIes    bi1ll? 1-                                   The           mti etnau e hh     ts pl.slea
na,laa. f.a  11.11 ts Zlln. tU. as-                                                sad semi sesetals. 1-laeln  1. S1-
pal h.lar    i hIy1.5.                               _s    peel a te ls1_ge'a    halet                              .  is_ t
hilly  a.
Mm ma. _w   a  e-    si  lIstsss. l*, as. ipusof eac  sn i1.  II_ 1ae   The. ... tnp .ft 1eW               m b_ar  at * met,
Galsiasl            samisu     .  ahale *. 6hy-.1-     .5  ma-li* .-            * sela-t_s   els ye   .l I s_e. assists  ltasa ,1 naIl.-
2           .s                                 ll fdi&.Iklelsed laS  ya_ se, as sloulm. lbs IsdillId asd  ml I n       a- lb  _al_li.am itd IasEIp_1
Cssdltle.a          MUlla.       d ias.lda   fl_ tn d ladsil  aesea    , haIgS      chid.lee e     WA   wa  ae e     r S   1. Neill . tal la
are, al-a e _.srd  sise  tbis tate       bi1. _ Id"gasea                             atiles.  SI." riLVr_lwas.e ,le
"IIey.
AbIt 34 he rate Is sapsaied by Eastt Alan th  reals hee  resi se ha .e  -sd  an 37 h a_I I at o ef   _ TA I to .
*ler .5 Dole clea. tiis aostlsb lb s_ -Jr Part ar the  nato I. parall- l  Frae the rSLTk atlaw ratl_ ban  r
mi ee.aie  reed ass be seed  Tb. athw   Ig11O theusd. Mbm usmilela   mi haa. resE[ as  eares"   red -  ha "Med, gat
Ireaei              esetlti   .w         usd ,- hase  r r Is sIwaYL-.id  resed -t h ated.lIe rleala    Wb. et 1. 111    attfa.Lt tese.
4                                 P,rtial mlas.ie I   _tl_ aal  dill   a  di tf _eassmes, the rusd eD  the rest  East ef rawst  n 't *1e_ 0s  rusd eat
rsdhltas           rhs d         15 eat ant_e is stit    rties is Wheat 10260 c. Tia qa1 ity of  lbs re_d _sadltle_ last any wrt . A-
1150-S a. lb. qeel Ity at an  usd  is the a1a redis ltafirly _1ll.,suaga rre1    qs" idultl   il-ae Is s*1e  4 e..
a lrly nil,                              sUn diatea, Is  ealt  3.5i a. Trrpt
alhlas is mI-mlsl1
-                7
. S5YOs                         560                                       33t                                       t51
lai               0   s                         S                                         17                                        n3
C                     -O
Tla t_ pa . lelI aloses 1 bas _leatl_s   Tbs  OL  litI Impact tlb  150 Ilae  $tI- seed lbi TD w111 ipat *S I. 11-1 sesew,
let 1Nal Cahistl,            LUse  froes lAlse tl Isasasa ad  be-   II els.          lset Ilas Ese e1ll_ are he- _ -itlss Else a1 ll 1 bIa late Lta
t     e     X    y     c ft Lq  -11 b shaed t- w- _t.' te _ _ 111oln-i1 * .i I-sz_ed_l_ 11.j-     -18rsees ItM_-ss
I Lis Alien ike 7T1.            (lb. hersts tb. sesirnuwliee at TAL *                                               amuse e tim Ileast tstla tlas
1_ara .Ill he me Ioaci as the dl-n                                                   sdu .ll-      lh sa w   Fres_e   tl_jas to
aes_- ,last!"  I_w Ism                                                                                              a" *_^1r*-*t J 
_lasaIa  Elan .                                                                  tleilsl.Taejlesna.e.1ksibia sad Ti
ble to Zluq N sad me-aiy.
taIssia   et _                tWryl  lU        32                                       e51                                       4155
Eliteresas  Isle                               550 32                                   "M                                         SI
3     Isrsat     tel- yas efli
Rs. T      eesacasel c1h1I  load   a pr  le th  sat    at. ta  thI ser osfl     w  tep       p*-e*pai n. CUt.
.1
28



5.2 Relative electromagnetic impact evaluation is listed in table 7 and the relative
impacts of the three altemative alignments is listed in following table 8.
Table 7  Relative Electromagnetic Impact Evaluation
Item                Er-Zi 500 kV T/L Route Scheme
North    Middle    South
Wired Communication                  3         4          3
Audible Noise              4         4          4
Micro-wave System          3          4         3
Radio    TV Transfer StaL            3         4         3
Range Adjust Radio Sta.    3          4         3
Air Navigation Station     3          3         4
Comprehensive Evaluation             3         4         3
Note: Scored on the basis of 5. The higher the score, the better the condition.
Table 8  Relative Impacts of the Three Alternative Alignments
Item Alternative         North       Middle       South
T/L Length  (km)    i     577          470          530
Forest,Vegetation                33          37           30
Transfic,Communiiication Facilitie!  35      39           26
Topography                       34          31           35
Geology                          28          41           31
Meteorology,Ice Covering         35          32           33
Population Density               29          40           31
Environmental Impact             32          36           32
rotal               226          256          218
Note: The scores are based on a total of 100 for each aspect. The higher the score, the
better the condition.
After the above environmental impact analysis and evaluation of the project, it
was determined that the middle a alternative has the least enviromnental impact.
After the adoption of preventive measuresthe resulting electromagnetic levels can
meet the environmental protection requirements. In addition, the expenditure for
the mitigation measures is relatively low and technological skills are locally
available.
29



6     Mitigation Management and Monitoring Plan
6.1   Offices Responsible for Environmental Protection, Supervision and
Monitoring
The environmental protection offices responsible for transmission lines, the
substations and the switching station are Panzhihua Electric Engineering Bureau,
Xichang Electric Engineering Bureau, Yibin Electric Engineering Bureau, Leshan
Electric Engineering' Bureau, Zigong Electric Engineering Bureau, Chengdu
Electric Engineering Bureau and Chongqing Electric Engineering Bureau.
The office responsible for environmental supervision and monitoring for
transmission lines, the substations and the switching station is the Sichuan
Research Institute of Enviromnental Protection (SRIEP) .The office responsible
for envirommental monitoring is the Sichuan Environmental Monitoring Center
(SEMC). Detailed information on SRIEP and SEMC can be found in Annex E.
Under the direction of SEPA and the environmental protection offices of SEPC,
the organizations above will implement the environment protection work and
monitoring of the mutual impact between this project and the enviromment, and
provide data and reports to SEPA and SEPC.
6.2 Major Monitoring Programs
6.2.1 Meteorological Observations
I   -
The ice observation station was established in 1982; the monitored items include:
air temperature, humidity, precipitation quantity, ice covering quantity, inductive
current of ice and water, wind velocity, and wind direction.etc. The main purpose
is to forecast the ice cover kdng on the line. The observation will continue.
6.2.2 Earthquake Forecasting
The earthquake observation stations along the transmission line will forecast any
possible earthquake.
6.2.3 The ESDD Observations
In order to know the pollutant situation of insulators and to adjust the insulator
insulation level of transmission line in due time, 20 Equivalent Salt Density
Detection (ESDD) observation stations have been establishedl
30



6.2.4 Health and Sanitation Monitoring
By uilizing local quarantine facilities, health checks will be carried out. During
the construcfion period, periodic health checks will be carried out on the
technicians and workers.
6.2.5 Vegetation, Wildlife and Fish Monitoring
The environmmental protection facility will monitor the condition of the vegetation,
wildlife, and fish along the tnsmission alignment in order to identify potential
problemsthus protect the environment from unnecessary damage.
6.2.6 Electromagnetic-Environmental Compatibility Monitoring
Monitor the ground electric field, radio interference, radio signal field intensity,
and corona audible noise.
31



7     Estimated Expenditures for Environmental Protected Mitigation and
Monitoring
Estimated expenditures for Er-Zi 500kV transmission line environmental
protection mitigation and monitoring are given in the following tables:
7.1 Estimated investment for transmission line environmental protection is listed
in table 9.
Table 9 The Estimated Investment Expense
of Er-Zi SOOkV Transmission Line Environmental Impact
(Million Yuan,RMB)  '
Itemn                       Route   Scheme
North    Middle    South
Trces Felling                          4.017     2.317      3.365
Land Expropriation                     1.443      1.175     1.325
Crops Compensation                     1.518      1.059     1.255
Resident Relocation                    2.833     2.307      2.602
Foundation Treatment                   0.236     0.192      0.217
Increasing Height of Tower Due to the Trees   0.492  0.40   0.452
Tower Reinforcement Due to the Heavy Ice    36.932  34.697  81.439
Communication Facilities              41.634     26654      28.734
Total      Total Length              89.105     68.801    119.389
Per Kilomrter             0.1544    0.1464     0.2253
7.2 The estimated expenditure for the environmental protection mitigation and
monitoring is listed in table 10.
7.3 The investment for the substations environmental protection and monitoring
will be calculated at the preliminary design stage.
32



Table 10   The Estimated Expenditure of
the Envirommental Protection Monitoring for Er-Zi 500kV T/L
Item                        Estimated Expenditure
(10,000 Yuan, RMB)
Meteorological Observation                                    15
Earthquake Observation                                        5
Salt Density Observation of Insulator                        23
Human Health Monitoring                                      10
Vegetation, Wildlife, and Fish MonitoTing                     5
Electromagnetic Environmental Compatibility Monitoring       20
Total                                 78
33



8 Pubic Participation
The recommend route is the middle route,which will pass through eleven counties,
the documents expropriting land have approved by the local governments, the
route corridor marked on the map. The selected substation and switching station
sites have already gotten the agreement of the local govenmuents and the
correspond enviromental protection departments, they have issued the written
agreement docunent.
34



9  Conclusions
On the basis of the environmental impact analysis and evaluation of the project, it
was determined that the recommended alterative has the least environmental
impact After the adoption of preventive measures ,the resulting electromagnetic
levels can meet the environmental protection requirements. Ih addition ,the
expenditure for the mitigation measures is relatively low and technological skills
are locally available. The project thus has no serious impact on the surrounding
environment.
The high elevation and heavy ice loading of the line are important characteristics
of the project Ice preventive measures and electromagnetic considerations will be
comprehensively studied as the project design stage continues. Potential danger
and influence problem of transmission line with the overhead communication line,
when they are at the same way as the route corridor will be solved by using the
optical fiber cable.
35



10 List of Prepares
Wu Huaneng    Senior Engineer, Environmental Protection Department, South
West Electric Power Design Institute (EPD/SWEPDI)
Lu Chuan        Engineer, EPD/SWEPDI
Liu Mingrong Engineer, EPDISWEPDI
Le An ding      Senior Transmission Engineer, Transmission Department
(TD/SWEPDI)
and other staff members of SWEPDI and SEPC
3.
36j



'I.
I  =.,s..-    ,$   '                     X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 
sL    \Se~~~~~~~~~~k,\j
.
~~  N         S..-~O N 
It
¼~~~
Vt N
37



/ ~~~7/
s \ ' ' ,, -  '   1"dj     i                             It : . 541TST ELECTRIC-MVER DESN
vsx > | ^ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. '  >1.IST. RY OF E^.   LM WyECTRIC POlicR iliX-5i'
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~li                                  \  \,t  - ;>  ....**h _AC  __H   
; '  )     "              t     ptv                         *  '   {.;  \,    rs. /.-a =====
~\SX  .-         .,,; *--J                          t4rJC* Fr.t.
B ~~~~-Vp 



7V
V                                                                                        IL;
40
N
41w-                       PA?
ik
NA
4'
J]%              To-
Me                               It-I
LA
A
tc      O                    ga
-At
r. W       I
;q,                                                                                     \0           I                                                 I-'
-4
1
Si                     I         ba
K                -M
i
I



I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
; . v 6 >>,gst grF '- \ * 6~~~~~~~00 kv TraLBDSSIe   LiAG Corridor
IPM             CE~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
LAK
-'        ¾            pJ                                               tdjz.            -.
I.!U   4I   .e
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*              1  ~9 §S5 i *  LI.    lIEUX   f-h6 1X-2 _
~)% ,RtQ jjsb¾~A  \~$R40



ANNEX A
Ecological Resources (Nature Reserves)
I Dafengding Nature Reserve
1.1 General Description
Dafengding nature reserve is located in the Daliang mountains, within the
boundary of both Mabian and Meigu counties, in southwest Sichuan province.
It covers an area of 61,864 ha, and was established to protect important and
threatened species such as giant panda, golden monkey, talin, and dove tree.
The elevation of the middle part of the reserve is 3,500 to 4,000 m, the highest
elevation is 4042 m, and it slopes down to the east and west. The relative
elevation difference is over 2,000 m, and most of the slopes are over 38
degrees.
The climate belongs to the subtropical zone with a south-west monsoon,
characterized by humid and warm weather conditions as well as abundant rain.
As a result the plant growing season is long. There are great differences in
climate according to alfitude.
Within the reserve, the distribution of the natural vegetation types also changes
with altitude. Below 1,800 m there is evergreen broadleaf forest; between
1,800 to 2,200 m one finds mixed evergreen and deciduous broadleaf forest;
from 2,200 to 2,500 m on finds mixed coniferous and broadleaf forest, while
under the trees there grow bamboos; between 2,500 to 3,500 m there is a
subalpine coniferous flora with an undergrowth of bamboo and a variety of
azalea; over 3500 m there are dwarf alpine plants.
The reserve has many interesting species of wildlife such as the giant panda,
golden monkey, takin, macaques, lesser panda, Sichuan partidge etc.
According to the historicai record, there were tigers here but since the 1960s,
the tracks of the tiger have not been found. According to studies of the giant
panda in 1987, it lives in the higher elevations in the reserve where there is
bamboo forest.
1.2 Administration Agency
The No.256 document (1979) of State Council and Sichuan province
government (1979) No. 34 document established Dafengding nature reserve.
Because it is located within the boundary of two counties of Meigu and
Mabian, there are two administration stations and theze are 8 and 15 persons
working there respectively. The administration stations are under the direction
of Sichuan province and county governments. In addition, several special
administration stations and one observation station are established in
Yonghong, Tiejue, Dayanzhi, Beijiawan, the staff of which monitor the
41



ANNEX A
reserve, checking the forest and giant panda and preventing the illegal
activities. The plani of investment due to the added traffic and tools and fire
observation tower has been included in the 1994 financial budget.
1.3 The Socioeconomic and Traffic Situations
Around the boundary of the Dafengding nature reserve, there have two districts
(Dayuanzhi and Wahou), seven small towns, fifty-one villages, with 3,057
families and 17,440 people. The average land owned per person is 0.12 ha, the
local economy is under developed, and the average personal income is low.
The nature reserve is to stay in its virgin state. Inside it there are no roads, and
unauthorized persons are forbidden to entcr it; outside the reserve, to the north-
west side is the road from Meigu county to Dawan (via Wahou), to the east is
the road from Mabian to Yonghong village, to the north-east is the road from
Mabian county to Sanhekou (via Laishanpin), to the south is the main road
from Xichang city to Yibin city.
1.4 The Relation Between Transmission line and the Nature Reserve
According to the opinion of foreign and domestic specialists, four circuits of
the Ertan to Zigong 500 kV transmission line will have two corridors.The
location of the corridors and routes is indicated in the attached Figure 1.
In order to minimize the impact on the environment and to make construction
convenient and as efficient as possible, much of the selected route is along
existing roads. From the Meigno to Zigong, along the Xichang to Yibin main
road, defined the Huangmaogeng to Pingshan corridor, this corridor will across
Daliang mountains, with heavy ice coverage and long ice zone, however, the
route distance is short. Along the Meigu (via Wahou) to Mabian county road,
defined Wahou corridor, which avoids passing the main peak of the Daliang
mountains, the elevation is relative low; along the route, there is no extra-heavy
ice coverage zone and the heavy ice coverage distance is short.
The elevation of the selected transmission line route is lower than that of
Dafengding Nature Reserve, and the minimm distance between the boundary
of the nature reserve to the transmission line route is 5 km.
Form Dawan to Laishanping section (about 10 km, Wahou corridor), there is
no road, but a mountain path. According to the investigation, to improve the
traffic condition of the Yi nationality region, the local govemment has planued
to widen and consolidate the Dawan to Laishanpin mountain path into road.
2 Mt. Luoji Nature Reserve
42



ANNEX A
2.1 General Description
Mt. Luoji Nature Reserve is located within the boundaries of Xichang city,
Dechang county and Puge county, and is about 30 kn from the south side of
Xichang city. It covers an area of 20,000 ha, the forest coverage rate is 52%/,
about one-third of which is fir forest which covers about 6,840 ha The
protected objects here are the forest ecosystem, wildlife and plant resources,
and the trail of an ancient glacier as well as glacial landforms.
The summit of Mt. Luoji is 4,359 m. To the west is the Anning valley
(elevation 1,200 m), while to the east is the Qionghai-Puge valley (elevation
1500 m). The mountain chain runs north- south, with the north higher than the
south. The gradient of the eastern slopes is steeper than the west slopes. The
nature reserve itself is located around the main peak with its boundary over
2800 m, as indicated at the attached Figure 2.
Mt. Luoji forest also belongs to the subtropical zone evergreen broadleaf forest.
Below 1600 m is the suhftropical zone with sparsely-distributed trees but
widespread cultivation of various crops; between 1600 and 2600 m, the forest
is dominated by Yunnan pine, Yunnan camphor and other evergreen broadleaf
frees; between 2600 to 3300 m, there are deciduous trees; above 3300 m the
frees are typical of cold zone vegetation. Within the reserve there are over 200
species of higher plants, among them more than 30 species given national
protection, and this is 34% of the total protected plants of Sichuan province.
About 30 types of azalea grow at 1500 to 4000 mn
The reserve has rich wildlife resources, with national level protected wild
animals including the macaques monkey and lesser panda.
2.2 Administration Agency
Document (86) No.03 issued by Liangshan Yi Nationality Autonomous Region
Govermmental determined to establish Mt Luoji Natural Reserve, which is an
autonomous region level nature reserve. One nature reserve administration
department has been established, and 15 persons work for it.
2.3 Traffic Situation
To the west of Mt. Luoji there is a road from Sichuan to Yunnan (National
Highway No. 108) and a railway from Chengdu to Kunming, while to the east is
die Xichang to Puge road. There is one small pat led to the Baibaiding (2800
m), and from Baibaiding one small mountain path leads to the sumuit of Mt.
Luoji.
2.4 The Relation Between Transmission line and the Nature Reserve
43



ANNEX A
Tlhe selected four circuits of Ertan to Zigong 500 kV transmission line avoid
going directly through this region (see attached Figure 2). Among the two
cornidor, the Xichang corridor goes along the Anning river valley, next to the
Chengdu-Kunming railway and national highway No.108, while the Puge
corridor. crosses the southern part of the Luoji mountains at the Haikou grazing
land, 10 km away from the southem end of the nature reserve. Both of the
corridors have avoided impacts on the nature reserve.
Most sections of the two corridors go along the existing roads. Only along the
Puge corridor, for a distance of only about 10 kn across the mountains, is there
no road which can be used. During the construction of this section, helicopters
and cableways will be used, so as to minimize the impact on the natural
environment.
3 The Opinion of Environmental Protection Department
In the selection of the route of transmission lines, much attention were paid to
avoid Dafengding and Mt. Luoji nature reserves, so there is no effect on the
ecological resource within these two nature reserves. The National
Environmental Protection Admiistration (NEPA) has already entrusted
Sichuan Environmental Protection Administration to review the ELA report of
this project and the approval document Chuan Hun Fa (1994) Kai Zi 038
dated February 6 1994 has confirmed that this project meets the requirements
of the environmental protection deparlment
44



ANNEX B
The Policy and Rules for the Administrat on of
Forest Reserves Issued by State and Local Government
The protection of forest reserves is one of the most important environmental
protection policies in China. Both the central and local Government have made
policies and rules to administer forest reserves. To implement these policies
and laws, pmtect natural reserves, and reduce tree felling effective measures
have been adopted to avoid the impacts on forest during the design of the
transmission line and substations. In addition to this, the delta configuration
tower is selected to reduce the width of row, and a higher tower is selected to
cross some trees etc. During the construction and operation of the project, the
impact on forest and other natural reserves, cultural reserve will be reduced to
the minimium The felling of trees during construction will be done according to
the relevant government policy, following the relevant procedures and paying
the appropriate compensation fee.
The following list is some relevant policies and documents issued by Central or
Local Govenment for the administration of forest reserves, felling trees and
clearing vegetation.
1. Chapter Two, Clause Fifteen of the «c The Law of Forestry of The People's -
Republic of China>> (which was issued in 09120/1984 by the State Council)
stipulates that carrying out survey and design, building facility of project,
mining mineral resources etc. should not occupy forest land or, if it has to, to
occupy it to the minimum extent; provide the occupancy or requisition of the
forest land isn't avoiding, the relevant unit should implement the relevant laws.
2. Clause nine of the «c By-laws of the Law of Forestry of The People's
Republic of China >»' (which was issued in 05\10\1986 by State Ministry of
Forestry ) have clearly stipulated that occupying of state own forest land due to
survey and design etc.,the unit that occupy the forest land should compensation
the actual loss to the forestry management ; requisition or occupying forest land
of collective ownership, the unit of requisition or occupying should implement
the state rules of land requisition.
3. Clause eight of «c Sichuan Province Felling Forest Administration
Implement Method>> (which was issued in 04\20\1987 by the Forestry Bureau
of Sichuan province) clearly-stipulated that if few trees should be fell due to
survey, design and building facility of project, it should have the approval
document of relevant administration, the promised by the forestry
administration bureau of county level or above, and should have the promised
certificate of felling trees, also a agreement with the owner of forest should be
made by the construction company for the compensation of the loss and etc.,
the felling should following the promised certificate.
45



ANNEX B
4. In <«The Temporary Rutles of Sichuan Province for the Forest and Crop
Recover Fee, the Forest Land and Plant Compensation Fee >> ( No. 4 issued
by Sichuan Province Price Administration in 1993 ), it is stipulated the relevant
rules and standard for the forest and crop recover fee, the forest land and plant
compensation fee. The land requisition or occupant should implement it
I4
46i



ANNEX C
Cultural Property
The feasibility study of Ertan to Zigong 500 kV transmission line proposed
three alternative routes, and the EPPEI has approved the recommend middle
route scheme (including two small routes). The cultural and scenic spots and
historical sites within the stadied scope of every route scheme were indicated
on EIA attached drawing FIGURE A (DRW. No. 50-X043K-XO1-01). Here, a
brief description is given of cultural and scenic spots and historical sites which
are located within the approved route scheme (middle route scheme) and their
relation to the transmission lines.
1 Within the study scope, cultural and scenic spots and historical sites are
mainly located inside Xichang city and Zigong city.
1.1   Xichang City
Xichang city is located in the south-west of Sichuan province, which is the
political and cultural center of Liangshan Yi nationality autonomous region.
Qiong lake, Lu mountain and Luoji mountain are the main scenic spots in
Xichang region.
3 km to the south-east of Xichang city is Qiong lake, which is the second
largest lake in Sichuan province. It is a typical earth subsidence lake; its
distance from south to north is 11.5 kin, from east to west is 5.5. km, and the
total area is 31 square kdlometers. Surrounded by mountain and dense forest,
Qiong lake has rich aquatic resources, and is a ideal place for wind- surfing,
swimming, rowing boats and fishing.
Lu mountain is located at western shore of Qiong lake, the elevation of its main
peak is 2,317 mi, 800 m above the lake water surface. Growing on it are some
evergreen trees such as Han Dynasty (206 BC) cypress, fir etc. Guangfu temple
and other 15 temples, which have been built since the Tang Dynasty (AD 618),
are located there. There are many historical cultural relics, such as poems,
inscriptions, carvings and hanging bells of Qing Dynasty. The collection of
stone tablets located at the rear of Guangfii temple is a unique record of
earthquakes which occurred in history. An historical museum about the Yi
nafionality is located at the foot of Lu mountain
30 km to the south of Xichang city is Mt. Luoji nature reserve which is a
beautifl scenic spot. Its 72 peaks, colorful lake, hot spring and ancient glacier
trail attract many tourists.
1.2    Zigong City
Zigong city is the so-called " Salt City", located on the banks of the Fuxin
river, in the southern part of Sichuan basin. Zigong well salt mines were begun
47



ANNEX C
during the Eastem Han Dynasty, and since the Tang and Song Dynasties,
Zigong has been one of the most important salt production areas of Sichuan
province. Zigong has developed into one of the most iinportant chemical
industry bases in China.
In 1979, many dinosaur fossils were found in Zigong, which won the area an
important place in the world scientific and technological circles.
The Zigong Salt Museum and Dinosaur Museum attract many tourists from
China and overseas.
2     Relation between the Transmission line and Cultural Property,
Scenic Spots and Historical Sites
The towers and other components of transmission line have a degree of impact
on the landscape, so the avoidance of the transrnission line going through
natural scenic spots and cultural relics is an important principle in selecting the
transmission line route. The selected transmission line route crosses mountains
15 kn to the south of Xichang city, and utilizes the natural topography as a
protective screen.
Zigong Honggou 500 kV substation is located at Yantan town, which is 12 km
away from Zigong city. The transmission line enter Honggou substation from
the southwest It has no impact on the scenic spots and historical sites of
Zigong city.
48



ANNEX C
&~~tiki4ttt~~J~A6~JiC    AA*lt4]  %~*ggKY
#A*44A1,k   *W4
74~~~~~~~~~~.
-T- e=V5 OA l-K-P* E
-  )i-  AS    a                Ea:
ChZOOL.335.OO0.8
49



ANNEX C
Document of Sichuan Cultural Department
Reference No.: Sichuan cultural relic (1994) No. 15
Re: Review comments of " the Letter for Cultural Property Impact Report of
Ertan 500kV Transmission Project"
Sichuan Electric Power Administration:
Your document named " the letter for Cultural Property Inpact Report of Ertan
500kV Transmission Project " ( Ref No.: Sichuan EHV (1994) No. 10 ) as
well as Attachment <<The Cultural Property Impact Report of Ertan 500kV
Transmission Project»3 and "EIA attached drawing NO. 50-XO5lk-X6-01"
have been received.
After review and check, it is agreed by us that the design scheme of Ertan
5OOkV transmission project have applied avoiding method for the cultual
protection unit in Xichang and Zigong, and will have not impact to cultural
scene as well as ifs sunroundings . Please strictly followed " the Laws for
Antique Preserve of People's Republic of China " in construction and inform
us on time if something is related to cultural relic and it will be useful for well
treated it.
Official Seal:
Sichuan Cultural Department
copy to: Sichuan Cultural Relic Archaeology Institute
.
so~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



ANNEX D
Special Sections and Their Construction
Methods in Er-Zi 500 kV Transmission Line Project
1   General
Certain sections of the proposed routes of Er-Zi 500 kV transmission lines, are
characterized by high mountains, complicated geological structure, and tree
cover. It would be very difficult to build access roads for transportation, and so
conventional construction methods would encounter many problems. In order
to solve these problems, and to cut down the construction costs, and especially
to protect the natural environment, we propose to use helicopters for
construction, cableway for transportation, and flying machines to stretch
guiding ropes. Thus, we can minimize the cutting of trees and the occupation
for land in the process of construction. These methods which have been tried
elsewhere in China can be used in our project (Please see Attached Figure 3).
2   A Brief Introduction to the Proposed Special Construction Methods
Helicopters are used mainly to transport tools and matenals for construction
(including the workers), to tansport concrete when the foundation is being
constructed, to erect towers, to stretch the steel guiding cable (d= 1 mm). In
this respect, abundant achievements and experience have been accumulated
abroad, and in China the use of helicopter has been employed in the
construction of large spans for several 500 kV trasmission linu projects. For
hie project of Er-Zi 500 kV lines, the helicopter is considered to be used in the
following cases: when the power line crosses high mountains, when the tower
sites are far from roads and the sites hard to reach, the usage of helicopter can
avoid building roads and cutting trees. When the power line passes through
forests, crosses rivers or valleys,it wifl be very difficult to stretch the steel
guiding cable by manpower, so the helicopter will be useful.
The cableway is widely used in China to construct power lines in mountainous
areas. Using cableways for transport can reduce the building of access roads
and the loss of vegetation. In our project, it will mainly be used when tower
sites are located on the top or middle of a mountainor are high above the road
(see Attached Figure 4).
Flying machines (such as model airplanes, airships, etc.) have been used to
stretch nylon guiding rope in some transmission line projects in China. We
propose to use flying machines when there is a difficulty in stretching guiding
ropes over a short distance (about 1 to 3 lkn); for example, when the power line
crosses rivers, large valleys, or a mass of trees, there will be many difficulties
in stretching the guiding rope by hand In such circumstances the use of flying
machines will be more convenient and more economic.
51



ANNEX D
3     A Brief Introduction to the Special Sections and the Proposed
Special Construction Methods
Taking the difficulty of construction and the protection of the natural
envirownent into account, six sections are proposed for special construction
methods. Figure 3 shows the geographical position of those sections which
need special construction methods, and the following is a brief introduction to
each section:
3.1   From Ertan Hydroelectric Power Station to Santaipo
This section is 7 kan long, the elevation rises steeply from 1,200mn to 2,700 m.
There are high mountains and sparse forest in this section.Because of the lack
of roads, transportation is a serious problem for constmction, so we propose the
use of a cableway.
3.2  From Leyao to Puge
This section is about 21 km long, the power line will cross Luoji mountain with
peak as high as 3,300 m above sea level.It is characterized by high mountains,
forest cover,steep topography and complicated climatic condition. The
difference of elevation from the foot to the top of the mountain is up to 2000m.
For the section on the moumtain top (with a length of 14 kIn), no roads can be
accessed, and it is the most difficult section in the whole projectTherefore, to
the sections near Leyao and Puge, we propose to use a cableway, and to the
section on the mountain top, we propose to use a helicopter for constuction.
The materials store and the parldng place for the helicopter are selected near
Puge county town (1 160m),see Attached Figure 5.
3.3   From Jiagu to Lieto Via Zipi
This section is about 22km long, the power line is on the 2600 m mountain top
which is 1200m higher than the mountain foot. On the mountain, a section with
length of 5 kan belongs to extra-heavy icing area, and its conditions for
construction are very poor, so a cableway proposed. For those towers which are
sited on the mountain top and far from a road, a helicopter is proposed for
construction combined with transportation by manpower. The materials store
and the parking place for the helicopter will be near Meigu county town (2000
in).
3.4    From Xiaogudui to Shiyiwo
This section is about 13 km long, and the power line will cross high mountins,
steep slopes, sparse forest and an extra-heavy icing area In this section, there
are up to 250 rainy and foggy days each year, and so there is not much time for
52



ANNEX D
construction.What is more, the tower sites are far from roads, the straight
distance between them is up to 5 kn, and the difference of elevation is up to
1400 m. A section of power line from east of Gasiwoma to Shiyiwo (about 6
kn) continues down from the mountain top (2435 m) to the valley bottom
(1070 m). It is proposed to use helicopters to aid construct where the roads are
far away. For those towers near roads but far above them, we propose to use a
cable way combined with manpower for transportation. In addition, for those
sections with forest cover where there would be considerable difficulty in
stretching guiding cables by hand, the use of a helicopter is proposed. The
materials store and parldng place for the helicopter will be near Xining town
(1000 m).
3.5   From Tianbago to Xinshi Via Xining
This section is about 55 Ian long, the power line is along the Xining river, on
both sides of the valley, the topography is complicated and there are many
steep slopes.The tower sites are on the mountain slope, and the road is at the
mountain foot along the valley, the difference of clevation is from 100m to
30nm, and there is forest cover. So a cableway is proposed. For those towers
which are far away from roads or are isolated on mountain tops, the use of a
helicopter is proposed to aid construction. In some sections, the helicopter or
flying machines will be used to stretch the guiding cable. The materials store
and the parling place for the helicopter are selected near Xining town (I000m).
3.6   From Laishanping to Yangjiacun
This section is about 15 km long, with elevations from 800 m to 1500 In. The
road is along the V-shaped valley of the Mabian river. The power line will
cross the Maer mountains (max 2,122m) near Shakuang, and there is about
13km without a road, which makes transportation very difficult It is thus
proposed to use a cableway for those towers which are near the road but are
high above it, and a helicopter combined with manpower for those towers
which are on the mountain and are far away from the road. The materials store
and the parldng place for the helicopter will be near Mabian county town (530
m).
53



ANNEX E
Brief Introduction to the Environmental Protection
Mitigation and Monitoring Departments (SRIEP and SEMC)
The SichutILn Research Institute Of Environmental Protection (SRIEP) and
Sichuan Environmental Monitoring Center (SEMC) were set up in 1977. They
undertake research work in the fields of enviromnental engineering, ecology,
assessment, monitoring, standards, and information as well as technical services.
SMEC is the technical and data center for environmental monitoring in Sichuan
province. SRIEP and SEMC have a building for research and monitoring,
covering about 500 square meters and it is equipped with sophisticated
instruments and facilities. There are currently about 220 employees. Of thcse,
180 are technical staff, 100 of them senior engineers or engineers, covering 37
different fields. They have 12 sections :Environmental Engineering, Information
and Library, Environment Management, Technical Development Environmental
Assessment, Environmental Monitoring Analysis (water, soiL gas, physics,
biology), Pollution Source, etc. They have gained the National First-Rate
Certificate of Environment Impact Assessment, the Provincial First-Rate
Certificate for Pollution Control and Engineering Design, -and the National.
Certificate of Measurement Attestation.
In recent years, SRIEP and SEMC have cooperated with a number of foreign
countres, such as the U.S.A., Gemany, Japan, Canada, U.K, Italy, Austria,
Hungaxy, Bulgaria. Thailand, and the Philippines .to exchange information on
environmental science and technology and to have broader contacts.
SRIEP and SEMC undertake the following projects.:
1. Design and construction of pollution control facilities for industrial waste
water, waste gas, solid wastes and noise.
2. Environmental impact assessment of construction projects and technical
renovation projects.
3. Development of new pollution control facilities and technical quality
appraisal.
4. Checking and monitoring of pollution control facilities.
5. Monitoring analysis of water, gas, solid wastes and biological samples.
54



P 4   4t. SI' S')r'4     P A
X *t4 .0.              4 1    4
$,~~~m - mw $e v     c t  8w '     1      t 
4$Sea  M-CZ  C*$  ;taep Ms*" ft &a      -
3$;F°~~~F It H  .H  tH$ 4sA.;m                s
M Aljgrp   A4t
&*JY   u      ,i4 d46*rtt4    S..
:h   fl'^f   *4 o4-At Wo                   5  t*STJ
u   X6     *W 1
*f                                           :DU g   +.> eXr    fl
c1e4
A  04 W              s3          $4 ,o-
La'
t    ,  @   t-  *X   tS  -'g   SW    i 0< r
$  s   W  +   g   >t  ' W    OW  b           0E
s  >:* j   bS  @  u W tj   b4e8H
. , .. __ .... _  . ... . .... ...



Mt3jIIt  4.  ...- 44  4 d  *          i t'u a  c
v~~~~~~~~~~~~~X ht JA .P SS s-- 1lH N 1*)  s
,,<E}  *i ,,. S  . X. ,^.F+e,*SS,;8ttM  - A  c
IL
j APX > W *s*,%tS b1$44=44 9*
<'t.7wtssMa *1g,. ,w  t  s9:  *b- Mb;t-P.-   S
-R/2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I?            S  t ;b¢  >A:T o  k  kb
V 
:a.  .o  ;..  . 
° t    BkWK w   t    >



ANNEX E
_~      ~~~~~ .
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I X
57



ANNEX E
AGREEMENT
on
Preserve, Monitor and Management of Environment
For
China Sichuan Power Transmission Project
(Ertan 500kV Transmission Project)
Entrust Part ( A):
Sichuan Electric Power Administration
Entrusted Part( B ):
Sichuan Research Institute of Environment Protection
And
Sichuan Environmental Monitoring Center
Pursuant to the negotiation, Part B accept the entrusts of part A as defined in the
following Agreement:
A. The scope ,content and requirement of service
1 To study the impact, preserve, monitoring , management and evaluation of
the biological environment and the wild life sources of both Dafending and Mt
Louji nature reserves which is caused by the construction of trasmission
line(T/L)
2 To investigate, study, protect and evaluate the impact to the costume, culture,
natural and social environment of the regions, where minority nationality live in
compact communities, which is caused by the construction of the T/L.
3 To provide estimate, preserve measures and evaluation about the impact of
natural and biological environment of forest area, where the T/L will pass
through .
4 To provide preserve ,investigation and evaluation about scenic spots, cultural
relic such as archaeology and history etc.
5 To provide service of managing, monitoring, supervising and evaluating to
environment during the construction of the T/L.
58



ANNEX E
6 To provide service of monitoring about corona, electric and magnetic field
and audio noise as well as environment evaluation during the operation of the
T/L.
7 To provide advise and evaluate about the measure of mitigate the
disadvantageous impact of environment caused by line.
S To coordinate the relationship of Unite that is related to the environment
preserve ,monitor, management and evaluation.
9 To provide other service of environment preserve and consultant as required
by Part A.
B. Working method
I After the Agreement come into force and effect, to make sure of the
member ,collect data ,definite the object and scope of work ,draw up a working
program, block diagram.
2 To utility the existing monitor data of various city and county as well as site
investigation, sampling, take photograph and video record etc., definite the
existing situation of natural enviromnent before the implement of the project.
3 During the implement of the project, monitor the environment, acquire data,
enforce the environment management, investigate at regular intervals, and
supervise the implement of environment preserve measure .
C. Achievement
1 To provide block diagram , organization chart and worldng program of the
evaluation of environment preserve, monitor and management.
2 To provide annual of environment evaluation report including achievement
of monitor, environment management, implement and advise of environment
preserve etc-.
3 To cooperate with World Bank for environment check by , to provide stage
report of environment evaluation , in format and content satisfied with the
requirement of World Bank as well as environment preserve legal of our
country.
59



ANNEX E
4 To provide the complete environment evaluation report ,for project check
and acceptance.
The Agreement will come into force and effect after the sign of both part.
A part
Sichuan Electric Power Administration
Authorized Representative:
B part
Sichuan Research Institute of Environment Protection
And
Sichuan Environment Monitoring Center
Authorized Representative:
(Attachment: The National First-Rate Certificate of Environmental Impact
Assessment of SRIEP)
60



0            k           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MoLbiaLn
ItyJeigu ContI
-J                                        k135i/; 6 t\ Q ; =  Uoz (
M eigu Countyt!_                            i
Wt~~~~~~~~~~~~ol AFiv Agure I
U- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~  ~  ~ ~ ~ t
DA FENG DING NATURE PRESERV'E
SKETCH  MAP
61



1     Xichan *XdeCuny                       01/M<7
;   \g~~~~~~~   v0-° FI/gu~~~~~~~~~~~Fgre 2
( \> ( w3 \,55s;\>t t >>_ 3432 LEGEND
8 Xj /  \__8s |  X~~~~Puge County                    a"_
~~~~~~~~~~~18
1V   424    \          8            <  1  9  7  /~420
. ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                             17
624



,o bLt¢w,           v"wl.. .0; t                                                    t{
STf elite GwW VL._  memsw    r  1,1 - /*-                                           ,Cj
r] xT2*rR  |   | JI,JCt  r                                  . =    <>,  >   H    -~o
seLi- Am      ibl A-$ 
strrea4x~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Di -                J         
(<-' r    <  ja ~Jiagu -Zip! -L!  u        Na ture
Ertan-.;antaipo *¢  /      ......................  
WS'~XS
IT, ~      s                             Mt.a --oj           Xiaouge  S7    k  -y s¢^w
.   ;xs 1E3 Ei3 [k feJb-iNatur Preservek      H
:,  v                  ( Z       B. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _R.    _ z  ,~~~~~"V,-
At,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
63



X                      Vi'44,  --;S  4-.'  =     -t ' 'S
*4.            .t's,    ., *  /ear*4    F
64~~~
Mature Prese
64~~~~~~1



7         X 1. -.  XFIGURE 4    Ropeway
'.A
FIGIF 5           The Park of Helicopter and
Storage Yard for Er-Zi 50OKv T/Ls
(hengdu
/    aX a ciiX 5Xw 
/        3    ~~Yibin
nin ciooorQ ylo
tiCix~~~~~ ~~~~~~ Et                  ze Par- of Helicopte
S ror-age Yar-d and
l                               t.~~~~~~~~~~irstrip for Helicpte
Puge clIso^)              E)(53  Elevration
65



