Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3848 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
(Sichuan Power Transmission Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
SICHUAN ELECTRIC POWER COMPANY
Dated May 25, 1995
LOAN NUMBER 3848 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 25, 1995, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and SICHUAN ELECTRIC POWER COMPANY (SEPC).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between Peopleþs 
Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available 
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to two hundred and seventy 
million dollars ($270,000,000) on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan 
Agreement, but only on condition that SEPC agree to undertake such obligations toward 
the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by subsidiary loan agreements to be entered into between the Borrower and 
Sichuan Province and Sichuan Province and SEPC, the proceeds of the loan provided for 
under the Loan Agreement will be made available to SEPC through Sichuan Province on 
the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreements; and
WHEREAS SEPC, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Page  2
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Environmental Management Program" means the environmental management 
program included in the Environmental Impact Assessment Report for the Project, dated 
September 1994,
prepared by SEPC and approved by the Borrowerþs National Environmental Protection 
Agency, as such program may be amended from time to time in agreement with the Bank.
(b)
"Relocation Action Plan" means the Relocation Action Plan for the 
Project, dated August 1994, prepared by SEPC and approved by the concerned local 
government authorities, as such
plan may be amended from time to time in agreement with the Bank.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) SEPC declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering and power utility practices, and shall provide, 
or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and SEPC shall otherwise agree, SEPC shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) SEPC shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, 
respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
SEPC shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of the guidelines acceptable to the Bank, 
and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the 
Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Bank and SEPC, a plan for 
the future operation of the 
Project;
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
SEPC on said 
plan; and
 
(iii)
thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency 
and in 
accordance with appropriate practices, taking into 
account the Bank's comments 
thereon.
Page  3
Section 2.04.  SEPC shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, SEPC shall not take or 
concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) SEPC shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with 
the Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations 
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters 
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
SEPC shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of Loan, or the performance by SEPC of its obligations under this Agreement 
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of SEPC
Section 3.01. SEPC shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering and power utility 
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by 
competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. SEPC shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
financial and power utility practices.
Section 3.03. SEPC shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) SEPC shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)
SEPC shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of its financial 
statements for such year as so audited and (B) 
the report of such audit by 
said auditors of such scope and 
in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
 
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, SEPC shall in 1995 
generate total revenues equivalent to not less than the sum of its: (i) total 
operating expenses; (ii) the amount by which debt service requirements exceed the 
provision for depreciation; and (iii) working capital requirements.
(b)
Before June 30, 1995, SEPC shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by 
SEPC and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it would meet the requirements set 
Page  4
forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and shall furnish to the Bank the 
results of such review upon its completion.
(c)
If such review shows that SEPC would not meet the requirements set forth 
in paragraph (a) for SEPC's fiscal year 1995 covered by such review, SEPC shall 
promptly take all necessary measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of 
the structure or levels of its rates) in order to meet such requirements.
(d)
For purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "total revenues" means the sum of total operating 
revenues and net 
non-operating income.
 
(ii)
The term "total operating revenues" means revenues from all 
sources related to
operations. 
(iii)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
 
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in 
the generation of revenues in (A) above.
 
(iv)
The term "total operating expenses" means all expenses related to 
operations, 
including administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and 
payments in lieu of 
taxes, and provision of depreciation on a 
straight-line basis at a rate of not 
less than 4.8% per annum of the 
average current gross value of SEPC's fixed 
assets in operation, or 
other basis acceptable to the Bank, but excluding 
interest and 
other charges on debt.
(v)
The average current gross value of SEPC's fixed assets in 
operation shall be 
calculated as one half of the sum of the gross value 
of SEPC's fixed assets in 
operation at the beginning and at the end of 
the fiscal year, as valued from 
time to time in accordance with sound 
and consistently maintained methods of 
valuation satisfactory to the 
Bank.
(vi)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments 
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest 
and other charges 
on, debt.
 
(vii)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in 
terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange 
at which such other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for 
the purposes of servicing 
such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the 
basis of a rate of 
exchange acceptable to the Bank.
(viii) The term "working capital requirements" means the difference 
between current
assets and current liabilities at the end of each fiscal year.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, SEPC shall produce, 
for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year ending on December 31, 1995, funds 
from internal sources equivalent to not less than 10%, 15%, 20%, 25% and 30% of the 
annual average of SEPC's capital expenditures incurred, or expected to be incurred in 
1996, 1997, 1998, 1999 and thereafter respectively for that year, the previous fiscal 
year and the next following fiscal year.
(b)
Before June 30 in each of its fiscal years, SEPC shall, on the basis of 
forecasts prepared by SEPC and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it would meet 
the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the next 
following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Bank a copy of such review upon its 
Page  5
completion.
(c)
If any such review shows that SEPC would not meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph (a) for SEPC's fiscal years covered by such review, SEPC shall 
promptly take all necessary measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of 
the structure or levels of its rates) in order to meet such requirements.
(d)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "funds from internal sources" means the difference 
between:
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations, 
consumer 
deposits and consumer contributions in aid of 
construction, net 
non-operating income and any reduction 
in working capital other than 
cash; and
 
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations, including 
administration, adequate maintenance and taxes and 
payments in lieu of 
taxes (excluding provision for 
depreciation and other non-cash 
operating charges), debt 
service requirements, all cash dividends and 
other cash 
distributions of surplus, increase in working capital other 
than cash and other cash outflows other than capital expenditures.
(ii)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
 
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in 
the generation of revenues in (A) above.
 
(iii)
The term "working capital means the difference between current 
assets and
current liabilities at the end of each fiscal year.
(iv)
The term "current assets excluding cash" means all assets other 
than cash 
which could in the ordinary course of business be 
converted into cash within 
twelve months, including accounts 
receivable, marketable securities, 
inventories and prepaid 
expenses properly chargeable to operating expenses 
within the 
next fiscal year.
(v)
The term "current liabilities" means all liabilities which will 
become due and 
payable or could under circumstances then existing be 
called for payment 
within twelve months, including accounts 
payable, customer advances, debt 
service requirements, taxes and 
payments in lieu of taxes, and dividends.
(vi)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments 
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest 
and other charges 
on, debt.
 
(vii)
The term "capital expenditures" means all expenditures on account 
of fixed 
assets, including interest charged to construction, 
related to operations.
(viii) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in 
terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange 
at which such other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for 
the purposes of servicing 
such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the 
basis of a rate of 
exchange acceptable to the Bank.
Section 4.04.(a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, SEPC shall not incur 
Page  6
any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues and expenditures of SEPC shows 
that the estimated net  revenues of SEPC for each fiscal year during the term of the 
debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.2 times the estimated debt service 
requirements of SEPC in 1996 and 1997, and 1.5 times thereafter on all debt of SEPC 
including the debt to be incurred.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of SEPC maturing by its 
terms more than 
one year after the date on which it is originally 
incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or 
other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms 
of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) 
under a guarantee agreement, on 
the date the agreement providing for such 
guarantee has been 
entered into.
(iii)
The term "net revenues" means the difference between:
 
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations 
and net 
non-operating income; and
 
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration,
adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
but 
excluding provision for depreciation, other non-cash 
operating charges 
and interest and other charges on debt.
 
(iv)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
 
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in 
the generation of revenues in (A) above.
 
(v)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments 
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest 
and other charges 
on, debt.
 
(vi)
The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared by SEPC 
not earlier 
than twelve months prior to the incurrence of the debt in 
question, which both 
the Bank and SEPC accept as reasonable and as 
to which the Bank has notified 
SEPC of its acceptability, provided that 
no event has occurred since such 
notification which has, or may 
reasonably be expected in the future to have, a 
material adverse 
effect on the financial condition or future operating results 
of 
SEPC.
(vii)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in 
terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange 
at which such other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for 
the purposes of servicing 
such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the 
basis of a rate of 
exchange acceptable to the Bank.
Section 4.05. SEPC shall, by April 30 of each year commencing in 1996, prepare 
and furnish annually to the Bank for review, until completion of the Project, a 
rolling long-term financial plan (including projected income statements, sources and 
uses of funds and balance sheets covering a period of no less than eight years) and 
exchange views with the Bank on its financial position, focusing on comparison of 
actual financial performance with agreed targets, operating cost trend, future 
investment and related financing arrangements.
Page  7
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of SEPC 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify SEPC thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered  by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are: 
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
For SEPC:
17, 2nd Section
Dongfeng Road
Chengdu 610061
Sichuan
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
0500, Chengdu
60168 SWEPA CN
 
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of SEPC may be 
taken or executed by the General Manager or such other person or persons as the 
General Manager shall designate in writing, and SEPC shall furnish to the Bank 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
Page  8
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Russell J. Cheetham
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SICHUAN ELECTRIC POWER COMPANY
By /s/ Li Daoyu
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines), and in accordance with the following 
additional procedures:
(a)
When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity period, 
such period may be extended once, subject to and in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.59 of the Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete 
the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and clearances and award the contract. The 
bid validity period may be extended a second time only if the bidding documents or the 
request for extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment of the bid price to 
reflect changes in the cost of inputs for the contract over the period of extension. 
Such an increase in the bid price shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation. With respect to each contract made subject to the Bank's prior review in 
accordance with the provisions of Part D.1 (a) of this Section, the Bank's prior 
approval will be required for (i) a first extension of the bid validity period if the 
period of extension exceeds sixty (60) days and (ii) any subsequent extension of the 
bid validity period.
(b)
In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A, SEPC shall 
use the relevant standard bidding documents issued or agreed to by the Bank, with such 
modifications
thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the Project. 
Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, SEPC shall 
use bidding documents based on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed 
with the Bank.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in China may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 
through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto. 
Page  9
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Except as provided in paragraphs 2 and 3 hereof, goods estimated to cost less 
than the equivalent of $300,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to 
$4,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded through limited international 
bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids obtained from at 
least three qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance with 
procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines
(excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
2.
Except as provided in paragraph 3 hereof, goods estimated to cost less than the 
equivalent of $300,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to 
$2,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of 
price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, 
in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
3.
Contracts for proprietary items of goods shall be awarded after direct 
negotiations with suppliers, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods, estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $5,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special 
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of 
the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) 
shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of the 
Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan Account are to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
In order to assist SEPC  in carrying out the Project, SEPC shall employ 
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment 
shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance 
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank 
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). 
For complex, time-based assignments, SEPC shall employ such consultants under 
contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the 
Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant 
standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, SEPC shall use other 
standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts, shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for the 
Page  10
employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. 
However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to (a) the terms of 
reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank, (d) amendments 
to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to 
$100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.
SEPC shall, by September 30, 1995, prepare, in consultation with the Bank, a 
detailed program for implementation of the Action Plan and, thereafter, implement the 
Action Plan in accordance with the said program in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
SEPC shall take measures to mitigate and monitor the impact of activities under 
the Project on, and to protect, the environment in accordance with the Environmental 
Management Program in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
3.
SEPC shall carry out land acquisition, resettlement and rehabilitation of 
Affected Persons in accordance with the Relocation Action Plan in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank.
4.
SEPC shall carry out a management development and training program, acceptable 
to the Bank, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
