Report No. PID8223
Project Name                     Chad-National Transport Program (+)
Support Project (PAProNaT)
Region                           Africa Regional Office
Sector                           Highways
Project ID                       TDPE35672
Borrower(s)                      REPUBLIC OF CHAD
Implementing Agency
Address TBD
Ministry of Planning
Contact Person: Ahmed Nene Tassy,
Project Coordinator, Ministry of Public
Works, Transport,
Habitat and Urban Development.
Tel: (235) 52 27 71
Fax: (235) 52 37 09
Email: CISCP@intnet.td
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                April 20, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         April 24 - May 5, 2000
Projected Board Date             July 18, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
Sector Issues(i) Traditional appraisal methods for investments to improve
rural access have not been appropriate. Despite considerable investments
in the transport sector, and particularly in the road sector (within the
Transport Sector Adjustment Project 1989-1993 and the Second Transport
Sector Program 1994-1999) the development of industry, agriculture and
commerce, and the access to social and administrative services are still
adversely affected by severe isolation. The primary road network is, to a
large extent, not passable during several months of the year, and entails
high transport costs during the rest of the year, due to the poor
condition of a significant portion of that network. The poor results of
previous interventions and the lack of sustainability of some of the
investments made in the past can be attributed to several factors. First,
the selection of the road sections to be rehabilitated or constructed has
not been made on a consistent basis and has been strongly influenced by
the regional preferences of some donors. Secondly, projects have been
selected based on the economic rate of return of individual roads or road
sections. These approaches have had several major drawbacks. On the one
hand, they mostly favored road rehabilitation and upgrading options
without the provision of a blacktop pavement, very often in areas with
extremely bad soil conditions and where no suitable natural road
construction materials are available. Under these conditions, those
unpaved roads would have required an optimal and fine-tuned maintenance
strategy, for which neither the financial nor the institutional resources
were or are available. The result was often a very rapid deterioration of
those unpaved roads soon after being rehabilitated/constructed. In
addition, the strong focus on economic rates of return tended to exclude



projects of strategic, political or poverty-reducing importance, which are
nevertheless essential for the development of the country. Traditional
economic appraisal methods depend largely on vehicle operating cost
savings, and where low population densities and low levels of economic
activity do not generate sufficient traffic volumes, such as in many areas
of Chad, they cannot justify even a very basic and coherent road
network.(ii) Typical distinction between Primary Road Network and Rural
Roads is not applicable in Chad. In most countries, even if Africa, the
Primary Road Network is mostly paved and has relatively important average
traffic volumes of at least 500 vehicles per day, and in many cases much
more. Rural Roads on the other hand have typical average traffic volumes
of around 50 vehicles per day, and their physical characteristics are very
different from those of the Primary Road Network. In Chad, however, these
definitions are not valid. The very low population density results in low
traffic volumes of only some 50 vehicles per day in average on the
National Road Network, and only 300 km of roads in Chad have an average
daily traffic in the order of 200 to 500 vehicles per day. This means
that most of Chad's National (Primary) Road Network clearly has
characteristics of Rural Roads, both in terms of traffic volume and
physical characteristics. In turn, most of what is called Rural Roads in
Chad carry less than 5 vehicles per day, and often not a single vehicle in
several weeks; they would be called rural access paths elsewhere. On the
other hand, due to the very flat terrain in most parts of Chad,
non-motorized traffic and even light trucks can travel almost anywhere
during the dry season, even if there is no formal road. From the above it
becomes clear that conventional assumptions and knowledge concerning Main
Roads and Rural Roads are not applicable in Chad.
(iii) Road maintenance financing has not been adequate. The mobilization
of domestic funds has sometimes been insufficient to even finance routine
road maintenance, let alone periodic maintenance, rehabilitation or
construction. Despite continued donor support for the road sector,
maintenance measures are not sufficient to maintain acceptable road
service levels due to a frequent shortfall of funds. In order to ensure
the availability of sufficient funds for road maintenance, the creation of
the CAER (Compte Autonome d'Entretien Routier), an independent financing
mechanism outside the regular Government budget, was introduced in 1994 at
the beginning of the ongoing Second Transport Sector Program. In late
1998, however, the Government reintegrated the resources of the CAER into
the Government budget. This loss of autonomy, together with other
measures introduced by the Ministry of Finance, and also the
non-availability of some promised donor support led to serious funding
shortfalls in 1998 and 1999. It also led to the recognition that the
system introduced in 1994 had collapsed and that a new financing mechanism
for road maintenance needs to be introduced as soon as possible. (iv)
There has been no comprehensive strategy for rural transport. Although
significant investments in so-called rural roads have been made during the
past two decades, there has not been an official policy for rural
transport. Some rural road projects are part of integrated rural
development projects and are implemented under the Ministry of
Agriculture. Other important investments were made in the context of
cotton production. Apart from these isolated interventions, however,
there has so far been little or no organized management and maintenance of
those roads, nor an assessment of whether these roads correspond to the
actual needs and characteristics of rural transport in Chad, nor any
coordination between different Government Ministries involved in rural
- 2-



roads. (v) Continued institutional support is required. During the past
ten years there has been considerable progress in capacity-building at the
MTPTHU. Overall, its organizational structure is adequate and most key
positions are held by reasonably qualified staff. Since 1993 there has
been a significant transfer of activities from the MTPTHU to the private
sector; that same year the Ministry gave up all force account works and
has since been contracting out to several private enterprises all physical
road maintenance and construction works. Also, local consultants were
trained under PST2 and are now used by MTPTHU to carry out supervision of
road maintenance. Nevertheless, the Roads Department still experiences
considerable capacity constraints with respect to planning, programming
and supervision of road works. In addition, the ministry's professional
staff is aging; younger staff and new recruits need substantial training
and coaching during the coming years. (vi) Road Safety needs to be
systematically addressed. Although reliable data are not available, there
are clear indications that traffic accidents create significant losses in
terms of personal injury and death, and material damage. Major causes are
the lack of safety awareness, age and poor technical condition of the
vehicle fleet, poor condition of roads, overloading of vehicles, and
insufficient enforcement of traffic regulations.(vii) Spread of AIDS/HIV
along transport corridors. There is growing international evidence and
recognition that the spreading of the AIDS/HIV virus is facilitated along
the main transport corridors, and in particular along international
long-distance routes. As a result, the fight against AIDS/HIV is not only
a health sector issue, but must be coordinated with, and supported by, the
transport sector.           Government StrategyIn order to address the
above issues, the Government, with support from the Bank under the ongoing
Second Transport Sector Project, embarked on a national study and
consultation process to redefine its transport sector strategy. This
included technical, economic and institutional analyses of the road
network condition and management, as well as a series of both regional and
village-level workshops to solicit the views of the population and engage
public participation in the process. As a result of the analyses and
regional workshops, the Government has elaborated (i) a National Transport
Policy Letter, (ii) a 10-year National Strategy for the Transport Sector
and (iii) an Investment Plan for the period 2000-2005. These documents
were presented to a Donors Roundtable Meeting in November 1999. Lettre de
Politique Generale dans le Secteur des Transports; Diagnostic et Strategie
de Developpement du Secteur des Transports au Tchad; Programme Indicatif
des Depenses du Secteur des Transports au Tchad, all dated November tous
date du novembre 1999. The Policy Letter assesses the needs, constraints
and lessons learned from previous experience, and lays out six sectoral
objectives: n Reduce isolation within the country and to the outside
world;n Reduce transport costs, for both internal and international
exchanges;n Maintain minimum all-year access for the principal regions
within the country;f Establish a minimum all-year national road network
that will assure access among the principal cities in the country;n
Continue liberalization of the transport sector and modernize government
management;f Support the population in their own efforts to develop rural
transport infrastructure and intermediate forms of transport.Based on
these objectives, the Policy Letter puts forth twelve Action Plans for the
transport sector:1. Road rehabilitation2. Road maintenance3. Road
Research4. Rural transport improvements5. Road sector industry6. Road
safety7. International transport corridors to reduce the country's
isolation8. Air Transport9. Implementation and monitoringlO. Human
-3 -



resourcesll. Environmentl2. Development of transport on Lake ChadThe
Policy Letter and its Action Plan provide the foundation for the National
Strategy for the Development of the Transport Sector and the Indicative
Investment Plan (jointly called National Transport Program). The National
Transport Program was well-received at the November 1999 donors'
roundtable meeting and is supported by the Bank. The following summarizes
the main strategic elements of the Program:(i) Network Approach: The
National Transport Program represents a departure from past approaches in
road network development and management. Instead of constructing /
rehabilitating individual road sections without sufficiently taking into
account the importance of a basic backbone network and the impact on other
sectors, the new strategy focuses on a more coherent network approach.
This approach is based on a multi-sectoral and multi-criteria evaluation
of the development impact of the road network at the national level. For
the implementation of this strategy the Government has defined a road
classification system dividing the road network into (i) an all-year
National Road Network of some 2,600 km, (ii) a dry-season-only National
Road Network of some 3,600 km, (iii) a regional rural road network, and
(iv) a local access path network. The MTPTHU will take responsibility for
the National Road Network of all-season and dry-season-only roads. It is
important to emphasize that the size of the National Road Network is
rather limited and has been determined on the basis of Chad's capacity to
mobilize local resources for routine road maintenance. The regional rural
road network of some 3,000 km and the access path network of some 30,000
km shall in the medium-term come under the responsibility of regional
bodies to be created under the ongoing decentralization program, and under
local village communities. In the meantime, the Government will provide
support to local self-help initiatives for maintenance and conservation of
existing rural roads. This support will come mainly through Government
ministries other than MTPTHU. Some donors, including the Bank, will
support these initiatives under Rural Development and Local
Capacity-Building projects. In addition, PAProNat will assist in the
development of a National Rural Transport Strategy through an RTTP
component (see Rural Transport Strategy below).(ii) Road Maintenance
Financing: As part of its Action Plan for Road Maintenance, the
Government has formally declared its intention to establish a
Second-Generation Road Maintenance Fund, to be fully operational in
January 2001. It has been agreed between the Government, the IMF and the
Bank that a draft law to establish the Road Maintenance Fund will be
presented to Parliament in March 2000. Based on the new legislation to be
introduced, the cost for the maintenance of the National Road Network will
be financed from Road User Charges; these will be integrated into the pump
price of fuel. This will provide an independent and reliable source of
funding, not subject to the vagaries of the annual budget process. It has
also been agreed among the parties that the new mechanism will function
outside the Treasury and the Ministry of Finance, although the annual user
fee amounts will appear in the Tableau des Operations Financieres de
l'Etat (TOFE). The level of the road user fees will not be part of the
annual budget discussions. However, any increase in the user fee which
exceeds a normal annual inflation adjustment would be subject to approval
by Parliament or a Presidential decree. The Bank is giving technical
advice to the Government on the introduction of the new funding
mechanism.Due to the present low traffic volumes in Chad, the Road
Maintenance Fund will initially only be able to finance routine
maintenance. There is an agreement in principle with the main donors that
- 4 -



they will provide financial support to periodic maintenance activities.
Eventually, in the medium term, increasing traffic volumes will increase
the revenues of the Road Maintenance Fund, which may then gradually help
to finance periodic maintenance.    (iii)  Performance-based Road
Maintenance Contracts: Efficiency gains have been achieved during the
past years by fully contracting out road maintenance works to private
contractors. However, further improvements in efficiency are possible and
necessary in view of the scarce resources available for road maintenance.
These improvements are expected to materialize through the introduction in
Chad of performance-based Road Management and Maintenance Contracts. The
Bank is actively supporting this approach by giving technical advice on
the preparation of bidding documents for these contracts, and the PAProNaT
will include a pilot program to test performance-based contracting methods
on some 650 km of unpaved roads of the National Road Network during a
4-year period. (iv) Rural Transport Strategy: During the regional
participatory workshops, it was agreed that the central Government's
immediate priority must be to focus on establishing and maintaining the
backbone National Road Network, and this will be the main task for the
MTPTHU. Nevertheless, rural transport is considered important, and the
previously isolated and uncoordinated efforts in the area of rural roads
should give way to an approach which will emphasize rural transport and
travel. This approach must be based on a Rural Transport Strategy to be
developed. In any case, before the actual materialization of oil revenues
in Chad, there will only be very limited direct interventions by the
MTPTHU in rural roads and access paths. It should also be noted that the
mostly non-motorized rural transport in Chad is, to a very large extent,
not dependent on formal and "engineered" rural roads. This is due to the
prevailing topographic and climatic conditions: very flat terrain, which
is dry enough during much of the year to support at least non-motorized
means of transport (mostly oxcarts, donkeys, pushcarts, bicycles, etc.),
but also some motorized traffic. In addition, other agencies, and several
donors, will provide support in this area. Rural roads which are directly
linked to cotton production will receive funding from French and EU
sources. Moreover, cotton farmers and/or COTONCHAD will most likely also
contribute to the maintenance of cotton roads. Finally, some donors,
including Germany and the Bank, will provide support to rural roads and
access paths through rural development projects, local capacity-building
projects, and agriculture projects. In view of this situation, the
Government's Action Plan for Rural Transport envisions the development of
studies leading to the definition of a more uniform strategy for
addressing rural transport in the short and longer terms. This would
include the application of low-cost approaches to achieving minimum
service levels (such as spot improvements) in the management of the
regional rural roads and access paths, as well as the promotion of various
forms of non-motorized transport. PAProNat will support the development
of this policy through the Rural Transport Strategy Component.(v) Road
Safety: The Government's Action Plan No. 6 focuses on improving road
safety conditions. The Government has come to recognize the extensive
damage caused by the high number of traffic accidents as a serious problem
which needs to be addressed. As a result, the MTPTHU's Directorate of
Surface Transport (DTS), which is responsible for the promotion of road
safety, shall be strengthened through the PAProNaT to be able to better
cope with this task. The measures to be financed under the project
include: (i) a traffic accident data collection and evaluation system,
(ii) a road safety awareness campaign, (iii) physical measures to improve
- 5-



accident-prone spots in the capital N'Djamena, and (iv) a national Road
Safety Study and Action Plan. (vi) Fight against AIDS/HIV through
transport sector-related activities. The Government's main instrument in
the fight against AIDS/HIV has been, and continues to be, the Projet
National de Lutte contre le SIDA - PNLS lead by the Ministry of Health and
supported by various donors including the Bank. A specific sub-project
has been defined in coordination with the MTPTHU, titled Projet de Lutte
contre le SIDA sur les axes de communication du Tchad. The cost of this
sub-project is roughly US$ 2.0 million over the total project period of 5
years, and the PAProNaT will contribute US$ 500.000 to this effort.
2. Objectives
The overall development objective of Chad's National Transport Program is
the reduction of poverty and rural isolation. The means to achieve that
objective is through improved year-round access to markets and services
(both social and administrative) especially in the rural areas, where more
than 90 percent of the poor live. The National Transport Program is also
aimed at improving national food security, a critical issue in Chad, where
repeated famines have occurred in different parts of the country.
Furthermore, reliable access to regional markets within Chad will
furthermore contribute to a reduction and stabilization of consumer prices
for basic consumption goods and more stabilized incomes to farmers, most
of which are vulnerable and poor. The project (National Transport Program
Support Project, in french PAProNat - Projet d'Appui au Programme National
des Transports) will directly support the implementation of the
Government's National Transport Program and the underlying Transport
Sector Strategy, the development of which were supported by the Bank under
the ongoing Second Transport Sector Project (PST2). The National
Transport Program has been defined and formulated during 1998 and 1999,
taking into account the outcomes of numerous participatory consultations
not only with rural communities, but also across sectors, including mainly
health, education and agriculture/rural development. The funds provided
by the Bank under the new project will finance roughly 9 percent of the
expenditures programmed under the National Transport Program for the
period 2000-2005, the remainder being financed by numerous other donors
and the Government. PAProNaT is thus part of a much larger and
multisectoral effort of the Government and the entire donor community
active in Chad. However, in response to requests by the Government and
various donors, it will also have the special role to monitor the
indicators for the overall progress and success of the entire National
Transport Program.The high poverty levels in Chad are accentuated by the
country's enormous size, its often harsh environment and its population
distribution in regional enclaves. Virtually every aspect of social and
economic welfare can be viewed within the context of the country's extreme
isolation and poor internal integration. From an economic and food
security point of view, the non-availability of reliable year-round
transport has created numerous agricultural enclaves, where the high cost
of transport hinders the inflow of inputs and consumer goods in rural
areas, while hampering the outflow of production to food-deficit regions
and urban centers. High-potential enclaves of this sort include the
Salamat, known as the potential "breadbasket" of Chad, which remains
largely unreachable for larger vehicles for up to half of the year.
Studies of agricultural prices show that transport charges can represent
as much as 70 percent of marketing costs and from 30 to 80 percent of the
gross margin of local cereal prices in N'Djamena. Herman et al., Millet
- 6-



and Sorgum Marketing in Chad, DAI, December 1994, as cited in the World
Bank, Chad Poverty Assessment: Constraints to Rural Development, Human
Development, Group IV, Africa Region, October 21, 1997, page 18.      The
1997 Chad Poverty Assessment has documented cases where improved physical
access has played a key role in increasing agricultural income and
improving the quality of life in poor rural communities. In one such
case, the Karal area in the Chari-Baguirmi, a newly paved road released a
key constraint for the marketing of vegetables and grains, leading to
increased incomes, which has led to other improvements, including "the
construction of a school, a dispensary, a group warehouse and a meeting
house. Producers have also contributed to the supply of potable water by
improving and maintaining six fountains in the village. Casual
observation shows that housing has improved in Kara, from thatch huts to
mud brick houses, with even the advent of some cement-brick houses." Ibid,
page2l-22.Physical isolation has also been a factor when considering
access to a wide variety of social services, such as health and education
facilities. During the regional participatory workshops for the National
Transport Strategy, poor access was cited as a critical factor when
addressing other sectoral concerns. These included particularly access to
health clinics and water supply, as expressed by women. The major
project-related strategic challenges in Chad are to:(i) improve the
efficiency of Chad's transport system by providing a minimal, but reliable
National Road Network, allowing year-round accessibility for an increasing
portion of the population, especially for the rural poor;(ii) remove
constraints to rural growth, regional and international trade, and private
sector development; especially those constraints that are imposed by the
present poor condition and reliability of the road network;(iii) build the
institutional framework and capacity for efficient road network management
and maintenance, including a sustainable financing mechanism for road
maintenance; (iv) extend private sector participation in roads beyond the
execution of physical works, to performance-based road management and
maintenance contracts, and(v) improve road safety, both on urban streets
and on inter-urban roads(vi) reduce the spread of AIDS/HIV along the
major transport corridors and around road construction camps
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Continued Bank support to the sector will (i) catalyze a large amount of
external investment resources by other donors for the sector; here other
donors clearly count on the Bank to provide the policy support to the
Government; and to monitor sector performance and performance indicators;
(ii) assist the restructuring and commercialization of the road sector by
advising the Government on creating an appropriate environment to attract
the private sector to become engaged on a long term basis; (iii) provide a
powerful lead for the entire donor community to follow a coherent sector
approach when deciding on new sector investments; and (iv) improve the
country's growth and poverty-reduction prospects by providing needed
infrastructure. Furthermore, the financing by the Bank of the
performance-based road maintenance contracts will give comfort to
potential bidders with respect to the payment and other sovereign risks
that they would otherwise not be prepared to take under the present
circumstances. Finally, the development of the rural transport strategy
will profit from the extensive regional experience accumulated through the
RTTP.
4. Description
-7-



1. Road Investment
2. Road Maintenance
3. Road Safety
4. Rural Transport Strategy
5. Institutional Support
6. AIDS/HIV and Transport
Refunding of PPF
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
GOVERNMENT               5.4
IBRD
IDA                      50
Total Project Cost       55.4
6. Implementation
Project implementation period: The project implementation period would
start during the third quarter of 2000 and extend to the second quarter of
2005. The project period will cover 5 years, in order to provide some
safety margin for the execution of the 4-year pilot project of
Performance-based Road Network Management and Maintenance Contracts. It
should be noted that the implementation period of the project should
ideally start towards the end of the rainy season (September 2000). This
will allow the program to start the execution of road works and road
maintenance activities at the beginning of the dry season in October 2000,
which is important for reasons of efficiency. Executing Agencies, Project
Coordination and Oversight:The executing agency for all project components
will be the Ministry of Public Works, Transport, Housing and Urban
Development. The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) will be the Cellule de
Suivi et Coordination des Projets (CISCP). The CISCP has since 1990 been
the PIU for almost all donor-financed projects in the transport sector,
including the Bank-financed PASET and PST2 projects. It has in place
rather well-established project management and accounting procedures
acceptable to the Bank. It is adequately staffed and has a good track
record; major implementation problems are therefore not expected. As has
been an established practice in past and ongoing projects, the CISCP will
cooperate closely with other departments of MTPTHU in the practical
implementation of different project components:(i) The Roads Directorate
(DR - Direction des Routes) will be in charge of the Road Investment
Component (paving and rehabilitation) and, through the Road Maintenance
Unit, the Pilot Road Management and Maintenance Component. (ii) The
Directorate of Surface Transport (DTS - Direction des Transports de
Surface) will coordinate activities related to the Road Safety component,
in cooperation with the National Police. Additionally, because of its
staff in all provinces of Chad, DTS will be responsible for collection and
monitoring of project impact data, in coordination with the Directorate of
Studies and Planning (DEP). The DTS will further monitor the
project-sponsored activities related to the fight against AIDS/HIV. (iii)
The Planning Directorate (DEP - Direction des Etudes et de la
Planification) will coordinate the Rural Transport Strategy Component and
will also be in charge of coordinating certain consultant studies.The
CISCP will maintain full financial control and responsibility for the
entire project, with general oversight of technical matters as well. This
arrangement has been functioning successfully for at least 8 years now and
will be maintained.Accounting, Financial Reporting and Auditing
- 8 -



Arrangements:Project accounts and the compliance with the project
implementation manual will be audited annually according to generally
accepted accounting principles by an independent auditor acceptable to
IDA. A consolidated annual financial audit report will be submitted to
IDA within six months of the end of each financial year. In addition, the
accounts of the Road Maintenance Fund will be edited every three months,
also by an independent auditor, and the results submitted to the Bank and
other Donors who are interested to follow up on this important issue. In
addition to the financial audits, technical audits of the project will
also be carried out three times a year by a qualified specialist
acceptable to the Bank, and the technical auditor's report will be
submitted to the Bank not later than 2 weeks after the completion of each
technical audit mission. Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements:(i)
Similar to the practice established during the PST2, semi-annual progress
reports will be established by the PIU on the basis of the project
implementation plan that will be developed during project appraisal. (ii)
Supervision missions by Bank staff will take place at least twice a year
and a project review will be held at mid-term.(iii) Concerning the
performance indicators, the project will finance baseline and annual
monitoring studies to assess the impacts of the National Transport
Program, of which the project will be an integral part. The monitoring
will verify if program and project objectives are being achieved. In
particular, advances towards the goal of reliable transport at a lower
cost will be evaluated through regular (every six months) data collection
and evaluation of both market rates for goods and passenger transport, and
of market prices for selected goods in both rural and urban markets. Of
interest are absolute price levels and the fluctuation of prices between
dry and rainy seasons.(iv) a ICR will be prepared after project closing
and presented within six months thereafter.
7. Sustainability
It is critical for the sustainability of the National Transport Program
that the new Road Maintenance Fund can be set up in a way that it is
operated independently from the government budget and that its revenue
base is sufficient to finance at least the routine maintenance of the
national road network. During the Transport Sector Round Table meeting in
1999, the Government committed itself to that objective. At the same
time, the various Donors present at the Round Table made it clear that
they are willing to provide substantial financing for the transport
sector, but only if the Government actually implements the Road
Maintenance Fund as proposed, and that the resources generated are at
least sufficient to finance the routine maintenance of the National Road
Network.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
(i) The design of this project has benefited from lessons learned in
numerous projects worldwide. General issues related to this project,
where experience gained elsewhere has helped in project definition and
planning, are (i) the participatory approach used in project definition,
(ii) the definition of suitable monitoring indicators for overall project
success, (iii) the relationship which exists between poverty reduction and
basic access of rural populations to markets and services (social and
administrative), (iv) the particular risks of spreading AIDS/HIV along
major transport and travel corridors, (v) the importance of introducing a
national road safety strategy early on when motorization rates rise.
-9-



Those lessons have been condensed into best practice by the Bank's
Transport and other Networks. (ii) In particular, the reform of Road
Network Management and Conservation as envisaged in Chad clearly takes
into account best practice lessons:n The replacement of the existing
First-Generation financing mechanism for road maintenance by a new
Second-Generation Road Maintenance Fund is regarded as a fundamental
precondition for introducing more efficiency into the management and
maintenance of the national road network in the future. Among the birth
defects of the existing funding mechanism was the lack of continued
coordination with the IMF, the incorporation of resources which were
non-permanent by nature, and the fact that the Road Maintenance Fund
(CAER) essentially financed Government expenditures, thus violating
macroeconomic and fiscal principles. The design of the new,
second-generation road maintenance fund for Chad has remedied these
weaknesses.n With support from the project, performance-based Road Network
Management and Maintenance contracts will be introduced in Chad. They
will gradually replace the traditional maintenance planning and
contracting procedures, under which contractors are paid by the amount of
physical work carried out, and thus have a vested interest in large and
lumpy contracts. There is however little or no incentive for ensuring
that roads are overall in a good condition. This generates a vicious
circle of heavy rehabilitation followed by long periods of neglect and
thus rapid destruction, helped by overloading of vehicles. The
performance-based road maintenance contracts to be introduced in Chad
through the project will reverse this vicious circle, because the
contractors will be paid not for the works executed, but will receive a
fixed monthly payment if the roads are in a good condition as defined in
the contract. Contractors will thus have strong incentives to optimize
the life-cycle cost of the roads. Given the substantial presence of
private road maintenance firms in Chad, and the accumulated experience in
subcontracting road maintenance, it is considered to be the right moment
to advance now towards performance-based road management and maintenance
contracts.Past interventions in the road sector focused on the
construction/rehabilitation of individual road sections without
sufficiently taking into account regional aspects and the impact on other
sectors. Moreover, no consistent system of criteria to determine the scale
and priority of the projects had been applied. The network approach,
which is now applied under the National Transport Program, will ensure
that there is a better focus on poverty objectives, since multi-sector
benefits will be optimized.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     Y
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues         Only very few adverse direct impacts are expected
from the civil works to be financed under the project, as virtually all
investments would be rehabilitation and maintenance of, and improvements
to, existing roads:n Strengthening of existing bituminous pavements
through pavement sealing or overlay, without widening the road or changing
road alignments (284 km) n Maintaining existing unpaved gravel and earth
roads, without changing road aligmments (443 km)n Upgrading an existing
unpaved road to paved standard (25 km) There is no need whatsoever for
resettlement or land expropriation; all roads are in very sparsely
populated and semi-arid areas with little vegetation. The final designs
for road works will include all necessary mitigation measures which need
- 10 -



to be taken during construction in order to avoid negative construction
impacts. Soil erosion is most unlikely due to the very flat nature of the
terrain. The mitigation measures will be included in all bidding
documents and form part of the contractual obligation of the contractors.
The likelihood of chance findings of archaeological artifacts is extremely
low; no similar finds have been reported in the area of the project
roads. Studies have shown that road improvements, although facilitating
access and reducing travel time for existing communities, would not result
in increased colonization pressures in remote areas, under the specific
conditions of the project's areas of influence.Although the MTPTHU's Roads
Directorate includes a small environmental unit, the Ministry has not been
able to consolidate an effective environmental capacity within the
agency. As such, the institutional capacity to address environmental
issues associated with road projects needs to be further strengthened.
This strengthening is included as part of the institutional strengthening
component of the project.The project represents a focused effort to reduce
the grave traffic safety problem, which in Chad costs several hundred
lives every year, disproportionally affecting the poorest who represent
the majority of the most vulnerable road users as pedestrians, cyclists,
and users of low cost, overloaded and poorly maintained transport
modes.Environmental Assessments carried within the context of project
preparation:Environmental assessments were carried out on three levels:
(i) a programmatic EA of the entire transport sector, (ii) an EA of the
PAProNaT, which is the transport sector project financed by the Bank, and
(iii) a specific EA for the paving of the Ngoura - Bokoro road. Only the
second and third EA's are of direct concern for the preparation of the
PAProNaT, however, all three are decribed below.      Programmatic EA of the
entire Transport Sector: As part of the preparation of the National
Transport Strategy, an initial Environmental Assessment of the entire
transport sector was carried out. This EA assesses the potential impact
on the environment of the overall National Transport Program; it therefore
goes much beyond the PAProNaT financed by the Bank. During project
preparation, the Bank team has verified the fact that this original study
contained most of the elements required for the environmental impact
assessment of the overall National Transport Program. In addition, recent
investment studies for specific road sections have also included
environmental impact assessments and mitigation proposals, parts of which
can be used for other road sector projects (generic mitigation measures in
the specific environment of Chad). Once the components of the overall
National Transport Program were fully defined, the Bank team felt that the
original Environmental Assessment of the Transport Sector needed to be
updated and enhanced, and additional work was financed under the PPF to do
so. The resulting national-level EA specifies in a generic sense the
potential impacts and mitigation measures expected for the various types
of investments envisioned. As such, it serves as a guidepost for ensuing
EA's which are to be carried out for individual investments (mostly
financed by other donors), and a checklist-type tool for the Ministry of
Transport to evaluate the ensuing EA's. In this sense, it is a
programmatic EA. EA of PAProNat:    As has been explained earlier in this
document, the Bank-financed PAProNaT covers a rather limited subset of
works and services which are part of the National Transport Program; it
accounts for roughly 9 percent of the expenditures planned under that
program. The preparation of PAProNaT included an Environmental Assessment
of the specific activities to be financed under the IDA credit, and which
satisfies IDA's requirements (Note: this is yet to be cleared by
- 11 -



Jean-Roger Mercier); it is an application of the format and approach
specified in the general programmatic EA described in the previous
paragraph. Specific environmental mitigation measures for the
Ngoura-Bokoro road: As a third step, a separate report was prepared which
describes the environmental impact and mitigation measures related to the
paving of the Ngoura-Bokoro road; this report is also a practical
application of the general methodology described in the programmatic EA.
It was prepared as a separate report in order to facilitate its
incorporation in the bidding documents for this road.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Andreas Schliessler
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202 473-8523
Fax: 202 473-8038
E-Mail: aschliessler@worldbank.org
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending April 21, 2000.
- 12 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the
borrower prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report
is required, once it is prepared and submitted to the Bank, in
accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental Assessment, it will be
filed as an annex to the Public Information Document (PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an
EA annex; the findings and recommendations of the EA will be
reflected in the body of the PID.
- 13 -



