Document of
The World Bank
Report No.:   20986 CD
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 50.8 MILLION
(US$67 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
FOR THE
NATIONAL TRANSPORT PROGRAM SUPPORT PROJECT
September 29, 2000
Transport Group (AFTTR)
Central and Western Africa
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of August 17, 2000)
Currency Unit = FCFA
FCFA 720 = US$ 1.00
US$0.138 = 100 FCFA
BORROWER'S FISCAL YEAR: January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFD           Agence Fran,aise de Developpement
AfDB          African Development Bank
CAER          Compte Autonome d'Entretien Routier
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CISCP         Cellule Intenninisterielle de Suivi et Coordination des Projets
DR            Direction des Routes
DTS           Direction des Transports de Surface
DEP           Direction des Etudes et de la Programmation
EU            European Union
FED           Fonds Europeen de Developpement
FER           Fonds d'Entretien Routier
IMF           International Monetary Fund
IMT           Intermediate Means of Transport
MTPTHU        Ministere des Travaux Publics, Transports, Habitat et Urbanisme
NMT           Non-Motorized Transport
NPV           Net Present Value
PIEU          Project Implementation Unit
PPF           Project Preparation Facility
PST2          Second Transport Sector Project
RTT           Rural Travel and Transport
RTTP          Rural Travel and Transport Program
SNER          Societe Nationale d'Entretien Routier
SSATP         Sub- Saharan Africa Transport Policy Program
VOC           Vehicle Operating Costs
Vice President: Callisto Madavo
Country Director: Robert Calderisi
Sector Manager: Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard
Task Team Leader: Andreas Schliessler



Chad
National Transport Program Support Project
CONTENTS
A Project Development Objective ..................................................................2
1. Project development objective ..................................................................2
2. Key performance indicators .................................................................2
B Strategic Context ..................................................................4
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project .......4
2. Main  sector issues and Government strategy ..................................................................4
3. Sector issues to be addressed  by the project and  strategic choices ......................... 10
C  Project Description Summary .................................................................                                               12
1. Project components .................................................................                                            12
2. Key policy and  institutional reforms supported by the project ..................................... 13
3. Benefits and target population ........................                           ......................................... 13
4. Institutional and  implementation  arrangements ............................................................ 14
D   Project Rationale .............. ,15
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ............................................. 15
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ...... 16
3. Lessons learned and reflected  in the project design ....................................................... 17
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ................................................... 17
5. Value added  of Bank  support in this project ................................................................ 18
E Summary Project Analysis ................................................................                                                     18
1. Economic ................................................................ 18
2. Financial ................................................................                                                      20
3. Technical ................................................................                                                      21
4. Institutional ................................................................ 21
5. Social ................................................................                                                         23
6. Environmental assessment ................................................................                                       24
7. Participatory  approach ................................................................ 26
F Sustainability and Risks ................................................................                                                    28
1. Sustainability ................................................................                                                 28
2. Critical Risks ................................................................                                                 28
3. Possible Controversial Aspects ................................................................                                 28



G Main Credit Conditions .......................                                29
1. Effectiveness Conditions .................                            29
2. Other ................. 29
H Readiness for Implementation .......................                          30
I Compliance with Bank Policies .......................                         30
Annexes
Annex 1.     Project Design Summary
Annex 2.     Detailed Project Description
Annex 3.     Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.     Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary
Annex 5.     Financial Summary
Annex 6.     Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Annex 7.     Project Processing Schedule
Annex 8.     Documents in Project File
Annex 9.     Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10.    Country at a Glance
Annex 11.    Procurement Capacity Assessment - Summary
Annex 12.    Summary of Transport Sector Environmental Assessment
Maps (2)



CHAD
National Transport Program Support Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTTR
Date: September 29, 2000                          Team Leader: Andreas Schliessler
Country Director: Robert Calderisi                Sector Manager: Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard
Project ID: P035672                               Sector(s): TH - Highways
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Poverty Reduction; Transport
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
O Loan          1 Credit        Ol Grant        El Guarantee    [ Other (Specify)
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 67.0
Proposed Terms: Standard Credit
Grace period (years):                                  Years to maturity:
Commitment fee:                                        Service charge: %
Financing Plan:                        _0r                   L             FOn: u _        TOWl
GOVERNMENT                                                     24.13           0.00         24.13
IDA                                                            22.44          44.56         67.00
Total:                                                         46.57          44.56         91.13
Borrower: REPUBLIC OF CHAD
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS, TRANSPORT, HABITAT AND URBAN DEV.
Project Coordination Unit (CISCP)
Address: N'Djamena, Chad
Contact Person: Ahmed Nene Tassy, Project Coordinator, Ministry of Public Works, Transport, Habitat and Urban
Development.
l'el: (235) 52 27 71              Fax: (235) 52 37 09               Email: CISCP@intnet.td
Other Agency(ies):
Ministry of Economic Promotion and Development
Address: N'Djamena, Chad
Contact Person: Mr. Ahmed La_nine Al, Ministre
Estimated disbursements( Bank FYIUS$M):
Anua1                  2ii1         200         2004        200
Annual    22.7          23.6         13.7        4.5         2.5
Cumulative    22.7         46.3         60.0        64.5        67.0
Project implementation period: 5 years
Expected effectiveness date: 12/31/2000  Expected closing date:  07/31/2006
OC=PAD F-m R. lh, Z



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex I)
The overall development objective of Chad's National Transport Program is the reduction of poverty and
rural isolation, through improved year-round access to markets and services (both social and
administrative) especially in the rural areas, where more than 90 percent of the poor live. The National
Transport Program is also aimed at improving national food security, a critical issue in Chad, where
repeated famines have occurred in different parts of the country. Furthermore, reliable access to regional
markets within Chad will contribute to a reduction and stabilization of consumer prices for basic
consumption goods and more stabilized incomes to farmers, most of whom are vulnerable and poor.
The project (National Transport Program Support Project, in French PAProNaT - Projet d'Appui au
Programme National des Transports) will directly support the implementation of the Government's
National Transport Program and the underlying Transport Sector Strategy, which were developed under the
ongoing Second Transport Sector Project (PST2). The National Transport Program was defined and
formulated during 1998 and 1999, taking into account the outcomes of numerous participatory
consultations not only with rural communities, but also across sectors, including mainly health, education
and agriculture/rural development. The funds provided by the Bank under this project will finance roughly
15 percent of the expenditures programmed under the National Transport Program for the period
2000-2005, the remainder being financed by numerous other donors and the Government. PAProNaT is
thus part of a much larger and multisectoral effort of the Government and the entire donor community
active in Chad. However, in response to requests by the Government and various donors, the project will
also monitor the overall progress of the National Transport Program.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The proposed project (PAProNaT) constitutes an integral part of the much larger National Transport
Program 2000-2005. There are therefore two sets of performance indicators to be monitored, the first set
relating to the overall goals of National Transport Program as a whole, and the second set relating to the
much more specific and limited goals of the PAProNaT to be financed by the Bank.
The underlying justification of the National Transport Program is that reliable year round access to
markets and services is an essential ingredient in the broader effort to reduce poverty and improve food
security. Because Chad is a vast country with very limited human and financial resources, the National
Transport Plan has been calibrated to ensure a minimum level of transport infrastructure and services that
(i) can be sustained with resources mostly generated within Chad; and (ii) will fulfill the most essential and
urgent access needs within the country. In the longer term, the National Transport Program provides a
basis for an eventual scaling up of these service levels, but in the immediate term, the task at hand is to
establish a small, but reliable and well maintained core transport network which will provide a platform for
economic and social development throughout the country.
Performance indicators for the National Transport Program, will thus reflect the goal of improving
year-round access to markets and services through a core national road network that can be maintained in a
cost-effective and sustainable way. These indicators are:
*   Year-round access to key areas of Chad provided on the backbone National Road Network of about
2,600 km, to be achieved by mid-2005;
*  Average prices of 12 basic consumer goods on selected regional markets in Chad reduced by 10
- 2 -



percent in real terms by mid-2005;
* Price fluctuations (between dry and rainy season) of 12 basic consumer goods on selected regional
markets reduced to a ratio of 1:1.3 by mid-2005;
* 10 percent decrease in average market transport rates in real terms, for goods and passenger traffic
(measured in price per ton- and passenger-km respectively) for transport between the provincial
capitals and N'Djamena, between 2000 and 2005;
* At least 55 percent of the backbone National Road Network of 2600 km in good or fair condition by
2005 (during dry season);
* At least 60 percent of the backbone National Road Network managed and maintained under
performance-based contracts with the private sector by end of 2005;
*  Dry-season access to additional areas provided through some 3600 km of low-standard roads under the
responsibility of MTPTHU.
The lack of reliable baseline data does not allow today to establish numeric and monitorable performance
indicators for road safety and HIV/AIDS prevalence along the main transport corridors. These indicators
will however be developed during and as a part of project implementation. For example, the introduction of
an traffic accident data collection and evaluation system, to be implemented with Bank financing, will
create the basis for monitorable road safety indicators.
It is evident that the overall success of the National Transport Program will depend on the successful
implementation of numerous sub-projects financed by different donors and the Government, of which
PAProNaT is only one. The total cost of the National Transport Program, in the period between 2000 and
2005, is in the order of US$ 460 million; most of which is already formally or infortnally committed by
donors. The proposed Bank-financed project covers roughly 15 percent of this total cost. However, both
the Government and other donors, such as the EU, expressed the wish that the National Transport Program
be monitored as part of the PAProNaT, with the assistance and supervision of the Bank's technical staff.
The specific performance indicators for the Bank-financed PAProNaT are consistent with the overall
indicators for the National Transport Program, but focus on specific physical outputs and on impacts in the
limited geographical areas in which the project interventions take place. These indicators are:
X 10 percent decrease in average rates in real terms for goods and passenger transport (measured in price
per ton- and passenger-km respectively) for transport between the provincial capitals east of
N'Djamena and the national capital N'Djamena (by end 2005)
*  All-year rideability of at least 1800 km of all-year National Road Network achieved (by end 2005)
* At least 55 percent of all-year National Road Network in good or fair condition during dry season (by
end 2005)
* Approximately 100 km of the core National Road Network are upgraded to paved standard (by end
2004)
* Periodic Maintenance and Strengthening of about 200 km of existing paved roads completed (by end
2004)
* Establishment of a Traffic Accident Data collection and evaluation system on a National level (by end
2002)
* First Road Safety Awareness media campaign completed (by end 2003)
*  Performance-based Road Management and Maintenance contract for approx. 441 km of unpaved roads
awarded (by end 2001)
*  Average travel speed of 50 km/hour for 2-wheel-drive cars achieved at all times on the all-season
National Road Network (by end 2005)
- 3 -



* National Strategy for Rural Travel and Transport completed (by end 2003)
Annex I presents the Logical Framework for National Transport Program and the specific indicators
of PAProNaT.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: IDA/R99-115/3          Date of latest CAS discussion: May 23, 2000
The project supports the CAS goal of removing infrastructure constraints to private sector-led growth
and poverty alleviation. The CAS specifically proposes to concentrate Bank assistance in the critical
areas of education, health, rural development and transport. Assistance in the transport sector is
considered necessary to achieve results in the first three areas. Transport is a key element of the CAS
Objective 3: Removing Constraints to Growth, which focuses on creating enabling conditions and
ensuring the attainment of the full value of complementary private and public investments in other
sectors. The particular CAS-strategy for transport is to "invest in a basic backbone road network
passable year round."
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Sector Context
The high poverty levels in Chad are related to the country's enormous size, its often harsh environment
and its population distribution in regional enclaves. Virtually every aspect of social and economic
welfare can be viewed within the context of the country's extreme isolation and poor internal
integration. From an economic and food security point of view, the non-availability of reliable year-
round transport has created numerous agricultural enclaves, where the high cost of transport hinders
the inflow of inputs and consumer goods in rural areas, while hampering the outflow of production to
food-deficit regions and urban centers. High-potential enclaves of this sort include the Salamat,
known as the potential "breadbasket" of Chad, which remains largely unreachable for larger vehicles
for up to half of the year. Studies of agricultural prices show that transport costs can represent as
much as 70 percent of marketing costs and from 30 to 80 percent of the gross margin of local cereal
prices in N'Djamdna. (Herman et al., Millet and Sorgum Marketing in Chad, DAI, December 1994,
as cited in the World Bank, Chad Poverty Assessment: Constraints to Rural Development, Human
Development, Group IV, Africa Region, October 21, 1997, page 18.)
The 1997 Chad Poverty Assessment has documented cases where improved physical access has
played a key role in increasing agricultural income and improving the quality of life in poor rural
communities. In one such case, the Karal area in the Chari-Baguirmi, a newly paved road released a
key constraint for the marketing of vegetables and grains, leading to increased incomes, which has led
to other improvements, including "the construction of a school, a dispensary, a group warehouse and a
meeting house. Producers have also contributed to the supply of potable water by improving and
maintaining six water wells in the village. Casual observation shows that housing has improved in
Kara, from thatch huts to mud brick houses, with even the advent of some cement-brick houses."
(Ibid, page 21-22)
Physical isolation has also been a factor when considering access to a wide variety of social services,
such as health and education facilities. During the regional participatory workshops for the National
Transport Strategy, poor access was cited as a critical factor when addressing other sectoral concerns.
These included particularly access to health clinics and water supply, as particularly emphasized by
women.
-4-



The major project-related strategic challenges in Chad are to:
(i) improve the efficiency of Chad's transport system by providing a minimal but reliable National Road
Network, allowing year-round accessibility for an increasing portion of the population, especially for the
rural poor;
(ii) remove constraints to rural growth, regional and international trade, and private sector development;
especially those constraints that are imposed by the present poor condition and reliability of the road
network;
(iii) build the institutional framework and capacity for efficient road network management and
maintenance, including a sustainable financing mechanism for road maintenance;
(iv) extend private sector participation in roads beyond the execution of physical works, to
performance-based road management and maintenance contracts, and
(v) improve road safety, both on urban streets and on inter-urban roads
(vi) reduce the spread of HIV/AIDS along the major transport corridors and around road construction
camps
Sector Issues
(i) Traditional appraisal methods for sector investments have not been appropriate. Despite
considerable investments in the transport sector, and the road sector in particular (within the Transport
Sector Adjustment Project 1989-1993 and the Second Transport Sector Program 1994-1999) the
development of industry, agriculture and commerce, and the access to social and administrative services are
still adversely affected by severe isolation. The primary road network is, to a large extent, not passable
during several months of the year, and entails high transport costs during the rest of the year, due to the
poor condition of a significant portion of that network. The poor results of previous interventions and the
lack of sustainability of some of the investments made in the past can be attributed to several factors. First,
the selection of the road sections to be rehabilitated or constructed was not made on a consistent basis and
was strongly influenced by the regional preferences of some donors. Secondly, projects were selected based
on the economic rate of return of individual roads or road sections. These approaches have had several
major drawbacks. On the one hand, they mostly favored road rehabilitation and upgrading options without
the provision of a blacktop pavement, very often in areas with extremely bad soil conditions and where no
suitable natural road construction materials are available. Under these conditions, those unpaved roads
would have required an optimal and fine-tuned maintenance strategy, for which neither the financial nor the
institutional resources were available. The result was often a very rapid deterioration of those unpaved
roads soon after being rehabilitated/constructed. In addition, the strong focus on economic rates of return
tended to exclude projects of strategic, social or poverty-reducing importance, which are nevertheless
essential for the development of the country. Traditional economic appraisal methods depend largely on
vehicle operating cost savings, and where low population densities and low levels of economic activity do
not generate sufficient traffic volumes, such as in many areas of Chad, they cannot justify even a very basic
road network.
(ii) The typical distinction between a Primary Road Network and Rural Roads is not applicable in
Chad. In most countries, even in Africa, the Primary Road Network is mostly paved and has relatively
important average traffic volumes of at least 500 vehicles per day, and in many cases much more. Rural
Roads on the other hand have typical average traffic volumes of around 50 vehicles per day, and their
physical characteristics are very different from those of the Primary Road Network. In Chad, however,
these definitions are not valid. The very low population density results in low traffic volumes of only some
- 5 -



50 vehicles per day on average on the primary National Road Network, and only 300 km of roads in Chad
have an average daily traffic in the order of 200 to 500 vehicles per day. This means that most of Chad's
National (Primary) Road Network clearly has characteristics of Rural Roads, both in terms of traffic
volume and physical characteristics. In turn, most of what are called Rural Roads in Chad carry less than
5 vehicles per day, and often not a single vehicle in several weeks; they would be called rural access paths
elsewhere. On the other hand, due to the very flat terrain in most parts of Chad, non-motorized traffic and
even light trucks can travel almost anywhere during the dry season, even if there is no formal road. From
the above it becomes clear that conventional assumptions and knowledge concerning Main Roads and
Rural Roads are not applicable in Chad.
(iii) Road maintenance financing has not been adequate. The mobilization of domestic funds has
sometimes been insufficient to even finance routine road maintenance, let alone periodic maintenance,
rehabilitation or construction. Despite continued donor support for the road sector, maintenance measures
are not sufficient to maintain acceptable road service levels due to a frequent shortfall of funds. In order to
ensure the availability of sufficient funds for road maintenance, the creation of the CAER (Compte
Autonome d'Entretien Routier), an independent financing mechanism outside the regular Government
budget, was introduced in 1994 at the beginning of the ongoing Second Transport Sector Program. In late
1998, however, the Governrnent reintegrated the resources of the CAER into the Government budget. This
loss of autonomy, together with some other measures introduced by the Ministry of Finance, and also the
non-availability of some promised donor support led to serious funding shortfalls in 1998 and 1999. It also
led to the recognition that the system introduced in 1994 had collapsed and that a new financing mechanism
for road maintenance needed to be introduced as soon as possible. This was achieved in August 2000, with
the creation by law of the new Road Maintenance Fund (FER - Fonds d'Entretien Routier).
(iv) There has been no comprehensive strategy for rural transport. Although significant investments
in so-called rural roads have been made during the past two decades, there has not been an official policy
for rural transport. Some rural road projects are part of integrated rural development projects and are
implemented under the Ministry of Agriculture. Other important investments were made in the context of
cotton production. Apart from these isolated interventions, however, there has so far been little or no
organized management and maintenance of those roads, nor an assessment of whether these roads
correspond to the actual needs and characteristics of rural transport in Chad, nor any coordination between
different Government Ministries involved in rural roads.
(v) Continued institutional support is required. During the past ten years there has been some progress
in capacity-building at the MTPTIHU. Overall, its organizational structure is adequate and most key
positions are held by reasonably qualified staff. Since 1993 there has been a significant transfer of
activities from the MTPTHU to the private sector; that same year the Ministry gave up all force account
works and has since been contracting out to several private enterprises all physical road maintenance and
construction works. Also, local consultants were trained under PST2 and are now used by MTPTHU to
carry out supervision of road maintenance.  Nevertheless, the Roads Department still experiences
considerable capacity constraints with respect to planning, programming and supervision of road works. In
addition, the ministry's professional staff is aging; younger staff and new recruits need substantial training
and coaching during the coming years.
(vi) Road safety needs to be systematically addressed. Although reliable data are not available, there are
clear indications that traffic accidents create significant losses in terms of personal injury and death, and
material damage. Major causes are the lack of safety awareness, age and poor technical condition of the
vehicle fleet, poor condition of roads, overloading of vehicles, and insufficient enforcement of traffic
regulations.
-6 -



(vii) Spread of HPV/AIDS along transport corridors. There is growing recognition that the spreading
of the HIV/AIDS virus follows the main transport corridors, and in particular international long-distance
routes. As a result, the fight against HIV/AIDS must be supported by the transport sector.
Government Strategy
In order to address the above issues, the Government, with support from the Bank under the ongoing
Second Transport Sector Project, embarked on a national study and consultation process to redefine its
transport sector strategy. This included technical, economic and institutional analyses of the road network
condition and management, as well as a series of both regional and village-level workshops to solicit the
views of the population and engage public participation in the process. As a result of the analyses and
regional workshops, the Government has elaborated (i) a National Transport Policy Letter, (ii) a 10-year
National Strategy for the Transport Sector and (iii) an Investment Plan for the period 2000-2005 (Lettre de
Politique Generale dans le Secteur des Transports; Diagnostic et Strategie de Developpement du Secteur
des Transports au Tchad; Programme Indicatif des Depenses du Secteur des Transports au Tchad, all
dated November tous date du novembre 1999.) These documents were presented to a Donors Roundtable
Meeting in November 1999. The Policy Letter assesses the needs, constraints and lessons learned from
previous experience, and lays out six sectoral objectives:
*   Reduce isolation within the country and from the outside world;
* Reduce transport costs, for both internal and international exchanges;
-   Maintain minimum all-year access for the principal regions within the country;
* Establish a minimum all-year national road network that will assure access among the principal cities
in the country;
- Continue liberalization of the transport sector and modernize government management;
* Support the population in their own efforts to develop rural transport infrastructure and intermediate
forms of transport.
Based on these objectives, the Policy Letter puts forth twelve Action Plans for the transport sector:
1.    Road rehabilitation
2.    Road maintenance
3.    Road research
4.    Rural transport improvements
5.    Road sector industry
6.    Road safety
7.    International transport corridors to reduce the country's isolation
8.    Air transport
9.    Implementation and monitoring
10.   Human resources
I1.   Environment
12.   Development of transport on Lake Chad
The Policy Letter and its Action Plan provide the foundation for the National Strategy for the Development
of the Transport Sector and the Indicative Investment Plan (jointly called National Transport Program).
The National Transport Program was well-received at the November 1999 donors' roundtable meeting and
is supported by the Bank. The following summarizes the main strategic elements of the Program:
(i) Network Approach: The National Transport Program represents a departure from past approaches in
- 7 -



road network development and management. Instead of constructing or rehabilitating individual road
sections without sufficiently taking into account the importance of a basic backbone network and the
impact on other sectors, the new strategy focuses on a more coherent network approach. This approach is
based on a multi-sectoral and multi-criteria evaluation of the development impact of the road network at the
national level. For the implementation of this strategy the Government has defined a road classification
system dividing the road network into (i) an all-year-round National Road Network of some 2,600 km, (ii)
a dry-season-only National Road Network of some 3,600 km, (iii) a regional rural road network, and (iv) a
local access path network. The MTPTHU will take responsibility for the National Road Network of
all-season and dry-season-only roads. It is important to emphasize that the size of the National Road
Network is rather limited and has been determined on the basis of Chad's capacity to mobilize local
resources for routine road maintenance. The regional rural road network of some 3,000 km and the access
path network of some 30,000 km shall, in the medium-term, come under the responsibility of regional
bodies to be created under the ongoing decentralization program, and under local village communities. In
the meantime, the Government will provide support to local self-help initiatives for maintenance and
conservation of existing rural roads. This support will come mainly through Government ministries other
than MTPTHU. Some donors, including the Bank, will support these initiatives under Rural Development
and Local Capacity-Building projects. In addition, PAProNat will assist in the development of a National
Rural Transport Strategy through an RTTP component (see Rural Transport Strategy below).
(ii) Road Maintenance Financing: As part of its Action Plan for Road Maintenance, the Government has
formally declared its intention to establish a Second-Generation Road Maintenance Fund, to be fully
operational in January 2001. Based on new legislation on the Road Maintenance Fund which was formally
introduced in August 2000, the cost for the maintenance of the National Road Network will be financed
from specific resources, part of which are integrated into the pump price of fuel. This will provide an
independent and reliable source of funding, not subject to the vagaries of the annual budget process. The
new funding mechanism will function outside the Treasury and the Ministry of Finance, although the
annual resources mobilized for road maintenance will appear in the Tableau des Operations Financieres
de l'Etat (TOFE). The level of road maintenance funding will not be part of the annual budget discussions.
The Bank is giving technical advice to the Government on the introduction of the new funding mechanism.
Due to the present low traffic volumes in Chad, the Road Maintenance Fund will initially only be able to
finance routine maintenance. There is an agreement in principle with the main donors that they will provide
financial support to periodic maintenance activities. Eventually, in the medium term, increasing traffic
volumes will increase the revenues of the Road Maintenance Fund, which may then gradually help to
finance periodic maintenance.
(iii) Performance-based Road Maintenance Contracts: Efficiency gains have been achieved during the
past years by fully contracting out road maintenance works to private contractors. However, further
improvements in efficiency are necessary in view of the scarce resources available for road maintenance.
These improvements are expected to materialize through the introduction in Chad of performance-based
Road Management and Maintenance Contracts. The Bank is actively supporting this approach by giving
technical advice on the preparation of bidding documents for these contracts, and the PAProNaT will
include a pilot program to test performance-based contracting methods on some 440 km of unpaved roads
of the National Road Network during a 4-year period.
(iv) Rural Transport Strategy: During the regional participatory workshops, it was agreed that the
central Government's immediate priority must be to focus on establishing and maintaining the backbone
National Road Network, and this will be the main task for the MTPTHU. Nevertheless, rural transport is
considered important, and the previously isolated and uncoordinated efforts in the area of rural roads
- 8 -



should give way to an approach which will emphasize rural transport and travel. This approach must be
based on a Rural Transport Strategy to be developed. In any case, before the actual materialization of oil
revenues in Chad, there will only be very limited direct interventions by the MTPTHU in rural roads and
access paths. It should also be noted that the mostly non-motorized rural transport in Chad is, to a very
large extent, not dependent on formal and "engineered" rural roads. This is due to the prevailing
topographic and climatic conditions: very flat terrain, which is dry enough during much of the year to
support at least non-motorized means of transport (mostly oxcarts, donkeys, pushcarts, bicycles, etc.), but
also some motorized traffic. In addition, other agencies, and several donors, will provide support in this
area. Rural roads which are directly linked to cotton production will receive funding from French and EU
sources. Moreover, cotton farmers and/or COTONTCHAD will most likely also contribute to the
maintenance of cotton roads. Finally, some donors, including Germany and the Bank, will provide support
to rural roads and access paths through rural development projects, local capacity-building projects, and
agriculture projects.
In view of this situation, the Government's Action Plan for Rural Transport envisions the development of
studies leading to the definition of a more uniform strategy for addressing rural transport in the short and
longer terms. This would include the application of low-cost approaches to achieving minimum service
levels (such as spot improvements) in the management of the regional rural roads and access paths, as well
as the promotion of various forms of non-motorized transport. PAProNat will support the development of
this policy through the Rural Transport Strategy Component.
(v) Road Safety: The National Transport Program's Action Plan No. 6 focuses on improving road safety
conditions. The Government has come to recognize the extensive damage caused by the high number of
traffic accidents as a serious problem which needs to be addressed. As a result, the MTPTHU's
Directorate of Surface Transport (DTS), which is responsible for the promotion of road safety, shall be
strengthened through the PAProNaT to be able to better cope with this task. The measures to be financed
under the project include: (i) a traffic accident data collection and evaluation system, (ii) a road safety
awareness campaign, (iii) physical measures to improve accident-prone spots in the capital N'Djamena and
other urban areas, and (iv) a national Road Safety Study and Action Plan.
(vi) Fight against HIV/AIDS through transport sector-related activities. The Government's main
instrument in the fight against HIV/AIDS has been the Programme National de Lutte contre le SIDA -
PNLS supported by various donors including the Bank. As part of the PNLS, a specific sub-program has
been defined in coordination with the MTPTHU, titled Programme de Lutte contre le SIDA sur les axes de
communication du Tchad, in recognition that the spread of HIV/AIDS occurs mainly along the main road
corridors. The main objective is to combat high-risk behaviours of those population groups which
frequently travel and/or live close to main roads. The cost of this sub-program is roughly US$ 2.0 million
over the total project period of 5 years, and the PAProNaT will contribute US$ 500.000 to this effort.
(vii) Air transport liberalization. The air transport action plan designed by the Government follows the
main principles agreed by the Bank and the Governments of the region. The main goal in the air transport
sector for Central Africa is to encourage market liberalization by improving the economic efficiency of the
air transport system. The primary concern is how to improve the economic aspects of the sector while
simultaneously undertaking initiatives concerning technical assistance.  They are included in the
Memorandum of Understanding - Yamoussoukro Decision. Improvements in air safety and security are
nevertheless vital for a liberalized air transport system where operators will require more advanced
oversight. This will also help alleviate the present lack of capacity to attract private investments for
modernization.
-9-



3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
(i) Road Network Management and Conservation. While a large share of the project resources will go
towards the physical rehabilitation, upgrading and maintenance of roads (both paved and unpaved), the
project will also continue to support the Government in the practical implementation of the reform of road
network management and conservation. The reform includes a redefinition of the roles of the Government
and the private sector and the mobilization of more stable resources for road maintenance through a
Second-generation Road Maintenance Fund (FER - Fonds d'Entretien Routier).
(ii) Institutional Arrangements for Second-Generation Road Maintenance Fund.   For the
implementation of the Road Maintenance Fund (FER), a choice had to be made concerning the
responsibility for the technical management of road network maintenance. While this function is presently
with the Road Maintenance Unit of MTPTHU, it was initially suggested, and considered during project
preparation, to transfer this responsibility to the new Road Maintenance Fund, which would then become a
true Road Maintenance Agency. However, it was finally decided that the Road Maintenance Fund would
not exercise the technical management of road maintenance, but would instead delegate it to MTPTHU
through a formal agreement to be signed among the two parties. This arrangement will allow the Road
Maintenance Fund to be a very small organization consisting of a secretariat with a permanent staff of not
more than five. Decisions will be made by a Supervisory Board in which private sector representatives
would constitute the majority, and which would meet in fixed intervals. The FER's responsibility will be
limited to: (i) collecting the road user fee; (ii) disbursing funds in accordance with specific guidelines and
procedures and based on pre-agreed expense eligibility criteria; and (iii) exercising technical verifications
and audits related to disbursements, both prior and ex-post. The Road Maintenance Unit of MTPTHU will
maintain responsibility for the technical management of monitoring of road maintenance works, which in
Chad is carried out exclusively through private enterprises since 1994. This solution would involve
minimal disruption in the utilization of existing.institutional capacities at MTPTHU, while introducing
accountability of both MTPTHU and the Road Maintenance Fund, towards the Government, Road Users
and donors.
(iii) Performance-based Road Management and Maintenance Contracts. A relatively large pilot
operation to be financed under the project will allow MTPTHU to gain practical experience in the transfer
of responsibility for Road Network Management and Maintenance to private enterprises. Those enterprises
will be held accountable for providing a pre-defined and measurable road service quality levels. In the
longer term, the Govermment may eventually limit itself to the role of a regulatory agency, and will only
monitor the compliance of the private Road Management Companies with the agreed service quality
standards. The introduction of revised concepts and approaches for road network management and
conservation will require various forms of training and institutional strengthening activities. The project
will provide institutional strengthening, mainly to the MTPTHU and the future Road Maintenance Fund,
through training and technical assistance in the following: (i) contract administration, management and
supervision; (ii) management support including the development of model contracts, and the improvement
of procedures for the preparation, evaluation and award of contracts, and (iii) the development of
appropriate management information and accounting systems. In addition, the project will provide
financing for a limited amount of equipment and some office modernization. The project will also provide
training to the private sector, specifically to transport operators, road maintenance contractors, and
members of the Board of Directors of the future Road Maintenance Fund.
(iv) Rural Transport. Regarding rural transport, it was determined that the best way to address this issue
at this stage would be to provide the needed assistance for the formulation of a rural transport strategy.
Given the vastness of the country, the physical and topographic characteristics of rural areas and the basic
- 10-



decentralization policy, this effort will enable the Government to: (i) clarify roles and responsibilities with
decentralized regional and local authorities; (ii) assist communities to develop cost-effective approaches for
the management of their regional and rural access path networks, and emphasize the concept of Rural
Transport instead of rural roads. These approaches will focus on achieving absolute minimum service
levels that respond to the needs and physical conditions of the rural communities, and can be maintained
within their own financial and other means.
(v) Road Safety. Given the dearth of road accident data and institutional capacity in this domain, it was
determined that a Road Safety component of the project should concentrate on setting up a basic
institutional capacity and data bank on road safety, and finance various smaller pilot initiatives. These
would focus on developing better information upon which future planning can take place, and strengthening
the units responsible for monitoring road safety in Chad.
(vi) HIV/AIDS. The design of the HIV/AIDS component of the project was based on the recognition that
a joint approach of the Health and Transport sectors are needed to achieve results. As a result, a five-year
program of activities was developed by the staff of Chad's National AIDS Program (PNLS - Programme
National de Lutte contre le SIDA) with input and support from the transport sector, in particular the
National Trucker's Union (Syndicat National des Chauffeurs Tchadiens - SNCT) who will participate in
the implementation of the program. The program is aimed at certain segments of the population which
frequently travel along major road corridors, such as truckers, migrants, traveling traders and prostitutes.
It should both raise awareness of the AIDS problem and provide means and methods to both protect the
target groups and avoid the spread of the disease. The program will be financed by various donors;
PAProNaT will contribute US$ 500,000, which corresponds to roughly 25 percent of the program's total
cost.
(vii) Air Transport. The improvement of air transport situation in Chad involves a certain number of
measures in the following fields:
Civil Aviation Law and Regulations
A revision of the current Civil Aviation Laws and subsequent regulations is needed to fulfill two objectives,
given the development and dynamic changes the sector is facing worldwide: a) to have a modern legislation
and b) to allow a continuous updating process. The consequence of the current deficient legal framework is
twofold. It prevents the implementation of basic civil aviation technical requirements, which in turn,
hinders the region's air transport sector from keeping pace with the rest of the world.
Civil Aviation Authorities ' Strengthening
Due to the current structure and institutional arrangements, the civil aviation authorities are typically the
weakest link in the subsector. There are not enough human, technical or financial resources for them to
perform their duties adequately. To improve the regional civil aviation, the civil aviation authorities have
to be strengthened by providing them with the necessary tools (i.e. administrative and financial autonomy,
training, etc.) in order to enforce the regulations.
Safety Oversight
Safety oversight is the responsibility for each State to ensure an effective implementation of safety
regulations. Safety is essentially performing a series of controls and procedures designed to avoid aircraft
mishaps and thereby preventing the tragic loss of human life. Actions are needed, particular in the
following areas: a) primary aviation legislation and regulations, b) institutional structure, qualified
personnel and financial resources, and c) certification and supervision of commercial transport operators.
- 11 -



Security
To address adequately security issues, significant preventative measures must be implemented to reduce
airport vulnerabilities, such as the ability to control the access to restricted areas; and to detect explosives,
weapons, drugs, etc.
General safety investment for airports and air navigation services (ANS) and cost recovery
Traffic liberalization and resulting improvements in cost efficiency are only viable in combination with
enhanced safety, improved institutional capacity and oversight. Cost recovery is an important part of
interactions between airlines, infrastructure and institutions.
The financing of some of the measures described above might be eventually provided by a part of the funds
assigned to the Institutional Support project component.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
ff~ ~ ~~~~Sco t. -of    cin  Ba k-
1. Road Investment                                   60.90       66.8     44.26       66.1
2. Road Maintenance                                   19.57      21.5      14.24      21.3
3. Road Safety                                         2.04       2.2       1.50       2.2
4. Rural Transport Strategy                            1.24        1.4      1.00       1.5
5. Institutional Support                               6.27       6.9       5.00       7.5
6. HIV/AIDS and Transport                              0.61        0.7      0.50       0.7
Refunding of PPF                                       0.50       0.5       0.50       0.7
Total Project Costs                   91.13      100.0    67.00      100.0
Total Financing Required                   91.13      100.0    67.00       100.0
Note: Indicative costs include all taxes, duties and contingencies.
The project will be an integral part of the Government's National Transport Program, in particular for the
first phase of that program (2000-2005). This first phase (of what is essentially a sector expenditure
progran) foresees total expenditures of US$ 458.3 million (excluding taxes). The Bank financing of
US$67 million represents approximately 15 percent of the cost of the entire program.
- 12 -



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The reform of Road Network Management and Maintenance, and of Road Maintenance Financing, will be
the principal institutional and policy reform sought through the project. Decisions on the basic principles
to be applied for this reform have already been made by the Government. Much attention has been paid to
ensuring that these principles conform to the macroeconomic concepts applied in Chad and elsewhere, but
avoiding at the same time the lack of reliability of budget financing of road maintenance. A particular
feature is that the new funding mechanism will be functioning outside the Treasury and the Ministry of
Finance, and that the level of the road user fees will be determined by a specific law/decree; it will not be
part of the annual budget discussions. As noted earlier, the annual user fee amounts for the Road
Maintenance Fund would still appear in the Government's Tableau d'Operations Financiers.
In a broader context and as mentioned before, the project will finance the definition of an overall policy for
rural transport.
3. Benefits and target population:
The main benefits from the National Transport Program (of which PAProNaT is an integral part) will be:
(a) poverty reduction, as a result of substantial improvements of access by the rural population at large to
markets and services (social and administrative), in particular in termns of reliability of that access and also
its cost;
(b) elimination of constraints to the development of agriculture, industry and commerce and the
effectiveness of social services, which are until today restricted by a road network that is not passable for
several months of the year;
(c) better food security and thus reduced vulnerability of rural people who today are periodically threatened
by famines, in particular women and children;
(d) improved access to all main regions of the country, thus enabling the implementation of various types of
poverty reduction programs and of sector programs in rural development, agriculture, health and education,
all of which require reliable transport services and all-year access to the project-areas;
(e) better political and administrative integration of the country, and the creation of an enabling
environment for decentralization;
(f) a more efficient system of road network management and maintenance, resulting in increased
cost-effectiveness; and
(g) transfer of risk management from the public to the private sector, in particular for road maintenance
planning and possible cost overruns.
Target population:
(a) The rural population at large living in the wider zone of influence of the National Road Network,
through better access and lower transport costs;
(b) Women and children, who are particularly threatened by famines occurring regularly in Chad, through
improved food security;
(c) The urban population at large, through more reliable supply of food produced in different rural areas,
and smaller price fluctuations during the rainy season owing to blocked roads;
(d) Road users, through improved road conditions and reduced vehicle operating costs.
- 13 -



4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Project implementation period:
Project implementation would run from January 2001 through to January 2006. extend to the fourth
quarter of 2005. The 5-year project period would provide some safety margin for the execution of the
4-year pilot project of Performance-based Road Network Management and Maintenance Contracts.
Executing Agencies, Project Coordination and Oversight:
The executing agency for all project components (except the HIV/AIDS component) will be the Ministry of
Public Works, Transport, Housing and Urban Development. The HIV/AIDS component will be executed
by the Ministry of Economic Promotion and Development. The MTPTHU will receive substantial support
from the Project Coordination Unit Cellule de Suivi et Coordination des Projets (CISCP). The CISCP has
since 1990 been the Project Coordination Unit for almost all donor-financed projects in the transport sector,
including the Bank-financed PASET and PST2 projects.  It has in place well-established project
management and accounting procedures acceptable to the Bank. It is adequately staffed and has a good
track record; major implementation problems are therefore not expected. As has been an established
practice in past and ongoing projects, the CISCP will coordinate the activities of various departments of
MTPTHU who are involved in the practical implementation of different project components:
(i) The Roads Directorate (DR - Direction des Routes) will be in charge of the Road Investment
Component (paving and rehabilitation) and, through the Road Maintenance Unit, the Pilot Road
Management and Maintenance Component.
(ii) The Directorate of Surface Transport (DTS - Direction des Transports de Surface) will coordinate
activities related to the Road Safety component, in cooperation with the National Police. Additionally,
because of its staff in all provinces of Chad, DTS will be responsible for collection and monitoring of
project impact data, in coordination with the Directorate of Studies and Planning (DEP). The DTS will
further monitor the project-sponsored activities related to the fight against AIDS/HIV.
(iii) The Planning Directorate (DEP - Direction des Etudes et de la Planification) will coordinate the
Rural Transport Strategy Component and will also be in charge of coordinating certain consultant studies.
The CISCP will maintain the project accounts and a general control and oversight over all project
activities. This arrangement has been functioning successfully for at least 8 years now and will be
continued.
Accounting, Financial Reporting and Auditing Arrangements:
Project accounts and the compliance with the project implementation manual will be audited annually
according to generally accepted auditing standards by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA. A
consolidated annual financial audit report will be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of each
financial year. In addition, the accounts of the Road Maintenance Fund will be audited every three months,
also by an independent auditor, and the results submitted to the Bank and other Donors who are interested
to follow up on this important issue. In addition to the financial audits, technical audits of the project will
also be carried out three times a year by a qualified specialist acceptable to the Bank, and the technical
- 14 -



auditor's report will be submitted to the Bank not later than 2 weeks after the completion of each technical
audit mission. The process to select the technical and financial auditors is underway and must be
completed as a condition for effectiveness.
A Project Implementation and Procedures Manual will be prepared. That completion of that manual will
be a condition of effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement. A specialized consultant was
selected for this task in August 2000.
Following the practice established during the PST2, the Borrower will prepare semi-annual financial
reports, which will normally coincide with the Bank's supervision missions.
At present, the Borrower is unable to produce reports integrating financial, procurement and project
indicators. It has been agreed between the Bank and the Borrower that this type of integrated reporting, as
required under the Bank's Financial Management Initiative, will be in place by June 30, 2002.
Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements:
(i) Similar to the practice established during the PST2, semi-annual progress reports will be established by
CISCP on the basis of the project implementation plan that will be developed during project appraisal.
(ii) Supervision missions by Bank staff will take place at least twice a year and a project review will be
held at mid-term.
(iii) Concerning the performance indicators, the project will finance baseline and monitoring studies to
assess the impacts of the National Transport Program, of which the project will be an integral part. The
monitoring will verify if program and project objectives are being achieved. In particular, advances
towards the goal of reliable transport at a lower cost will be evaluated through regular (three to four times
every year) data collection and evaluation of both market rates for goods and passenger transport, and of
market prices for selected goods in both rural and urban markets. Of interest are absolute price levels and
the fluctuation of prices between dry and rainy seasons.
(iv) a ICR will be prepared after project closing and presented within six months thereafter.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The Chad Poverty Assessment of 1997/1998 clearly states that the single most important constraint to
poverty alleviation is the lack of reliable transport and access to markets and services. Transport in Chad,
however, can essentially be divided in two sub-sectors. First, there is Rural Transport and Travel, which
employs mostly non-motorized means of transport and takes place mostly on a very extensive network
(some 30.000 km have been estimated) of simple paths linking villages together and providing access to and
from the main road network. Second, there is long-distance motorized transport on the main roads linking
Chad's provincial capitals among each other and with the national capital N'Djamena.
The project alternatives considered by the Government and the Bank team related to the relative emphasis
to be given to either Rural Travel and Transport on the one hand, and to the motorized long-distance
transport on the Main Road Network. In order to reach a decision, numerous participatory consultations
were held in Chad during 1998 and 1999 (see section E.7 on the "Participatory Process" below). Those
consultations clearly showed that: (i) even with very substantial donor support, the Government simply
does and will not have the financial and human resources to provide both nationwide support for Rural
- 15 -



Travel and Transport, and at the same time a reliable National Road Network; and (ii) if a choice has to be
made, an overwhelming majority of people consulted clearly stated that the Government must give
preference to the provision of a minimal, but reliable National backbone road network useable throughout
the year. The latter conclusion translated into the main objective of the National Transport Strategy and
the National Transport Program, of which the PAProNaT is an integral part.
However, given the importance of rural transport concerns, it was further determined that the project must
provide support to the formulation of a rural transport strategy. This will be done in coordination with the
regional Rural Travel and Transport (RTTP) program sponsored by the Bank and other donors.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                      Project                 (PSR) Ratings
.___ ____ ___ ____ _   :_ _:_ _L__ (Bank-financed  projects only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                   Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Agriculture                       AG Services                       S             S
Agriculture                       Rural Development Pilot
Education                         Basic Education                   S             S
Macroecono. (Multisector)         SAC I, II, III                    S             S
Popultn Health & Nutr.            Health & Safe motherhood          S             S
Popultn Health & Nutr.            Health Sector Project
Transportation                    Transport Sector II (PST2)        S             S
Transportation                    PASET                             S             S
Other development agencies
Transportation                    Paving of the road
Guelendeng-Bongor-Ere
(KFW)
Transportation                    Paving of the road Ere-Kelo
(EU)
Transportation                    Paving of the road
Djermana-Mssaguet (BAD)
Transportation                    Paving of the road Kelo -
Moundou (EU)
Transportation                    Paving of the road
Moundou-Bolarobou (EU)
Transportation                    Rehabiltation of the road
Binder-Lere (KFW)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
- 16 -



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
(i) The design of this project has benefited from lessons learned in numerous projects worldwide. General
issues related to this project, where experience gained elsewhere has helped in project definition and
planning, are (i) the participatory approach used in project definition, (ii) the definition of suitable
monitoring indicators for overall project success, (iii) the relationship which exists between poverty
reduction and basic access of rural populations to markets and services (social and administrative), (iv) the
particular risks of spreading AIDS/HIV along major transport and travel corridors, (v) the importance of
introducing a national road safety strategy early on when motorization rates rise. Those lessons have been
condensed into best practice by the Bank's Transport and other Networks.
(ii) In particular, the reform of Road Network Management and Conservation as envisaged in Chad clearly
takes into account best practice lessons:
*   The replacement of the existing First-Generation financing mechanism for road maintenance by a new
Second-Generation Road Maintenance Fund is regarded as a fundamental precondition for introducing
more efficiency into the management and maintenance of the national road network in the future.
Among the birth defects of the previous funding mechanism was the lack of continued coordination
with the IMF, the incorporation of resources which were non-permanent by nature, and the fact that the
old Road Maintenance Fund (CAER) essentially financed Government expenditures, thus violating
macroeconomic and fiscal principles. The design of the new, second-generation road maintenance fund
for Chad has to a large degree remedied these weaknesses.
*   With support from the project, performance-based Road Network Management and Maintenance
contracts will be introduced in Chad. They will gradually replace the traditional maintenance planning
and contracting procedures, under which contractors are paid by the amount of physical work carried
out, and thus have a vested interest in large and lumpy contracts. There is however little or no
incentive for ensuring that roads are overall in a good condition. This generates a vicious circle of
heavy rehabilitation followed by long periods of neglect and thus rapid destruction, accelerated by
overloading of vehicles. The performance-based road maintenance contracts to be introduced in Chad
through the project are expected to reverse this vicious circle, because the contractors will be paid not
for the physical works executed, but will receive a fixed monthly payment if the roads are in a good
condition as defined in the contract. Contractors will thus have strong incentives to optimize the
life-cycle cost of the roads. Given the substantial presence of private road maintenance firms in Chad,
and the accumulated experience in subcontracting road maintenance, it is considered to be the right
moment to advance now towards performance-based road management and maintenance contracts.
-   Past interventions in the road sector focused on the construction/rehabilitation of individual road
sections without sufficiently taking into account regional aspects and the impact on other sectors.
Moreover, no consistent system of criteria to determine the scale and priority of the projects had been
applied. The network approach, which is now applied under the National Transport Program, will
ensure that there is a better focus on poverty objectives, since multi-sector benefits will be optimized.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
(i) The project is fully consistent with the new National Transport Sector Strategy developed by the
Government with technical and financial support from the Bank. The project is an integral part of the
National Transport Program, which will implement the new strategy. Since the Transport Strategy and the
National Transport Program have been developed by the Government using a broad participatory
approach, support and ownership of the project by all stakeholders can be expected.
(ii) The Government has already initiated concrete activities leading towards the practical implementation
of the major reforms which formn part of the National Transport Strategy. In particular, a formal
- 17 -



agreement with the Bank, the IMF and other donors has been reached concerning the introduction of Road
Maintenance Funding resources in the fuel price, and of the Second-Generation Road Maintenance Fund.
The new Road Fund Law was formally adopted by Parliament in August 2000. The crucial problem of
road maintenance financing has also received the attention of the highest authorities in Chad, including the
Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, and the Government has actively souglt the Bank's advice and
assistance in finding a sustainable solution for this issue.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Continued Bank support to the sector will (i) catalyze a large amount of external investment resources by
other donors for the sector; other donors clearly count on the Bank to provide the policy support to the
Government; and to monitor sector performance and performance indicators; (ii) assist the restructuring
and commercialization of the road sector by advising the Government on creating an appropriate
environment to attract the private sector to become engaged on a long term basis; (iii) provide a powerful
lead for the entire donor community to follow a coherent sector approach when deciding on new sector
investments; and (iv) improve the country's growth and poverty-reduction prospects by providing needed
infrastructure. Furthermore, the financing by the Bank of the performance-based road maintenance
contracts will reassure potential bidders with respect to the payment and other risks that they would
otherwise not be prepared to take under the present circumstances. Finally, the development of the rural
transport strategy will profit from the extensive regional experience accumulated through the RTTP.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$13.3 million; ERR = 16 % (see Annex 4)
o Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
(i) Background. The National Transport Program 2000-2004 has been formulated based on a 10-year
National Transport Strategy which covers the period until 2009. It includes a sector investment and
expenditure program which identifies priority investments, mainly in the road sector, and was developed
based on a multi-criteria screening methodology. The National Transport Strategy provides the framework
for the definition of a National Road Network of a total of 6.200 km, divided into a backbone all-season
network of some 2,600 km and dry-season-only roads totaling some 3,600 km. The main objective of the
National Transport Program is to assure the year-round passability of the backbone all-season network,
placing the investment emphasis on the most critical sections and weakest links, which are those which
today are interrupted during several months every year. It is clear that these links are not necessarily the
ones that provide the highest economic rate of return according to traditional evaluation methods; yet it is
also clear that without investments in those links the overall functioning of the backbone network will be
impossible during much of the year. The traditional approach in the economic analysis of road investments
focuses on individual road links, and uses saving in vehicle operating costs as the main benefit. In some
cases, and certainly in the case of Chad, this approach cannot reflect the true economic and social value of
improvements of low volume roads serving sparse populations. In conformity with the Bank's role of
lender of last resort, the project will finance investments in those road sections which are critical for the
overall functioning of the backbone road network, and for which other sources of financing have not been
identified.
(ii) Methodology. Within this context, an economic evaluation was carried out for those elements of the
investment program to be financed under PAProNaT, in particular for the paving of one road section, the
-18-



rehabilitation and strengthening of existing paved roads and the pilot maintenance program for unpaved
roads. The economic analysis of the rehabilitation program was done using the World Bank Highway
Design and Maintenance Standards Model (HDM-IIl), while the economic evaluation of the paving and
pilot maintenance program was done using the Roads Economic Decision Model (RED) developed by the
Bank under the Road Management Initiative (RMI) of the Sub-Saharan Africa Transport Program. The
RED is customized for the economic evaluation of low-volume roads by estimating the benefits of ensuring
all-year-round passability and providing the option of defining the level of service of unpaved roads, in
terms of both roughness and vehicle speeds. Both models (HDM-I11 and RED) were used to perform a
life-cycle economic evaluation of project alternatives, estimating the present value of the net project
benefits with relation to the without-project alternative. For this project, a 15 year evaluation period and a
12 percent discount rate were adopted; the net project benefits are the reduction of transport costs in terms
of road agency costs, vehicle operating costs and time costs. The HDM-III and RED models estimate the
road user costs in an identical fashion, as a function of the road condition and vehicle fleet characteristics.
(iii) Results. The economic evaluation of the "package" of Bank-supported components of the National
Transport Program showed an overall project net present value (NPV) of US$ 13.3 million at a 12 percent
discount rate, and an economic internal rate of return (IRR) of 16 percent.
Within that overall "package", the paving of the road between Ngoura and Bokoro deserves specific
comments. Here, the IRR was calculated at 11. percent and the NPV at US$ -2 million, at the 12 percent
discount rate. This result may however be considered conservative, because the RED model considers only
certain additional road user costs during the rainy season; it does however not consider the costs, and social
consequences, associated with the total impassability of the road which occurs every year during the rainy
season. In addition, the Bank team also updated an earlier economic analysis for the Ngoura-Bokoro road
section, based on extrapolated data from the adjacent Bokoro-Mongo road section. That analysis took into
consideration the aspect of food security. In this sense, there is a special importance of access provided
over these roads for serving the food deficit region of Chari-Baguirmi, and for providing a permanent link
between N'Djamena and the high-potential food-producing region of Salamat. Using an elasticity of 1.5
for the generated traffic, this analysis shows an NPV of US$ 10 million at a 12 percent discount rate, and
an IRR of 16 percent.
The economic evaluation of the road rehabilitation/strengthening program resulted in a NPV of US$ 8.4
million with an internal rate of return (IRR) of 20 percent. All individual road sections included in this
program yielded an IRR greater than 17 percent.
The economic evaluation of the pilot maintenance program for unpaved roads showed a NPV of US$ 6.9
million with an IRR of 22 percent. The roads sections with the highest benefits are Bokoro -Bitkine and
the Bitkine - Mongo (IRR's of 38 percent and 21 percent respectively), which have higher traffic and are
today in worst condition. The other road sections yielded an IRR of 10 percent, which indicates that in
order to be economically justified, these roads should receive somewhat lower maintenance expenditures
than the assumed US$ 5,000 per km and year; the analysis of switching values indicates that these road
sections should receive in the order of US$ 4,600 per km and year to yield an IRR of 12 percent.
In conclusion, the proposed program is economically justified, although there are some road sections which
show marginal results when traditional evaluation methods are used, which take into consiceration
exclusively VOC-related benefits. In addition, as explained earlier, in the case of the road paving
subcomponent it is clear that the analysis understates the total VOC-related savings and a separate study
shows that by including food security and potential value-added benefits, the IRR will exceed the usual
threshold value of 12 percent. With respect to the road maintenance component, the rate of return for some
- 19 -



road sections is marginally below the 12 percent threshold; this result may in fact be used to somewhat
lower the level of expenditures on those sections, thus calibrating the programming of work with service
levels which are economically justified. Finally, as noted earlier in this document, it is important to view
the Bank's contribution within the context of the entire sector investment program, which aims to establish
a logical and continuous backbone national road network. Although some irdividual links may by
themselves not have a very high rate of return, the proposed program is justified as contributing to
poverty-targeted National Transport Program which has been defined based on a set of nationally accepted
socio-economic criteria.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=USS million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Fiscal Impact:
(i) The National Transport Program.  Chad's indicative Ten-Year National Transport Program
(2000-2009) identifies investments and expenditures of FCFA 473.5 billion, or US$ 720 million (excluding
taxes). For the first tranche (2000-2004), the total new investment in the National Road Network is
estimated at US$ 318.4 million, of which only 5 percent (US$ 15.9 million) will be contributed by the
Government in the form of counterpart funds, while the remaining 95 percent will be financed through
donors. Road maintenance expenditures for the same period are expected to be US$ 59.0 million, of which
roughly 75 percent will be raised locally through road user fees outside the regular Government budget
(roughly US$ 44 million, equivalent US$ 8.8 million per year). Annual expenditures for institutional
strengthening in the transport sector, and current operating costs of transport sector institutions are
estimated at US$ 2.6 million and US$ 2.4 million, respectively, during the first tranche period. It is
estimated only some 35 percent of these latter amounts are financed by the Government; most of the
resources necessary will be provided by donors in various forms.
(ii) Sustainable Road Maintenance Financing. The main financial issue of the transport sector involves
the ability of the Govenunent to achieve a self-sustaining level of funding for road maintenance. This is
crucial to the National Transport Strategy, and it is a pre-requisite for the substantial donor support during
the years to come. Discussions held since 1998 between the Ministry of Finance, the MTPTHU, the Bank
and the IMF have confirmed a broad agreement that maintenance resources will be raised through road user
fees, not taxes, and that these resources will be collected directly by the new Road Maintenance Fund,
without passing through the Treasury. The new Road Maintenance Fund was prepared with Bank support
and should be operational by January 2001.
(iii) User Fee and Fuel Price Structure. The intended Road User Fee financing of the Road Maintenance
Fund will require a revised structure for the price of fuel. A simulation model has been developed to
determine the revised fuel price structure. Based on this model and the analysis of annual road
maintenance funding requirements, the amounts of the user fee will calculated as a fixed amount per liter
sold (currently estimated to be in the order of FCFA 100 per liter), which will ensure full funding of
estimated annual road maintenance requirements. As an interim solution, until the beginning of operations
of a local oil refinery in Chad, a mixed revenue structure for the FER has been adopted.
(iv) Overall fiscal impact. Assuming that a self-sustaining road maintenance financing system can be put
in place as planned, the implementation of the National Transport Program should bring about significant
fiscal benefits.  A well functioning Road Maintenance Fund, combined with the introduction of
performance-based road maintenance contracts, should bring about (i) a more efficient utilization of public
- 20 -



and user fee-generated funds, (ii) lower transport costs and, (iii) in the longer term, a much reduced need
for public funds for the rehabilitation of roads which were destroyed because of a lack of timely and
adequate maintenance. As far as rural roads and access paths are concerned, it is expected that regional
and local government expenditures may increase due to decentralization. Here, the development of the
Rural Roads Strategy with financing of PAProNaT and technical support from RTTP should also
introduce concepts and methods that will enhance the efficient utilization of these funds, based on
preventative maintenance, minimum service levels and spot improvement approaches.
3. Technical:
Technical studies for the investment components were initiated early during the project preparation, in part
with financing under the ongoing Second Transport Sector Project. By August 2000, most studies have
been completed. The relevant bidding documents for works are available. Major technical problems are
not expected.
There have been two main challenges on the technical level. The first one has been the preparation of the
bidding document for the performance-based road management and maintenance contract for unpaved
roads. In this area, Bank staff, both technical and procurement, have been heavily involved, and this has
allowed the client to prepare a high-quality document with represents a new and innovative approach. The
second one has been to develop an adequate structural design for all-season roads in Chad, where suitable
roadbuilding materials are often not available. Here, experienced engineers with specific knowledge of the
chadian conditions were hired to propose adequate solutions; in this case the so-called "inverse structure"
was developed and is reflected in the bidding documents. It is noted that under the specific conditions large
parts of Chad, road paving is in fact the least-cost solution, even if the relatively low traffic volumes do at
first sight not justify paving. Past attempts to build and maintain unpaved roads for all-season access in
some parts of Chad have failed quite badly.
In addition, particular attention has been paid to the definition of suitable and economic technical solutions
for the strengthening of existing paved roads in Chad; these solutions should extend the useful pavement
life by at least six to seven years, while maintaining the average cost per kilometer at about FCFA 25
million (equivalent to US$ 40,000).
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies:
The Ministry of Public Works, Transport, Housing and Urban Development (MTPTHU) will have the
overall responsibility for project coordination and financial management, with substantial support from the
specialized Project Coordination Unit CISCP - Cellule Interministerielle de Suivi et de Coordination des
Projets dans le Secteur des Transports (CISCP). This unit was created in 1989 and has successfully
managed not only the ongoing Second Transport Sector Project financed by the Bank, but also the previous
PASET project and several other projects financed by other donors. The technical management of some
project components or activities will be delegated by CISCP to two Directorates within the Ministry, in
particular to (i) the Roads Directorate (DR) for the technical execution of the road investment and
maintenance components, and to (ii) the Directorate for Surface Transport (DTS) for the implementation of
the Traffic Safety Component. DTS will in turn cooperate with the traffic police in matters of road safety.
CISCP will maintain financial accounts for the entire project.
- 21 -



The Ministry of Economic Promotion and Development will execute the AIDS/HIV component of the
project.
In spite of not being an executing agency for the PAProNaT, the new Road Maintenance Fund which has
recently been created will receive special attention and technical support through the project, because of its
very important role in the overall institutional setup of the transport sector. Once the FER will be fully
operational, which is expected to be the case in January 2000), it will be a small unit under the umbrella of
the MTPTH-U whose role will be to collect and administer the resources paid by road users. It will delegate
the technical administration and supervision of road management and maintenance contracts to the Roads
Directorate of MTPTHU.  However, the Road Maintenance Fund will exercise technical audit
responsibilities prior to payment for works or maintenance services certified by the Roads Department.
The law creating the Road Maintenance Fund has been adopted by Parliament in August 2000 and the
by-laws were adopted in September 2000.
The support to be provided by PAProNaT to the Road Maintenance Fund will be. in the area of institutional
capacity-building. This will include a combination of long and short term technical assistance to enable it
to fulfill its twin mandate of (i) manager of public financial resources, accountable to the Government and
the Public, and of (ii) technical auditor of road maintenance expenditures. Technical assistance to be
provided is expected to include a Road Maintenance Program Manager, who will initially work full time
with the Agency in establishing the funds management and technical audit systems. This expert will be
complemented by short term specialists, to be recruited on an as-needed basis, as well as accounting and
financial auditing assistance from an international auditing firm. Following the first two years, the Senior
Road Maintenance Program Manager will carry out periodic short term support missions, with continued
short term assistance as required.
b. Project management:
In general, the MTPTHIIU and in particular the CISCP have demonstrated in practice their financial and
project management capacity, on the occasion of the ongoing Second Transport Sector Project and several
other projects. In comparison with other Government Ministries in Chad, it is relatively well equipped and
has competent staff which have been on their job for several years. Under the proposed project, additional
institutional strengthening will take place, including (i) training of new and younger staff, (ii) purchase of
office equipment and vehicles, and (iii) studies and technical assistance of various types, such as
procurement and contract management, and financial management. Based on the capacity assessment
carried out during the pre-appraisal mission in January 2000, an action plan was agreed to address areas
where the existing structures still need to be strengthened to meet performance criteria for PMR-based
disbursement. The action plan - see capacity assessment in annex 6 - includes: (a) in the area of financial
management: (i) the issuance of a Project Implementation and Procedures Manual and the selection of a
financial auditor before credit effectiveness;  (ii) the installation of a management and accounting
computerized system -- including contract management; and (iii) the training of project staff for using the
new procedures; and (b) in the area of procurement and contract management: (i) a procurement planning
and contract management system, integrated into the above-mentioned financial management system; (ii) a
section on procurement in the Project Implementation and Procedures Manual; (iii) the recruitment of firm
to provide technical assistance to the Legal and Procurement Unit of MTPTHU during the first project year
for developing the capacity to assist project components and exercise quality control and mandatory
reviews of all procurement documents; (iv) the selection of a technical auditor before credit effectiveness;
(v) the reorganization of the filing of procurement-related documents; and (vi) procurement training
sessions before credit effectiveness.
In addition, with financing from the PPF an organizational study will be carried out to identify specific
- 22 -



training and strengthening needs during the coming years to meet the work programs of not only the various
Directorates within MTPTHU, but also of the private sector (such as engineering consultants and
contractors) and of certain NGOs (such as training through the Transporters' Unions and the Taxi Owner
Association).
Given the relatively small scope of the HIV/AIDS component, and considering the proven capabilities of
the Managers of the Programme National de Lutte contre le SIDA in which it will be embedded, it can be
assumed that project management capacity will not be a constraint for the implementation of the HIV/AIDS
component of the project.
5. Social:
As has been explained in section A of the present document, given Chad's internal and external isolation, it
has become very clear that establishing a minimum reliable national road system is a fundamental
pre-requisite for reducing the extreme poverty that plagues a very large share of the population. A
dependable and well-maintained national road network, even if it is relatively small, will open the
possibilities for rural produce to reach beyond local markets, which can act as collecting points for
transport to urban centers and other regions of the country. Moreover, without the most basic national
arteries, agricultural inputs, consumer goods and improved services, such as potable water, health and
educational services cannot efficiently reach the rural poor.
Chad's Poverty Assessment cites a number of cases and studies where the lack of year round access weighs
heavily on prospects for poverty reduction. These cases and studies provide evidence that seasonal lack of
access prevents foodstuffs from reaching markets in the rainy season, or- that inordinately high transport
costs lead to both higher consumer prices and lower producer prices (Chad Poverty Assessment, page 18).
The project will contribute to reducing rural poverty by: (i) safeguarding year-round basic access of the
rural poor to markets and services (social and administrative), (ii) lowering the cost of such access through
the provision of a well-maintained and dependable basic backbone road network linking rural and urban
areas, and different regions among each other; and (iii) reducing the vulnerability of the rural poor,
especially of women and children, by improving food security during droughts and famines.
In order to ensure that the rural poor will indeed benefit from investments in the national road network, the
PAProNat will assist in the development of a National Strategy for Rural Transport. This will be done
through the Bank-supported regional Rural Travel and Transport Program (RTTP), which will initiate a
participatory process on how best to create an enabling environment and utilize external and local resources
for improving rural accessibility. Through this program, local communities and stakeholders will be
assisted in finding ways to improve their access to the national network, under the framework for
decentralized responsibility, and through programs to improve access to non-motorized and intermediate
forms of transport. Additionally, the Bank will also provide support in this area through two new and
separate lending operations, outside the transport sector as such (Rural Infrastructure Project, and Capacity
Building Project in the Doba Region).
Finally, it should be added that removing the critical transport constraint is only a necessary, but not
sufficient condition for improving the social and economic welfare of the population. Such improvements
will also require complementary investments in areas such as health, education and development of the
rural economy. Such interventions form the other elements and priority areas of the recent CAS for Chad.
It is important to state that the National Transport Program, and in consequence also the PAProNaT have
been defined in close coordination between all key sectors, including the social sectors, and that the
achievement of objectives in the social sectors is closely linked to the implementation of the National
-23 -



Transport Program.
6. Environmental assessment:            Environment Category: B (Partial Assessment)
Overview
Since the purpose of PAProNaT is to provide support to the National Transport Program, the
environmental impact assessment was carried out in three parts: first, a broad, programmatic type
assessment was made for the National Transport Program; the second part focused on two sub-components
of PAProNaT (Road Upgrading and Paving and Performance-Based Road Management and Maintenance
for Unpaved Roads); and the third involved the Paving of the Ngoura-Bokoro Road, of which the
PAProNaT will finance a section.
The first part was an update of the original environmental study carried out in the context of the National
Transport Sector Strategy. It provides an overview of the major impacts expected in the road and air
transport sectors and recommends a set of generic mitigation and enhancement measures, as well as
institutional strengthening. As such, it serves as a guidepost for environmental assessments which are to be
carried out for future individual investments (mostly financed by other donors as part of other projects),
and a checklist-type tool for the Ministry of Transport to evaluate the ensuing EA's.
The second and third parts focus on the actual investments to be financed through PAProNaT, and provide
more site-specific recommendations for mitigation. They include a specific Environmental Management
Plan for the physical works to be financed under the PAProNaT. The major issues and mitigation
measures described below relate to the latter two parts, while institutional arrangements are drawn from the
first part.
Major issues:
The major types of investments to financed under PAProNaT are:
*   Strengthening of existing bituminous pavements through pavement sealing or overlay, without
widening the road or changing road alignments (up to a max. of 284 km)
*  Maintaining existing unpaved gravel and earth roads, without changing road alignments (443 km)
*   Upgrading an existing unpaved road to paved standard (104 km)
All the above investments involve rehabilitation, maintenance and improvements to existing roads. The
planned works do not call for any change in alignments, although there will be an increase in the
embankments along certain sections, as a result of topographic and drainage conditions. The roads to be
improved are located in the Sahelien zone, with rainfall between 350 and 400 mm. The population is
sparsely dispersed, with density varying from 4 to 20 persons/sqkm. The environmental impact assessment
identifies potential negative and positive impacts, which may occur during the construction and operations
(post-construction) phases, categorized by natural and human milieu.
During the construction phase, the potential negative impacts are considered to be relatively minor and
mostly temporary. They relate to:
*  Construction camps, potentially responsible for soil erosion and vegetation loss from uncontrolled
clearings, subsurface pollution from human waste and construction materials (such as bitumen),
- 24 -



increased risk of socially transmitted diseases; potential accidents; wildlife loss from hunting and
temporary noise and air pollution from construction machines.
*   Borrow areas, which can potentially bring about soil erosion and changes in the local hydrological
regime; loss of vegetation cover; wildlife disturbance and potential accidents.
*   Construction sites, which can bring about similar effects on soil, water, vegetation and air resources
along the right of way, as well as risks of socially transmitted diseases and accidents.
No major cultural resources were identified as being endangered by the proposed road improvements. No
findings of archaeological artifacts have been reported in the area of the project roads, and the likelihood of
findings is estimated to be low. Studies have shown that road improvements, although facilitating access
and reducing travel time for existing communities, would not result in increased colonization pressures in
remote areas, under the specific conditions of the project's areas of influence.
Potential positive impacts identified during the construction phase include increased commercial activity
and employment creation.
During the operations phase, the main potential negative impacts include:
*   Disturbance of the hydrological regimes and erosion from poorly designed embankments.
* Erosion, loss of vegetation and health concerns from non-rehabilitated borrow areas.
*   Potential pollutants in the air and from runoff, as a result of increased traffic levels.
*   Potential accidents resulting from increased traffic levels and speed.
*   Potential increases in socially-transmitted diseases due to increased communications.
Numerous potential positive impacts were identified in the human milieu, including:
*   Increased opportunity for commercial activities and potential employment due to year round access.
*   Reduction in the cost of transport, and less fluctuations during the year in the prices of basic consumer
goods.
X   Improved access to agricultural inputs and marketing services.
X   Improved access to health, education and administrative services.
Mitigation
Four types of mitigation measures are specified:
*   Participatory processes.  This will include first, the announcement of the availability of the
environmental impact assessment for public comment, both in N'Djamena and in the local
administrative units concerned. Second, public consultation will be conducted in the populated areas
through which the roads pass.
*   Environmental clauses in construction contracts. Most of the potential impacts identified can be
mitigated through the incorporation of clauses related to "good engineering practice," as well as some
specific environmental concerns. These will be incorporated systematically into all bidding documents
and form part of the contractual obligation of the contractors.
*   Environmental and social safeguards in design. These will involve road design measures related to
such concerns as road safety, special parking areas and cattle crossings, which may arise from the
public consultations.
*   Other measures, such as anti-AIDS campaigns and potential resettlement. The HIV/AIDS
component of PAProNaT will finance information campaigns along roadways and will provide an
- 25 -



institutional framework to address this issue along the project and other roads. Regarding resettlement,
the Road Paving and Service Level Management and Maintenance studies indicated no requirements
for land expropriation or resettlement, as these works are along existing alignments with sufficient
rights of way. Although the original study and complementary note on the Ngoura-Bokoro Road allude
to potential displacement, the appraisal mission team visited the road in April 2000 and observed that
no resettlement or potential displacement will take place.
Environmental Management Plan
Based on the environmental impact studies, the Government has established (i) a template Environmental
Management Plan (EMP), and (ii) specific Environmental Management Plans for the investments to be
financed under PAProNaT. The PAProNaT Environmental Management Plans will concem the three
infrastructure development components, and will include environmental mitigation and monitoring
measures, as well as institutional responsibilities. This EMP will also constitute a model for all future
transport investments to be implemented through the National Transport Plan. Institutional strengthening
will be financed under the PAProNaT to help MTPTHU to effectively prepare Environmental Management
Plans for future investments and to implement such plans.
Institutional arrangements
The environmental management plan will be implemented through the MTPTHU Environmental Unit. This
unit will coordinate its efforts with the Ministry of Environment and be responsible for ensuring that the
proposed mitigation measures are implemented and monitored. For the major physical works to be
financed under PAProNaT, it will create a Technical Committee which will supervise and monitor the
practical implementation of the Environmental Management Plan. The Technical Committee will include
participation from the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Public Health, as described in the
Environmental Assessment.  Responsibilities will include: (i) monitoring and documentation of all
environmental impact assessments for the National Transport Plan; (ii) ensuring the public participation
processes; (iii) monitoring the incorporation and implementation of environmental clauses and design
considerations; and (iv) coordinating other measures, in conformance with national regulations, Bank
regulations and Safeguard Policies and those of other donors, when necessary. This unit will require
additional training in environmental assessment, management and monitoring. This institutional
strengthening will be included as part of the institutional strengthening component of the project. It is
envisioned that a local NGO will be engaged to carry out facilitation of the local consultations and organize
AIDS awareness campaigns and other complementary mitigation measures.
7. Participatory Approach (key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced or may
influence; if participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable):
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
The project design clearly focuses on poverty-alleviation through facilitating a reliable transport system on
the main road network. This deliberate choice, which may at first sight appear to be contrary to the trend
followed in many other countries, was based on the clear results of numerous and very extensive
participatory consultations in Chad during 1998 and 1999, both in rural and urban areas throughout the
country. Those consultations were carried out on several levels, as shown below.
*  On the Macro level, in the context of (i) the CAS preparation, (ii) the Chad Poverty Study, (iii) the
Country Portfolio Performance Review and (iv) the Survey on the Quality of Supervision of
- 26 -



Bank-financed projects.
*   On the Sector level, in the context of the preparation of the National Transport Sector Strategy and the
National Transport Program.
*   On the Project level, in the context of (i) a participatory project planning workshop (ZOPP), and (ii)
specific consultations in ten villages throughout Chad which were carried out as part of the preparation
of the new Bank-financed Rural Infrastructure Project.
The consultations provided several clear messages, which were taken into account during project design:
*   Village populations are mostly able to access other villages and the main road network, by utilizing the
very extensive network of access paths which have developed over time.  Interruptions occur
sometimes, especially because of accumulations of water during the rainy season, but are usually of a
relatively short nature.
*   Much more serious problems are caused by the regular interruption of the main road network during
and after the rainy season, for periods of several months. Local production cannot be brought to
regional or urban markets, and goods coming from those markets do not reach many of the rural areas,
causing losses and suffering.
* Although overall food production in Chad is generally sufficient, erratic rainfall patterns cause local
famines. Food security is adversely affected by interrupted main roads and the resulting inability to
transport food between food surplus and deficit areas.
* Even with very substantial donor support, the Government clearly does not have the financial and
human resources to provide both nationwide support for Rural Travel and Transport, and a reliable
National Road Network.
*   If a choice has to be made, preference must be given to the provision of a minimal, but reliable
National backbone road network.
The key stakeholders at the consultations and workshops included:
*   Delegations from MTPTHU, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Education,
Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of the Army and Re-Insertion, Ministry of Communications and
Ministry of Public Health
*   Trucker and Forwarder Associations
*  NGO's including SECADEV, L'ACORD, numerous women's groups, and agricultural and livestock
associations
*   Village communities
*   Donors, such as GTZ and Swiss Cooperation
*   Development projects, such as PSAP, PSANG and SODELAC
Further consultations have been carried out to arrive at a consensus on the logical framework for the
national program. The logical framework for PAProNaT reflects the overall logical framework for the
National Transport Program.
b. Other key stakeholders:
Trucker Unions: The Bank and the MTPTHU have discussed on several occasions the issue of Road User
Fees included in the fuel price with the two major associations of transporters. They are supportive of this
solution, since it would involve a more equitable distribution of costs for road maintenance over all road
users, and not mostly through levies on international freight transporters, as is currently the case.
- 27 -



Representatives of the transporters will participate in the Supervision Board of the Road Maintenance
Fund.
Ministry of Finance and Customs Bureau: The Bank and MTPTHU have organized several roundtable
discussions on the issue of the Road Maintenance Fund and the levels of Road User Fees with the Ministry
of Finance and the Customs Bureau, in connection with the revised fuel price structure and the application
of the TVA.
Fuel Distributors: Also participating in the above discussions have been representatives from the
petroleum products industry.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
It is critical for the sustainability of the National Transport Program that the new Road Maintenance Fund
be operated independently from the Government budget and that its revenue base be sufficient to finance at
least the routine maintenance of the national road network. During the Transport Sector Round Table
meeting in 1999, the Government committed itself to that objective. At the same time, the various Donors
present at the Round Table made it clear that they are willing to provide substantial financing for the
transport sector, but only if the Government actually implements the Road Maintenance Fund as proposed,
and that the resources generated are at least sufficient to finance the routine maintenance of the National
Road Network.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Other donors provide funding to National   M          Regular donor coordination.
Transport Program as committed.
Road Maintenance Funding is adequate.      M          Close monitoring of Road Maintenance Fund.
Road Transport Industry has sufficient      N         Continued dialog with transport operators.
incentive to offer better services as a
result of improved road conditions.
Overall political stability and internal and  S
external peace.
From Components to Outputs
Government continues to support reform      N         Policy dialog needs to be maintained.
policy in the road sector.
Contractors are willing to bid for          M         Good information to be provided to potential
perfornance-based road management and                 bidders.
maintenance contracts.
Overall Risk Rating                         M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The creation of the Road Maintenance Fund involves not only the transport sector. Since the Road User
Fees to be collected are considered public funds, the Ministry of Finance has a role to play in the oversight
- 28 -



of the efficient use of those funds. In addition, a continued full agreement is needed between the
Government, the macroeconomic staff of the Bank and the IMF, in order to assure conceptual support to
the FER and the compatibility of the FER with macroeconomic and fiscal policies which are the basis of
cooperation through structural adjustment lending and similar macroeconomic programs. During the
preparation of PAProNaT, very substantial efforts were made to ensure a joint approach on Road
Maintenance Financing, between the Government, the IMF and the Bank's macroeconomic and transport
sector staff. As a result, there is today an agreement among these parties.
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
The proposed conditions of effectiveness are:
* The Project Account has been opened and an initial contribution of CFAF 30,000,000 has been
deposited therein.
* The Project Implementation and Procedures Manual, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Association, has been adopted and transmitted to IDA.
* The technical and financial auditors have been appointed.
* The members of the Management Committee, the Director and the Chief Accountant of the Road
Maintenance Fund have been appointed in conformity with the FER statutes.
* The validity of special procurement regime for MTPTHU/CISCP has been extended for the purpose of
implementing the Project.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
9  Qualifications, experience and performance of staff within MTPTHU and the Ministry of Economic
Promotion and Development, in charge of the implementation of the Proejct, shall be satisfactory to the
Association.
* The FER Director, Chief Accountant and those members of the Management Committee of FER who
are appointed by the Borrower or any of its agencies, shall be appointed in accordance with the
provisions of the law and decrees applicable to FER.
3 FER shall carry out its mandate in compliance with the law and decrees applicable to the FER.
3 CISCP shall maintain a qualified Coordinator, Deputy Coordinator and Chief Accountant.
3 CISCP shall carry out its mandate in accordance with the decree establishing CISCP.
*   Other relevant Govemment Ministries, Agencies and Authorities shall collaborate with MTPTHU and
Ministry of Economic Promotion and Development to ensure the proper implementation of the project.
* The Borrower shall apply the Project Implementation and Procedures Manual.
*   The Borrower shall not amend or waive the Environmental Management Plan or the Project
Implementation and Procedures Manual in a manner which in the opinion of IDA may adversely affect
the implementation of the project.
* Other standard conditions on Special Accounts, Audits, Reporting, Monitoring, etc. as shown in
Schedule 4 of the DCA.
- 29 -



H. Readiness for Implementation
0 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
0 1. b) Not applicable.
* 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
X 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
D 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
El 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Andreas Schliessler               Ma.'t0    1 ssis-Fraissard        Robert Calderisi
Team Leader                       Seor Manager                      Country Director
- 30 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
CHAD: National Transport Program Support Project
IiIparch  or becie             I dicators         Monito0ng   EvaNlufaio      Critcl sjwpI
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicatos:       Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Sector-related CAS Goal:  Sector Indicators:       Sector / Country Reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Infrastructure constraints to 1I.1 Annual GDP growth    CAS reviews, ESW, and    I .Social services (education,
private sector-led growth   exceeds 5%.            studies carried out through  health, extension, et.al.) are
and poverty alleviation  1.2 Poverty Indicators    the project.             improved.
removed.                 improved as compared to                             2. Government remains
1999 CAS base data.                                committed to private sector
development and creates
enabling environment.
Project Development      Outcome I Impact          Project reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:               Indicator:
Project Development Objective: 1.1 10% decrease in  1.1.1 Comparison of market 1 .Other infrastructure
Improved year-round      average rates in real terms  rates at appraisal (PAD)    projects and programs
access to markets and    for goods and passenger    and at end of project.   achieve their goals.
services through a more    transport (measured in price
efficient transport system    per ton- and passenger-km
and better transport     respectively) for transports
services.                between the provincial
capitals in the east of Chad
and N'Djamena between
1999 and end of 2005.
1.2 All-season rideability   1.2.1 Sector reviews and    2.1nfrastructure remains an
for 1800 km of all-year    inspection visits.      integral part of Government'
naticonal road network                             s overall objectives.
achieved by end of 2005.
1.3 At least 55% of      1.3.1 Sector reviews and    3.Enabling environment for
National all-year road   inspection visits.        PPI.
network in good or fair  1.3.2 MTPTHU data.
condition during dry season,
by end of 2005.
- 31 -



Output from each         Output Indicators:       Project reports:         (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
I .Roads are rehabilitated    1.1 Approx. 100 km of    Project Reports:    1.1 Other donors for Third
and upgraded to paved   roads are upgraded to paved PIU progress reports   Transport Sector Program
standard.               standard by end 2004.     WB supervision reports    provide funds as committed.
WB ICR
1.2 Road strengthening                            1.2 Road transport industry
carried out for at least 200                      has sufficient financial
km of paved roads by end                          incentive to offer better
2004.                                             services as a result of
improved road conditions.
2.Roads in the pilot area are 2.1 Road management and                      2. Road maintenance
well-maintained under    maintenance contract                              funding is adequate.
performance-based road    awarded by end of 2001.
management and
maintenance contracts.   2.2 Average travel speed of
a 2-wheel-drive car of 50
km/h at all times, by end of
2005 and thereafter on the
all-season National Road
Network.
3.Road safety improvements 3.1 First awareness
in urban areas.          campaign implemented by
end of 2003.
3.2 Accident Data collection
and monitoring system
implemented by end of
2002.
4. Rural transport       4.1 Rural Transport
improvements are planned   Strategy developed by end
of 2003.
5.Management of roads    5.1 Second-generation Road                        5. Private Sector participates
reformed in a sustainable   Maintenance Fund and Board                     constructively in Road
way-                     fully functional by mid-2001.                     Maintenance Fund Board.
- 32 -



.   Kby Pbiki_ce 
Hierarchy of     _c                               _______on___lylen______
Project Components /     Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:     (from Components to
Sub-components:          component)                                        Outputs)
I .Road Investment       1.1 US$ 60.90 million    PIU progress reports     I .Government continues to
WB supervision reports    support reform policy in the
WB ICR                   road sector.
2.Pilot Program for      2.1 US$ 19.57 million                             2.Contractors are willing to
Performance-Based                                                          bid for performance-based
Maintenance Contracts                                                      road maintenance contracts.
3.Road Safety Component   3.1 US$ 2.04 million
4. Rural Transport Strategy   4.1 US$ 1.24 million
Development
5.Institutional Support  5.1 US$ 6.27 million
6. HIV/AIDS and Transport  6.1 US$ 0.5 million
PPF: US$ 0.5 million
- 33 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
CHAD: National Transport Program Support Project
The project comprises six components, namely (i) Road Investment, (ii) Road Maintenance Pilot Program,
(iii) Road Safety, (iv) Rural Transport Strategy Development, (v) Institutional Support and Capacity
Building, and (vi) HIV/AIDS and Transport. A description of each component is given below.
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$60.90 million
Road Investment
1.1 Rationale and objective
The objective of this component is to support Chad's national road investment program as the "donor of
last resort", by financing the rehabilitation or upgrading of key links in the National Road Network for
which other sources of funding have not been secured.
The Government of Chad has established a National Transport Sector Program (1999-2009) which was
presented to the donor community in November 1999. The Program is based on a transport sector strategy
which emphasizes a network approach; it focuses on consolidating the core National Road Network while
allowing for rural access improvements to be carried out through decentralized authorities and specific
local development programs, mostly outside the transport sector as such.  A multi-criteria and
multi-sectoral screening process was used to identify the core National Road Network totaling 6,200 km
and consisting of some 2,600 km of all-year-round roads and some 3,600 km of dry-season-only roads.
Besides the core National Road Network, there are about 3,000 km of regional roads and in the order of
30,000 km of local access paths.
The National Transport Program will thus focus the limited resources available in the transport sector on
ensuring the a minimal, but reliable National Road Network of a total of 6.200 km. This will include
investments in the upgrading and paving of all-season roads, the protection and strengthening of the
existing paved roads, and expenditures for maintenance of the entire National Road Network. The major
road investments will be financed by various donors and will involve (i) the rehabilitation and paving of the
main east-west and north-south axes, (ii) the rehabilitation of key existing paved roads, and (iii) the
construction or rehabilitation of key bridges and structures. The Program will also support improvements
to the regional roads and local access path networks through local initiatives (see institutional strengthening
and rural transport strategy components below).
Following the donor's roundtable meeting in November 1999, commitments by various donors for the
proposed road investments were confirmed, totaling close to US$ 380 million. In order to ensure the
coherent development of the National Road Network, the Bank will supplement these resources through
PAProNaT with selected investments in the paving and rehabilitation program, especially in those road
sections which are essential but for which other types of financing have not been identified.
1.2 Description
The road investment component has two sub-components, which are (i) road upgrading and paving, and (ii)
- 34 -



strengthening of existing paved roads.
The sub-component Road Upgrading and Paving has a total cost of US$ 32.84 million including taxes. It
will allow to improve the Ngoura-Bokoro road from an unpaved road in poor condition which is blocked
during several months of the year, to a paved all-season road. It is emphasized that this road is a key
section on the main east-west axis of the country, from N'Djamena to Abeche. The sub-component
includes two major activities which are civil works and works supervision.
Civil Works: The Ngoura-Bokoro road is 104 km in length and is located in the Region of Chari Baguirimi.
Works will consist of rebuilding the road along the existing alignment. The height of the road will be raised
to deal with flooding problems which in the past have interrupted traffic for several months every year.
The project will involve earthwork, pavement works and transversal drainage structures of various
dimensions. There are no major crossings along this stretch. The paved section will be 7 meters wide, with
2.5 % lateral slope and shoulders of 1.0 meters. Due to the unavailability of good materials for the road
base, it has been decided to apply the "inverse structure" design concept and to seal the shoulders.
Works Supervision: PAProNaT will finance the contract for the supervision of those works financed under
the project; the cost is estimated to be US$ 2.7 million including taxes.
The sub-component Rehabilitation of existing Paved Roads is estimated to cost US$24 million including
taxes. The specific objective of this sub-component is to extend the useful life of the existing pavements on
the entire length of Chad's paved roads (except urban roads and streets). Most of those roads were paved
some 8 years ago and are still in reasonably good condition, but show increasing signs of aging and
advancing deterioration.
Civil Works: An average investment in the order of US$ 40.000 per km for the strengthening of the
existing pavements is likely to ensure good road conditions for the next 6 to 7 years. The particular road
sections to be included under this sub-component are (i) N'Djamena - Guelendeng (144 km) at a likely cost
of US$ 4.6 million; this section is heavily traveled as it constitutes the only entry and exit to N'Djamema
from the south; (ii) N'Djamena - Djermaya (27 km) at a likely cost of US$ 2.9 million, this section is also
heavily traveled as it constitutes the only entry and exit to N'Djamena from to the north; (iii) Djermaya-
Dandi and ramifications (89 km) at a likely cost of US$ 4.2 million, this section is the continuation of the
N'Djamena - Djermaya road to the north towards the agricultural areas at Lake Chad; and (iv) Walia - N'
Gueli Bridge, including the N'Djamena bypass road (27 km) at a likely cost of US$ 1.3 million, which
connect the northern and southern accesses to N'Djamena with each other.
Works Supervision: PAProNaT will finance consulting services for works supervision at an estimated cost
of US$ 1,35 million including taxes.
1.3 Implementation Arrangements
The technical implementing agency (maitre d'oeuvre) for the Road Investment component will be the
Roads Directorate (DR) of MTPTHU, through its Sub-Directorate of Road Construction (Sous-Direction
des Travaux Neufs). The technical responsibility covers the design, planning and execution of works. All
physical works will be executed through private contractors which will be retained under intemational
bidding procedures according to Bank procurement guidelines.
1.4 Budget
- 35 -



The estimated budget for this component is as follows:
1.1. Paving
Works N'Goura-Bokoro           32.84             23.64
Supervision                     2.7               2.2
1.2. Rehabilitation
Civil Works                    24.01             17.28
Supervision                    1.35               1.14
Total                          60.90             44.26
Project Component 2 - US$19.57 million
Pilot Program for Performance-based Road Management and Maintenance Contract for unpaved
roads
2.1 Objective and rationale
The objective of this component is to test and adapt a new approach for assuring cost-effective road
maintenance on the National Road Network through a service-level approach. The lack of effective routine
maintenance has always been the "Achille's heel" of the road maintenance system in Chad. This is an
activity which requires constant management, and regular, well-timed interventions. The studies carried
out for the definition of the national transport strategy in Chad showed that it would take approximately
US$ 34 million per year to carry out effective routine maintenance on all of the approximately 30,000 + km
of roads in Chad. As this is unrealistic in view of the country's limited resources, it was decided in the
national strategy to concentrate maintenance efforts on a priority core national network of approximately
6,200 km, which is calibrated to an annual overall maintenance budget of approximately US$ 10 - 12
million.
The road maintenance program during the Second Transport Sector Project (PST2) suffered not only from
irregular and almost erratic supply of funds, but also from an outdated approach that does not provide
proper incentives to ensure that roads are useable on a constant basis. This older approach is characterized
by Government programming of specific repair works, the contracting out of those works to contractors,
and the payments to contractors according to the volume of works carried out. This system has had
various undesired consequences. First, programming of maintenance works is based on predictions of what
type of deterioration would likely occur in the future and where. Reality has shown that those predictions
are often wrong, and when works are finally executed, they do not correspond to the true needs at that time.
In spite of works being executed as planned, roads may still be interrupted at places where no works were
foreseen. Second, contractors have the perverse incentive to carry out as much works as possible on the
shortest possible road sections. For them, a pothole developing into a "swamp" is a very good thing,
because they can then carry out significant works and generate more revenue. A bad road is "good
business", while a good road is "bad business". Third, even if the maintenance budget is available and
spent, it may still not mean that the roads are good. The typical situation, in Chad and many other
- 36 -



countries, has been that maintenance means in practice "chasing after" already deteriorated road sections,
and little or no preventative maintenance activities are carried out. As a result, the common perception is
that money is being spent but the results are unsatisfactory.
In view of this situation, the Government and the Bank have embarked on a new approach to carrying out
road maintenance. This new approach is based on the principle that roads should essentially provide
certain levels of service to road users. These service levels can be defined in terms of average speed, riding
comfort and certain physical features of the road. Under the new system, there will be contracts between
the Road Agency and private entrepreneurs, in which the entrepreneur will commit himself to provide those
service levels. In turn, he will be paid a certain fixed monthly amount of money if he complies with the
contract. He will have complete freedom to determine (i) what to do, (ii) how to do, (iii) when to do, and
(iv) where to do the necessary physical interventions in order to provide the agreed level of service. This
type of contract has been used elsewhere, mainly in Latin America, but only for paved roads. In the
context of this project, this concept will be applied to unpaved roads for the first time. It should provide
incentives for contractors to maintain the prescribed service levels in a cost-effective manner and on a
permanent basis as long as the contract is valid, which in this case will be four years.
2.2 Description
The pilot project will be carried out on selected unpaved sections of the National Road Network totaling
441 km. The sections are adjacent to each other and form a continuous stretch on the main east-west road
axis between NDjamena and Abeche: (i) Bokoro-Bitkine - 143 km; (ii) Bitkine-Mongo - 59 kin; (iii)
Mongo-Mangalme - 129 kin; and (iv) Mangalme-Oum Hadjer - 110 km.
Much effort and preparation work has been put into the drafting of the model contract and bidding
documents, both by the Government and the Bank. On the Bank side, both technical specialists and
procurement experts have participated. The contract contains the following basic principles:
The main objective is to attain and maintain prescribed service levels on a well-defined road
network during a specific period of time (in this case 4 years).
* The contractor is responsible for assuring four basic criteria: (i) year-round passability for certain
types of vehicles; (ii) the possibility to travel at a certain average speed; (iii) a certain well-defined
level of user comfort, and (iv) the durability of the road, in terms of assuring the protection of
existing civil works, structures and other assets.
*   During the initial period of the contract the service levels will gradually be increased, in order to
arrive at their final and highest level after roughly 21 months; those levels are then to be
maintained until the end of the contract.
*   Payments to the contractor will be fixed equal monthly amounts during the entire duration of the
contract (a price adjustment formula will however be applied to offset normal cost increases due to
inflation, etc.).
* The contractor will have to provide performance guarantees which are only returned after the
successful completion of the contract.
* Penalties will be applied if service level criteria are not met; and the contract may be canceled
entirely if deficiencies are not remedied after certain maximum periods.
2.3 Implementation Arrangements
The responsibility for the technical preparation and execution of this component will be with the Roads
Directorate, through its Sub-Directorate for Road Maintenance, both part of the MTPTHU. The financial
- 37 -



control will be executed by the Ministry's Project Management Unit CISCP, who will also make all
payments to the contractor, and who will also carry out technical audits of the component. The pilot
contracts will be let through international bidding procedures, in conformance with Bank regulations, and
pre-qualification of bidders will take place. It should be noted that substantial technical assistance as been
used to assist the Government in the initial establishment of the model contract and to ensure that all parties
concerned understand the new concept of service-level maintenance.
2.4 Budget
The budget for this component is based on estimated annual costs over a four-year period (incl. taxes and
contingencies):
2. Pilot Maintenance Program 
Civil Works                       18.18            13.08
Supervision                        1.39             1.15
Total                             19.57            14.23
Project Component 3 - US$ 2.04 million
Road Safety Component
3.1 Objectives
In spite of the rather low motorization rates and road traffic densities in Chad, traffic accidents claim a
large number of lives every year and cause many serious injuries to motorists, passengers, pedestrians and
users of non-motorized means of transport. While there is no detailed and reliable information on the
actual number of traffic accidents and its victims, the seriousness of the Road Safety problem is well
recognized, both in the Government and in the general population. It has therefore been decided to include
a Road Safety Component into the PAProNaT.
The overall objective of this component is to get the Road Safety issue on the National agenda and to
initiate concrete actions aimed at improving Road Safety. Specific goals and activities are:
*   to establish a basic institutional capacity to plan and implement a National Road Safety Program;
through training and technical assistance;
*   to create an increased awareness of road safety issues among the general population and in
particular among certain target groups, through communication and sensitization campaigns for
users, in particular with operator and users of mixed cargo/passenger transport;
*   to make physical improvements to a limited number of known "dangerous spots" mainly in urban
areas.
3.1. 1 Global and Regional Setting
Available statistics show that globally some 500,000 people die, and between 10 and 20 million people are
injured each year in traffic accidents. Seventy percent of these accidents occur in the developed world. In
Africa, road accidents increased by 350 percent between 1968 and 1990, and constitute the second leading
- 38 -



cause of death among people 5 to 44 years of age. In Addis Ababa, children less than 15 years account for
32% of the deaths, while in Abidjan, this rises to 40%.
While industrialized countries have been addressing this problem with significant road safety measures,
road safety is generally not viewed as an urgent problem in Africa; this despite the rise in traffic accidents,
a by-product of urbanization and the rising number of vehicles, all of which are consequences of economic
and social development. Several exceptions include some anglophone countries, such as South Africa,
Kenya, Tanzania and Zimbabwe; and francophone countries such as Benin and Cote d'lvoire, where Road
Safety has become an issue on the national agenda..
3.1.2 Road Safety in Chad
Road safety in Chad is a serious problem. The statistics currently available through the Directorate of
Surface Transport (DTS) and the Police indicate that there is an average of 500 accidents per year. If one
considers that there are only roughly 40,000 registered motor vehicles in Chad, this is indeed an alarning
accident rate. According to the statistics available, N'Djamena alone accounts for 95 percent of the
country's accidents; the statistics may however not reflect many accidents in rural areas, most of which are
simply not registered until now. Within the capital city, 39 percent of the accidents involve bicycles and
motorbikes and account for a roughly a third of all injuries and 12 percent of traffic accident-related
deaths. Infornation on the causes of accidents is sketchy: 8.5 percent indicate excess speed; 5.6 percent
recklessness; 3.8 percent alcohol; and 65 percent indicate unknown causes. The number of reported
accidents in N'Djamena increased by 84 percent between 1991 and 1998. These limited statistics are
sufficient to demonstrate the dramatic growth in traffic accidents and the seriousness of the trend. In
response, the Government has accorded priority in its national transport strategy to establish a longer-term
National Road Safety Strategy and Action Plan. In addition, the Government and the Bank have agreed to
include a Road Safety Component into PAProNaT, which would finance a series of initial activities in that
area.
3.1.3 Institutional Framework
A small Road Safety Unit was established in 1989 in the Ministry of Public Works, Transport, Housing
and Urban Development (MTPTHU), within the Directorate of Surface Transport (DTS-Direction des
Transports de Surface). The DTS includes three units: (i) driving permits; (ii) vehicle inspections; (iii) and
road safety. The tasks of the Road Safety unit are, among others, to collect and process the traffic accident
data received from the Police and Gendarmes. The processing of these data should in principle enable the
Road Safety Unit to ascertain the number of accidents, their causes, locations and types of victims, and
based on this information, propose appropriate prevention measures in terms of improved infrastructure in
danger zones and improved road user information. However, the DTS has been unable to fulfill this
mandate due to inadequate resources, both human, financial and physical. Data collection is not
systematically correctly carried out, due to a lack of coordination among the Police and Gendarmes.
3.2 Description
The sub-Component Road Safety lnfrastructure will focus mainly on the capital N'Djamema. It will
consist of:
*   Installation of road safety signaling along the main urban arteries
* Physical improvements of dangerous street intersections and pedestrian crossings, including the
installation of traffic lights
*   Safety improvements at high priority intersections in N'Djamena
- 39 -



The estimated cost of this sub-component is US$ 1,020,000.
The sub-component Institutional Strengthening is designed to enable the DTS to better carry out its
mandate. In particular, it will provide support in the area of Traffic accident data collection and analysis,
which is essential for any Road Safety program. To a lesser extent, it will provide very basic equipment
for driver training and testing. Particular items to be financed will include:
*   Supply of basic computer equipment for the DTS
*   Supply of basic driver training and testing equipment
*   Procurement and installation of software for managing accident data (such as MAAP, SHERPA or
DATAAC), and training on its use
*   Supply of optimum equipment for the existing Government vehicle inspection centers
*   Provision of limited resources for operations
The estimated cost of this sub-component is US$ 580,000.
The sub-component Communications and Training will include:
*   Road Safety awareness campaigns on public media (radio, television and the press)
*   Production of posters and brochures explaining various facets of road safety
*   Establishment of a Road Safety training program for employees of both public sector agencies
(DTS, Municipality, Police and Gendarme) and driving schools
*   In conjunction with the Ministry of Education, creation of a road safety teaching curriculum for
primary and secondary schools.
The estimated cost of this sub-component is US$ 320,000.
The sub-component Studies and Legislative improvements will finance technical assistance and
participative seminars for the preparation of the National Road Safety Plan which will include (i) overall
quantitative objectives; (ii) an action plan, with both short and long term activities to be implemented
throughout the country; (iii) the institutional setup related to Road Safety and a reorganization plan for the
DTS; (iv) the quantification of resources required for carrying out the plan; and (v) an organizational
framework for collaboration among the various stakeholders in road safety. The sub-component will also
support the review of the existing legislation on Road Safety, in particular Law No. 5 of 1971, so as to
adapt it to the current context, paying particular attention to speed limits, the updating of the classification
of higher traffic roads, the wearing of seat belts, the issue of alcohol and driving, and the wearing of
helmets by motorcyclists. The estimated cost of this component is US$ 120,000.
3.3 Implementation Arrangements
The Road Safety component will be implemented on the technical level by the Directorate of Surface
Transport (DTS) of MTPTHU, who is responsible for the application of the ministry's road safety policies.
DTS will coordinate closely with: (i) the Police, who is responsible for enforcing the traffic regulations; (i)
the municipality of N'Djamena; and (iii) private sector institutions, such as driving schools, the media,
insurance companies and NGO's This integrated and inclusive approach will promote a spirit of
collaboration, so as to enhance the achievement of overall objectives.  In order to establish this
collaborative environment, the DTS will initiate the establishment of a Technical Committee. This
committee would be chaired by DTS and would include initially the Directorate of Roads, the Municipality
of N'Djamena, the Police, the Gendarnes and the Transporters' and Taxidriver Unions. It would
eventually be enlarged to include other stakeholders, such as driving schools, insurers, consumer
associations, as a function of their existence and direct interest in the issue.
- 40 -



With respect to the road safety equipment, the DTS will act as the maitre d'ouvrage dgMgug, in
collaboration with the Technical Committee, for: (i) procurement of the road safety equipment; (ii) safety
improvements to dangerous zones (such as intersections and densely populated areas). construction of the
pilot bicycle paths; and (iii) the road safety awareness campaigns.
All equipment purchases will be made through international competitive bidding. The pilot bicycle paths
will be implemented through the DR, who will act as the maitre d'oeuvre. The selection of the consultants
for the studies and communication activities will be made in accordance with Bank procedures.
3.4 Budget
The budget of the Road Safety component is summarized as follows (incl. taxes and contingencies):
3,1 Road Safety Infrastructure
Civil Works                          0.97            0.70
Supervision                          0.05            0.04
3.2 Institutional Strengthening
Equipment                            0.38            0.27
Operations                           0.20            0.15
3.3 Communication and Training
Communication                        0.14            0.10
Training                             0.18            0.15
3.4 Legislation and Studies          0.12            0.09
Total                                2.04            1.50
Project Component 4 - US$1.24 million
Rural Transport Strategy Development
4.1 Objective
The objective of this component is to provide support to the development of a country program for Rural
Travel and Transport in Chad. The country program should be completed within two years after project
effectiveness. It will seek to contribute to improving rural livelihood in Chad, by facilitating access of the
rural population, which is mostly poor, to markets and to economic and social goods and services (inputs to
rural production, markets, health clinics, government administrative services, schools, food processing
facilities, etc.).
This component will be closely linked to the Bank-supported RTTP - Rural Travel and Transport Program,
which is part of the SSATP - Sub-Saharan Africa Transport Policy Program. On the Bank side, SSATP
- 41 -



staff will provide technical support for the component, in particular through assisting Chad in developing a
National Strategy which will:
* identify a realistic approach as to the size and quality of the network of rural roads, tracks, paths and
footbridges which can be sustained in the country;
* identify the role of Government (national, regional and local), village communities, producers'
associations, etc. in the management and financing of rural roads, tracks, paths and footbridges;
* define ways to improve the planning, financing and maintenance of rural roads, tracks, paths and
footbridges;
* seek to increase the availability of motorized and non-motorized rural transport services for the
movement of people and goods; and
* promote the use of least-cost methods, local resources and small contractors for rural transport
infrastructure works.
Rural areas in Chad are characterized by very low population densities and severe isolation (1.284.000
km2 for roughly 7 million inhabitants). The predominant means of transport for the 80 percent of Chad's
population who live in rural communities are walking and head-loading. Past efforts to improve rural
roads and rural mobility, although well intended, have to a large extent been piece-meal and failed to
comprehensively establish a coherent approach to improve rural transport.
The program will take a policy and strategy approach and will facilitate the dialogue between the various
actors in Chad to improve and decentralize planning, provision and utilization of resources and to enhance
access and the quality and quantity of transport services to people in rural areas. Key stakeholders include
the policymakers, the rural communities, NGO's farmers' organizations, transport and road user
associations, the private sector and donors.
More specifically, the RTTP program will support the development of a national policy and strategy
framework within which rural transport problems can be addressed in a consistent fashion. A dialogue
between the key stakeholders will be encouraged to reach consensus on how best to create the enabling
environment and utilize local and external resources for improving rural accessibility. Studies, workshops,
and mass media will be employed to sensitize the key stakeholders, to enhance the capacity of local
authorities and motivate rural communities to become actively involved in the improvement of their
transport situation. The RTTP will also lend support to on-going and planned in-country initiatives in the
rural transport sub-sector.
4.2 Description
The sub-component Studies will finance several studies outlined below, for which detailed terms of
reference will be prepared. Other studies may be added after a National Workshop on Rural Transport will
have been held. The studies will focus on the country-specific problems and will aim to stimulate
discussion and to generate recommendations for overall strategy. The individual studies envisaged are:
Planning and Local Management of Rural Roads: The study will assess the experience so far and to
determine best practice on how to assist local authorities in preparing maintenance programs and bid
document, selecting contractors and supervising road works.
Local Financing of Rural Roads: The study will assess the capacity of local government and communities
in financing the maintenance of roads.
Private/Community Roads: Many countries have succeeded in successfully motivating groups of private
individuals, property owners (farmers), and neighborhoods to assume ownership of their roads. Ownership
has been provided through legal instruments. This study will provide guidance on how this would best be
done in Chad.
- 42 -



Promotion of IMT in Chad: There are numerous on-going and past efforts in Chad at promoting IMT
usage. What is lacking is a coherent assessment of these efforts to establish best practice. The study will
assess these efforts and will provide guidance as to how the Government can provide the enabling
environment for the implementation of its policy of encouraging IMT usage for village transportation. The
national workshop will provide a first opportunity to bring together the various actors supporting this
effort.
Rural Transport Services: Rural transport is not well organized and operates largely outside the existing
legal framework. The study will assess what type of incentives (positive and negative) are required, in
addition to better infrastructure, to improve provision of rural transport services.
Small Scale and Labor-Based Contractors: This study will be undertaken to analyze and support
Procurement and Contract Management. It will address the specific issues relating to small scale and
labor-based contractors.
The estimated cost of this sub-component is US$ 160,000.
The sub-component Workshops aims at assuring a broad-based participatory approach during the
definition of the country program for Rural Travel and Transport in Chad. The first activity will be to
launch the sub-component during a National Workshop on Rural Travel and Transport. The workshop will
serve to inform the stakeholders of the program objectives and the proposed activities, and to set out a Plan
of Action. The preparation of sharply focused position papers on key aspects of rural transport will
precede the workshop. These aspects include an assessment of the experience in Chad on management of
rural roads, community transport infrastructure, introduction and application of labor-based methods, rural
transport planning, promotion of intermediate means of transport (IMT), and passenger transport services
in rural areas. In addition to the first National workshop, smaller workshops will be held at provincial and
district levels on key aspects of RTT. For example, a workshop will be held for key local councils staff
and other stakeholders at the local level. Workshops will be held with initiatives involved in the promotion
of intermediate means of transport. Initiatives to promote community ownership and cost-sharing of
transport infrastructure will be closely monitored and experience shared in workshops aiming to
disseminate and scale up emerging lessons. The estimated cost of this sub-component is US$ 230,000 .
The sub-component Studv Tours will facilitate the development and implementation of improved policies
and strategies. The RTTP secretariat (see below) may arrange study tours to countries which have
successfully and through innovative approaches addressed specific aspects of the rural transport sector.
Alternatively, the RTTP secretariat could invite resource persons to visit Chad to share their experience.
The estimated cost of this sub-component is US$ 110,000 .
The sub-component Publicitv: Even good ideas have to be marketed. The RTTP will disseminate
information on rural travel and transport related topics, engage local theater groups (animation) to raise
awareness of rural communities, produce stickers, and publish articles in the local press.
The sub-component RTTP Chad Secretariat and Support will support the establishment of that secretariat
within MTPTH7U. It will be managed by an appointed RTTP national coordinator (see implementation
arrangements below). The RTTP secretariat will also be in charge of preparing an overall Program
Document which summarizes results and proposes concrete action for the Government. This document will
present the proposed institutional changes as well as program development efforts. These, in turn, will
provide the basis for the preparation and implementation of the country rural transport program and
projects for which donor-funding will need to be identified. The government will then implement in
accordance with the new strategy such a program which will include those donor-financed projects.
-43 -



4.3 Implementation Arrangements
As outlined above, a RTTP secretariat will be established within MTPTHU. This secretariat will be
responsible for the technical execution of the RTTP component. The RTTP secretariat will be managed by
an appointed RTTP national coordinator, who will be the contact person for all RTTP activities in Chad.
He/she will be seconded by a program assistant who will be responsible for the day-to-day work of the
RTTP secretariat. Since the key RTTP activities will have a considerable interface with stakeholders in the
private sector, e.g. on the issue of private/community roads, IMT and transport services, the program
assistant would preferably be a, consultant from the private sector with previous experience in rual
development and/or non-govermmental work.
4.4 Budget
The budget for this component is summarized as follows (incl. taxes and contingencies):
""FE~~;~
4. Rural Transport
Studies                         0.16
National Workshop               0.05           0.04
Other Workshops                 0.18           0.15
Study Tours                     0.11           0.08
IEC                             0.03           0.02
Consultant                      0.06           0.05
Management PTMR                 0.04           0.03
Transport                       0.06           0.04
Office Equipment                0.03           0.02
Round Table                     0.03           0.03
Pilot Program                   0.49           0.40
Total                           1.24           1.00
Project Component 5 - US$6.27 million
Institutional Support and Capacity-Building
5.1 Objective
The objective of this component is to strengthen the capacity of the MTPTHU and other stakeholders in the
transport sector, both (i) to implement the National Transport Program and (ii) in a more general sense, to
carry out their assigned tasks and functions. Capacity-building activities will be in the form of training and
technical assistance, consulting services and procurement of essential goods.
5.2 Description
The component includes several sub-components, which are (i) Training, (ii) Consultant Services, (iii)
Infrastructure and equipment, and (iv) operational support.
-44 -



The sub-component Training will aim at improving the capacity of Chadian individuals and institution
active in the transport sector. The detailed contents of the sub-component will be designed based on the
results of a study on the human resources in the transport sector; this study is presently underway under
PPF financing. The study will assess the training needs of the MTPTHU, the private sector (such as
consulting firms, contractors, etc.), and NGO's (such as transporters unions, etc.), as a function of the
various roles and responsibilities of all the actors in the transport sector. In any case, training will be
provided for the environmental assessment and management of transport infrastructure investments. Most
training will take place in Chad. An amount of US$ 1.5 million off taxes has been earmarked for the
Training sub-component.
The sub-component Consultant Services will finance all those consultant services which are not directly
related to the physical works financed under the project and their supervision (the latter are included in the
Road Investment and Maintenance components). In particular, the following services have been identified:
*  technical and financial audits of the project, and audit-related studies, at an amount estimated at US$
970,000;
* technical assistance to the new Road Maintenance Fund, at an estimated cost of US$ 540,000; this will
be to assist the FER to establish and follow adequate operating procedures, and to provide on-the-job
training for canrying out its funds management and technical auditing responsibilities;
* Transport sector pre-investment and policy studies;
* Other consultancy services, to be defined.
The cost of this sub-component has been estimated at US$ 2.92 million.
The sub-component Infrastructure and Eguipment is estimated to cost US$ 0.48 million during the
five-year project period and will finance improvements to office infrastructure (US$ 70,000), office
equipment modernization and renewal (120,000), and some needed vehicles (US$ 290,000).
The sub-component Ov         Suo   will finance supplementary operating costs of the MTPTHU,
mainly for the CISCP and other units involved in project execution, at an amount of US$ 1,057,000.
5.3 Implementation Arrangements
All contracting and procurement will be coordinated through the Project Implementation Unit at the Cellule
de Suivi et Coordination des Projets (CICSP) in the MTPTHU.
5.4 Budget
The budget for this component is summarized as follows:
- 45 -



5. Institutional Support
5.1. Consultant Services
Technical Audit                    0.54           0.45
Financial Audit                    0.43           0.35
Support to FER                     0.54           0.45
Procurement Expert           0.07           0.05
Appui au Pilotage           0.24           0.20
Implementation of LACI             0.37           0.30
Support to DR                      0.43           0.35
Other Consultant Services          0.30           0.25
5.2. Training
Staff Training and Management      1.82           1.50
5.3. Irnfractructure, Equipment
and Operations
Vehicles                           0.29           0.21
Office Rehabilitation              0.07           0.05
Computers and other equipment      0.12           0.08
5.4. Supplementary Operations      1.06           0.76
Total                              6.27           5.00
Project Component 6 - US$0.50 million
HIV/AIDS and Transport (US$ 500.000 excl. taxes)
6.1 Objectives
The objective of this component is to contribute to reducing the risk of increased HIV/AIDS infections
along major and international roads in Chad. There is growing international evidence and recognition that
the spreading of the HIV/AIDS virus is facilitated along the main transport corridors, and in particular
along international long-distance routes. As a result, the fight against HIV/AIDS is not only a health sector
issue, but must be coordinated with, and supported by, the transport sector.
6.2 Description
The Government's main instrument in the fight against HIV/AIDS has been, and continues to be, the
Programme National de Lutte contre le SIDA - PNLS lead by the Ministry of Health and supported by
various donors including the Bank. The Ministry of Economic Promotion and Development is in charge of
AIDS prevention activities within the PNLS. A specific sub-program has been defined in coordination with
the MTPTHU, titled Programme de Lutte contre le SIDA sur les axes de communication du Tchad. The
activities include the promotion of AIDS awareness and education campaigns among a wide range of
stakeholders along targeted roads, all of the above falling into the category of AIDS prevention. The
-46 -



component will finance technical advisory services, media campaigns, workshops, etc. The cost of this
sub-program is roughly US$ 2.0 million over a project period of five years. The PAProNaT will finance
activities estimated to cost $500,000 .
6.3 Implementation Arrangements
Since the component focuses on AIDS prevention, it will be implemented by the Ministry of Economic
Promotion and Development through the Programme de Lutte contre le SIDA sur les axes de
communication du Tchad, under the leadership PNLS. The CICSP will sign an agreement with the PNLS
and the Ministry of Economic Promotion and Development, which will define the modalities for
programming, implementation, finance and reporting.
6.4 Budget
The budget for this component is summarized as follows (net of taxes):
| Item                                       Amount(M S US)
Coronent 6: HIVIA IDS and Transort          0.5
-47 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
CHAD: National Transport Program Support Project
1 Road Investment        24.02   29.85   53.87   55.41   66.08
2 Road Maintenance       13.69    3.79    17.48   21.66   21.44
3 Road Safety             1.11    0.77    1.89    40.96    2.31
4 Rural Transport Strategy    0.35    0.84    1.19    70.76    1.46
5 Institutional Support  2.18    3.84    6.02    63.83    7.38
6 AIDS/HIV and Transport   0.20    0.38    0.58    65.82    0.72
Refunding of PPF        0.00    0.50    0.50   100.00   0.61
Total Baseline Cost        31.96   28.83   60.80   47.43   100.00
Physical Contingencies     3.12    2.79    5.91    47.21    7.25
Price Contingencies        1.90    1.80    3.69    48.62    4.53
Total Project Cost         46.57   44.56   91.13   48.90   111.78
Cost Cte~nr  LocI  kF o r-eig    TOM~
Goods              1.05     1.42    2.47
Works             41.44    34.55    75.99
Services           4.01    7.96    11.98
Training           0.06    0.12     0.18
Refunding of PPF    0.00   0.50    0.50
Other              0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Proiect Costs  46.57   44.56
-48 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
CHAD: National Transport Program Support Project
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
As has been explained in more detail in the main text of this PAD, PAProNaT is a poverty-targeted
intervention and has been defined in the context of a National Transport Sector Strategy, which in turn is
inserted in a National Development Strategy. Both the Transport Sector Strategy and the resulting sector
investment and expenditure program have been defined on the basis of extensive participatory consultations
with numerous social groups, including the rural poor and the donor community. It has become clear that
all of these groups share the firm belief that rural isolation and lack of access to markets and services
(social and administrative) is the single most important obstacle against poverty reduction, and that
improvements to transport infrastructure, in particular main roads, are absolutely necessary to overcome
those obstacles. It is thus clear that traditional way of evaluating transport sector investments, including
their traditional economic evaluation, is not the main decision criteria in the Chadian case. Instead, the
Government and the Bank team have placed emphasis on reaching specific goals which have been identified
in the participatory consultations, such as providing all-season access to markets and services, and have
then identified the least-cost technical solutions which make it likely to reach those goals.
Nevertheless, a traditional economic evaluation has been carried out. This annex presents the economic
evaluation of the World Bank's contribution to the National Transport Sector Program, in particular for the
components involving physical investments in roads. There are essentially three elements of PAProNaT for
which a full economic evaluation was carried out: (i) road paving, (ii) strengthening of existing paved
roads, and (iii) pilot program for performance-based maintetnance of unpaved roads. These elements
represent more than 90 percent of the total project costs financed by the Bank. An economic evaluation
was not carried out for the other components, which are Road Safety, Institutional strengthening and
Capacity-Building, Rural Transport Strategy Development and AIDS/HIV.
The economic evaluation for the Road Paving sub-component covers the road between Ngoura and Bokoro
(104 km), which is part of the main east-west transport corridor of Chad, between N'Djamena and Abeche
and the Sudanese border. This road was evaluated as a whole, since it presents very homogenous
characteristics throughout its entire length; in terms of traffic volume, construction cost and others.
Individual subsections of that road are most likely to have the same rate of return as the road as a whole.
The cost to upgrade and pave the entire road of 104 km is estimated at US$ 21.0 million excluding taxes.
The component for rehabilitation and strengthening of existing paved roads has an estimated cost of US$
15.3 million excluding taxes and has been described earlier.
The pilot program for performance-based maintenance of unpayed roads has an estimated cost of US$ 12
million excluding taxes and consists of maintaining a sub-network of unpaved roads (441 km) under a
single contract, in which the contractor will be required to provide a defined level of service during the
four-year contract period.
The following table shows the project components and the summarized results of the economic evaluation.
-49 -



Road Section     Length           Financial Project Cost       Economic Evaluation
From    |To           km    Cost (M   Cost (M   Cost (M   Cost     NPV (M  IRR (%)
l_____ _____~CFA;)   CFAF/klm $)                ($000/km) $)
Pavinu Program     104      17680              32.1               -2.0      11%
Ngoura  |Bokoro   104       17680    170       32.1      309       -2.0     11%
Rehabilitation     287      7150                13.0               8.4      20%
Program
Guelengde N'Djamen 144      2542      18       4.6       32        4.8      24%
ng       a (Walia)
Djermaya N'Djamen 27        1584      59       2.9       107       0.9      17%
a (Goudji)
Dandi    Djermaya 89        2320      26       4.2       47        1.5      17%
(RNI)
Walia    N'Gueli  27        704       26        1.3      47        1.2      25%
Pilot Maintenance   441     1727                3.1                6.9      22%
Proeram                                                       _
Bokoro   Bitkine   143      715       5         1.3      9         6.8      38%
Bitkine   Mongo   59        295       5        0.5       9         0.8      21%
Mongo   Mangalme 129        387       3        0.7       5         -4.4     10%
Mangalme Oum       110      330       3        0.6       5         -0.3     10%
Hadjer                                485_                    _
Overall Project   832      26557              48285               9.5      16%
* cost per year of pilot progamm
Main Assumptions:
Methodology and base data used: The economic evaluation of the rehabilitation and strengthening of
existing paved roads was carried out using the World Bank Highway Design and Maintenance Standards
Model (HDM-III), while the economic evaluation of the paving and pilot maintenance program was done
using the Roads Economic Decision Model (RED) developed under the Road Management Initiative of the
Sub-Saharan Aftica Transport Program.  The latter is customized for the economic evaluation of
low-volume unpaved roads (or where the without-project scenario is characterized by unpaved roads) by
estimating the benefits of ensuring all-year good passability and providing the option of defining the level of
service of unpaved roads, in terms of both roughness and vehicle speeds. Both models perform a life-cycle
economic evaluation of project altematives, estirnating the present value of the net project benefits in
relation to the without-project alternative. For the PAProNaT, a 15 year evaluation period and a 12
percent discount rate were adopted; the net project benefits are the reduction of transport costs in terms of
road agency costs, vehicle operating costs and time costs. The HDM-III and RED models estimate the
same road user costs as a function of the road condition and vehicle fleet characteristics. The following
table presents the basic vehicle fleet data used in the evaluation, and the corresponding unit economic (net
of taxes) road user costs for a series of roughness levels.
- 50 -



Medium    Heavv    Artic.
Car  Pickup       Bus   Truck   Truck   Truck
Economic Unit Costs
New Vehicle Cost ($/vehicle)         15341    17045    61364   115909   115909   163636
Fuel Cost ($/liter)                    0.51     0.51     0.51      0.51     0.51      0.51
Lubricant Cost ($/liter)               2.18     2.18     2.18      2.18     2.18      2.18
New Tire Cost ($/tire)                  71        71      636      636       636      636
MaintenancelaborCost($/hour)           0.34     0.43     2.44      2.48     2.12      3.72
Crew Cost ($/hour)                     0.09     0.44     0.69      1.15     1.10      0.94
Interest Rate (%)                1    12.0      12.0      12.0     12.0     12.0      12.0
Vehicle Characteristics
Kilometers driven per year (km)      10000    16000    14500    20000    20000    27800
Number of passengers (#)                 3         1       20         0        0        0
Gross vehicle weight tons)              1.2      2.0      6.0      12.0     20.0      30.0
Economic Road User Costs Sensitivitv to Rouehuess (S/veh-km)
Roughness 2 IRI              0.29     0.26      0.78     1.07      1.30     1.44
Roughness 4 IRI              0.30      0.27     0.79      1.14     1.36     1.53
Roughness 6 IRI              0.31     0.29      0.82     1.26      1.47     1.72
Roughness 8 IRI              0.34      0.32     0.86      1.41     1.60     1.95
Roughness 10 IRI              0.38     0.36     0.92      1.59     1.76      2.22
Roughness 12 IRI              0.42     0.41      1.00     1.78     1.93      2.50
Roughness 14 IRI              046      0.47      1.08     1.98     2.11      2.79
Roughness 16 IRI              0.51     0.52      1.17     2.19     2.31      3.08
Roughness IS IRI              0-56     0.58      1.27     2.41     2.51      3.37
Roughness 20 IRI              0.60     0.63      1.38     2.63     2.71      3.67
Typical Road User Costs Composition (%)
Fuel                                    13        30       1 1       11       14       15
Lubricants                               2         2        1         1        1        1
Tires                                    2         2       10         7        9        9
Spare Parts                             I 1       16        3        19       17       22
Maintenance Labor                        0         0        2        2         2        6
Crew                                     0         2        1         1        1        1
Depreciation                            45        33       43       40        38       31
Interest                                19        14       18        19       18       15
Passenger Time                           8         2       10        0         0        0
Current traffic and road condition characteristics of each road were collected from  the recent network
inventory which had been updated in the context of the definition of the National Transport Sector
Program. The inventory identifies 61 homogenous road sections for the National Road Network (priority
network) of around 6,200 km. For each homogenous section, data was collected on location, length, road
class, traffic, traffic composition, and road condition. Traffic counts were made during the dry season and
the calculation of the Average Annual Daily Traffic (AADT) took into consideration that during the rainy
season almost 40 % of the vehicles can not travel at all. The road condition was defined in term of
passability type (permanent or seasonal), duration of interruptions of traffic, and estimates of reasonable
speeds of different vehicle classes on the dry and rainy seasons. The speed estimates were then used, along
with the judgment of local engineers, to estimate the road roughness of each section. The tables below
presents the main data of the current condition of the main priority network.
- 51 -



_Length Len  h                                    Passabilitv %
Surface          (km)        (               Surface       Seasonal Permanent
Paved             508         8%             Paved             0O/0      100%
Gravel           2182        35%             Gravel            86%        14%
Earth            3510        57%             Earth             970/        3%
Total            6200       100
Dry Season Passenger Car Speeds kmA/hr)
Surface            10          30         60         70         90
Paved             00/0        0%          0/   0     0//0     1O00/0
Gravel            13%        28%        40%        12%          7%
Earth            49%         37%        11%         3%          0%
|_______              Dry Season Roughness (IRI)
Surface             6          9          14         16         18          20
Paved           1000/0        0%         0%/0       00/0        00/0       00/0
Gravel            00/0       18%        400/o       12%        290/o       0%
Earth              1%         3%         6%         8%         41%        41%
___ __  |_ SAnnual Average Daily Traffic
Surface          <25       25-50      50-100    100-200    200-300       >300
Paved             0%/0        0%         00/0      59%          00/%      41%
Gravel           23%         29%        43%         5%          00/       00/c
Earth            51%         22%        17%         8%          1%         0%
The National Transport Program also predicted, for each section, the expected traffic in 2008 based on
past economic trends with a resulting average network traffic growth rate of 5 percent per year. The main
characteristics of each road section included in PAProNaT are given on the tables below.
- 52 -



Current Condition          After Project Condition
Road Section                                 Dry/Rainy    Drv/Rainy              Car Rough
Passa_   Speeds (km/hr) Roughness Passa_   Speeds  Ness
From         To                   bility    Cars  Trucks    IRIL)   Bility    (kmr/h  (IRI)
Pavine Program
Ngoura       Bokoro               seasonal  30/0   15/10    18/22   all year    90      4
Rehabilitation Proeram
Guelengdeng   N'Djamdna (Walia)    all year  90/90  70/70   6/6   all year    90        5
Djermaya     N'Djamdna (Goudji)   all year  90/90  70/70    6/6   all year    90        3
Dandi        Djermaya (RN1)      all year  90/90  70/70    6/6   all year    90        4
Walia        N'Gueli              all year  90/90  70/70    6/6   all year    90        4
Pilot Maintenance Program
Bokoro       Bitkine              seasonal  30/10  15/10    16/20   All year    60      10
Bitkine      Mongo                seasonal  30/10  15/10    16/20   All year    60      10
Mongo        Mangalme             seasonal  40/20  20/15    14/18   All year    60      10
Mangalme     Oum Hadier           seasonal  40/20  20/15    14/18   All year    60      10
Road Section                     Normal Normal Growth  Trucks
Traffic Traffic   Rate & Buses
From         To                    1996  2008    %)    %)
Paving Program
Ngoura       Bokoro                  85   153    5%   39%
Rehabilitation Program
Gudlengdeng   N'Djamena (Walia)     307   624    6%    37%
Djermaya     N'Djamena (Goudji)     474   974    6%/o  16%
Dandi        Djermaya(RNI)          196   438    7%   23%
Walia        N'Gueli                304   609    6%    16%
Pilot Maintenance Program *
Bokoro       Bitkine                 61    118    6%    56%
Bitkine      Mongo                   53    86    4%   43%
Mongo        Mangalme                37    63    5%    52%
Mangalme     Oum Hadjer              37    63    5%   52%
Economic evaluation of Paving sub-component
The Ngoura - Bokoro road to be paved with PAProNaT financing is currently a silty sand layer earth road
regularly interrupted during up to five months of the rainy season, during which light 4x2 vehicles can
hardly travel at all, and light 4x4 vehicles and trucks only if it has not rained in the preceding week. The
objective is to guarantee all-year-round usability of this road, and engineering studies have confirmed that
paving is the only realistic alternative for reaching that goal. The estimated traffic for the year 2000, based
on 1999 traffic counts, is 104 AADT with 39 percent of trucks and buses, and a forecast traffic growth
rate of 5 percent per year. After paving, generated traffic is anticipated due to the assurance of permanent
passability and the reduction in total transport costs. The generated traffic was calculated assuming a '
price elasticity' of one, that is a reduction in transport costs of x percent as a result of the paving, would
result in an increase of the same percentage in the traffic volume. This represents an estimated generated
traffic by the year 2008 of 89 AADT. The benefits accruing to generated traffic are approximated by
calculating one-half of the reduction of transport costs for each unit of generated traffic.
Estimated current vehicle speeds on the dry season are 30, 50 and 15 km/hour for light vehicles, 4 wheel
drive vehicles and heavy vehicles respectively. During the rainy season, light vehicles most of the time
cannot transit and 4 wheel drive vehicles and heavy vehicles, if they can travel, they do so at 20 and 10
km/hour respectively. To model this critical road condition in RED, the period of the rainy season was
- 53 -



defined as three months and the road roughness during the dry and rainy seasons was defined as 18 and 22
IRI respectively. After paving, it is assumed that the average road roughness will be 4 IRI and the road
will have all-year passability with vehicle speeds not being constrained by the road condition. To maintain
this level of service, future maintenance expenditures were estimated to be US$ 4,000 per km and year,
comprising routine maintenance and also periodic maintenance every 10 years. The construction costs
were estimated to be US$ 309,000 per km, yielding a total cost of US$ 32.1 million for the 104 km.
The economic evaluation indicates that the net present value (NPV) of the investment, at a 12 percent
discount rate, is US$ -2.0 million with an internal rate of return (IRR) of 11 percent. This estimate is
considered conservative because the RED model considers the additional road user costs during the rainy
season for the vehicles that transit during that season, but it does not consider the costs, and social
consequences, associated with the total impassability of light vehicles and frequent blockage for light 4x4
vehicles and trucks.
It should be noted that a previous economic analysis for this same road was canried out by a consultant, in
the context of the pre feasibility study. That analysis was less conservative, using an elasticity of 1.5 for
the generated traffic, and factoring in agricultural value-added benefits. It showed an NPV of US$ 10
million at a 12 percent discount rate, and an IRR of 16 percent (exchange rate of FCFA 600 = US$. 1.00).
A study of the user impacts of the project indicates that all vehicle types will reduce their vehicle operating
costs by around 50 percent and time costs will be reduced by around 80 percent. However, in the overall
road user cost reduction, 90 percent correspond to a reduction in vehicle operating costs, while only 10
percent is related to a reduction on time costs, which is due to the low value of time in Chad. The
distribution of the net project benefits by vehicle class is the following: 6 percent cars, 31 percent utility
vehicles and pickups, 27 percent buses, and 36 percent trucks. This result shows that most of project
benefits will go to commercial vehicles that in turn will benefit the poor (see Section F 5, Social Analysis).
Economic evaluation for the strengthening of existing paved roads
This sub-component consists of strengthening the following roads with reseals or overlays: (a) N'Djamema
- Gudlengdeng with 144 km, (b) N'Djamema - Djermaya with 27 km, (c) Djermaya - Dandi with 89 km,
and (d) Walia - N'Gueli including the Djamema bypass road with 27 km. These roads total 287 km and
represent basically the entire paved non-urban road network in Chad, except for some other roads where
paving is presently underway or very recently completed. These roads are also those which carry the most
traffic in Chad. The age of the pavements is between six and eight years. The roads are presently still in
reasonably good condition but start showing the first clear signs of deterioration. This means that the ideal
time for intervention is now, since it is not necessary to demolish and replace the existing pavement
structure; instead, the existing pavement will be strengthened at a rather low cost by sealing or overlays.
This will increase the useful life of the pavement by some six to eight years.
The estimated traffic for the year 2000 (based on 1999 traffic counts) varies from 260 to 600 AADT, with
around 51 percent of trucks and buses, and a forecasted traffic growth rate around 6 percent per year. The
current road roughness estimates are around 6 IRI, and the after project roughness estimates varies from 3
to 5 IRI. The projects were evaluated using the HDM Model and compared with a 'without project'
minimum scenario of reconstructing the roads at a higher cost when the roughness reaches 8 IRI. The
total program cost is US$ 15.3 million and the unit costs for works and supervision vary from US$ 32,000
per km to US$ 107,000 per km, with an average in the order of US$ 40.000 per km.
The economic evaluation indicates that the net present value (NPV) of the program is US$ 8.4 million at 12
- 54 -



percent discount rate, with an internal rate of return (IRR) of 20 percent. All road sub-sections yield an
IRR greater than the typical 12 percent threshold, with the lowest IRR being 17 percent for the N'Djamdma
- Djennaya and Djermaya - Dandi roads; these are due to the higher rehabilitation needs of the N'
Djamema - Djermaya road, and the lower traffic volume on the Djermaya - Dandi road.
Pilot program of performance-based maintenance of unnaved roads
The pilot maintenance program consists of maintaining four unpaved road sections which are adjacently
located in Chad's main east-west road axis: (a) Bokoro - Bitkine with 143 km, (b) Bitkine - Mongo with
59 km, (c) Mongo - Mangalme with 129 km, and (d) Mangalme - Oum Hadjer with 110 km. The roads
are a continuation to the east, in direction to the Sudanese Border, of the Ngoura - Bokoro road to be
paved (see earlier in this section of the report. These roads are part of a pilot maintenance program where
the contractor will decide the activities needed to provide a defined level of service which will basically
allow for an all-year passability at an average speed of between 40 and 60 km per hour for passenger cars.
Therefore, the precise nature of the activities to be done in each road and their timing is determined in
advance, but it is estimated that the average annual expenditures on the sub-network will be around US$
7,000 per km-year; however, there are differences between individual road sections. The Bokoro -Bitkine
and the Bitkine - Mongo roads have higher traffic (62 and 76 AADT in 2000) and are in worst condition
(30 km/hour car speeds) than the other two roads (44 AADT in 2000 and 40 km/hour car speeds). Thus,
these roads will require more works to achieve the required level of service. The economic evaluation was
therefore done assuming that these roads will receive around US$ 9,000 per km-year, while the Mongo -
Mangalme and Mangalme - Oum Hadjer road will receive around US$ 5,000 per km-year in maintenance
expenditures.
Similar to the paving program, the generated traffic estimation under this component assumes a 'price
elasticity' factor of one, which represents a estimated generated traffic in 2008 varying from 15 to 40
AADT. Also, the current condition of each road was defined in terms of vehicle speeds and road roughness
during the dry and rainy seasons. The estimated current roughness during the dry season varies from 14 to
16 IRI and during the rainy season from 18 to 20 IRI. For the "with project" scenario, it was considered
that cars will be traveling at 60 km/hour with a corresponding roughness of 10 IRI.
The economic evaluation indicates that the net present value (NPV) of the pilot maintenance program is
US$ 6.9 million at a 12 percent discount rate, with an internal rate of return (IRR) of 22 percent. The
roads with higher benefits are Bokoro -Bitkine and Bitkine - Mongo, with 38 percent and 21 percent IRR
respectively), because of their higher initial traffic and worst initial condition. The other roads in the
component yielded an IRR of 10 percent, which indicates that to be economically justified, these roads
should receive even lower maintenance expenditures than those assumed at US$ 5,000 per km and year in
the analysis; an analysis of switching values indicates that the annual expenditures should be in the order of
US$ 4,600 per km and year to yield a 12 percent IRR.
Overall Project Benefits
The overall NPV of the evaluated components is US$ 13.3 million at a 12 percent discount rate, and the
overall IRR is 16 percent.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
Paving Program
- 55 -



A sensitivity analysis shows that: (a) if road agency costs are increased by 20 percent, the IRR drops to 8
percent; (b) if benefits are reduced by 20 percent, the IRR drops to 7 percent; and (c) if agency costs are
increased by 20 percent and benefits are reduced simultaneously by 20 percent, the IRR drops to 4 percent.
A switching values analysis shows that in order to reach a threshold IRR of 12 percent, the traffic in 2000
should be 112 AADT, which is 7 percent higher that the actual traffic. Alternatively, the investment cost
should be US$ 286,000 per km, which is also 7 percent lower that the estimated construction cost; or the
road roughness in the without-project case should be 19 and 23 IRI for the dry and rainy seasons
respectively, which is a 5 percent increase over the estimated values. These results indicate that based on
just the benefits of reducing vehicle operating and time costs, the project is marginally justified. This is
however no surprise, since similar values were indeed expected. The main justification of this road is
clearly its poverty impact, by reducing rural isolation and improving access of the rural poor to markets
and services (see Section F 5, Social Analysis).
Strengthening of existing paved roads
A sensitivity analysis of this sub-component shows that: (a) if agency costs are increased by 20 percent, the
IRR drops to 18 percent; (b) if benefits are reduced by 20 percent, the IRR also falls to 18 percent; and (c)
if agency costs are increased by 20 percent and benefits are simultaneously reduced by 20 percent, the IRR
is 16 percent. A switching values analysis shows that in order to have a threshold IRR of 12 percent,
agency costs would have to be higher by 140 percent or benefit decrease by 60 percent. These results
indicate that the sub-component has a robust economic justification.
Pilot Maintenance Program
A sensitivity analysis of the pilot maintenance component shows that: (a) if agency costs are increased by
20 percent, the IRR drops to 15 percent; (b) if benefits are reduced by 20 percent, the IRR falls to 13
percent; and (c) if agency costs are increased by 20 percent and benefits are reduced by 20 percent, the IRR
of the component is 7 percent. A switching values analysis shows that in order to have a threshold IRR of
12 percent, agency costs would have to increase by 29 percent or benefit decrease by 23 percent. These
results indicate that the program is economically justified, but is less robust than the rehabilitation
program, the economic return being more sensitive to the maintenance costs and other assumptions made.
Overall Project Benefits
A sensitivity analysis for the entire project (all those components for which an economic evaluation was
carried out) shows that: (a) if agency costs are increased by 20 percent, the project IRR drops to 12
percent; (b) if benefits are reduced by 20 percent, the project IRR falls to 12 percent; and (c) if agency
costs are increased by 20 percent and benefits are simultaneously reduced by 20 percent, the project IRR is
9 percent. A switching values analysis shows that in order to have a threshold IRR of 12 percent, agency
costs should increase by 23 percent or benefits decrease by 19. These overall results indicates that the
project is economically justified according to traditional criteria, but not with a high margin for cost
increases and moderately sensitive to assumptions made for the economic benefits computations. The
results are summarized on the table below.
- 56 -



Base Case    IRR Sensitivity Analysis (%)
NPV    IRR A: Costs B: Benefits
(M  $)         + 20%        -20%   A+ B
Paving Program           -2.0  11 %      8 %         7 %    4 %
Rehabilitation            8.4  20 %    18 %         18 %   16 %
Program
Pilot Maintenance         6.9  22 %    15 %         13 %    7 %
Program
Overall Proiect          13.3  16 %    12 %         12 %    9 %
Road Safety Component
The road safety component includes various activities that are difficult to measure ex ante in terms of
impact, i.e. the contribution of the activity to the reduction of traffic accidents, and effectiveness in terms of
the benefit-cost ratio generated by the road safety measure applied. Major constraints are the actual lack of
reliable data about accidents, fatalities and injuries, as well as the lack of reliable information on
hospitalization due to traffic accidents, cost of medical treatment, etc. While the project seeks to improve
accident data collection and analysis in the future, insufficient data are available today to allow for an
economic evaluation of the proposed interventions. Therefore, the project has to rely on international
experience for the selection of effective measures to reduce traffic accidents.
Countries that have tackled the road safety problem successfully are using different approaches to assess
the effectiveness of specific measures, but the most important common denominator is the appraisal of
accident rates before and after the introduction of any particular measure. Using the available international
data, measures proposed under the various road safety sub-components will be ranked based on impact and
effectiveness, taking into account the country specific situation. Furthermore, road safety measures will
only be taken in areas that allow for reliable monitoring and evaluation, i.e. areas where baseline accident
data are available and a continuous collection and analysis of data exists or can be put in place by the
project.
In any case, comparison of international data gives an approximate indication of the most effective road
safety improvements; it also shows an extremely high IRR for many activities, ranging from 50-80 percent.
- 57 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
CHAD: National Transport Program Support Project
Investment Costs        30.09      31.95       18.40      5.90      3.03      89.36
Recurrent Costs          0.77       0.31       0.24       0.22      0.22       1.77
Total                   30.87      32.25       18.64      6.12      3.25      91.13
Project Financing
IDA                     22.74      23.61       13.69      4.53     2.43       67.00
Government               8.13       8.64       4.95       1.59     0.82       24.13
Total                   30.87      32.25       18.64      6.12      3.25      91.13
Annex Sb: Main Assumptions in Financing Schedule
Chad National Transport Program Support Project
Bank's Fiscal Years
2001    2002    2003    2004    2005
1. Road Investment
Paving of N'Goura-Bokoro
Supervision of Paving Works
Rehabilitation Works
Supervision of Rehab. Works
2. Road Maintenance
Road Management and Maintenance _
Supervision
3. Road Safety
Works on Road Safetv
Supervision                                                   -
Instit. Strengthening /Communic. _
4. Rural Transport
Workshops
Study Tours
Equipment
Round Table                          _
5. Institutional Support
6. AIDS/HIV and Transport
Refunding of PPF                    _
- 58 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
CHAD: National Transport Program Support Project
Procurement
General
A Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) for Chad was carried out in 1993, showing that
procurement procedures in Chad do not conflict with Bank Guidelines. No special exceptions, permits, or
licenses need to be specified in the Credit since Chad's procurement practices allow IDA procedures to take
precedence over any contrary provisions in local regulations. A new CPAR/CFAA was carried out in
May, 2000, at time of appraisal of PAProNaT. It focused on the Government's capacity to manage public
resources and on the impact of the recent fiscal reform on procurement. Based on the work prepared by a
fiscal expert, the Government has adopted in July 2000 new Instructions for Bidders (Guide aux
Soumissionnaires) which clarifies the fiscal issue in a satisfactory way.
Civil Works and Goods financed by IDA will be procured in accordance with Bank's Guidelines under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995 revised in January and August 1996, September 1997, and
January 1999), and Bank Standard Bidding Documents, and Standard Evaluation Report will be used for
ICB. National Competitive Bidding (NCB) advertised locally would be carried out in accordance with
Chad's procurement laws and regulations, acceptable to IDA, provided that they assure economy,
efficiency, transparency, and broad consistency with key objectives of the Bank Guidelines. For NCB
procedures, the Government will give assurance during negotiations that: (i) methods used in the evaluation
of bids and the award of contracts are made known to all bidders and not be applied arbitrarily; (ii) any
bidder is given adequate response time (four weeks) for preparation and submission of bids; (iii) bid
evaluation and bidder qualification are clearly specified in bidding documents; (iv) no preference margin is
granted to domestic manufacturers; (v) eligible firms are not precluded from participation; (vi) award will
be made to the lowest evaluated bidder in accordance with pre-determined and transparent methods; (vii)
bid evaluation reports will clearly state the reasons to reject any non-responsive bid; (viii) contractors will
be allowed to select an insurance company of their choice; and (ix) prior to issuing the first call for bids,
draft standard bidding documents prepared as annexes to the Procedures Manual are submitted to IDA and
found acceptable.
Consultant Services contracts financed by IDA will be procured in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines
for the Selection of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997 revised in September 1997, and
January 1999). The standard Request for Proposal, as developed by the Bank, will be used for appointment
of consultants. Simplified contracts will be used for short-term assigmnents, i.e. those not exceeding six
months, carried out by firms or individual consultants. The Govermment has been briefed during the
pre-appraisal mission about the features of the new Consultants Guidelines, in particular with regards to
advertisement, bid opening and various steps of IDA reviews.
A General Procurement Notice (GPN) has already been prepared and issued in the United Nations
Development Business on February 29, 2000, to advertise for major consulting assignments to obtain
expression of interest, and any ICB for works and goods. It will be updated annually for all outstanding
procurement. A GPN will also be published in the national press or official gazette for contracts under
NCB and to obtain expression of interest from national consultants.  The program elements by
disbursement category, their estimated costs, and procurement methods are summarized in Table A below.
Consultant selection methods and thresholds for procurement methods and prior review are summarized in
Tables Al and B below.
- 59 -



Civil Works and Goods.
Civil Works contracts financed by IDA are estimated at US$76 million including taxes, duties and
contingencies (almost exclusively under ICB procedures). They will cover: (i) the paving of roads and the
rehabilitation of existing paved-roads (US$56.84 million); (ii) a performance-based road management and
maintenance contract for unpaved roads (US$18.17 million); and road safety infrastructure (US$0.97
million). There will be a large volume of contracts (98 percent) exceeding US$500,000 to be procured
under ICB. Contracts for safety infrastructure, costing less than US$200,000 per contract, up to an
aggregate amount of US$0.97 million (or 1.7 percent of total amount) would be procured through NCB in
accordance with national procedures acceptable to IDA. Civil works contracts will be managed by the
Road Directorate using open competition. Prequalification will apply only to the performance-based road
management and maintenance contract for unpaved roads. Other civil works contracts will be subject to
post-qualification criteria shown in the bidding documents. This method has been used in the past few
years with success. All responsive bids will be evaluated and only the qualification of the lowest evaluated
bidder will be reviewed before deciding on the contract award.
The performance-based road management and maintenance contract for unpaved roads is introduced
on a trial basis to test and adapt this new approach on a selected section of the national road network
totaling 441 Km. The contract contains the following basic principles:
v   The main objective is to attain and maintain prescribed service levels on a well-defined road network
during a specific period of time (in this case 4 years). The contractor is responsible for assuring four
basic criteria: (i) year-round passability for certain types of vehicles; (ii) the possibility to travel at a
certain average speed; (iii) a certain well-defined level of user comfort, and (iv) the durability of the
road, in terms of assuring the protection of existing civil works, structures and other assets.
3   During the initial period of the contract the service levels will gradually be increased, in order to arrive
at their final and highest level after roughly 21 months; those levels are then to be maintained until the
end of the contract.
*   Payments to the contractor will be fixed equal monthly amounts during the entire duration of the
contract (a price adjustment formula will however be applied to offset normal cost increases due to
inflation, etc.).
- The contractor will have to provide performance guarantees which are only returned after the
successful completion of the contract.
*   Penalties will be applied if service level criteria are not met; and the contract may be canceled entirely
if deficiencies are not remedied after certain maximum periods.
The drafting of bidding documents for performance-based road management and maintenance contract
for unpaved roads was conducted on a trial basis with the participation of technical and procurement
specialists. It was developed during project preparation by using the standard bidding document for works
(droit civil). It was reviewed in details during pre-appraisal and finalized before appraisal during a
one-week visit of the Chadian authorities in Washington. A final version was approved during appraisal
and the bidding process is expect to start by mid-July after negotiations and after IDA's approval of the list
of prequalified firms. The bidding documents are expected to serve as a bank-wide model for that type of
contracts. A prequalification for the performance-based road management and maintenance contract for
unpaved roads has been completed in July 2000.  Criteria were based on past experience in the
management of large public infrastructure.
Contracts for Goods financed by IDA (totaling US$2.47 million) relate to road safety equipment,
furniture, office equipment, computers, and vehicles. ICB procedures will probably be applied to road
safety equipment. The remaining contracts for goods, costing less than US$200,000 per contract, up to an
- 60 -



aggregate of US 1.1 million -- which are not likely to be suitable for ICB because of their small size, and
correspond to goods available locally at economical prices to be delivered over a period of three or four
years -- would be procured through NCB. Small items, which cannot be grouped into contracts of
US$20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate of US$0.2 million, might be procured through
prudent national or international shopping, on the basis of quotations obtained from at least three reputable
suppliers.
Consultant Services.
Consulting services financed by IDA would be for: (i) studies, technical design, civil work supervision,
preparation of bidding documents, accounting systems, financial management support, technical audits, and
financial audits; and (ii) consultancies on technical matters and training. Consultants financed by IDA,
totaling US$12.2 million, would be hired in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Selection and
Employment of Consultants (January 1997 revised in September 1997, and January 1999). Selection would
be based on competition among qualified short-listed firms through Quality-and Cost-Based Selection
(QCBS) by evaluating the quality of the proposals before combining quality and cost evaluation, by
weighting and adding the quality and cost scores. The implementation unit would ensure widely publicized
procurement notice to get candidacy from consultants (firms and individuals). Based on agreed upon
criteria, the coordination unit will maintain and update a list of consultants which will be used to establish
short-lists.
Other methods would also apply. For financial audits, up to an aggregate amount of US$0.2 million, the
Least-Cost Selection (LCS) would be the most appropriate method -- the firm with the lowest price being
selected, provided its technical proposal received the minimum qualifying mark.
Consultants services for institutional support to be provided by firms, estimated to cost less than
US$100,000 per contract and up to an aggregate amount of US$0.63 million, would be based on
Consultants' Qualifications (CQ), based on the consultants' experience and competence relevant to the
assignment.
Services for lectures, advisory services and small studies would be selected through comparison of
qualifications among Individual Consultants (IC) expressing interest in the assignment, or who have been
approached directly. This would represent up to US$3.25 million for individuals, during the entire length of
the project.
Short-lists of consultants for contracts related to land surveys, estimated under US$30,000 each, may be
comprised entirely of national consultants, if a sufficient number of qualified firms (at least three) are
locally available at competitive costs. However, if foreign firms have expressed interest for those
contracts, they will not be excluded from consideration.
IDA Reviews.
The review process would cover about 85 percent of the contract amounts for works, goods, and
consultants -- see Table B below. Contracts for works and goods, financed by IDA, above the threshold
value of US$200,000 equivalent will be subject to IDA's prior review procedures. Selective post-review of
contracts awarded below the threshold level will apply to about one in three contracts and will be carried
out by Bank staff-- using audits, and other consultants, as necessary.
Bank staff will also review the selection process for the hiring of consultants proposed by the Borrower.
Prior IDA review for the selection of consultants will include the review of budgets, terms of reference,
short-lists, selection procedures, requests for proposals, evaluation reports, proposals for contract awards,
and negotiated contracts. Prior IDA review will not apply to contracts for the recruitment of consulting
- 61 -



firms and individuals estimated to cost less than US$100,000 and US$50,000 equivalent, respectively. For
all consultant contracts subject to prior review (cost of each contract estimated above US$100,000),
opening the financial envelopes will not take place prior to receiving the Bank's no-objection to the
technical evaluation.
Documents related to procurement below the prior review thresholds will be maintained by the borrowers
for ex-post review by auditors (technical and financial audits) and by IDA supervision missions at least
two years after the closing date.
For training abroad and in-country, the program -- containing names of candidates, costs estimates,
content of courses, periods of training and selection of training institutions -- will be reviewed by IDA
annually.
Frequency of procurement supervision. One supervision mission every twelve months will include a
procurement specialist to carry out procurement post-reviews.
Modification or waiver of the scope and conditions of contracts. Before agreeing to any material
extension, or any modification or waiver of the conditions of contracts that would increase aggregate cost
by more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower should specify the reasons thereof and seek IDA's
prior no-objection for the proposed modification.
Procurement Status of Ongoing Projects and Proposed Arrangements.
National bidding procedures for public procurement in Chad have not improved recently and practical
procedures for implementing the recent fiscal reform  has been clarified during appraisal.  Formal
"Instructions to Bidders" have been adopted by the Government as requested by the Bank. The May 2000
CPAR mission focused on necessary measures to increase efficiency and transparency of procurement in
Chad. An action plan will be discussed with the Government in the context of the entire portfolio in Chad,
but it will also have a direct impact on the project. It was agreed during the appraisal mission that the
Government will re-organize procurement in Chad, so that new operations financed by IDA will eventually
not require waivers or exceptional measures such as the use of special tender boards.
In comparison with other ministries in Chad, staff working in the transport sector have been trained since
several years, and they have acquired experience in contract management under both the recently completed
PST2 project and an earlier project.  Technical management of project components will be the
responsibility of each Directorate (Road Directorate, Directorate for Surface Transport), but overall
supervision, financial accounting, quality control of procurement and liaison with the Bank will be handled
by the Project Coordination Unit (CISCP). The Directorate for Roads will include a procurement specialist
and would use consultants as necessary to carry out specific tasks. An assessment of the capacity of the
CISCP and Directorates was carried out during the pre-appraisal mission. Strengthening needs have been
indicated in an action plan and will receive special attention (see the assessment report below). Basically, it
can be concluded that the CISCP and the Directorate for Roads require to be improved during the project in
the area of bid evaluation, bidding document preparation, procurement filing and contract management.
Apart from the need to recruit a procurement specialist at the CISCP and the Directorate for Roads, there
seems to be no staffing gap, as the procurement plan shows only 4 contracts for consulting services, 6
contracts for works and 5 contracts for goods which would be managed over the five project years. Most
contracts for works are major contracts under ICB. In addition, the project will strengthen the capacity of
the legal unit dealing with procurement at the MTPTHU -- "Cellule Juridique et des Marches" of
MTPTHU - to allow the decentralization of procurement responsibility at MTPTHU Given the large
contract amounts and taking into account the need to ensure proper quality of works completed, it has been
agreed to recruit a technical auditor, independent from the financial audit. On this basis, it has been agreed
- 62 -



that one in four contracts not subject to IDA prior review threshold would be subject to post-review by the
Bank and more systematically by the technical auditors.
Project Implementation and Procedures Manual and agreements.
A Project Implementation and Procedures Manual on administrative procedures and internal organization
would include: (i) procedures for calling for bids, selecting contractors, consultants, and vendors, and
awarding contracts; (ii) internal organization for supervision and control of works; (iii) financial
management, budgeting, accounting, and disbursement procedures; and (iv) procedures for handing over
completed works. This manual was initiated during appraisal. The formal adoption by the Borrower of the
Project Implementation and Procedures Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, will be a condition of
effectiveness for the credit.
During appraisal the Government has submitted and agreed with IDA on: (a) a draft procurement plan for
the first two program years; (b) a request for proposal to select a firm to establish the financial and contract
management system of CISCP, and provide initial training and guidance to the CISCP and all Directorates
in the area of procurement and financial management; (c) a draft Guide to Bidders to describe the use of
Treasury Checks for the reimbursement of indirect taxes; (d) standard bidding documents to be used
under NCB procedures for civil works and goods; and (e) a request of proposal to select a technical
auditor.
Prior to negotiations, the Government will submit to IDA a request for proposal and a short-list for the
selection of technical assistance to the "Legal and Procurement UNIT' of MTPTHU.
During negotiations the Government will also give assurance that it will: (a) adopt the action plan for
decentralization of procurement at the level of MTPTHU; (b) use the Project Implementation and
Procedures Manual; (c) use the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for ICB, the Standard Request for
Proposals for the selection of consultants, and the Standard Bid Evaluation reports; (d) apply the
procurement procedures and arrangements outlined above; (e) update the procurement plan at least once a
year, and (f) carry out, during annual reviews, an assessment of the effectiveness of bidding procedures and
performance, as they relate to the program's procurement experience, and propose for IDA and other
donors' consideration any modification to the current procedures to the extent that would accelerate
procurement, while still maintaining compliance with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines and adequate
control over contract awards and payments.
The Government will also give assurance at negotiations that it will take the necessary measures to ensure
that procurement phases do not exceed the following target time periods:
Procurement Phases                      Maximum number of weeks
Preparation of bidding documents                      4 (6 for large contracts)
Preparation of bids by bidders                           4 (6-10 for ICB)
Bid evaluation                                         2 (4 for large contracts)
Signature of contracts                                          2
Payments                                                        3
- 63 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Civil Works              75.02     0.96                                           75.99
(54.01)   (0.70)                                         (54.71)
Goods                              0.59                      1.89                  2.47
(0.42)                   (1.36)                (1.78)
Consultin2 Services                            12.16                              12.16
(10.00)                           (10.00)
Refunding of PPF                                             0.50                  0.50
(0.50)               (0.50)
Total                    75.02      1.56        12.16        2.39       0.00      91.13
(54.01)  (1.12)       (10.00)       (1.86)    (0.00)   (67.00)
AFrms                 8.4        0.47       0.20       0.00       6.90
(6.95)    (0.39)    (0.16)    (0.00)    (5.68)
B. Individuals           0.00       0.00       0.00       3.25       3.25
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (2.67)    (2.67)
Total                    8.44       0.47       0.20       3.25      12.16
(6.95)    (0.39)    (0.16)    (2.67)    (10.00)
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by IDA.
- 64 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract Value                               Controats Subject to
Threshold             Procurement              Prior Rview
Expenditure Ctgor        (US$ tousands)        ,     Method                (US$ miions)
1. Works                       >500                     ICB                    $75.03
<500                    NCB                     0.97
<200                                         Post Review
2. Goods                        >200                    ICB
<200                    NCB                     0.59
<20           National & Inter. Shopping        1.89
3. Services
a) Firms                       >100                QCBS/LCS/CQ                  8.91
<100               QCBS/LCS/CQ               post review
b)lndividuals                   >50                     other                   3.25
<50                    other                 post review
4. Miscellaneous
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:    $ 84.00 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 12 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Post Reviews will apply to one (1) contract out of four (4) non subject to prior review
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation' and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 65 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
The proposed allocation of the proceeds of the credit is shown in Table C. The credit will disburse over a
period of 5 years (from 2000 to 2005) with a closing date of July 31, 2006. Disbursements will be made in
accordance with the procedures and policies outlined in the Bank's Disbursement Handbook.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
D  Expndltur Category      i2a  Aniiant       In U$$mIIIlo  Fnancig Percentage    777;;
Civil Works                                46.25                         72%
Goods                                       1.78                         72%
Consulting Services                         9.57                         82%
Project Management                          0.50                         82%
Refunding of PPF                            0.50                         100%
Unallocated                                 8.40
Total Project Costs                        67.00
Total                                      67.00
Note: Unallocated amount includes contingencies for works, goods and consulting services.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
SOE's have been used by the CISCP for at least 8 years and no major problems have occurred. In
particular, the presentation of ineligible expenses has been absent and the Bank is satisfied that the
financial management and control procedures in place at CISCP are adequate to warrant the correct use of
SOE's. For the PAProNaT, expenditures under contracts for works and goods valued at less than US$
200,000; for consulting firms valued less than US$ 100.000 and for individual consulting services valued
at less than US$ 50,000; and all training and all operating costs will be claimed for financing using SoE's.
Documents verifying expenditures under SOE procedures shall be retained, for review by IDA Supervision
Missions and independent audits, at project offices.
Special account:
To expedite disbursement and to ensure that project funds are available when needed, the Government will
open a special account at a local commercial bank on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. The special
account will receive, upon effectiveness of the credit and based on a withdrawal application of the PMU, an
initial deposit equivalent in FCFA to US$ 2,800.000 representing the estimated level of expenditures under
SoE's during a 4-month period. The funds in the special account will be used to pay for the IDA share of
eligible expenditures. The account will be replenished periodically and will operate according to the
procedure manual adopted for the project and accepted by the Bank.
Minimum Value for Direct Payments and Issuance of Special Commitments (SCs):
Direct payment requests and applications for issuance of special commitments must be valued at least 20
percent of the original special account advance of US$ 2,800,000 equivalent. The minimum application
value for direct payments and SC's will thus be US$ 560,000 equivalent.
- 66 -



Government Counterpart funds / IDA financing percentage
The relatively large share of Government financing of the project is explained by the fact that according to
the Chadian tax legislation introduced in 1998, all contracts have to be signed including all taxes. These
taxes include, as a minimum, a Value-Added Tax (TVA) of 18 percent and a stamp tax (droit
d'enregistrement) of 3 percent. On works and goods, customs fees for imported goods will also be included
(directly or indirectly) in the invoices to be presented by contractors and suppliers.
Government's share of expenditures under the project will be financed in part through Treasury Cheques
and in part through actual cash funds.
According to the Chadian legislation, Treasury Cheques may be used to pay for customs duties, sales tax
(IVA) and stamp fees (droits d'enregistrement), the sum of which is estimated to amount up to 19.6 percent
of total project costs. This type of counterpart financing will be mobilized and made available during the
execution of contracts signed with contractors, consultants and suppliers, but in any case before payment of
those taxes is demanded from those contractors, consultants and suppliers.
Counterpart funds in the form of actual cash are meant (i) to cover direct taxes which are hidden in project
costs, and (ii) to constitute an small actual net contribution of the Government to the cost of the project.
Counterpart funds in form of cash are likely to amount to 6.6 percent of the total project cost. The Bank
will require that before the signature of specific contracts for works, goods or consultant's services, this
part of counterpart funds for the relevant contracts are deposited into a Project Account at a local
commercial bank.
Financial Management Risks
The CISCP has shown over the past years its ability to exercise adequate financial management capacity
and performance. It must however be recognized that the capacity of CISCP is represented by a very small
number of individuals which have remained in their positions for almost 10 years, in particular the
coordinator and the chief accountant. The Financial Management Risk is therefore linked to the possibility
that these individuals may either be replaced by the Government or not be available for any other reason.
This is not expected to happen at this time. In any case, the training of staff of the MTPTHU should
include more junior staff within the CISCP who could, if necessary, replace the senior staff.
-67 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
CHAD: National Transport Program Support Project
P      _*t_ Xb*                                    P!lnr4                       .ptual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      8                             13
First Bank mission (identification)             07/27/99                      07/27/99
Appraisal mission departure                     04/23/2000                    04/23/2000
Negotiations                                    06/15/2000                    09/05/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   09/15/2000                    12/15/2000
Prepared by:
MTPTHU - CISCP
Preparation assistance:
Second Transport Sector Project (PST2) and PPF.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Andreas Schliessler               Task Manager, Senior Transport Economist
Robert Fishbein                   Agric. Economist, Environmental Specialist
Lamine Ben Barka                  Civil Engineer
Bemard Abeille                    Principal Procurement Specialist
Bertrand de Chazal                Senior Financial Analyst
Joseph Bonlong                    Financial Analyst
Nina Chee                         Environmental Specialist
Charles Donang                    Projects Officer
Moctar Thiam                      Rural Transport Specialist
Sidle Silu6                       Rural Transport Specialist
Jerry Lebo                        Poverty and Transport
Colin Gannon                      Poverty and Transport
Michele Lioy                      Senior Population Specialist
Josee Bamvi Miakukila             Language Program Assistant
Miguel Mayor                      Intern ENPC
Jean-Charles de Daruvar           Senior Counsel
- 68 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
CHAD: National Transport Program Support Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Appui a la Definition de la Strategie des Transports, Financement de l'Entretien Routier, Plan de
Mobilisation des Ressources Potentielles (Louis Berger International, February 1999).
Entretien Routier par Niveaux de Service, Dossier d'Appel d'Offres (Bidding document for works
for the performance-based road maintenance contracts, Niv_Serv.doc).
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Project Concept Document (September 1999, PCD Draft.doc).
Project Information Document (September 30th 1999, Pid.doc).
Aide-Memoires:
- First Preparation Mission (September 17th - October 3rd 1997, Am_0997.doc)
- Identification Mission (July 27th -August 6th 1999, Am-0799i.doc).
- Pre-Appraisal Mission (January 10th - January 20th 2000).
Procurement Capacity Assessment (jan. 20,2000).
Environmental Data Sheet.
Etude de Sensibilite des Prix des Carburants au Tchad (sensitivity analysis explaining the different
possible consequences of the implementation of the CAER, Elasticite_Carb2.doc).
Petrol3.xls and Petrol4.xls (electronic files containing the models used in the sensitivity analisys).
Road User Charges Application (report justifying the implementation of CAER in terms of
maintenance financing necessities).
Pst3_est.xls (electronic file containing the investment programs of other donors in Chad for the
period 1999-2003, and identifying the lacks of financing for certain roads).
C. Other
Mission d'lnformation de la Delegation du MTPTHU, Compte Rendu des Discussions (June 8th,
June 13th 1999, Am_deleg.doc).
Etude sur la fiscalite dans le secteur des transports, la mobilisation et la securisation du CAER
(Netherlands Economic Institute, July 1998).
*Including electronic files
-69 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
CHAD: National Transport Program Support Project
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in USS Millions         disbursements
Project ID    FY   Borrower                      Purpose                                     IBRD      IDA       Cancel.   Undisb.      Orig  Frn Reid
P000501       1995 Chad                      AG SERVICES                                       0.00     24.53       0.00       6.24      2.37       1.39
P000517       1993 Chad                      EASIC EDUCATION                                   0.00      19.30      0.00       3.32      3.55       0.00
P000528       1991 Chad                      ENGINEERING                                       000       1100       0.O0       3.59      380        392
P000509       1994 Chad                      HEALTH& SAFE MOTHER                               0.00      29.40      0.00       4.43      -677       4.66
P055122       2000 Chad                      HEALTH SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT                     0.00      41 51      0.00      40.52       0.00     0e00
P000532       1998 Chad                      HOUSEHOLDENERGY                                   0.00       5.27      0.00       4,31      2.46       0.00
PC62840       2000 Chad                      MANAGEMENT OF THE PETROLEUM ECONOMY               0.00      17.50      0.00      1678        1.17      0.00
P048202       2000 Chad                      PETROLEUM SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING                0.00     23.70       0.00      22.76      0.00       0.00
P035601       1996 Chad                      POP. &AIDSCO                                      0.00     20.40       0.00       5.40      4.11       0.00
P044305       2000 Chad                      TUOCM PIPELINE                                   39.50      0.00       0.00      39f50      0.00       0.00
Tolal:      3950       192.61        0.00     146.85     10.69      9.97
- 70 -



CHAD
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
20-Sep-2000
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval         Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
Total Portfolio:         0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                           Loan    Equity      Quasi    Partic
2000               Chad Oilfield                 100000.00      0.00      0.00 300000.00
2000               SEF Dembat1ait                   330.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:    100330.00      0.00       0.00 300000.00
-71 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
CHAD: National Transport Program Support Project
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             Saharan       Low       o-
Chad      Africa   income       Development dlamond'
1999
Ponulation mid-vear imillionst                            7 5       647      2 417                  Life expectancy
GNP nrw  anita (Atbls method US$)                        90-n       snoI       410
ONP (Atlas method IJSI hilliots)                          1 f       371        .8S
Averaae annual orowth. 199349
Pionutatinn t%)                                           3 0        7         I  
t abor force (%I                                          3 0        2.6       2 3      GNP                                Gross
per                              primary
Most recent estimate (latest vear available. 1993-991                                   capita                         en,nttmenl
Povertv f% of OOou/atiOn below nahonal oovertv line)      54
tirhan nnoiultion (1%o total ooDulation)                  7:1        84         31
I ifM axnactanOv at h,rth (veArs)                         49         S0         t0
Infant mortatitv (Der 1.000 live births)                 100         92         77
Child malniotritvn (# of crhildren under Sl               39         32         431               Access to safe water
Access to imoroved water source (% ofDoOuliatoni          24         43         64
Illiteracv /% Of DOOuatfiOn aoe 15+1                      52         3Q         39
Gross orimarv enrollment (% Ot schoOt-aae oooulation)     SS         78         98             Chad -      Low-income group
Male                                                    74         85        102
Fmamla                                                  38 A       71        Fffi
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989       1998       1999                -
Economic ratios
GDP (USS billions)                              10        1 4        1 7       1 S
Grors. drtinme. investmrentlGnp                           R0        1RQ0      Ina                       Trade
Exoors of ooods and services/GDP               17 8 S     3 8       16 6      17                        T
Grosr; donme;tic sstvinnq/rTP                            .9 8,       4 3       -3 2
Cr-4s naiinnr.t Ps7,     t4 -A                                       R 68     -9 8
r-rrant arccount halanrMAeG IP                  43 a     12 R       - 4       -17 a     Domestic
Interest nsvmPntsql(flP                          0   0Q1             07                 Sa                            Investment
Total debt/GOP                                 25 0      26.3       54 6      74 6                        Nvings
TntAt debht serviAlenorts                       8 't      S         13 7      1i7 a
Present value of debt/GDP                                           37 5      39 5
P*resa1t val.Ae of debt/aeorts                                    1R9 8      204 f
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99     1998       1999   1999-03
laveraae annual arowtht
0DP                                   a 0       1 9       6 7       -0 7       3 4              Chad        Low-income group
GNP nar canita                        3 4      -0 7       4 4       -3 2       0 6
Exoorts of ooods and services         5.5       3.7      12.2     -13.2        5 8
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1998       1999      Growth of Investnment and GDP (%)
(% of GOP)                                                                              40
Amrirltlurn                                    40 8      31 7       38 1      3fi n
Indiustrv                                      10 4      1t 7       1h 3      14 7      20
Mao,,fsntu,inri                                        13 4       19 R       11 R
Servicac                                       48 8      51 7      48 8       493        0
{   94   55   96   97   9s   99
Private rnnnsimotion                                    94 R       88 7       92 7     -20
G-neral1novernm.nt rensiamnti.n                          150         89        80                      GDI    -      GDP
ImDorts of ooods and services                  34 6     31.4       30 3       30 4
1979-89  1989-99       1998      1999      Growth Of exports and Imports (%)
(averaoe annual arowth)
Aoriculture                                     2.7       4 6       11 1       -6 5    3
Industrv                                        7 4      0 4         9 0      -41      20
Manufacturino                                                      9.9      -7.0      10
Services                                        6 5       0 7        2 8       51 
Private consumotion                                       1 3        8 2       0 0                949 957 
General aovernment consumotion                 20 9      -3 7       -6 3      12 2                        V
Gross domestic investment                                 32        -2        138      -20
ImDorts of ooods snd services                   9 2      -t 3        1 2       4 0                   Exports     -Imports
Gross national oroduct                          5 9       1 8        7 0      -0 8
Note. 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the country tin bold) comoared with its income-orouo averaoe If data are missino. the diamond will
be incomDlete
- 72 -



Chad
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                              1979    1989       1998      1999      Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                          60 -
Consumer prices                                 ..    -4.9        4.4      -8.4     40
Implicit GDP deflator                         8.2      -1.3       5.8      -4.7    20
Government finance                                 o                                                     I
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                         94   95   96   97   9S
Current revenue                                 ..      6.3       7.7       8.3    -20
Current budget balance                          ..    -2.9        0.3      -1.1            -     GDP deflator  -    CPI
Overall surplusldeficit                         ..   -16.7       -6.3    -10.8
TRADE
(USS mfilionS)                               1979     1989      1998      1999      Export and import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                                    155        261      211
Cotton                                        ..      74        133        76
Meat                                          ..      42         51        54
Manufactures                                            3        27        29
Total imports (cif)                             ..    313         272      246      2
Food                                           .          5       4         4
Fuel and energy                               ..      32         22        24     1     l_
Capital goods                                          77       174       154      o
93  94  95   96  97  90   99
ExDortoriceindex(1995=1O0)                      ..     117        100      105
Imoort once index 11995=1001                            86         79       86                  a Exports    * Imports
Termsof trade (1995=100                         ..     136        126      122
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979     1989      1998      1999      Current account balance to GDP (%)
/VSS nsillonsl
Exports of goods and services                  93      198       314       260
Importsofgoodsandservices                     119      450       511       465
Resource balance                              -26    -253        -197     -205       4 |-
Net income                                     -9       -9        -14      -14
Net current transfers                          -9       78         53       23       9     ll          'l       i
Current account balance                       -44     -184       -158     -195    -12
Financing items (net)                          41      220        138      171
Changes in net reserves                         2      -37         20       25    -16
Memo:
Reserves indudino aold (USS millions)           ..       ..       135      150
Conversion rate (DEC. localAJSS)             212.7    319.0     590.0    614.8
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989      1998      1999
(USS nmilFons)                                                                      Composition of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          251      377        917     1,141
IBRD                                          0        0          0        0                     F: 14 G. 7
IDA                                          36      130       502       527              E:155
Total debt service                              4       12         47       45
IBRD                                          ..      ..         0         0
IDA                                  7         9                                     B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:527
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                              49      127        83
Official creditors                                              94       124            D:39_
Private creditors                            ..       ..        -1        -1
Foreign direct investment                     0       19         16
Portfolio equity                                                                 |                     c: 45
World Bank program
Commitments                                   0       58          0       30      A - IBRO                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                 5       34        59        53      B - IDA    D- Other multilateral  F - Pnvate
Principal repayments                         ..       ..          3        5      C - IMF                     G - Shortermn
Net flows                                     ..      ..        56        48
Interest payments                             0        1         4         4
Net transfers                                ..       ..        52        44
Development Economics                                                                                                  9/7/00
- 73 -



Additional
Annex No.: II
Chad
National Transport Plan Support Project
Procurement Capacity Assessment
Summary of Findings and Actions
F             ~~~Risk Assessment
Item Assessed                                                                             Satis-             Major Weaknesses
Null                Poor               Fair           fctory                     Low
Ave.
HighActions
ProposedProposed
Completion Date
(a)      Legal Aspects
(i) Laws & Regulations                                        X                                                   Procurement code needs major
revisions.XA CPAR and a CFAA
review needs to be conducted for
Chad.Before end of FY00
(ii) NCB Procedures                                           X                                                   No standard National procedures
and standard bidding documents
for works, goods and consultants.
XDevelop national SBDs and RFP
as part of capacity building; ensure
IDA prior review of SBD to be
used by Borrower for NCB At
negotiations
(iii) Internal codes and manuals                              X                                                   No procedure manual under the
on-going operation.XProduce a
procedure manual to ensure
adequate coverage of procurement
procedures.Before appraisal and to
be adopted during negotiations
(b) Proc. Cycle Mgmt.
(i) General handling                                                            X                                 Lack of understanding of new
features of Bank proceduresXIDA
SOE review and procurement post
review to be conducted before end
of FY00 to determine procurement
training needs at the level of the
Coordination unit, and
Directorates involved in the
implementation of the future
project. Deliver training before
credit effectiveness, and ensure
proper coaching by a Procurement
specialist at the Country Office.
Before project launch and during
project implementation
- 74 -



(ii) Procurement planning                                      X                                                    Planning is ensured since years by
external TA. It has postponed the
development of national capacity.
XTA should concentrate on
helping national staff to handle
contract planning and
management, instead of providing
substitution assistance.Before
credit effectiveness
(iii) Preparation of documents                                 X                                                    Most bidding documents are for
ICB. In general they are prepared
by consultants and are satisfactory.
XRecruiting a procurement
specialist at the coordination unit
would generate durable national
capacity. Before negotiations
(iv) Management of process                                                        X                                 X
(v) Bid evaluation                                             X                                                    Bid evaluation reports are showing
a total lack of understanding of
niew features of Bank
proceduresXUse of standard
evaluation report is necessary.
Training would also address this
issue.Before credit effectiveness
(vi) Contract award                                                               X                                 X
(vii) Preparation and signing of                               X                                                    There is no systematic quality
conbtacts                                                                                                           control by competent staff before
contract signature.XRecruit a
procurement specialist at the level
of the coordination unitBefore
negotiations
(viii) Contbact management                                     X                                                    XCapacity building during the first
project year.
(c) Organization and Functions
(i) Organization of unit and functions                                            X                                 X
(ii) Intemal manuals and instructions                          X                                                    No intemal manuals and
instructions.XA Procedures
Manual will be prepared. Before
negotiations
(d) Support and Control Systems
(i) Auditing                                                                                       X                X
(ii) Legal assistance                                                             X                                 X
(iii) Technical and administraive                                                 X                                 X
controls
(iv) Code of ethics                                                               X                                 X
(v) Anticorruption initiatives         X                                                                            No initiatives in this area.XCPAR
and CFAA review will address this
issue.Before end of FY00
- 75 -



(e) Record keeping                                                                                                  Copies of records are scattered in
separate files which makes
retrieval difficult. Filing of
documents respond to basic
requirement, but it relies on
individual and filing is scattered in
various units and offices. It is
necessary to re-organize the filing
system. So far there is no special
requirement conceming the period
documents should be kept in files
before be archived.During project
launch and continually during
project implementation
(i) Public notices                                                                X                                 X
(ii) Bidding documents                                                            X                                 X
(iii) Bid opening information                                                     X                                 X
(iv) Bid evaluation reports                                                       X                                 X
(v) Formal appeals and outcomes                                                   X                                 x
(vi) Signed contract documents                                                    X                                 X
(vii) Claims and dispute resolution                                               X                                 X
records
(viii) Comprehensive disbursement data                                                              x               x
(I) Staffmng
(g) General Procurement
Environment
(i) Promoting a culture of                                                        X                                 x
accountability
(ii) Reputation of procurement corps                           X                                                    x
(iii) Salary structure                                         X                                                    X
(iv) Freedom from political interference                                          X                                 X
(v) Existence of experienced and                                                  X                                 Absence of a procurement
capable staff                                                                                                       specialistXSenior program officer
at the coordination unit will take
the lead in procurement and will
be trained for this purposeBefore
Projecteffectiveness
(vi) Clear written standards and                                                  X                                 X
delegation of authority
(vii) Sound budget/financial systems                                              X                                 X
(h) Private Sector Assessment                                                                                       X
(i) General efficiency and                                                        X                                 X
predictability
(ii) Transparency                                                                 X                                 X
- 76 -



(iii) Quality of contract mgmt.                                            I
(iv) General reputation                                                      X                                X
Prior Review Thresholds Proposed                                                              Overall Risk Assessment
Goods US$ I00,000 (equivalent)                                                                                                        High
Works US$ 200,000 (equivalent)                                                                                                   Average x
Consulting finns US$ 100,000 (equivalent). Individuals US$30,000 (equivalent)                                                          Low
Post Review Ratio: One in Four contracts
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed One every six     Form prepared by: Bernard Abeille, Principal Procurement Specialist
months by Country Office procurement staff and procurement specialist from HQ  (January 2000)
during mid-term review. Procurement post reviews should also be conducted at
least very two years.
Comments:
Based on information contained in the assessment, it can be concluded that the
PCU requires improvement in areas of bid evaluation, bidding document
preparation, procurement filing and contract management Apart from the need to
recruit a procurement specialist at the coordination unit and an engineer at the
Directorate for Roads, there seems to be no staffing gap, as the procurement plan
shows only 4 contracts for consulting services, 6 contracts for works and 5
contracts for goods would be managed over the five project years. Also, each
component will be extensively involved in preparation of TORs and Technical
specifications for goods. Most contracts for works are major contracts under ICB.
The National Tender Board is part of the Technical Committee providing clearance
for proposed contract awards. Given the large volume of contract amounts and
potential cases of dispute, it has been agreed that there is a need for hiring a
procurement officer at the Coordination Unit. The newly recruited Procurement
Specialist will need additional training in the new features of Bank procurement
guidelines, and assistance by the Procurement specialist of the Country Office.
Taking into account the need to ensure proper quality of works completed, it has
been agreed to recruit a technical auditor, independent from the financial audit. On
this basis, it has been agreed that one in four contracts not subject to IDA prior
review threshold would be subject to post-review by the Bank.
- 77 -



Additional
Annex No.: 12
Republic of Chad                                            Unity - Work - Progress
Ministry of Public Works, Transport,
Housing, and Urban Development
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT OF THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
ASSESSMENT OF THE IMPACT OF THE NATIONAL TRANSPORT PROGRAM
SUPPORT PROJECT (PAProNaT)
February 2000
i.    Abbreviations and Acronyms
ANAT               National Agency of Aeronautical Activities in Chad
ASECNA             Agency for the Security of Aerial Navigation in Africa and Madagascar
ASST               Health Statistics Annual: Chad
BET                Borgou Ennedi Tibesti
ICDCS              Permanent Interstate Committee for Drought Control in the Sahel
CPR                Road Planning Unit
TCESM              Technical Committee for Environmental Surveillance and Monitoring
EDST               Demographic and Health Survey in Chad
GENiS-RT           Performance-based Maintenance and Management Pilot Program
EIA                Environmental impact assessment
ENTP               National School of Public Works
DAC                Civil Aviation Directorate
DEP                Research and Planning Directorate
DR                 Roads Directorate
DTS                Surface Transport Directorate
HIV                Human immunodeficiency virus
MASOCOT            Subsidized condoms program in Chad
AM                 Accountability Mission
MEW                Ministry of the Environment and Water
MTPTHU             Ministry of Public Works, Transport, Housing and Urban Development
NGO                Nongovernmental organization
PAProNaT           National Transport Program Support Project (2001-2005)
- 78 -



PDLCD                 Master Plan to Combat Desertification
PNLS                  National Program of Action against STD/HIV/AIDS
PNT                   National Transport Program (2000-2009)
PST2                  Second Transport Sector Program
CAR                   Central African Republic
RPR                    Rehabilitation of Paved Roads
SNCT                  National Truckers' Union
STD                    Sexually transmitted diseases
ii.  SUMMARY
1.     Purpose of the study
1.1    The study consists of an environmental impact assessment of the National Transport Program Support
Project (PAProNaT) in Chad in accordance with World Bank Operational Directive OD 4.01. The study focuses on
the components with potentially negative impacts on the environment, namely the "Rehabilitation of paved roads"
(RPR) and "Performance-based Maintenance and Management Program" (GENiS-RT) subprojects.
2.      Descriptions of the assessed subprojects
2.1    The "Rehabilitation of paved roads" (RPR) subproject is a 286 km-long network of currently paved roads
comprising three subnetworks:
*   The northern branch: N'Djamena - Djermaya - Dandi - Karal: 116 km
*   The southern branch N'Djamena - Guelengdeng: 144 km
*   The periurban branch: the N'Djamena and Walia - N'Gueli bypass: 26 km
2.2    The "Performance-based Maintenance and Management program" (GENIS-RT) subproject area covers
441 km of existing unpaved roads providing a continuous link between the towns of Bokoro (143 km) Bitkine (59
k'm) Mongo (129 km) Mangalme (110 km) Oum-Hadjer.
The provisional bidding documents envisage in particular:
*   Preparation of a "draft" longitudinal profile for the roads to be maintained;
*   Maintenance of a specific "level of service", thereby guaranteeing, except for bans on heavy vehicles using the
roads in the rainy season, that the roads are always open, durable, and in a state that allows passengers to travel
in comfort; and
*   Emergency repairs to re-establish normal transit in the event of major unforeseen deterioration.
Neither the layout nor the longitudinal profile of the roads will be altered, except insofar as the profile is raised
by the thickness of the additional layer of asphalt applied in certain sections of the paved roads.  The area
alongside the roads should be cleared and vegetation pruned up to two meters away from the outer edge of the
ditches or edge of the embankment. Drainage system ditches, outlet cones, outlets, retention basins, and any
constructions below the road surface must be kept clean and in perfect working order in the rainy season from
mid-June to mid-September. Emergency repairs could consist of restoring or rebuilding civil engineering works
destroyed by exceptionally heavy rains, for instance.
3.     Institutions and laws governing the environment in Chad
3.1    The Ministry of the Environment and Water (MEW) in Chad was created in July 1997 and comprises five
technical directorates: the Directorate for Forests and Protection of the Environment, the Directorate for National
Parks and Wildlife Reservations, the Hydraulics Directorate, and the Directorate for Fishing and Aquaculture.
-79 -



Throughout the country, Forest Inspectorates represent the MEW in each prefecture.
3.2    The environmental legislation currently in force essentially consists of Law 014/PR/99, which establishes
principles to govern protection of the environment. This framework law defines, inter alia, the required content of
environmental impact assessments and procedures for validating and applying the measures recommended in such
assessments. However, the implementing decree covering projects subject to an environmental impact assessment
has not yet been drawn up.
3.3    Other legal instruments dealing with the environment include the Mining Code, which establishes the
general principle that environmental impacts should be kept to a minimum, and the Water Code, enacted in 1999,
which contains, in particular, regulations regarding waste disposal in waterways. Nearing completion is a Forestry
Code, which, among other things, will establish by-laws for protected areas.
4.      State of the Environment
The natural environment
4.1    The entire RPR subproject area falls inside the Chadian basin formed out of sedimentary materials covered
by sandy aeolian deposits with an average altitude of 300 m. The GENIS-RT subproject area is also partly located
in this basin, although the Bitkine - Mongo section crosses the Guera crystalline rock massif, consisting of a group
of isolated granitic inselbergs rising to a height of over 1,500 m. The soils in the subproject areas are mostly of the
tropical ferruginous type, along with hydromorphic soils in the depressions and along the banks of rivers.
4.2    The two subproject areas are located in the Sahelian strip, which has a fairly pronounced rainy season
stretching from June to September, with between 350 and 400 mm of rainfall. Mean daytime minimum and
maximum temperatures range between 25 degree C and 35 degree C.
4.3    The RPR subproject area has a dense river system around Lake Chad and two significant year-round
waterways: the Chari and the Logone. The area is supplied with water from the extensive Chari-Baguirmi
groundwater system, which is easily accessible, especially alongside the rivers. The GENIS-RT subproject area, on
the other hand, is characterized by the absence of year-round water supplies. The river system, consisting of wadis,
is very sparse, with the exception of a few ponds in which water can still be found in the dry season. There are
scattered groundwater nappes in the Gu ra, but they are often deep and difficult to tap. The layers of alluvial
groundwater nearer the surface have a slow rate of flow: the shortage of safe water is a major constraint in this
region.
4.4    The subprojects are located in the Sahelian-Sudanese bioclimatic area, which is steppe covered with
thomy vegetation and perennial grasses. The original plant ecosystems are subjected to enormous pressure from
successive droughts and, above all, human activity: livestock farming, intensive agriculture, and felling of trees for
firewood. In fact, apart from residual areas of original vegetation located near wadis, the steppes covered with trees
and shrubs frequently give way to grassy steppes overrun by Calotropis procera shrubs and practically devoid of
ligneous vegetation. Only the N'Djamena - Guelengdeng (RPR) section has some recent neem seedlings.
4.5    Wildlife in Chad has become much less abundant in recent decades. Only smaller mammals are to be
found along the subproject routes, although elephants from the Zakouma Park have reportedly been seen in the
rainy season near Bokoro. The protected areas inside the subproject zones are the Abou Telfan wildlife reserve,
which runs alongside the Mongo - Mangalme section, Lake Fitri, 60 km north-east of Bokoro, a biosphere reserve
harboring numerous species of birds, the Mandelia wildlife reserve, which runs alongside the southern branch of
the RPR subproject, and the Douguia hunting reserve, which is crossed by the northem branch of the RPR
subproject.
The human and socioeconomic environment
4.6    In 1999 the population of Chad was approximately 7.5 million or 5.8 inhabitants per km2. A little under
half the population (48 percent) was under 15 years of age and the population growth rate was 2.7 percent per year.
- 80 -



Population densities in the areas covered by the subprojects are shown in the following table.
Table: Population densities in the prefectures on subproject routes
Prefectures      Densit       Rehabilitation of paved          Performance-based
y           roads (RPR)                      Maintenance and Management
lIbab./                                      Program
km2                                           (GENIS-RT)
Cbari-Bagu       19.5         251 km  / 88 %                   65 km  / 15 %
irmi
Guera            6.2                                           345 k   / 78%
Mayo-Kebi        32.3         35 km  / 12 %
Batha            3.7                                           30km  / 7%
4.7    The overall illiteracy rate in Chad is 87 percent. It is higher among women (95 percent) and in rural
areas, where only 35 percent of children aged 6-15 attend school. The education system suffers from a lack of
teacher training and a shortage of primary school classes. In the subproject areas, most of the major settlements
along the routes have a primary school (public, communal, or religious). The basic education (CEG) and secondary
schools are located in the administrative centers of the prefectures and sub-prefectures (Bokoro, Bitkine, Mongo,
Mangalme and Oum-Hadjer in the case of the MMLL subproject). N'Djamena has educational establishments at
all levels, from primary to university.
4.8    The vast majority (96 percent) of dwellings in Chad have dirt floors, only 7 percent of households have
access to safe water, and 89 percent of rural households lack latrines. Four types of settlement are found in the
subproject areas:
* Traditional rural villages along the GENIS-RT and northern branch RPR subproject routes.
* Roadside villages, resulting from the displacement and the later evolution of traditional villages after the road
was paved. These are typically found along the southern branch of the RPR subproject (N'Djamena -
Guelengdeng).
*   Medium-sized towns and large villages: Djermaya and Guelendeng  (RPR), Bokoro, Bitkine, Mongo,
Mangalme and Oum-Hadjer (GENIS-RT)
*   Urban and periurban settlements: on the outskirts of N'Djamena.
4.9    Political and social administration in village communities is based on traditional structures, represented by
the traditional village chief, who acts on the authority of the head of the district (canton), who answers to the
sub-prefect (sous-prefet) or head of the local government office (poste administratij). In rural areas, land rights are
based on prior occupancy and on the soil being put to good use for plantations, farming, or construction. Land is
acquired through inheritance. In theory, strangers can never settle except on rare pieces of land never used by a
community. In towns, it is possible to buy land, but legal purchasing procedures are rarely completed: the legal
occupants frequently lack title deeds. Furthermore, there are still numerous plots of land occupied illegally by
squatters.
4.10    The infant mortality rate in Chad in 1997 was 132 deaths per 1,000 live births, and almost one in five
children dies before the age of five. The main causes of infant mortality are diarrhea, fever, respiratory diseases,
and malaria. In persons over five years of age, the main causes of death reported at health care centers are malaria,
urogenital diseases, diarrhea, and dysentery.
4.11    By January 1999, more than 10,000 cases of AIDS had been reported in Chad. The number has been
- 81 -



rising at an annual rate always exceeding 1,000 since 1993. The prefectures in the southwestern part of the country
are the hardest hit. They account for 76 percent of cases. Activities to combat aids are managed at the national
level by the National Program to Combat AIDS and STD (NPCA/STD). The strategy adopted in 1999 was based
on a decentralized, multisectoral approach in activities designed to combat the epidemic.  Thus there are
STD/AIDS awareness and prevention campaigns in outlying health districts involving various sectors, including
the rural development and education sectors, and local communities. A project to combat AIDS/STD along Chad's
main roads has been prepared at the initiative of the Chadian National Drivers Union; this project will be
cofinanced under PAProNaT.
4.12   In the RPR subproject area, health facilities are heavily concentrated in N'Djamena, with a few outlying
health posts spread along the N'Djamena - Guelengdeng section. The paved road network facilitates access to the
health centers. The GENIS-RT subproject area is much less fortunate, given its distance from the capital and the
state of the road, which is currently impassable during the rainy season. Between the district hospitals of Bokoro,
Mongo, and Oum-Hadjer, there are a number of more or less well-equipped health posts in the main villages along
the road.
4.13    Although women play a very important role performing household activities and earning income (by
engaging in economically important domestic, farming, herding, and socioeconomic tasks) their development is
hampered by the weight of traditional inequalities (undeclared marriages, unequal inheritance rights), inadequate
legislation, and the absence of a Family Law Code, as well as a lower level of formal education than that of men.
Women generally have very little decision-making power.
4.14   The Sahelian zone, in which the RPR and GENIS-RT subprojects are located, is ideal for extensive rain-fed
crop farming: millet, sorghum, groundnuts, etc. Irrigated truck farming (onions, tomatoes, etc.) and pricked-out
sorghum farming (sorghum transplanted when water levels drop) are practiced alongside waterways (the Chari and
Logone, in particular), and on the edges of pools and lakes (especially Lake Chad). Thus, at the beginning of the
dry season huge expanses of pricked-out sorghum can be seen growing on the banks of the Chari, on either side of
the southem part of the N'Djamena - Guelengdeng section.
4.15   The RPR subproject area is devoted mainly to sedentary or short-range migrant livestock farming, whereas
in the GENIS-RT subproject area, long-range herding predominates. In this GENIS-RT area, herds frequently
move alongside the road sections because the Mangalme - Oum-Hadjer route is a much-used seasonal migration
corridor to central Africa and the Mangalme - Bokoro route is one of those most frequently taken to bring cattle
from the eastern territories to the main markets, and particularly the N'Djamena slaughterhouse.
4.16   With its year-round waterways and lakes, the RPR subproject zone is a favorite place for fishing, an activity
that does not yet appear to have been fully exploited. In the GENIS-RT subproject area, on the contrary, the
scarcity of fish has led the Waters and Forest authorities to ban fishing altogether.
4.17   The GENIS-RT subproject area has considerable tourism potential thanks to its impressive landscapes
spotted with striking granitic elevations and the Abou Telfan reserve, which is a natural environment preserved in
the heart of an imposing massif. The rivers and Lake Chad on the RPR subproject routes could also be exploited for
tourist purposes despite the very variable water levels. Nevertheless, little of this potential has been developed,
mainly because of security problems and the poor state of the roads.
5.    Environmental impacts of the subprojects
5.1    As mentioned above, neither of the subprojects contemplates altering the layout of the roads to be
improved, nor any destruction of dwellings, or of collective or private property. The National Transport Program
does not envisage building new roads or airport runways.
5.2    During the civil engineering phase, the main negative environmental impacts will result from:
- 82 -



(i) the establishment of base camps and fixed construction site installations that could potentially cause damage,
soil erosion and pollution, contamination and disturbance of surface waters, induced pollution of groundwater,
destruction of plants, disturbance and harm to wildlife, aesthetically undesirable alterations of the landscape,
on-the- job accidents, transmission of STD/AIDS due to the interaction of personnel with the population along the
route, and air pollution from the (RPR) asphalt coating unit.
(ii) the opening or re-opening of borrow pits and solid rock quarries, which could result in damage, soil erosion and
pollution, contamination and disturbance of surface waters, induced pollution of groundwater, destruction of plants,
disturbance and harm to wildlife, aesthetically undesirable alterations of the landscape, and on-the-job accidents.
(iii) the establishment of mobile construction sites (preparation of the road bed, work on surfacing, road verges,
ditches, drains, and civil engineering structures, which could result in damage, soil erosion and pollution,
contamination and disturbance of surface waters, induced pollution of groundwater, destruction of plants,
disturbance and harm to wildlife, aesthetically undesirable alterations of the landscape, on-the-job accidents, traffic
accidents, noise nuisance and dust emission (GENIS-RT), and endangering of water resources.
The execution phase will, on the other hand, also have positive impacts on local commercial activities and job
creation.
5.3    During the operational phase, the main negative environmental impacts will result from:
(i) the presence of slopes that could cause disturbance of surface waters and soil erosion through run-off;
(ii) the presence of abandoned borrow pits and quarries, which could have a negative aesthetic impact on the
landscape; (but which are often desired by local populations as water accumulation ponds)
(iii) an increase in road traffic induced by the project, possibly causing an increase in soil, surface water, and
groundwater pollution, damage to plants through clearing, disturbance of wildlife, and transmission of STD/AIDS
because of increased interaction between travelers and the population living alongside the roads; and
(iv) increased speed of traffic, which could increase the number of traffic accidents and injuries to and trauma in
the roadside population.
There will be numerous positive impacts during this operational phase. Chief among them are: a more bountiful
supply of inputs and more frequent visits by development and health workers, improved health care training and
schooling, and a decline in the strenuousness of tasks carried out by women.
6.    Measures to improve impacts
6.1    The measures recommended to improve impacts are listed in the tables below. They can be divided into
four categories, depending on the nature of the measures and who will implement them:
*   steps requiring public sector participation: public information campaigns  and public consultations to be
arranged by the borrower MTPTHU, through the Directorate for Roads, the technical implementing agency;
*   "sound environmental practices" on the part of the contractor, to be included in the bidding documents and the
contracts awarded to successful bidders in the form of technical environmental clauses (cf. model in Annex 4 of
the report);
* technical civil engineering measures: these entail additional work to be carried out by the contractor and
should therefore be added to measures contemplated in the initial invitation to bid and itemized in the price
schedule;
*   attendant measures other than those that are traditionally incumbent upon public works contractors, such as
reforestation and STD/AIDS awareness campaigns. These measures will be entrusted to competent
- 83 -



subcontracted operators, using bidding procedures where appropriate. These operators will preferably be
NGOs, or local associations.
7.    Environmental management plan
Environmental surveillance and monitoring
6.2   It will be the responsibility of the MTPTHU, acting through the technical implementing agency, to ensure
that the measures are properly implemented in accordance with the environmental assessment recommendations
(environmental surveillance) and to monitor actual impacts in order to verify whether the measures adopted are
effective (monitoring of impacts).
6.3    For each of the subprojects, a Technical Committee for Environmental Surveillance and Monitoring
(TCESM) will be established, composed of a representative from each of the following departments: the
Environmental Unit of the Directorate for Roads (Chair), the Ministry of the Environment and Water (Directorate
for Forests and Protection of the Environment), and the Ministry of Public Health.
6.4    This select Technical Committee will have a special obligation to conduct environmental surveillance
operations. Its chief initial tasks will consist of including environmental clauses in the bidding documents (BD),
including the technical civil engineering measures to be entrusted to the contractor in the BD, and preparing the
bidding documents and/or procurement contracts for those subcontracted to carry out attendant measures not
entrusted to the principal contractor.
6.5    The Technical Committee will elicit the support of the Accountability Mission (AM) in verifying the
contractor's observance of sound environmental practices and the implementation of the technical civil engineering
measures. Thanks to its ongoing presence in the field and contacts with the contractor, the AM will be best placed
to oversee implementation of the environmental protection measures.
6.6    With respect to environmental monitoring, on-site gathering of impact indicators will be conducted either
directly by the members of the TCESM or by specialists in given areas acting under the supervision of the
Technical Committee. Questions relating to the overall assessment of impacts will be dealt with at meetings of an
enlarged Technical Committee, including, in addition to the members of the select Technical Committee,
representatives of the Accountability Mission (during the civil works phase), prefectures and sub-prefectures, local
communities, and NGOs operating the subproject regions or other associations.
6.7    This enlarged Technical Committee will meet at regular intervals, from the first year following completion
of the works until its members consider that the environmental disruption related to implementation of the
subproject has been adequately mitigated.
6.8    Both the environmental surveillance and monitoring of impacts will be based on simple and
easy-to-measure indicators, known as "objectively verifiable indicators." They will be either descriptive or
performance indicators.
- 84-



Table: Summary of improvement measures and of operators monitoring the impacts on the natural
environment of the Rehabilitation of paved roads (RPR) and Performance-based Maintenance and
Management program (GENIS-RT) subprojects
Impacts               Measures                                                RPR sub-    GENI            Responsibility
project         S-RT        for Execution/
sub-        Monitoring
projec
t
Destruction of        (Op, EC) Redevelopment of borrow pits after work        X               X           Contractor / AM
soil                  is completed
Soil                  (BI, EC) Reconstitution of agricultural land            X               X           Contractor / AM
subsidence
Soil erosion          (Bl, EC) Selection and  conversion  of fixed            X               X           Contractor / AM
installation sites                                      X               X           Contractor / AM
(BI, EC) Selection and adaptation of borrow pits
and quarries                                            X               X           Contractor / AM
(1l, EC) Anti-erosion treatment of drains and           Not justified    X          NGO, Assoc. / D.S.
structures                                                                          MEW
(Op, SW) Protection of areas downstream from            Not justified    X
hydraulic works                                                                     NGO, Assoc. / D.S.
(Op, SC) Stabilization of slopes                        X               X           MEW
(Op, SC) Redevelopment of borrow pits after work        X               X           Contractor / AM
is completed
(Op, SC) Reforestation                                                              NGO, Assoc. l D.S.
MEW
Soil pollution        (BI, EC) Management of liquid pollutants and solid      X               X           Contractor / AM
waste
Pollution   of        (BI, EC) Selection and adaptation of borrow pits        X               X           Contractor/ AM
surface water         and quarries                                                                        Contractor / AM
(Bl, EC) Management of liquid pollutants and solid      X               X
waste
Circulation of        (BI, EC) Management of non-recycled materials           X               X           Contractor / AM
surface water
Pollution   of        (BI, EC) Management of liquid pollutants and solid      X               X           Contractor / AM
groundwater           waste
Destruction of        (BI, EC) Selection  and  conversion  of fixed           X               X           Contractor / AM
vegetation            installation sites                                      X               X           Contractor / AM
(BI, EC) Selection and adaptation of borrow pits
and quarries                                            X               X           Contractor / AM
(BI, EC) Preservation of trees on embankments
emprises)                                               X               X           NGO, Assoc. / D.S.
(Op, SC) Reforestation                                  X               X           MEW
(Op, SC) Enriching vegetation in planted areas                                      NGO, Assoc. / D. S.
MEW
-85 -



Disturbance           (Bl, EC) Selection  and  conversion  of fixed           X               X            Contractor / AM
and                   installation sites                                      X               X            Contractor / AM
destruction of        (BI, EC ) Selection and adaptation of borrow pits
wildlife              and quarries                                            X               X            Contractor / AM
(Bl, EC) Sensitization of personnel to need to
protect the environment                                 X               X           NGO,  -Assoc.
(Op, SC) Reforestation                                  X               X           DS-MEW
(Op, SC) Enriching vegetation in planted areas                                      NGO,   Assoc.
DS-MEW
Disruption of         (BI, EC) Selection  and  conversion  of fixed           X               X           Contractor / AM
landscape             installation sites                                      X               X           Contractor / AM
(Bl, EC) Selection and adaptation of borrow pits
and quarries                                            X               X           NGO,   Assoc.
(BI, SC) Reconstitution and creation of alignments                                  DS-MEW
Phase of the roiect: B: building of infrastructure, Op operation of infrastructure
Execution orocedures:  EC  Technical environmental clauses, SW: Supplementary works to be carried out by the contractor, SC: Subcontracted,
outsourcing (NGO, etc.)
AM: accountability mission (= Engineer) - TCESM: Technical Committee for Environmental Surveillance and Monitoring
DS-MEW: Decentralized Services of the Ministry of the Environment and Water - DS-MPH: Decentralized Services of the Ministry of Public Health
Table:              Summary  of improvement measures and  of operators  monitoring  the  impacts on  the human
environment of the Rehabilitation of paved roads (RPR) and Performance-based Maintenance and
Management Program (GENIS-RT) subprojects
Impacts                      Measures                                        RPR           GENIS        Responsibility for
-RT          Execution/
subpro-       subpro       Monitoring
ject
ject
Dust   and    noise          (BI, EC) Limit dust emissions by watering       X             X            Contractor / AM
nuisance
Destruction of useful        (BI, EC) Preservation of rows of trees          X             X            Contractor / AM
trees                        (Op, EC) Reconstitution and creation of         X             X            NGO,    Assoc.
rows of trees                                                              DS-MEW
Integrity and traffic       (BI/Op) Public participation initiatives         X             X            TCESM,   Contractor,
within villages              (BI, CE) Restrictions and management of         X             X            NGO / TCESM
rubble and backfill                                                        Contractor / AM
Injuries and trauma          (BI, CE) Respect for work safety rules          X             X            Contractor / AM
(Bl, CE) Road signs on building sites and       X             X            Contractor / AM
traffic flow systems
(BI, SW) Road signs and speed reducing          X             X            Contractor / AM
devices
(Bl, SW) Installation of access rarnps for      X             X            Contractor / AM
pedestrians
(BI, SW) Installation of parallel lanes         X             X            Contractor / AM
Air pollution-related        (BI, EC) Limit dust emissions by watering       X             X            Contractor / AM
illnesses                   (BI, EC) Enclosure of the asphalt coating        X             Not          Contractor / AM
plant                                                         justified
STD and AIDS                 (BI, EC) Sensitization and prevention of        X             X            Contractor / AM
STD/AIDS among the workers
(BI, SC) Actions to combat STD/AIDS in          X             X            NGO, Assoc. / DS-MPH
the local population
- 86-



Water removal               (BlIOp) Public participation initiatives        X             X            TCESM,   Contractor,
(Bl, EC) Restitution of developed water        X             X            NGO/TCESM
points                                         X             X            Contractor T AM
(BI, EC) Restitution of base camps (bases      X             X            Contractor / AM
vies)
(Bl, SW) Conversion of borrow pits into
water points
Destruction     and         (BI/Op) Public participation initiatives        X             X            TCESM,   Contractor,
degradation of farm         (BI, EC) Reconstitution of farmland             X             X            NGO / TCESM
land                                                                                                   Contractor / AM
Movement of herds           (Bl, SW) Establishment of parallel routes       X             X            Contractor I AM
(Bl, SW) Provision of cross-over points for    Not           X            Contractor / AM
herds                                          Justified
Promotion         of        (B!, SW) Construction of parking  and           X             X            Contractor AM
commerCial activities       resting areas
Job creation                (BI, EC) Local hiring preference                X             X            Contractor! AM
Destruction       or        (BI/Op) Public participation initiatives        X             X            TCESM,   Contractor,
degradation       of                                                                                   NGO / TCESM
cultural sites
Phase of the proiect: Bl: building of infrastructure, Op: operation of infrastructure
Execution orocedures EC: Technical environmental clauses, SW: Supplementary works to be carried out by the contractor, SC : Subcontracted,
outsourcing (NGO, etc.)
AM: Accountability Mission (= Engineer) - TCESM: Technical Committee for Enviromnental Surveillance and Monitoring
DS-MEW: Decentralized Services of the Ministry of the Environment and Water - DS-MPHt: Decentralized Services of the Ministry of Public Health
Environmental costs
6.9       The costs of the technical and attendant environmental measures are listed in the table below. The cost of
the environment enhancement measures for the RPR subproject is CFAF 92,000,000, or 1.3 percent of the total cost
of the project (CFAF 7,150,000,000). The cost of the environment enhancement measures for the GENIS-RT
subproject is CFAF 147, 000,000, or 2.1 percent of the total cost of the project (CFAF 1,727,000,000 x 4 = CFAF
6,908,000,000).
Table:             Costs of the environmental measures of the Rehabilitation of Paved roads (RPR) subproject
Measure                                            Operator    Unit   Cost    Unit                     Qty      Total cost
CFAF                                          CFAF
Speed reducing devices with markings              Contracto       100,000 /        speed               20       2,000,000
r                               reducing
device
Building of parallel lanes                         Contracto      300,000 /        km                  30       9,000,000
r
Installation of access ramps                       Contracto      50,000 I         ramp                20        1,000,000
r
Building of rest areas (3,000 m2)                  Contracto      6,000,000 /    area                  3         18,000,00
- 87 -



Conversion of borrow pits to water points           Contracto       2,000,000 /    adapted site           10       20,000,00
r.0
Enrichment    of            vegetation    and    NGO                500,000 /        hectare             30        15,000,00
reforestation                                                                                                      0
Actions against AIDS/STD                            NGO             25,000,000       program              1        25,000,00
I                                 ~~~~~~~~~0
Rows of trees                                       NGO             500,000/          2 x 100 trees    4           2,000,000
TOTAL                                                                                                              92,000,00
0
Table:             Costs  of  the  environmental  measures  of  the  Performance-based   Maintenance  and
Management Program (GENIS-RT) subproject
Measure                                            Operator        Unit  Cost    Unit                   Qty      Total Cost
CFAF                                          CFAF
Speed reducing devices with markings               Contractor      50,000 /         speed  reducing    20         1,000,000
device
Building of parallel lanes                         Contractor      300,000 /        km                  40        12,000,000
Installation of pedestrian access ramps            Contractor      50,000 /         ramp                40       2,000,000
Building of cross-over points for herds            Contractor      300,000 /        cross-over          40        12,000,000
Building of parking areas                          Contractor      1,000,000 /      area                10        10,000,000
Ccnvesion of borrow pits to water points           Contractor      2,000,000 /      adapted site        20        40,000,000
Enrichment of vegetation and reforestation         NGO             500,000 /        hectare             40        20,000,000
Actions against AIDS/STD                           NGO             25,000,000 /     program             1         25,000,000
Rows of trees                                      NGO             500,000 /         2 x 100 trees      10       5,000,000
Stabilization of slopes                            NGO             500,000/         km                  30        15,000,000
Stabilization of embankments                       NGO             500,000!         km                  10        5,000,000
TOTAL                                                                                                             147,000,000
-88 -



MAP SECTION






oz   LIl B YA  !  ARAB REP                                         18                                          20
ALGERIA  )--     LIBYA                                                                   CHA  D                                                 Thin ap - proded bIy the.
1---                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~The 6aundoien -Iaon,denainatioen
,'            \., -.s             >--_t            NATIONAL TRANSPORT PLAN SUPPORT PROJECT    dond nyethHnfIoaloownomn
PROJECT                                                                          The Wodd Bank Gacap, any jadgeet
an the legal oaton  aF nay teetitayar
NIGER                                                       ROAD REHABILITATION                          RIVERS                             any ndarselent or cceptnce of
,/ CHAD                                                                              -    -SAOA   AECUSSba,na-aes.
/HA_,--  ROAD MAINTENANCE PILOT PROGRAM              SEASONALWATERCOURSES
SUDAN       *-u-e-- ROAD PAVING                                         SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
N'Di.-en                                                                                    PRFETUECAITL
NATIONAL ROAD NETWORK:                   @    PREFECTURE CAPITALS                   B I   I N E
NI A   ----------    >ALL-SEASON ROAD NETWORK                                              *    NATIONAL CAPITAL                         *  iltine
NIGERIA   /  _
/~CENTRAL                 |- -  DRY-SEASON ROAD NETWORK                                      PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES
r x,  /   CEiNTRAL    '>                                                       --     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES            \, IIO
J CAhMERCiONf   AFRICAN REPUBLIC                         RURAL ROADS AND ACCESS PATHS                                                               Am Z
'D-\rMEM. REP. OF CO'N r -14 0,  14
/   \   (  \   16  /     g                         Haroz-Dlom6o
160
Baga-   '   M ,do                                                                                                                        A6cAhNEM  j)
0Sola                  Nlu
our i                     / Moussorosak
X < <~%s4)                 n.n%%  t    / < w           
Karay IBan                                  Lac Fitri '                   t                                            K _
IL                             16              b                   MOY  ',HA~i~-.  *0Moyto \
t9>rl Vyal    VMa~~~ssaguet                     Bo        o9/                                       -             agpi 
\ ~~~~N'Diam6na   X lC H A R I                             '                                     0Mlo|Gzed
<   i   1        o'                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ar6outc oak~   J, d<    \               ^f-_,              fw
12                              _                              l %\\aorei<>gm              Bitkine          cKlim                                           A       
z)      )>  to~~~nd6lia       \     <y                     (                    tek            
z                                                                                        Temki t  gen Fai    s<                 ~                     A 
t o        >                   t\S                        t    ss                                 z1ass
,.                                                                                               % MAO !0> , ,,.,-  ,     J                    50       100        15Q
i~~~~~~~~~O ngor<                                                                                                                         tioE H;-   .5X....  0 KILOMETERSo
co _   .   I A    ~n   , I /\  S*^\                 \L r\    /      1       w \  .,/         ,  / I  Ul   /       I      _  ,H_R{ _ ,__2r 






16-                                              20'                                               24-
C  H  A  D                                                           NATIONAL ROAD NETWORK:
NATIONAL TRANSPORT PLAN SUPPORT PROJECT                                                             =  ALLSEASON ROAD NETWORK
124                         NATIONAL ROAD NETWORK, 2000-2009                                                             RURALROADSANDACCESSPATHS
-      RIVERS
7 N  -~                                                             -'--- SEASONAL WATERCOURSES
N                                                                          0  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
-"          '~~~~~~~~~~~-~~~~k,  ~ ~ ~  ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~     ~PREFECTURE CAPITALS
N'/'  j  <  sm  s  /                            6S   NATIONAL CAPITAL
j  N . t -   ,  e                      _      PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES
7          Aozo\4            N,~ .                              ---  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
, ~          EH                                             N, Np/,
Zo<uon         / u)0'
-20/                                                               S                                                           N                         20-
| ~   ~     ~     f                                                                               N,4 ] 0 s o a- B   
N    I  G    E   R                                                                ,io,-Ah
N  I G  E R?    |                                  'I        BORKO- ENNEDI - TIBESTI
,                           Xrl;-L<r,esu I
I                            ""'          '                                     Fodo 
j  KANEM         5ull " /            t1-           -
.Mk-RS                                                                       N " BATHA.
t Gorj,rm  /<e                              /oor4 \ , /                                     Mo,o;o ; go,15n0 = A
181 G ~~~~~~~~IE   RIA                               CGRA          yHbE
\'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T 9;,k. Sd                                       
H.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
IG~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
b G.- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~       ~      ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~      0.,
"'YA~~~
b NE-d        =L...=                       L ar g-   ALGERIA  )---,
*4Ndfr.  dg     \>msg=                           
A         " ,,      f   CENTRAL AFRIC  N REPUBLI-t                                      NIGER
/                            Dl         IOD          2?R         300 LbEOMEIRS                                            SUDAN
,t C                               TLhksm=pnT sp-odrebd6,h.eMp,esDg;U&iL=FTh. TWodd BSok       NIGERIA   /  7         '                    i
o     =h. Ik.1d -,y, of .py ,rtd - W -,Id - GA,sp.Rm y                       AFRK-AN REPUBLEC
14'           , r =mpto,,,de ofd,uc b,u,d,,i,.        20-                             ' \        - bTM REP OFCGNCN



