Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER  3426 CD
Development Credit Agreement
(National Transport Program Support Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated  November 20, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3426 CD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated  November 20, 2000, between REPUBLIC OF CHAD (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
Page  2
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the 
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the 
financing of the Project; and
(B)
the Association has received a letter (the “Strategy for the Transport Sector”), 
dated November 19, 1999, from the Borrower, describing therein a program of actions, objectives 
and policies, adopted by the Borrower on September 21, 1999 and designed to strengthen its 
transport sector with a view to reduce poverty and rural isolation and to improve national food 
security (hereinafter called the Program),
 
and declaring therein the
 
Borrower’s commitment to the 
execution of the Program;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to extend 
the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” of 
the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 1999), with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, and the 
existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly renumbered as paragraphs 
(13) through (15):
“12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 11 of Resolution No. 194 of the 
Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; and ‘Participating 
Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries.” ; and
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of any country 
which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, 
such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any 
import of goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is 
prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII 
of the Charter of the United Nations.”
Page  3
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“CFA Francs” or  “CFAF” means Franc de la Coopération Financière en Afrique 
Centrale
, the currency of the Borrower;
(b)
“CISCP” means Cellule Interministérielle de Suivi et de Coordination des 
Projets
, established pursuant to the Borrower’s decree No. 277/PR/MTP/MTAC/89 dated April 
29, 1989 (the CISCP Decree) which will be responsible for: (i) assisting MTPTHU, in particular 
with the maintenance of the accounts and overall financial management of the Project; and (ii) 
general coordination and supervision of the carrying out of the Project;
(c)
“EIA” means Etude d
’Impact Environnemental du Projet d
’Appui au Programme 
National des Transports (PAProNAT
), the three volume environmental assessment 
documentation for the Project, dated June 2000, as the same may be amended from time to time, 
and such term includes any schedules to the EIA;
(d)
“FER” means Fonds d
’Entretien Routier
, the Borrower’s Road Maintenance 
Fund, a public entity established and operating under the Borrower’s laws and regulations 
pursuant to the Borrower’s law No. 014/PR/2000 dated August 17, 2000 (the FER Law), and the 
Borrower’s decree No. 418/PR/MTPTHU/2000 and decree No. 419/PR/MTPTHU/2000, all 
dated September 18, 2000 (the FER Decrees), and referred to in paragraph 1 (c) of Schedule 4 of 
this Agreement;
(e)
“HIV/AIDS/STD” mean Human Immunodeficiency Virus/Acquired 
Immunodeficiency Syndrome/Sexually Transmitted Diseases; 
(f)
“MEE” means Ministère de l
’Environnement et de l
’Eau
, the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Environment and Water; 
(g)
“MEN” means Ministère de l
’Education Nationale
, the Borrower’s Ministry of 
National Education;
(h)
“MMEMP” means the mitigation measures and environmental management plan 
for the Project as described in Section 6 of the EIA;
(i)
“MPED” means Ministère de la Promotion Economique et du Développement
, 
the Borrower’s Ministry of Economic Promotion and Development;
(j)
“MTPTHU” means Ministère des Travaux Publics, des Transports, de l'Habitat 
et de l
’Urbanisme
, the Borrower’s Ministry of Public Works, Transport, Housing and Town 
Planning;
(k)
“NGO” means a non governmental organization operating under the laws of the 
Borrower;
(l)
“Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 3.04 (a) of this 
Agreement; 
Page  4
(m)
“Project Implementation and Procedures Manual” means the manual setting out, 
inter alia
, the administrative, financial and accounting procedures,
the procurement and 
disbursement procedures, and other arrangements to be used for the purpose of implementing the 
Project, referred to in paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 of this Agreement and adopted pursuant to 
Section 7.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes any schedules to the Project Implementation and Procedures Manual;
(n)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(o)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance granted by 
the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement signed on behalf of the 
Association on December 30, 1999 and on behalf of the Borrower on January 11, 2000; 
(p)
“Project Semester” means the six-month period beginning from the Effective 
Date and ending six months thereafter (the First Project Semester) and any six-month period 
beginning at the end of the First Project Semester, or at the end of subsequent Project Semester; 
and
(q)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to fifty million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 50,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the 
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in CFA 
Francs a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, 
and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the 
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date 
and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the 
Page  5
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be July 31, 2006 or such later date as the Association 
shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the date 
of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn 
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 
immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to time 
thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied 
from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association shall 
reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the 
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of 
the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time 
be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall repay 
the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each February 15 and 
August 15 commencing February 15, 2011 and ending August 15, 2040. Each installment to and 
including the installment payable on August 15, 2020 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal 
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the Association's 
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the 
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the 
Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, 
modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by:
(A)
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment 
Page  6
not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; 
and
             (B)
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount of 
the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in paragraph 
(a) above falling six months or more after the date on which the 
Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of 
a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the modification 
referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts 
of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the 
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the 
Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the 
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Parts A, B, C, D and E of 
the Project through MTPTHU, and Part F of the Project through MPED, with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate engineering, administrative and environmental 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, 
works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without 
Page  7
limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan designed to ensure the 
sustainability of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04.
Without limitation to its obligations under Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall, for the purposes of making available its counterpart contribution to 
the financing of the Project:
(a)
open and thereafter maintain, for the duration of the Project, an account in CFA 
Francs (the Project Account) in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association;
(b)
deposit into the Project Account an initial contribution of CFAF 30,000,000;
(c)
thereafter replenish said account up to an amount equal to CFAF 30,000,000 at 
the end of each Project Semester, or whenever its balance shall be less than CFAF 10,000,000; and
(d)
ensure that amounts deposited into the Project Account shall be used exclusively 
to make payments to meet expenditures made or to be made in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services for the Project in addition to those financed from the proceeds of the Credit.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the Association, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the Special 
Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, by 
Page  8
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such 
year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements, records and 
accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such records 
and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the 
Association may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit Account 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of expenditure, the 
Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the Project 
Management Reports or statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Association 
for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph (a) of said 
Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than eighteen (18) months after the 
Effective Date, or such later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project 
Management Reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and projected 
sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report, and (B) shows separately 
Page  9
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during the period 
covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period following the period 
covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) explains 
variances between the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end of 
the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association, 
and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter a 
Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall:
(a)
have the technical quality and quantity of civil works carried out under Parts A 
and B of the Project audited three times a year, starting from the Effective Date, in accordance 
with the relevant provisions of the Project Implementation and Procedures Manual, by an 
independent technical auditor, who shall be employed in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
(b)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than two 
weeks after the end of each audit mission, a copy of the technical auditor’s report; and
(c)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such technical 
audit and said technical auditor, as the Association may from time to time reasonably request.
Section 5.02.   The Borrower shall carry out in a timely manner all actions required to be 
performed by it under the MMEMP, including taking all measures to enable public consultation as 
well as ensuring that contractors implement their obligations as described in the MMEMP.
ARTICLE VI
Page  10
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified: 
(a)
a situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or 
a significant part thereof will be carried out;
(b)
the CISCP Decree governing the operations of CISCP shall have been amended, 
suspended, or waived so as to materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Project; 
and
(c)
the FER Law or the FER Decrees, governing the operations of FER, shall have 
been amended, suspended, or waived so as to materially and adversely affect the ability of the 
Borrower to maintain its national road network.
Section 6.02.
Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified: 
(a)
 the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall 
occur and shall continue for a period of 30 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the 
Association to the Borrower; and
(b)
any events specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the Project Account has been opened and the initial contribution referred to in 
Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement has been deposited therein;
(b)
the Borrower has adopted and  transmitted to the Association the Project 
Implementation and Procedures Manual, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association;
(c)
the Borrower has  appointed the financial auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) 
of this Agreement and the technical auditor referred to in Section 5.01 (a) of this Agreement, all in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
Page  11
(d)
the members of the Management Committee, the Director and the Chief 
Accountant of FER have been appointed in conformity with the Borrower’s decree No. 
418/PR/MTPTHU/2000 dated September 18, 2000; and
(e)
the Borrower has extended, in a manner satisfactory to the Association, the 
validity of the special procurement regime granted to MTPTHU for purpose of implementing the 
Project.
Section 7.02. The date ninety  (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for economic 
promotion and development is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economic Promotion
  and Development 
B.P. 286
N’Djamena
Republic of Chad
Telex:
Facsimile:
 
5329 KD
(235) 51 51 85
(235) 52 00 87
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
Page  12
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District 
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
By /s/ Ahmat Hassallah Soubiane
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Pamela Cox
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
 (1)
Civil works 
35,000,000
  72%
 
(2)
Goods, equipment and
1,350,000
  72%
vehicles
(3)
Consultants’
7,250,000
82%
Page  13
services, training 
and audits
(4)
Operating costs
380,000
              82%
 (5)
Refunding of
390,000
Amount due pursuant
Project Preparation
to Section 2.02 (c) of
Advance
this Agreement
(6)
Unallocated
6,430,000
TOTAL
50,800,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term “operating costs” means the incremental 
expenses incurred on account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, including 
office supplies, utilities expenses, vehicles and equipment operation and maintenance, Special 
Account banking charges, transport, travel, per diem, supervision costs and salaries of locally 
contracted staff, but excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower’s civil service.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for : (a) goods and works under contracts 
costing less than $200,000 equivalent each; (b) services under contracts costing less than $100,000 
equivalent each for consulting firms and less than $50,000 equivalent each for individual 
consultants; and (c)
 
training programs and operating costs, all under such terms and conditions as 
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to support the implementation of the Program which aims at 
reducing poverty and rural isolation and improving  national food security through improved 
year-round access to markets and services especially in the rural areas.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A
: Road 
Investment
1.
Road upgrading and paving on about 104 km of the Ngoura-Bokoro axis and 
Page  14
provision of technical advisory services for the supervision of the works on that axis.
2.
Rehabilitation and strengthening of about 300 km of the Borrower’s  existing 
paved road network and provision of technical advisory services for the supervision of the 
rehabilitation and strengthening works.
Part B
: Pilot Program for Road Management and Maintenance Contract for Unpaved Roads
Carrying out of a pilot program to test the adoption of a performance-based road 
management and maintenance contract for unpaved roads on about 441 km of unpaved roads 
between N’Djamena and Abeche;  provision of technical advisory services to MTPTHU for the 
implementation and supervision of the pilot program.
Part C
 : Road Safety
1.
Improving road safety at dangerous spots in urban and non-urban areas through 
the carrying out of civil works.
2.
Establishment of an accident data collection and evaluation system through the 
provision of technical advisory services to MTPTHU, and acquisition of equipment including 
software and vehicles.
3.
Raising public awareness in support of road safety through the: (i) carrying out 
of training programs for the staff of MTPTHU, the local administrative authorities of N’Djamena, 
the police and other road security authorities and  driving schools; (ii) provision of technical 
advisory services to MTPTHU for the preparation, jointly with MEN,  of teaching curriculum for 
primary and secondary schools; and (iii) carrying out of a road safety awareness campaign for the 
public through the media.
4.
 Developing a comprehensive national road safety plan through the: (i) provision 
of technical advisory services to MTPTHU; (ii) organization of seminars and workshops in 
relation thereto; and (iii) provision of technical advisory services for the revision and 
modernization of the existing legislation on road safety.
Part D
 : Rural Travel and Transport Strategy Development
1.
Developing a national strategy for rural travel and transport through the carrying 
out of studies. 
2.
Carrying out of broad-based participatory workshops in relation with the 
preparation of the rural travel and transport strategy.
3.
Raising awareness of rural communities about the rural travel and transport 
Page  15
strategy through the carrying out of communication campaigns through the local media.
4.
Strengthening the technical capacity of the Secretariat in charge of the rural 
travel and transport strategy within the MTPTHU and selected staff from other Borrower’s 
Ministries and agencies, through the provision of technical advisory services.    
Part E
 : Institutional Support and Capacity Building
1.
Strengthening the technical capacity of transport sector stakeholders including 
MTPTHU staff and selected staff from the Borrower’s other Ministries and agencies, private 
sector representatives and NGOs, through the carrying out of training programs, including for 
environmental assessment and management. 
2.
Provision of technical advisory services for: (i)  the carrying out of technical and 
financial audits of the Project and audit related studies; and (ii) the strengthening of the technical 
capacity of FER.
3.
Strengthening the technical capacity of MTPTHU through the: (i)  carrying out 
of studies relating to the transport sector, including pre-investment and policy studies; (ii) 
acquisition of equipment and vehicles; and (iii) improvement and rehabilitation of office space.
Part F
 :  HIV/AIDS/STD and Transport
Carrying out HIV/AIDS/STD awareness and education campaigns among stakeholders 
along targeted roadways in the territory of the Borrower, through the provision of technical 
advisory services to MPED. 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by January 31, 2006.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I
.Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of Section I of 
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Page  16
Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank member countries” 
and “member country”  shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to “Participating Countries” 
and “Participating Country”.  
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Prequalification
Bidders for the performance-based road management and maintenance contract for 
unpaved roads shall be prequalified in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 
of the Guidelines.
(b)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages estimated 
to cost $20,000 equivalent or more each.
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Works for road safety infrastructure estimated to cost less than $500,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $970,000 equivalent may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of 
the Guidelines.
(b)
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $590,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
Page  17
of national shopping procedures or, failing local availability of such goods, on the basis of 
international shopping procedures
,
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of 
the Guidelines.
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan 
for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and 
works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved 
by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for works and goods  estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Association in January 1997 and revised in September 
1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A 
(the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to “Participating 
Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of 
Page  18
paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  The short list of 
consultants for services estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise 
entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for
 
financial audits may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services under Part E of the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for the 
selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than 
the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
Page  19
apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more
,
qualifications, experience, terms of reference 
and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior 
review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall ensure that, at all times during the execution of the Project:
(a) 
the qualifications, experience and performance of the staff within MTPTHU, 
including in particular the Road Director,  the Surface Transport Director and the members of the 
technical committee in charge of the supervision of the implementation of the MMEMP, and 
MPED, in charge of the implementation of any parts of the Project, shall be satisfactory to the 
Association;
(b)
the FER Director, Chief Accountant, and those members of the Management 
Committee of FER who are appointed  by the Borrower or any of its agencies, shall be appointed 
in accordance with the provisions of the FER Law and FER Decrees;
(c)
FER shall carry out its mandate in compliance with the FER Law and the FER 
Decrees;
(d)
CISCP shall maintain amongst its staff a Coordinator, a Deputy Coordinator and 
a
Chief Accountant, who shall be employed in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.  The Coordinator shall be responsible for the overall coordination 
and supervision of activities under the Borrower’s transport sector projects, including the Project.  
The Deputy Coordinator shall assist the Coordinator;
(e)
CISCP shall  carry out its mandate in compliance with the CISCP Decree; and
(f)
the relevant Ministries, agencies and authorities (in particular, MEE, MEN, the 
police and other road security authorities) shall collaborate with MTPTHU and MPED in 
compliance with the provisions of the EIA and the Project Implementation and Procedures 
Page  20
Manual, in particular, with respect to the appointment of individuals whose qualifications, 
experience, position, and performance are satisfactory to the Association, and who shall assist 
MTPTHU and MPED in ensuring proper implementation of the Project.
2.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall: (i) apply criteria, 
policies, procedures and arrangements set out in the Project Implementation and Procedures 
Manual; and (ii) not amend or waive, or permit to be amended or waived, the EIA and the Project 
Implementation and Procedures Manual or any provision thereof, in a manner which, in the 
opinion of the Association, may materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Project.
3.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with  indicators satisfactory to the Association, the carrying out 
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
not later than the end of the First Project Semester, and not later than the end of 
each Project Semester thereafter, or such later dates as the Association shall request, undertake, in 
conjunction with the Association and CISCP, a joint semi-annual review on all matters relating to 
the progress of the Project and, in particular, the progress achieved by the Borrower during the 
current Project Semester, having regard to the performance indicators referred to in subparagraph 
(a) of this paragraph;
(c)
in view of each joint semi-annual review, cause CISCP to prepare and, not later 
than the first day of each semi-annual review, furnish to the Association, for its comments, a report 
in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the progress of the Project;
(d)
following each semi-annual review, act promptly and diligently in order to take 
any corrective action deemed necessary to remedy any shortcoming identified in the 
implementation of the Project, or to implement such measures as may have been agreed upon 
between the parties in furtherance of the objectives of the Project; and
(e)
promptly after the Effective Date, take all measures necessary on its part to 
organize, in conjunction with the Association, a workshop for the launching of the Project 
implementation which shall cover, inter 
alia, disbursement and procurement procedures and 
detailed timetables for the implementation of the Project.
4.
Midterm Review
(a)
On or about twenty-four months after the Effective Date, the Borrower shall 
carry out jointly with the Association and CISCP a midterm review of the progress made in 
carrying out the Project (hereinafter referred to as the Midterm Review).
Page  21
The Midterm Review shall cover, amongst other things:
(i)
progress made in meeting the Project’s objective; and
(ii)
overall Project performance against Project performance indicators.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause CISCP to prepare and at least four weeks prior to the 
Midterm Review, furnish to the Association a separate report describing the status of 
implementation of each component of the Project and a summary report of Project implementation 
generally.
(c)
The Borrower shall, not later than two weeks after the Midterm Review, prepare 
and submit to the Association an action program, acceptable to the Association, for the further 
implementation of the Project having regard to the findings of the Midterm Review and, thereafter, 
implement such action program.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories 1 through 4 set forth in the table 
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement ;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount of CFAF 2,000,000,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount of CFAF 1,000,000,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 5,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures 
in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
Page  22
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts 
which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such 
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposits into the Special Account at such 
intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower shall, 
at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and 
accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit 
Page  23
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall 
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the 
Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, 
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such additional 
evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the 
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such 
outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the Association all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
