                               Document of
                             The World Bank

                                                  Report No: ICR0000790




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                               (IDA-34260)


                                  ON A

                                 CREDIT


                   IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 50.8 MILLION
                      (US$67 MILLION EQUIVALENT)


                                 TO THE
                           REPUBLIC OF CHAD


                                 FOR A

            NATIONAL TRANSPORT PROGRAM SUPPORT PROJECT


                               July 9, 2009




Transport Unit
Country Department AFCC1
Africa Region

                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                   (Exchange Rate Effective June 2008)
                        Currency Unit = BEAC CFA
                         CFA 1.00 = US$ 0.002353
                            US$ 1.00 = CFA 425

                              FISCAL YEAR
                          January 1 to December 31

                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AAP     Africa Action Plan
ABC     Community Base Associations
AIDS    Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CBA     Community Based Associations
CDV     Conseil et Dépistage Volontaire
        (HIV/AIDS Voluntary Testing Centers)
CEMAC   Communauté économique et monétaire de l'Afrique centrale
        (Economic and Monetary Community of Central Africa)
CISCP   Cellule Interministérielle de Suivi et de Coordination des Projet
        (Interministerial Monitoring and Coordination Unit)
CJM     Commission de Jugement des Marchés
        (Procurement Review Commission)
DCA     Development Credit Agreement
DEP     Direction des Etudes et de la Programmation, Ministère de l' Equipement
        et Ministère des Transports
        (Directorate of Studies and Programs)
DTS     Departement des Transports de Surface
        (Department of Land Transport)
FCFA    CFA Franc
FER     Fonds d'Entretien Routier
        (Road Maintenance Fund)
FM      Financial Management
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
HIV     Human Immunodeficiency Virus
ICR     Implementation Completion Report
IDA     International Development Association
IEC     Information, Education and Communication
IFR     Interim Financial Reports
IRI     International Roughness Index
IRR     Internal Rate of Return
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
MoU     Memorandum of Understanding
MTPTHU  Ministère des Travaux Publics, Transports, Habitat et Urbanisme
        (Ministry of Public Works, Transports, Housing and Urban Planning)
MTR     Mid-Term Review

NGO      Non Governmental Organization
NTP      National Transport Program
OPBC     Output and Performance Based Contract
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PAProNAT Projet d'Appui au Programme National des Transports
         (National Transport Program Support Project)
PDO      Project Development Objective
RMF      Road Maintenance Fund
RTTP     Rural Transport and Travel Program
SDR      Special Drawing Rights
SSATP    Sub-Saharan Africa Transport Policy Program
TSP2     Second Transport Sector Project




                     Vice President: Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
                    Country Director: Mary A. Barton-Dock
                    Sector Manager: C. Sanjivi Rajasingham
                Project Team Leader: Kingson Khan Apara
                   ICR Team Leader: Kingson Khan Apara
                ICR Primary Author: Peter Ngwa Taniform

                                                      CHAD
          NATIONAL TRANSPORT PROGRAM SUPPORT PROJECT



                                                 CONTENTS



Data Sheet........................................................................................................................ i 
A. Basic Information........................................................................................................ i 
B. Key Dates.................................................................................................................... i 
C. Ratings Summary........................................................................................................ i 
D. Sector and Theme Codes............................................................................................ii 
E. Bank Staff................................................................................................................... ii 
F. Results Framework Analysis......................................................................................ii 
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ................................................................... vi 
H. Restructuring (if any)...............................................................................................vii 
I. Disbursement Profile................................................................................................vii 
1. PROJECT CONTEXT, DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN............... 1 
2. KEY FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES............. 6 
3. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOMES............................................................................ 13 
4. ASSESSMENT OF RISK TO DEVELOPMENT OUTCOMES............................. 19 
5. ASSESSMENT OF BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE....................... 20 
6. LESSONS LEARNED.............................................................................................. 22 
7. COMMENTS ON ISSUES RAISED BY BORROWER/IMPLEMENTING
AGENCIES/PARTNERS ............................................................................................. 24 
Annex 2. Outputs by Component................................................................................. 26 
Annex 3. Cost Benefit Analysis................................................................................... 28 
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............ 31 
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results.......................................................................... 33 
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results.................................................. 34 
Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 47 
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 48 
 MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                       National Transport
Country:                Chad                    Project Name:          Program Support
                                                                       Project
Project ID:             P035672                 L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-34260
ICR Date:               07/15/2009              ICR Type:              Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:              REPUBLIC OF CHAD
Original Total
                        XDR 50.8M               Disbursed Amount:      XDR 49.0M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 49.0M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
MINISTRY OF INFRASTRUCTURE
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process          Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                                 Date(s)
Concept Review:        09/16/1999    Effectiveness:                            03/21/2001
Appraisal:             04/25/2000    Restructuring(s):                         06/16/2004
Approval:              10/26/2000    Mid-term Review:                          02/17/2004
                                     Closing:               07/31/2006         01/31/2008


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Substantial
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings                Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:            Moderately Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory            Implementing
                                                Agency/Agencies:       Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
Performance:            Moderately Satisfactory Performance:           Moderately Satisfactory




                                               i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                              QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators           (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project Yes                  Quality at Entry
                                                                     None
at any time (Yes/No):                          (QEA):
Problem Project at any                         Quality of
                          Yes                                        None
time (Yes/No):                                 Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                              Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                               10                 10
Health                                                           1                  1
Roads and highways                                              89                 89


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
HIV/AIDS                                                         20                20
Nutrition and food security                                      20                20
Rural markets                                                    20                20
Rural services and infrastructure                                40                40


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:           Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili        Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:         Mary A. Barton-Dock               Robert Calderisi
Sector Manager:           C. Sanjivi Rajasingham            Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard
Project Team Leader:      Kingson Khan Apara                Andreas Schliessler
ICR Team Leader:          Kingson Khan Apara
ICR Primary Author:       Peter Ngwa Taniform



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The overall development objective was to support the implementation of Chad#s
National Transport Program which aimed at reducing poverty and rural isolation and
improving national food security through improved year-round access to markets and
services especially in the rural areas.



                                              ii

  The underlying justification of the National Transport Program (NTP) was that reliable
year round access to markets and services was an essential ingredient in the broader effort
to reduce poverty and improve food security, and this project contributes towards
achieving this goal.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
Although the project was restructured in 2004 and the scope of some components
revised, its project development objective remained the same.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target      Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value            Values (from        Revised        Achieved at
                                                 approval          Target       Completion or
                                                documents)         Values        Target Years
                10 percent decrease in average rates (in real terms) for goods and passenger
Indicator 1 :   transport, measured in price per ton- km and passenger-km, for transport
                between N'Djamena and the various provincial capitals
                                            10% decrease in                   50% and 39%
Value                                       average rates for                 decrease in vehicle
quantitative or Not Available               goods and                         operating costs for
Qualitative)                                passenger                         trucks and buses,
                                            transport                         respectively
Date achieved 10/31/2000                    12/31/2005                        12/15/2008
Comments
(incl. %        This original indicator in the PAD was difficult to measure, and was replaced by

achievement)    the above proxy (decrease in vehicle operating costs).

                All-year rideability of at least 1800 km of all-year National Road Network
Indicator 2 :   achieved by end of 2005.

Value
quantitative or 500 km                      1800 km                           1900 km
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2000                    12/31/2005                        12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %        This indicator was achieved above target by 5%
achievement)

Indicator 3 :   At least 55% of all-year National Road Network in good or fair condition during
                dry season (by end of 2005).
Value
quantitative or 20 %                        55 %                              50%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2000                    12/31/2005                        12/31/2007
Comments        91% achieved. This includes 1020 km of paved roads and 970 km of permanent
(incl. %        earth roads. See Paragraph 35 for details of some reasons why this was not fully
achievement)    achieved.




                                                  iii

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target       Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value          Values (from                         Achieved at
                                              approval           Revised       Completion or
                                            documents)       Target Values      Target Years
Indicator 1 :  Km of roads rehabilitated and upgraded to paved standard
Value
(quantitative  0 km                      104 km                              104 km
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2000                 12/31/2004                          12/31/2007
Comments       The appraisal target was 100 percent achieved, but after a three years delay and a
(incl. %       74 percent cost increase above the originally estimated cost of US$25.36
achievement)   million.
Indicator 2 :  Km of existing paved roads rehabilitated
Value
(quantitative  0                          286 km                             286 km
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2000                 12/31/2004                          12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %       The appraisal target was 100 percent achieved, but after a three year delay and a

achievement)   74 percent cost increase above the originally estimated cost of US$25.36 million

Indicator 3 :  Performance-based contract for Management and Maintenance of Roads awarded
               by end of 2001.
Value
(quantitative  Not awarded                Contract awarded                   Contract warded
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2000                 12/31/2001                          02/25/2002
Comments
(incl. %       100 percent achieved, with a delay of two months
achievement)

Indicator 4 :  Average travel speed of a 2-wheel-drive car of 50 km/hr by 2003 and thereafter
               on the National Road Network.
Value
(quantitative  0                          50 km/hour                         80 km/hour
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2000                 12/31/2003                          12/31/2007
Comments       160 percent achieved. The two road sections concerned, which were not passable
(incl. %       most of the year, now have reference speeds of at least 80 km/hour, portraying
achievement)   roads in much better condition than before the project
Indicator 5 :  Awareness campaign implemented by end of 2003.
Value                                     Awareness                          No awareness
(quantitative  No awareness campaign campaign                                campaign
or Qualitative)                          implemented                         implemented
Date achieved 12/31/2000                 12/31/2003                          12/31/2007
Comments       0 % achieved. Not implemented because of several challenges and delays in its
(incl. %       execution including limited collaboration between the Ministry of infrastructure
achievement)   and the Municipal Council of N#Djamena.



                                              iv

Indicator 6 :   Accident Data collection and monitoring system implemented by end of 2002.
                                             An operational                   Accident Data
Value           No accident data            Accident Data                     collection and
(quantitative   collection and monitoring collection and                      monitoring system
or Qualitative) system                      monitoring system                 put in place but not
                                            put in place                      operational
Date achieved 12/31/2000                    12/31/2002                        12/31/2007
Comments        The system put in place was not operational because of several challenges and
(incl. %       delays in its execution including limited collaboration between the Police and
achievement)   the Land Transport Department on the collection and analysis of accident data.
Indicator 7 :   Rural Transport Strategy developed by end of 2003
                                                                              Development of an

Value                                                                         investment program

(quantitative   No strategy in existence     Strategy                         for rural roads that

or Qualitative)                             developed                         was to serve 17
                                                                              regions of the
                                                                              country
Date achieved 12/31/2000                    12/31/2003                        12/31/2005

Comments        Instead of a transport strategy, a Priority Investment Program for rural roads to

(incl. %       serve the 17 regions of the country was developed. This was judged during the

achievement)   MTR as a practical response to the needs of the rural poor who constitute the
               majority.

Indicator 8 :   Establishment of a Second Generation Road Maintenance Fund and Board fully
                functional by mid- 2001.

Value                                        Second                           Second Generation
(quantitative   No Road Fund in             Generation Road                   Road Maintenance
or Qualitative) existence                   Maintenance Fund
                                            and Board in place                Fund and Board

Date achieved 12/31/2000                    06/30/2001                        12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %        100% achieved
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                    Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived                 DO                           IP              Disbursements
                                                                               (USD millions)
  1     12/14/2000            Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     05/24/2001            Satisfactory            Highly Satisfactory                   1.62
  3     11/21/2001            Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      4.14
  4     04/01/2002            Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      5.33
  5     09/30/2002            Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     12.20
  6     12/23/2002            Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     14.08
  7     05/21/2003            Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     16.40
  8     10/28/2003            Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     21.90
  9     03/21/2004            Satisfactory               Unsatisfactory                    25.21



                                                 v

  10  06/18/2004        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                    25.21
  11  12/15/2004        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                    28.09
  12  02/09/2005        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                    29.79
  13  06/27/2005        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                    38.98
  14  12/20/2005        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                    57.42
  15  05/25/2006        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                    66.71
  16  12/26/2006        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                    67.86
  17  06/29/2007        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                    68.84
  18  12/21/2007        Satisfactory     Moderately Satisfactory              69.59



H. Restructuring (if any)

                          ISR Ratings at  Amount

Restructuring    Board     Restructuring Disbursed at   Reason for Restructuring &
    Date(s)    Approved                 Restructuring
              PDO Change                                     Key Changes Made
                             DO     IP     in USD
                                           millions
                                                       To enable the attainment of
                                                       component objectives. Reduced
  06/16/2004        N         S     U        25.21     scope of the small components
                                                       3 and 4 to meet financing gap
                                                       for the big components 1 and 2.




I. Disbursement Profile




                                       vi

1. PROJECT CONTEXT, DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      The Republic of Chad is one of the world's poorest countries. In 1999, an
estimated 80 percent of its population of seven million lived on less than a dollar a day.
This situation was as a result of a combination of several factors, including: political
instability, rapid population growth, and an unfavorable physical environment with a low
population density over a large, landlocked, and arid country covering 1.3 km2. As
identified in the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) dated May 1999, Chad at the time
had very limited prospects, unless it seized the opportunity of exploiting its oil and made
the best use of the income generated. The gross domestic product (GDP) at appraisal was
a negative 0.7 percent but it was projected to increase steadily during the implementation
phase of the project due to oil revenues. GDP did indeed grow steadily from its pre-
project level to a 38 percent high in 2005 when Chad started marketing its oil.
Nonetheless, it was a rather short-lived euphoria as GDP has since plummeted to its
current level of 1.3 percent. In addition, this review is taking place within an even more
tumultuous country context than was the case in 1999, as it is marked by civil unrest
resulting from constant military confrontations between government forces and rebel
insurgents based in neighboring Sudan (although the government holds a contrary view
that "the political environment is generally stable, compared to the situation that
prevailed in the 1990s" (Annex 7). The government's contribution to this Implementation
Completion Report (ICR), however, recognizes that "peace and security throughout the
country represent a great challenge for the government and will continue to divert
financial resources that might have been used for development projects".

2.      Bank operations have been suspended twice since 2007, including the temporary
closure of the country office during most of 2008, due to poor governance and repeated
rebel attacks on the capital city of N'Djamena. The causes and effects of the difficult
general dialogue with the Bank, a situation that was not foreseen at project inception,
later became a major constraint to the Bank's entire portfolio in Chad. This project and
other Bank-financed operations need to be assessed with this in mind. In this respect, and
despite some design weaknesses and implementation delays as discussed in this ICR, the
substantial outcome and achievements of this project in such a difficult country
environment are worthy of praise, and the quality of decisions taken by both the
government and the Bank teams during implementation to minimize these externalities
needs to be recognized.

3.      The project was prepared within a context of extreme isolation and poor internal
integration of Chad. A limited and unreliable all-year-round transport system generated
numerous agricultural enclaves, where the high cost of transport hindered the inflow of
inputs and consumer goods in rural areas, while hampering the outflow of production to
food-deficit regions and urban centers. The government feels that the problems of
isolation and poverty targeted under the project are complex and so deeply rooted that
they require a long time to resolve, and would thus like to see a follow-up operation
along the same lines as this project.



`                                             1

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

4.     The PDO of the project was to support the implementation of Chad's National
Transport Program (NTP) which aimed at reducing poverty and rural isolation and
improving national food security through improved year-round access to markets and
services especially in the rural areas. The project was to contribute towards achieving
this goal, through reliable year round access to markets and services as this is an essential
ingredient in the broader effort to reduce poverty and improve food security.

5.     The specific performance indicators for the Bank-financed project, National
Transport Program Support Project, in French Projet d'Appui au Programme National
des Transports (PAProNaT) which is a part of a much larger and multi-sectoral effort of
the Government and the entire donor community, were consistent with the overall
indicators for the NTP, but focused on specific physical outputs and on impacts in the
limited geographical areas in which the project interventions took place.

6.     The outcome/impact indicators against which the Government and IDA agreed to
measure the project performance include:

     A 10 percent decrease in average rates in real terms for goods and passenger
        transport (measured in price per ton and passenger/km respectively) for transport
        between the provincial capitals East of N'Djamena and the national capital
        N'Djamena (by end 2005);
     Year round access of at least 1800 km of all-year National Road Network
        achieved (by end 2005);
     At least 55 percent of all-year National Road Network in good or fair condition
        during dry season (by end 2005).

    The output indicators were:

     Approximately 100 km of the core National Road Network are upgraded to
        paved standard (by end 2004);
     Periodic Maintenance and Strengthening of at least 200 km of existing paved
        roads completed (by end 2004);
     Establishment of a Traffic Accident Data collection and evaluation system on a
        National level (by end 2002);
     First Road Safety Awareness media campaign completed (by end 2003);
     Performance-based         Road     Management     and   Maintenance      contract   for
        approximate 441 km of unpaved roads awarded (by end 2001);
     Average travel speed of 50 km/hour for 2-wheel-drive cars achieved at all times
        on the all-season National Road Network (by end 2005);
     National Strategy for Rural Travel and Transport completed (by end 2003).

7.     The positive results of the project, as discussed in this report, portray the overall
success of the NTP which will be evaluated with support from the ongoing Bank-
financed CEMAC Transport and Transit Facilitation Project.



`                                            2

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key
    Indicators, and reasons/justification

8.      There were no formal changes made to the PDO or key indicators during the
implementation of the project.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

9.      The primary target groups identified in the PAD were the rural population at large
living in the wider zone of influence of the National Road Network, through better access
and lower transport costs; and road users, through improved road conditions and reduced
vehicle operating costs.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

Component 1 ­ Road Investment ­ (US$60.90 million; Bank financing US$44.26
million)

10.     The objective of this component was to contribute to improved year-round access
to markets and services by rehabilitating or upgrading 390 km of key links in the
National Road Network. Its two sub-components were: (i) road upgrading and paving,
which was to upgrade the 104 km Ngoura-Bokoro road section of the West-East corridor
from an unpaved road in poor condition to a paved all-season road; and (ii) rehabilitation
of about 286 km of existing paved roads to extend their useful life. While the roads to be
rehabilitated were still in reasonably good condition, it was deemed necessary and timely
to undertake preventive road strengthening works as they had began to show increasing
signs of aging and deterioration.

Component 2 ­ Pilot Program for Performance-based Management and
Maintenance for unpaved roads ­ (US$19.57 million; Bank financing US$14.24
million)

11.     This component was designed to contribute to improved year-round access to
markets and services while testing a new performance-based contracting method through
a pilot contract on unpaved roads during a four-year period. The pilot contract covered
the initial upgrading and the maintenance of a stretch of 441 km of unpaved main road
along the main East-West road axis between N'Djamena and Abeché: (i) Bokoro ­
Bitkine -143 km; ((ii) Bitkine - Mongo-59 km; (iii) Mongo - Mangalmé-129 km; (iv)
Mangalmé - Oum Hadjer ­ 110 km to ensure all-year access.

Component 3 ­ Road Safety ­ (US$2.04 million; Bank financing US$1.50 million)

12.     This component was designed to promote road safety in Chad through: (i) the
establishment of a traffic accident data collection and evaluation system; (ii) the
financing of a road safety awareness campaign; and (iii) the implementation of physical
measures to improve accident-prone spots in the capital city of N'Djamena and other
urban areas and (iv) conducting a national road safety study and action plan.



`                                            3

Component 4 ­ Rural Transport Strategy Development ­ (US$1.24 million; Bank
financing US$1 million)

13.     The objective of this component was to contribute to facilitate access to the rural
population, mostly poor, to markets and to economic and social goods and services
(inputs to rural production, markets, health clinics, government administrative services,
schools, etc.). This component was divided into five sub-components: (i) studies, to
stimulate discussion and generate recommendations for an overall Rural Transport
strategy; (ii) workshops, to ensure a broad-based participatory approach during the
definition of the Rural Transport Strategy; (iii) study tours to visit other countries in the
region with existing Rural Transport Strategies; (iv) publicity to share, experience and
disseminate information; and (v) support to establishing a Rural Transport and Travel
Program (RTTP) secretariat in Chad.

Component 5 ­ Institutional Support and Capacity-Building ­ (US$6.27 million;
Bank financing US$5 million)

14.     The objective of this component was to strengthen the capacity of the Ministry of
Public Works, Transport, Housing and Urban Planning (MTPTHU) and other
stakeholders in the transport sector, both to implement the NTP and in a more general
sense, to carry out their assigned tasks and functions. Specific sub-components included:
(i) training targeted at both the public and the private sectors, including non-
governmental organizations (NGOs) such as transporters unions; (ii) consultant services
for technical and financial audits, support to the Road Maintenance Fund (RMF),
transport sector pre-investment and policy studies; (iii) improvements to office
infrastructure and purchase of some office equipment; and (iv) funding of incremental
operating costs of the Inter-ministerial Monitoring and Coordination Unit (CISCP) and
other units involved in project execution.

Component 6 ­ HIV-AIDS and Transport ­ (US$0.61 million; Bank financing
US$0.5 million)

15.     This component's goal was to contribute to reducing the risk of increased
HIV/AIDS infections along major domestic and international roads in Chad, through the
promotion of AIDS awareness and education campaigns. The component was to finance
technical advisory services, media awareness and workshops.

Revised Components

16.     The project underwent revision on components 1, 3 and 4 as described in this
section. These changes, however, did not affect the objective of the project, and hence,
did not require Board approval.

17.     The road sections to be strengthened under Component 1 were part of the North-
South main road axis of Chad between Ngaoundere in the South and Lake Chad in the
North; they were still in reasonably good condition at the time of project appraisal.
However, some important sections suffered unexpected and catastrophic pavement failure
soon thereafter, due to heavy traffic by overloaded trucks used for the construction of


`                                            4

another road further to the South. It should be noted that overload on a pavement
structure has been shown to have a rapid and exponential adverse effect which can lead to
fatigue and subsequently pavement failure within a short period if nothing is done. The
complete redesign of the road works required major reconstruction as opposed to the
minor rehabilitation as originally planned.      This was the right solution under the
circumstances, the additional cost notwithstanding. The resulting heavy cost increase
made it impossible for the project to fund the upgrading of the road between Ngoura and
Bokoro from the IDA credit. During the mid-term review (MTR) it was agreed to drop
the paving of the road between Ngoura and Bokoro from IDA financing, and a case was
made for the government to finance it from its oil revenues.

18.     The government readily accepted to use its oil revenues to fund the upgrading of
the Ngoura ­ Bokoro road. Its responsiveness to this unforeseen situation that could have
compromised a major project outcome is worthy of praise. Legal project documentation
therefore does not reflect the true financial contribution of the government to the project
which more than doubled from US$24 million to US$51 million (see Annex 1, Table 1.2-
24 percent as originally envisaged and shown in the Credit Agreement, to 51 percent in
actual practice) when it financed the upgrading of the Ngoura ­ Bokoro road.

19.     The Road Safety component and the Rural Transport Strategy components were
also reduced in scope and restructured as discussed in Section 3 below (Outputs by
Components).

1.6 Other significant changes

20.     Amendment of DCA. There were three reallocations of credit proceeds. The first
one, early on during the project execution in 2001 which changed the disbursement
percentages for three of the six expenditure categories and was made in response to
changes in the Chadian tax legislation. Contrary to previous arrangements, under which
donor-financed contracts were tax-exempt, the new legislation now made it mandatory,
that all contracts signed include all taxes (including the 18-percent Value-Added-Tax)
and custom duties, if applicable. This increased the disbursement percentages of three
categories (civil works, goods and consulting services). The second amendment made
after the mid-term review in 2004 was due to restructuring of the project which
constituted cancellation of the road paving sub-component (Ngoura-Bokoro road--which
the government agreed to finance with the oil revenues) and the redesign of the rural
transport and road safety components (Schedule 2 of DCA). The amendment also
included reallocation of resources under Schedule 1 of the DCA, mostly to civil works
category in order to cover the higher-than-expected cost for civil works; consulting
services for supervision of works due to increase in duration of works; reduction in
purchase of goods, due to availability of government funds for this purpose, and increase
in operating costs. The third which was done in 2005, at which time, the extension of the
project was to fine-tune final expenditure estimates for the various categories for the
remaining project duration.

21.     Extension of the Project. In October 2005, the project closing date was extended
by eighteen months, from July 31, 2006 to January 31, 2008, to complete the large works



`                                             5

contract for the rehabilitation of Guelengdeng ­ N'Djamena ­ Dandi which was delayed
due to cancellation of the original works contract as the previous contractor was unable to
execute the works (see also paragraph 35), thus resulting in loss of time. Without the
completion of this contract, the objective of the project could not have been fully met.

22.     Another objective of the extension was to keep the Bank involved as a leader and
coordinator in the increasingly sensitive country dialogue involving key donors. The
dialogue mainly covered emerging transport budgetary issues, such as the overall
budgetary imbalance caused by unplanned spending on road and social infrastructure
investments. These were becoming a major concern for the Bank, the International
Monetary Fund and other donor partners.

23.     Extension of the ICR delivery date. A related change was the extension by
almost twelve months of the delivery date of this ICR. At the time when this ICR was to
be prepared, civil unrest in Chad caused the closure of the Country office and rendered
impossible the interaction with the government which is a requirement for the completion
of an ICR.

2. KEY FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Preparation

24.     Project preparation benefited from the existence of a previous IDA-funded
Second Transport Sector Project (TSP2). Through the TSP2, the Bank was able to
support the government in the preparation of the broad National Transport Program
(NTP). This included: (i) the funding of preparatory studies and participatory workshops,
(ii) substantial technical support by Bank staff to the government in the definition of key
transport sector policies to be reflected in the National Transport Sector Program, (iii) a
strong role of Bank staff in the coordination between the government and numerous
donor agencies, with the objective to ensure the financial support of those donors for the
investments planed under the National Transport Sector Program. This allowed the
government to actually mobilize from external sources the full US$460 million of
investment funding required under the program, with the Bank (IDA) providing only
about 15 percent of the total amount. The existence of a detailed Transport Sector
Program and Investment Plan made it easier for donors to provide funding without
having to spend additional time and resources on project preparation. On the Bank's
side, project preparation (and support to the preparation of the government's NTP) was
conducted by a team of specialists with the right skills mix (see Annex 4). A Project
Preparation Facility in the amount of US$500,000 helped the government to fund some of
the preparation activities. Design studies and cost estimates were completed prior to
project appraisal, and their conclusions and recommendations were reflected in appraisal
decisions. The preparation of the project also took much less time than the typical
average of two years for similar infrastructure projects in Africa, for two reasons: (i)
some of the preparation activities were carried out under the earlier TSP2 project, and (ii)




`                                             6

there was a well-established implementing agency staffed with an experienced manager
and well-qualified accounting staff. Hence project preparation is rated as Satisfactory.

Project Design

25.    The project was consistent with the Bank's CAS for Chad, discussed May 23,
2000, which emphasized the importance of removing infrastructure constraints toward
private sector-led growth and poverty alleviation. It specifically proposed to concentrate
the Bank's assistance in the critical areas of education, health, rural development and
transport. The project and its development objectives were equally consistent with (and
were directly derived from) Chad's National Transport Program (NTP) as discussed in
Section 1 above. It is also consistent with the recent CAS of the year 2003 which
emphasized the alleviation of infrastructure constraints to help reduce vulnerability,
especially for the poor,

26.    Project design was innovative and responsive to Chad's specific country
conditions. The definition and economic analysis of transport sector investments under
the NTP and the project did not depend solely on traditional economic appraisal methods
which do not favor areas with low population densities and low levels of economic
activities, such as in Chad. Applying traditional economic analysis and typical minimum
threshold values for Internal Rate of Return (IRR) would have prevented most road
investments in Chad. Instead, the NTP and the project focused on the functionality of a
coherent backbone national road network which was needed to provide access to markets
and services, and ensure the internal integration of the country. The project also
introduced the innovative concept of Output and Performance based Road Contracts
(OPRC) to Chad and to Africa, as this was the first time that such a concept was executed
in Africa. Its success has led the government to continue using OPRC contracts with its
own funding. Given its invaluable educational value, this contract was considered to
serve as showcase and field training for road maintenance contractors and consultants.
Other countries have followed suit and are now also using such contracts. Other donor
agencies (especially the European Commission) are now utilizing OPRC contracts in
several countries. The advantage of this type of contract as against the traditional road
maintenance contract is that the contractor is not paid for actual work done but rather for
a specific road service level reached and sustained over a multi-year contract duration.
This is more beneficial for the road users themselves who are more concerned with the
road surface and equipment than its structure. It also allows the contractor to organize
the works more freely and effectively to reach the desired service level. It also requires
less supervision from the government than is required for traditional quantity based
works.

27.    Project Design is rated as Satisfactory.

Quality at Entry

28.     The design of the National Transport Program and of the project rightly included
a fair amount of technical assistance to support project implementation, as a way of
mitigating risks that could be associated with the relatively weak technical capacity of the



`                                            7

implementing agency. In particular, the regular technical audits executed by an
independent auditor are to be mentioned, as they served not only as a control mechanism,
but also as a useful technical support to the Ministry of Infrastructure.

29.     The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) documented the project and its
background particularly well and assessed key potential risks that could have jeopardize
implementation. A shortcoming, however, was the lack of agreed monitoring and
measurable indicators for the smaller project components and sub-components which
were to be developed only during implementation (HIV/AIDS and Transport,
Environmental Management Plan). Also, at appraisal some of the key project indicators
had no baseline data as shown in Table 2.1 of Annex 2. One must keep in mind that at
the time when this project was appraised, the M&E was still in its infancy stage and had
not been developed as it is now for all Bank funded projects.

30.     Lessons of earlier operations, notably the Second Transport Sector Project, were
taken into account in the design of the National Transport Program and of the project, and
this was described well in the PAD. Also, experience from other Bank-funded projects
and of the Sub-Saharan Africa Transport Program (SSATP) was taken into consideration
in the design of the Rural Roads component, including the choice of suitable indicators
and the financing methods for rural roads.

31.     A highly participatory approach was used during the preparation of the NTP
which included many stakeholders within Chad as well as the donor community active in
the sector, in order to support the substantial funding for the government's National
Transport Program.

32.     The design of the HIV/AIDS component of the project was based on the
recognition that a joint approach of the Health and Transport sectors was needed to
achieve the expected outcomes. As a result, a five year program of transport-specific
activities was developed by the staff of Chad's National AIDS Program, Programme
National de Lutte contre le SIDA (PNLS) with input and support from the transport
sector, in particular the National Trucker's Union Syndicat National des Chauffeurs
Tchadiens (SNCT) who led the implementation of the program. The project thus avoided
duplication of efforts, by supporting and strengthening the existing government program
PNLS through the provision of funding for the transport sub-program of the PNLS.

2.2 Implementation

Factors within the control of the implementing agency/government

33.     The project faced a number of challenges during implementation which led to
delays and/or increased costs. The most important challenge occurred under the Road
Investment component as explained in Paragraphs 17 and 18 above.

34.     The Bank conducted a Mid Term Review (MTR) of the project in February 2004,
and assessed the overall progress of the project toward achieving its development
objectives. Based on the findings of the MTR, the Bank team made recommendations for
the remaining phase of the project. The main recommendations related to: (i) the


`                                             8

reduction in scope of the road safety and the rural transport components, with the costs
savings to be allocated to the Road Maintenance Component, and (ii) the mobilization of
additional financing by the government for the Ngoura-Bokoro road upgrading works, as
further developed and explain in section 3 below.

35.     On December 29, 2005, the National Assembly passed amendments to the
Petroleum Revenue Management Law, substantially weakening programs that were
intended to improve the lives of poor people and instead allow for increased spending on
justice, territorial administration, and security. As a result, the Bank subsequently
withheld new credits, suspended disbursement of IDA funds allocated to Chad, and froze
the escrow oil revenue account. Following the signing of a Memorandum of
Understanding (MoU) between the Bank and the Government of Chad on July 13, 2006,
these sanctions were lifted. The six month sanction slowed implementation progress
slightly but did not have any dramatic consequences on the project.

36.     Other factors within the control of the agency/government are discussed in
Section 2.4 below on safeguards.

Factors outside the control of the implementing agency/government

37.     A major setback during the initial implementation phase was the termination of
the major civil works contract for the strengthening of existing paved roads under
Component 1, when it became evident that the selected contractor, although a large
international firm, was in financial distress and incapable of executing the contract. The
termination of the contract and the re-launching through a new procurement process took
eighteen months. It is estimated that the default of the contractor may have generated a
cost to the government of up to US$6.7 million, essentially due to the additional works
required to remedy the accelerated physical deterioration of the road that continued until
the works resumed.

38.     Another major negative factor for the project was the significant depreciation of
the SDR (in which the IDA credit was denominated) vis-à-vis the national currency
FCFA (in which most contracts were signed) resulting in a shortfall of Bank financing.
The exchange rate of SDR1.00 = CFA 950 at negotiations fell steadily by 41 percent to a
low CFA 560 at project completion.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

39.     M&E design: In addition to the qualities discussed in Section 2.1, this project
included two key monitoring innovations: The OPBC concept which was designed with
emphasis on results as opposed to the classical input-based approach of contract
implementation. This enabled the supervising engineer and monitoring staff to spend
quality time focusing on output delivery (specified road service levels). The other
monitoring innovation was the introduction in the project of the concept of recurring
technical audits, designed to: (i) detect mistakes and deficiencies in all technical aspects
of the project, and (ii) provide neutral technical advice to the government. An
internationally reputed highway engineer consultant was recruited as a technical auditor



`                                            9

on a long term contract to visit Chad three times a year over five years to oversee and
correct discrepancies especially on the complex civil works contracts and provide
additional technical assistance to the implementing agency when and where needed.

40.     M&E implementation: Monitoring and evaluation was considered satisfactory
throughout project implementation until the last ISR which rated it moderately
unsatisfactory because of inadequate data on a major indicator concerning transport costs.
This ICR endorses this final rating of "moderately unsatisfactory", which reflects a
weakness that is equally shared by the government in its contribution to this ICR (Annex
7). Although the indicators used were for the most part measurable, the first indicator
"10 percent decrease in average rates in real terms for goods and passenger transport", on
the two road components that took 90 percent of project funding, was found to be too
complicated to measure and depended on many variables which were external to the
project. This difficulty was reflected at the end of the project by the lack of credible data
for this indicator, despite efforts during implementation to improve data collection,
including transferring this responsibility from the Ministry of Infrastructure to an
independent agency.

41.     Nonetheless, a beneficiary survey carried out at the end of the project by a
government consultant to define proxies for this indicator established a 50 percent
decrease in vehicle operating costs for articulated, medium and heavy trucks and 39
percent for buses.    Other proxy indicators such as reduced travel time and increased
traffic have been factored into the economic analysis discussed in Section 3 and Annex 3
of this report.

42.     Project monitoring was under the responsibility of the Ministry of Infrastructure
through its technical departments and the CISCP. Reporting was consolidated in a single
quarterly report covering all major activities by the CISCP. Financial management audits
were carried out promptly (except in the last year for the reasons discussed in Paragraph
45 below) and their recommendations were taken into account during further
implementation.    Monitoring was further enhanced by an experienced international
highway engineer who conducted frequent reviews on all aspects of the project and
helped prepare a road maintenance strategy as part of the NTP agenda.

43.     M&E utilization: Other project indicators were used to monitor project progress
and achievements under the NTP. Data on the budget and on the road investment costs
was used by macroeconomic missions for various analyses. The same data has been used
for this ICR.

44.     Supervision missions, external reviews and audits, were used as a basis for
assessing the achievement of targets and planning the way forward. The project was the
subject of two supervision missions on average every year. The aide-memoires were
complete and detailed, and went beyond the mere supervision of the project. During each
supervision mission, the Bank team carried out a broad review of the transport sector and
made detailed recommendations to the government; these recommendations were
generally followed. In practice, the Bank team provided continuous broad technical




`                                            10

support through permanent dialogue which was conducted by email and telephone
outside the field mission's periods.

2.4     Safeguards and Fiduciary Compliance

Environment

45.     Bank Operational Policy statement OP 4.01 on Environmental Assessment was
the only safeguards policy triggered for this category B project. Ratings were either
"highly satisfactory" or "satisfactory" during implementation. This ICR rates safeguards
compliance "moderately satisfactory". Environmental aspects of the project were
addressed in two separate but complementary studies carried out during preparation; a
sector-wide environmental framework assessment conducted in the context of the
National Transport Sector Strategy, and a specific assessment of the environmental
impact of the individual investments of the project. An Environmental Management Plan
that was derived from these studies included the establishment of an Environmental
Protection Unit within the Department of Roads, whose primary role would be to ensure
compliance by contractors with environmental safeguard dispositions in works contracts.
Although the unit did not fulfill its mission adequately due to capacity constraints, no
major environmental concerns were noted during implementation. Issues observed after
the civil works included; inadequate restoration of parking lots and contractor's camp
sites, and increased deforestation and bush meat business along roads under the
maintenance program.

Financial Management (FM)

46.     Overall, the FM system in place is rated moderately satisfactory although in
October 2003, the financial management of the project was rated as the best of all Bank-
financed projects in Chad. The system began to deteriorate starting from 2006 due to
weaknesses from the government and the Bank as well, for example the FY06 audit
report was qualified. At the time of this ICR, the 2007 audit report has not been submitted
to the Bank in spite of multiple reminders. In addition, during the course of
implementation, unaudited Interim Financial Reports (IFRs) were submitted with various
delays.

47.     From 2005, following the decentralization of the Bank's disbursement services to
South Africa, the project witnessed serious disbursement delays which can be attributed
to the Bank's internal difficulties and inefficiencies after the decentralization. In fact, at
the time of this ICR a consulting firm that provided technical assistance to the project
complained that a payment request to its order that was submitted to the Bank during the
grace period had not been paid more than a year later. The claim was finally paid in
March 2009 (thirteen months following the closing date) after disbursement staff had
made a request to the Loan Department of the Bank to be authorized to re-log and process
the claim.

Counterpart Funding




`                                            11

48.    Counterpart funding requirements for this project were ultimately met when
outstanding arrears in the amount of FCFA 681 million at the end of the project were
fully paid by the government in 2007. However, counterpart funds had been disbursed
with delays and in insufficient amounts during the life of the project. As a result, the
counterpart fund account held by CISCP at a commercial bank was sometimes
overdrawn. Due to the government's long-standing difficulties with provide counterpart
funding, the DCA was amended to increase the financing percentages for Category 1
(Works) from 80 to 83 percent) and Category 4 (Incremental Operating Costs) from 82 to
100 percent).

Procurement Performance

49.    The performance of the implementing agencies in procurement was satisfactory.
All contracts were awarded according to procedures despite slight delays with bid
evaluations at the level of the Procurement Tender Board. This was achieved even in the
absence of a dedicated procurement specialist within the implementing agency.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

50.    The Chad component of the follow-on CEMAC Transport and Transit Facilitation
Project was designed to pursue and consolidate the objectives of the closed project.
During the ICR mission it was agreed that data collection for measuring post-completion
performance would be borne by the CEMAC project, which would also be required to
monitor and report their implementation on an ongoing basis as part of supervision
missions.

51.    During the ICR mission, the Bank team also agreed with the government that the
following indicators would be used to monitor post completion operation of the project;

        For road works:        (i) percent of national road network accessible year round;
           and (ii) amount of road maintenance fund resources allocated annually for the
           maintenance of the national road network. These indicators will be monitored
           by analyzing annual budgetary allocations and road maintenance contracts
           executed. Performance-based contracting experimented under this project is
           already being expanded to other roads on the national paved and unpaved
           networks, and this indicator will help determine if the government is staying
           the course on the scheme.

        For institutional support and capacity development: average time taken to
           complete a procurement activity for consultants, goods and works. This
           indicator is intended to check if institutional efficiency that was promoted
           under this project will be maintained within the Ministry of Infrastructure
           during the operational phase.

        For the HIV/AIDS component: the             number     of   Community       Based
           Associations (CBA) and HIV/AIDS Voluntary Testing Centers (CDV)
           operating along the road trunks rehabilitated or maintained by the project.



`                                            12

         For road safety:       (i) accident databases have been evaluated and updated,
             and can produce accident data based on information collected by the police,
             hospitals or insurance companies; and (ii) annual allocations for road safety in
             the budget of the ministry in charge of road safety.

         For rural mobility and transport: annual expenditure on rural roads expressed
             as a percentage of annual expenditures on the national road program. This will
             help monitor efforts being made by the government to raise the level of
             funding for rural road improvements as planned under the NTP.

3. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOMES

3.1. Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

52.     The relevance of the project objective, its design and implementation, are rated
satisfactory. They were assessed in terms of the responsiveness of the project to current
circumstances of the transport sector as discussed in Section 2.1 above. Both the
government and the Bank ICR team share the view that there was a good match between
the initial objectives of the project and Chad's economic and social context at inception.

53.     The objectives and design of the project remained highly relevant throughout and
its accomplishments made a significant contribution toward achieving the global
objectives of the NTP and the CAS. The sustainability of the quality and quantity of the
improved roads is guaranteed by funds generated through road user charges managed by
the Road Maintenance Fund which is itself an output of the project. Even though the
funds generated are insufficient to meet maintenance requirements, its steady increment
over the years as shown below is worth commending given the circumstances
surrounding Chad.


     Budgetary 2000 / 2001 / 2002 / 2003 / 2004 / 2005 / 2006 / 2007 /
        year       2001      2002     2003    2004     2005      2006   2007      2008


     Budgetary
     allocation
                    2.66     4.55     4.88     5.39     5.27     9.97    7.37     7.85
     (in Billions
        CFA)


54.     The project is equally consistent with Chad's current priorities, as stated in its
revised National Transport Strategy and fully in line with the Bank's most recent CAS
that was approved by the Board on December 11, 2003 for the period 2004-2006, and
whose second pillar objective also emphasizes the reduction of infrastructure constraints.




`                                             13

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

55.     The project's key development objective which was to achieve year-round access
to key areas of Chad through the improvement of 1,800 km of the national road network
is rated satisfactory as it was more than met. A total of 1,900 km of national roads were
in good condition all season at the end of the project. The paved network which was
barely 346 km at the beginning of the project in 2000, witnessed a sharp increase from
559 km in 2004 to 1,021 km in 2006, reflecting increased benefits from oil revenues.

56.     Gains in travel times on the 545 km of upgraded road sections on the East-West
line are reflected in the positive economic results in Annex 3. The two road sections,
which were not passable most of the year, now have reference speeds of 80 km/hour
(higher than the 50 km/hour estimate in the PAD) and 100 km/hour, respectively,
portraying roads in much better condition than before the project.

57.     A remarkable outcome of the project is that its OPBC concept has become a best
practice and is increasingly being implemented across the region. Road experts across
the continent are visiting Chad to gain first-hand knowledge of the concept in order to
experiment with it in their various countries. Standard bidding documents have been
developed by the Bank as additional support to the growing use of the concept.

58.     One of the key outcomes of the project is improved capacity within road
institutions:   (i) the second generation Road Maintenance Fund which was established
with support from the project has been very successful and has raised financing for the
maintenance of the national road network for more than seven years. Although the Road
Maintenance Fund started somewhat slowly, it has built its capability steadily and is now
well perceived by both the donors and the government; and (ii) increased capacity within
the Department of Roads (within the Ministry of Infrastructure) is evidenced by
improvements in the quality of bidding documents and the supervision of civil works.

59.     The limited results on the rural transport component, as discussed below in
Section 3.3, do not influence the rating of the project's development objective given the
very small size of this component.

3.3 Outputs by Components

60.     The overall project outputs are rated satisfactory. A comparative presentation of
pre-and post-project output indicators is shown in Annex 2. It must be mentioned that
meeting project outputs would have been difficult if some components had not been
adjusted as discussed in Paragraphs 16, 17 and 18 above. These adjustments, supported
by the government's readiness to finance the costly works on the Ngoura-Bokoro road,
are praise-worthy as they helped uphold the relevance of the components to the
attainment of project objectives.

61.     Key output indicators in the PAD included: (i) 104 km of the core National Road
Network upgraded to paved standard (by end 2004); (ii) Periodic Maintenance and
strengthening of at least 200 km of existing paved roads completed by end 2004; (iii)
Establishment of a Traffic Accident Data collection and evaluation system on a National


`                                           14

level (by end 2002); (iv) a contract for the Performance-based Road Management and
Maintenance of approximately 441 km of unpaved roads awarded (by end 2001); and (v)
the National Strategy for Rural Transport completed (by end 2003).

Component 1 ­ Road Investment ­ (Bank financing: US$44.26 million PAD,
US$41.40 million actual):

62.    Component 1 which constituted 66 percent of the project resources was
substantially achieved and is rated satisfactory.

(i) Road upgrading and paving: The planned target was 104 km of paved road (between
Ngoura and Bokoro) at an estimated cost of US$35.54 million to be accomplished by
2004. The final cost of the works was US$39 million and it was completed in 2007 under
government funding, because of unexpected cost increases in other project components
and the resulting IDA funding shortfall. Due to increased traffic volumes, this component
proved to be economically justifiable, as its 14 percent IRR exceeded the appraisal
estimate of 12 percent.

(ii) Rehabilitation of existing paved roads: This component was to rehabilitate about 286
km of paved road sections including N'Djamena - Guelendeng (144 km); N'Djamena -
Djermaya (27 km); Djermaya - Dandi and ramifications (89 km); and Walia - N'Gueli
Bridge, including the N'Djamena bypass road (27 km). The appraisal target of 286 km
was 100 percent achieved in 2007, but after a three year delay and a 74 percent cost
increase above the originally estimated cost of US$25.36 million. This cost increase of
US$18.64 million was due mostly to the change of the technical solution to a more robust
design to increase the lifespan from 7 to 15 years, but also to the heavy deterioration of
the US dollar during the execution of the works. The cost increase absorbed all IDA
funds initially reserved for the paving of Ngoura-Bokoro road. This level of cost increase
notwithstanding, the economic analysis discussed in Annex 3 points to a viable
investment with an IRR of 14.1 percent.

Component 2 ­ Pilot Program for Performance-Based Road Management and
Maintenance Contract for unpaved roads ­ (Bank financing: US$14.24 million
PAD, US$20.27 million actual)

63.    Component 2 is rated satisfactory. The upgrading and maintenance works were
fully completed on the 441 km targeted by the project, though at close to US$8.5 million
above the appraisal estimate of US$19.57 million. This cost increase expressed in US
dollar was mostly due to its depreciating exchange rate during the execution of the
contract. Technical evaluations conducted by Bank engineers and the technical auditor
praised the quality of the road in terms of riding quality, drainage, safety signs at river
and village crossings. Since the phasing out of Bank financing for this component in
2005, new and similar performance-based maintenance contracts have been concluded
with national contractors under local financing from the Road Maintenance Fund, an
arrangement which further enhances the sustainability of this investment.




`                                            15

Component 3 ­ Road Safety ­ (Bank financing: US$1.24 million PAD, US$0.30
million actual)

64.     This component is rated moderately satisfactory. In spite of the reduced scope of
data collection and physical improvements on N'Djamena streets, this component
achieved its key output target which was to develop a national strategy on road safety. It
also accomplished the establishment of an accident database and helped create a national
road safety committee. The black spot improvement program was limited to the
replacement of five dangerous irish crossings on the Bokoro-Bitkine road. It was not
able to implement the awareness campaigns, accident data collection and analysis, and
staff training because of several challenges and delays in its execution. The main
difficulties included: (i) limited collaboration between the Police, and the Land Transport
Department on the collection and analysis of accident data, and (ii) limited collaboration
between the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Municipal Council of N'Djamena on
physical improvements of street intersections, pedestrian crossings and road signs at main
urban arteries.

Component 4 ­ Rural Transport Strategy Development ­ (Bank financing: US$1
million PAD, US$1 million actual)

65.     Component 4 is rated moderately unsatisfactory. The strategy developed under
this component laid emphasis on regional balance which was to be supported by a
Priority Investment Program for rural roads to serve the 17 regions of the country. This
was a practical response to the needs of the rural poor who constitute the majority, but
which proved to be ambitious under the project. The project resulted in the development
of bidding documents and technical specifications for eight performance-based road
maintenance contracts covering all priority rural roads in the entire country. These
contracts were to be funded by the government from oil revenues. However, not all eight
contracts were actually awarded, and results were obtained only in the cotton-growing
regions. The limited results were essentially due to financing shortfalls, as the target
annual spending by the government of 4 billion FCFA on rural roads was never met, due
to the government's inability to allocate this level of resources.

Component 5 ­ Institutional Support and Capacity-Building ­ (Bank financing:
US$5 million PAD, US$6 million actual)

66.     This component is rated satisfactory. The key indicator envisaged was reform in
road maintenance and establishment of a Road Maintenance Fund. These results were
achieved very satisfactorily as the road fund became fully operational in the course of the
project as part of wider institutional and operational reforms in the road sector, including
the move to output-based road maintenance contracting. Of limited success was the
training plan for transport sector staff. Despite added emphasis by Bank staff during
supervision missions, only 48 percent of the total training program was implemented.
The major cause of this was the lack of incentive of country-based training which
constituted the biggest part of the component, ministerial staff preferring per diem-
yielding courses out of the country.




`                                             16

Component 6 ­ HIV-AIDS and Transport ­ (Bank financing: US$0.5 million PAD,
US$0.6 million actual)

67.     The implementation of Component 6 is rated moderately satisfactory. It was
carried out as an integral part of the National Program for the Fight against HIV/AIDS
(PNLS) led under a subcontract to a professional organization supervised by the
ministries of Health and Planning. While there was no indicator at appraisal for this
component it's monitoring was sharpened at the mid-term review which proposed a
number of output indicators. A three year action plan was developed and promotional
activities such as training of trainers, visual aids, distribution of condoms among others,
were carried out along several roads. The program developed an effective planning and
implementation methodology, which included initial reconnaissance studies along road
axes, followed by the formulation of a program implemented by local NGOs. A baseline
"Knowledge, Attitudes, Beliefs and Practices" survey was conducted on a number of road
axes. Education campaigns were carried out along targeted roads and 23 Community-
based associations and 11 Voluntary Testing Centers were created. Personnel were
trained and internal rules were developed and tested on sites. These results have been
received with satisfaction by staff of the Ministries of Health and Planning, even though a
baseline study was not conducted to determine the objective of the component and to
select indicators or the appropriate M&E system for its implementation.

3.4 Efficiency

68.     The efficiency of this project is rated moderately satisfactory and is affected
mainly by the higher costs of civil works and the longer time it took to complete project
components, two factors that were not under the total control of the design and
implementation teams. As shown in Section 3, the costs per kilometer of the Ngoura-
Bokoro road works was US$0.38 million, that of the rehabilitation works on the paved
roads was US$0.15 million and for the road maintenance program it was US$0.06
million. Although all three unit costs exceeded PAD estimates, the overall cost increase
of US$29.47 million (32 percent) was to a large extent the result of the increased
characteristics of the paved road rehabilitation sub-component, as discussed in Paragraph
17 above. Also, they reflect the general cost increase in road construction worldwide and
especially in Africa. Most project components took longer than planned mainly because
of the difficult country environment as discussed in Section 1.1. The details are shown in
Table 2.2 of Annex 2.

3.5 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

69.     The government and the ICR team both rate overall project achievement as
satisfactory, despite counterpart funding shortfalls and technical implementation
bottlenecks as discussed in this ICR.

70.     Project outcomes are significant, despite the degree of macroeconomic and socio-
political instability under which implementation took place. For example GDP was
projected to grow at five percent during implementation but it dropped to 1.3 percent by
2007. Outcome indicators for most of the components were substantially met, although



`                                             17

over a longer timeframe, and at a much higher cost. The longer duration of seven years
(instead of five) of project implementation was due essentially to an unforeseen time loss
associated with the termination and restart of one of the main civil works contracts.

71.     The road components that accounted for over 90 percent of project costs show
positive economic results as discussed in Section 2. The sensitivity results in Annex 3
reveal an IRR that is more sensitive to reductions in benefits than it is to cost increases.
Hence, benefits accruing from the remarkable traffic increase (348 percent on average on
project road sections after improvements) were able to offset the cost increase of 36
percent on these components.

72.     The extension of the project's closing date by 18 months helped overcome initial
delays and improved key performance indicators. It also facilitated the transition to the
new Bank-financed CEMAC Transport and Transit facilitation Project, which will now
serve as a platform to monitor the operational phase of the project being assessed.

3.6 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

73.     The project areas in which the roads were improved were known for agriculture
production and trade. Studies showed that lack of access prevented agricultural produce
from reaching markets in the rainy season, or that inordinately high transport costs led to
both higher consumer prices and lower producer prices. The substantial increase in traffic
on the improved roads points to increased domestic trade to the areas that had poor access
before the project. No negative impact has been reported on human lives from the road
improvements as they took place on existing alignments. The HIV/AIDS component is
the first experience in Chad of mainstreaming health in transport, and has gained
recognition as an integral part of the PNLS.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

74.     The following activities were undertaken to develop the institutional capacity of
the various agencies involved in project implementation:        (i) leveraging financing from
other donors for the implementation of the NTP; (ii) development of a Priority Rural
Investment Plan to serve 17 regions of the country, plus actual bidding documents for the
performance-based management and maintenance of priority rural roads throughout
Chad; (iii) putting in place a second generation Road Maintenance Fund and providing
practical technical support and advice for its functioning; (iv) helping the Ministry of
Infrastructure in the implementation and expansion of the new concept of performance-
based road maintenance contracts; (v) development of a National Strategy for Road
Safety; (vi) development of a traffic accident data base; (vii) support to the government
for the preparation of a fuel levy policy study to address revenue generation and
management issues concerning the Road Maintenance Fund; (viii) construction of a new
building for the Ministry of Infrastructure and its partial equipment; (ix) personnel
training in relevant subjects as spelt out in the training plan.




`                                              18

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

75.     The project had a major unintended benefit. Component 2 consisted of the
Performance-based Management and Maintenance during close to 5 years for the 441 km
road section between Bokoro ­ Mongo ­ Oum Hadjer. This road is a major part of
Chad's main East-West transport corridor linking the capital N'Djamena with the Eastern
border to Sudan. As the Darfur crisis in neighboring Sudan unfolded during the project
period, hundreds of thousands of refugees fled to refugee camps set up on the Chadian
side of the border. A major international humanitarian effort (which continues today)
was built up to supply the refugees with food and other basic necessities and services -
and the only viable year-round road leading to those camps was the project road which
was kept in good condition through the project. Had this road been in its original
condition (very bad and cut off during much of the year) it seems very likely that many
more lives would have been lost to starvation and disease.

3.7 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

76.     Although a core ICR does not require a beneficiary survey/stakeholder workshop,
interviews were nevertheless conducted by a consultant recruited toward the end of the
project to help prepare the government's contribution to this ICR. These beneficiary
interviews indicate a general view that there has been increased farm production and
trading, as a result of: (i) easier and year-round movement between the capital city of
N'Djamena and the strategic region of Abeche in the East of the country (improved year-
round access to markets and services), and (ii) increased food production in project areas
for the same reasons (food security).        Of the 302 distributors of food products
interviewed, 67 percent said their incomes had been increasing since the works started
(poverty reduction). A good number of them felt that there has been improvement in
trade between the capital city of N'Djamena and the regions (access to markets and
poverty reduction).    Of the 1,000 persons interviewed on mobility, 92 percent were
satisfied with the frequency of the means of transport between N'Djamena and the
regions, both for personal travel and for the transport of merchandise. The same survey
also confirms that there has been improved access to administrative and social services
like schools and health centers (improved access to market and services).

4. ASSESSMENT OF RISK TO DEVELOPMENT OUTCOMES

77.     Risk analysis is rated as moderately unsatisfactory. Overall project risk was rated
modest at appraisal and analyzed in terms of failure to achieve critical assumptions to
project indicators. The analysis appears appropriate for most of the assumptions made.
However, for a country as poor as Chad and with limited resources and competing
demands, the team should have anticipated risks associated with governance, counterpart
funding, cost overruns, and implementation/procurement delays. Late disbursement of
counterpart funds and lengthy procurement delays affected project progress and there was
a 32 percent overall cost overrun which was due in part to the deterioration of the
exchange rate of the US dollar. The PAD recognized political instability and the threat to
peace as the only substantial risk but failed to include any mitigating measures. Chad




`                                           19

eventually faced civil strife in the last two years of the project and was also the subject of
high level concerns in the Bank on governance, as explained in Section 1 above.

5. ASSESSMENT OF BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

78.    The Bank's performance on Quality at Entry is rated moderately unsatisfactory.
This rating is essentially based on:    (i) the fact that not all project components had clear
performance indicators (especially the small components) and that not all indicators had
baseline data; (ii) the limitations in risk analysis discussed in Section 4, and (iii) the
complexity of the project in a weak institutional environment and difficult country
circumstances. Supervision mission reports praise the focus on results and performance
monitoring through the use of an external technical auditor and the new concept of result-
and performance-based contracting. The problems encountered during implementation on
the collection of data could have been minimized from the onset on a project that was
complex and involved five government agencies.

(b) Quality of Supervision

79.    The quality of Bank supervision is rated as satisfactory. The Bank undertook
regular supervision missions. The skills mix of the Bank supervision team was well
balanced as reflected in the ISRs. Good cooperation between the Bank team and the
government, the sharing of monitoring results, re-orientation of actions and seeking
improved impact through constant innovation were positive contributions of the Bank
team. There was significant involvement of the Bank's team in the resolution of day to
day crises in the transport sector. The quality of the financial management reviews was
satisfactory and consistent with the Bank's guidelines. Supervision aide-memoires for the
implementation phase were extensive and provided highlights on key issues and prompt
information to the client and Bank management.

80.    The actions taken by the Bank to resolve implementation bottlenecks were
adequate and the Bank's efforts to strengthen Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) did not
improve the situation much for all of the components due to weak institutional capacity
as explained in paragraphs 63 and 64 above for the road safety and institutional and
capacity-building components.

81.    Serious disbursement delays were caused by the Bank during the last three years
of the project (after decentralization of disbursement from Washington to South Africa).
Even if the delays had little direct impact on the good results achieved, they did impose
serious liquidity problems for contractors and consultants working under the project,
which may reduce their willingness to bid for future Bank-funded projects at reasonable
prices.




`                                              20

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

82.     Overall Bank performance is rated moderately satisfactory. This takes into
consideration the moderate quality at entry, the strong cooperation between the project
team and the government, timely Bank's interventions to help the government resolve
various crises (such as the termination of a major works contract), the selection of an
adequate road design for the upgrading works on paved roads, conciliation with the
contractor for performance-based maintenance, the Bank's ability to play a lead role in
coordinating the large number of donors in the NTP supported by the project, the
achievement of the project development objectives and, the sustained policy dialogue
with the government leading to continued Bank engagement in the sector through the
ongoing CEMAC Transport and Transit Facilitation Project.

5.2 Borrower Performance

83.    There is no distinction between the Borrower and the implementing agency as the
project was under the overall responsibility of the Ministry of Infrastructure and
implemented through its various departments and agencies.

84.     The government's performance as reflected through the Ministry of Infrastructure
and other agencies involved in the project is rated as moderately satisfactory.

Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

85.     The government fulfilled its commitment to institutional reforms by readily
establishing and bringing up to speed the second generation Road Maintenance Fund
from the onset of the project. It promptly addressed unforeseen issues emerging from
implementation and also respected the new road maintenance financing mechanism (fuel
levy) which resulted in a steady increase of funding for road maintenance from local
resources (from FCFA 2.66 billion in 2000/2001 to FCFA 7.85 billion in 2007/2008).
Implementation of all activities under the direct responsibility of the Ministry of
Infrastructure was a success. However, the government performed poorly on the small
components that needed inter-agency coordination, such as the road safety component
and the rural transport strategy, as explained in Section 3 above.

86.     Furthermore, there were delays in the release of counterpart funds for co-financed
activities. One important issue was that contractors were obliged to pay full taxes
(especially value-added tax VAT) which were then to be reimbursed. A large part of
these reimbursements to be made by the government had not yet been made at project
closing. There are some suspicions that contractors are expected to pay kickbacks in
order to receive the reimbursements, although there is no proof of such practices. Delays
were also registered in the process of bid evaluation at the level of the Bid Opening and
Evaluation Commission (COJO) and at contract signing by government officials.

87.     The Ministry of Infrastructure was the main implementing agency through its two
technical departments of roads and land transport. Its CISCP was responsible for
monitoring and coordinating as well as providing advisory services. The ministry was
supported by long term technical assistance financed by the project and by other parallel


`                                            21

sources. Staff of the CISCP were well experienced as they had been in their positions
during previous Bank-supported projects, and as such were conversant with the Bank's
operational and other policies. Technical staff of the Ministry, including the permanent
secretary were closely involved in project monitoring and their limited turnover during
the project period was a positive factor for the project.

88.     The government also created an enabling environment for the beneficiary
communities, notably contractors and consultants. Consultations were in the form of
discussions and meetings aimed at addressing the needs of the beneficiary communities,
consultants and contractors. The capacity for timely resolution of implementation issues
by the Ministry of Infrastructure was satisfactory.

89.     A setback, however, was the absence at the CISCP of a dedicated procurement
professional. This shortcoming has been indexed as one reason for the few but major
procurement and technical gaps that the project encountered, including delays in the
cancelation of the first works contract.

6. LESSONS LEARNED

Project Preparation and design:

90.     Project components were clearly linked to the objectives of the NTP, thus
favoring a clear assessment of its outcomes with respect to national transport targets.
Maintaining this approach in future operations would be a major contribution to
sustaining the NTP as long term framework.

91.     The project was fairly complex.        With its six components and institutional
responsibilities shared between several administrations, the components that had the least
success were those requiring inter-agency coordination.        Project design could have
recognized the weak institutional environment by limiting the spread of the project.
There are however indications that the project preparation team was pushed into a more
complex project design, for example by the Bank-internal quasi-requirement at that time
that all transport projects must include an HIV/AIDS component and a Road Safety
component. A key lesson in this regard, especially given that Chad was and remains a
high risk country environment, would be to design simpler projects and avoid their spread
across ministries. In addition, project design should include an agreed exit strategy with
an action plan which defines clear responsibilities during all stages of implementation to
ensure that each agency concerned has a good grasp of its role and is committed to its
implementation.

92.     The Bank's Africa Action Plan (AAP) now offers an M&E framework that did
not exist at the time this project was conceived. The generic outcome and output
indicators now in use in the Transport unit would have been a good reference to avoid the
inconsistencies pointed out earlier on project indicators. Also, it would be good to make
sure monitoring and measurable indicators are clearly defined for all components and
sub-components, well communicated before project start such that outcomes do not
depend much on other independent projects. This will ease monitoring and evaluation as



`                                            22

well as create a favorable atmosphere for concrete and flexible adjustment of
components.

93.     The funding of a project through a credit denominated in SDR in a country such
as Chad where most contracts are signed in the local currency (FCFA, pegged to the )
poses significant risks due to fluctuations of exchange rates. In this particular case, the
SDR depreciated vis-à-vis the FCFA by about 41 percent in the course of the project
implementation, which led to significant cost increases in US dollar terms.

94.     A fortunate but unforeseen situation was the financing of part of the civil works
with the government's petroleum resources. With a cost increase in US dollar terms of
nearly 74 percent on the road rehabilitation component, the project would evidently have
fallen short of its planned objectives, since such a cost increase and associated financing
shortfalls were not anticipated in the risk analysis and Bank financing was not flexible to
accommodate additional costs.

95.     With growing construction costs in the region, cost analysis should be systematic
in all infrastructure projects. If necessary, and especially in environments with weak
capacity, an independent consultant should be engaged to support the government in the
review and validation of designs that have been carried out by design consultants. It is
also advisable to ensure during the project design that the procurement capacity of the
implementing agency as well as its financial management system are properly assessed
during preparation to avoid delays and poor accountability.

96.     This project should be commended for its innovative application of performance-
based road maintenance contracting for unpaved roads which is now being introduced
more widely across the region. However, it is important to clearly define from a detailed
technical study the level of service and the various tasks needed to maintain it. These
should be reflected in the bidding documents and in the contracts and should be easy to
measure. The implementing agency should have the ability and capacity to monitor and
evaluate them during and after implementation. Given that it was a pilot project, more
emphasis should have been placed on documenting lessons learned and on developing the
capacities of local small and medium enterprises. The choice and experience of the
contractor as well as the soundness of design studies are critical to ensuring cost-
efficiency and success.

Project implementation:

97.     Institutional development and capacity building are critical factors to ensure
sustainability during and after project. However, these take time and effort to become
effective. Hence, they should be realistic in design and where their requirements bring
about changes in roles, responsibilities, and relationships, there is a need to understand
the impact on the culture and values of societies, sectors, and institutions for which the
change is proposed. Experience suggests that best results are achieved through long-term
relationships where new ideas can be introduced indirectly and gradually, in pursuit of a
shared vision and with a clear road map. It is also critical to support institutional building
by encouraging synergy among implementing agencies while making sure that all



`                                            23

initiatives are demand-driven and developed in a participatory manner. Following this
approach could have helped limit the shortfalls observed on components that required
changes in practices such as the road safety and HIV/AIDS components of the project. To
manage the already improved road network effectively and efficiently there is need to
conduct annual condition surveys which are an essential part of programming.

98.     At project preparation, a good set of performance indicators were designed, but
not supported with a well articulated monitoring and evaluation framework; the latter
only being prepared at the beginning of the project. Performance indicators without a
comprehensive monitoring and assessment framework defined at design stage may lead
to many pitfalls. Continuous and close monitoring is essential to ensure that steady
progress and effective supervision are maintained to readily address essential and specific
needs during implementation.

99.     A periodic classification of contractors to ensure that only well qualified
contractors are allowed to compete is essential in the Chadian context to avoid poor
contract performance. In addition, supervision missions need to put more emphasis on
procurement and financial management through the use of external technical support.

100.    Key lessons learned relating to environmental issues includes the need to prepare
an implementation safeguards instrument with clear measureable indicators and ensure
close supervision with consistent support from the government. Greater involvement of
the Bank's environmental specialist during implementation and appointment of a
government safeguards expert for a project of this magnitude would have been more
appropriate. Also, this project which set out to support the NTP leaves behind less
institutional capacity than planned in terms of safeguards policy improvement in the
transport sector. With growing concerns about global warming and added emphasis to
scale up related mitigation measures, future operations could support these aspects both
in project design and in national transport policies.

7. COMMENTS ON ISSUES RAISED BY BORROWER/IMPLEMENTING
AGENCIES/PARTNERS

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

Comments incorporated in the ICR report.

(b) Co-financiers

    Not applicable.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

    Not applicable




`                                            24

 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing


 Table 1.1: Project Cost by Component (in US$ Million equivalent)
 Components              Appraisal    Actual         Actual without Percentage of
                         Estimate                    Taxes          Appraisal
 1. ROAD
 INVESTMENT
 1.1 Ngoura Bokoro          35.54          39.00         31.98           110
 Road
 1.2 Paved Roads            25.36          44.00         36.08           174
 2. ROAD                    19.57          28.00         22.96           143
 MAINTENANCE
 3. ROAD SAFETY              2.04          0.40          0.33            20
 4. RURAL                    1.24          1.20          0.98            97
 TRANSPORT
 STRATEGY
 5. INSTITUTIONAL            6.27          7.30          5.99            116
 SUPPORT
 6. HIV/AIDS AND             0.61          0.70          0.57            115
 TRANSPORT
 PPF                         0.50
                                           0.00
 TOTAL                      91.13         120.60         98.90           132




 Table 1.2: Project Financing (in US$ Million equivalent)
    Source of Funds        Type of        Appraisal        Actual      Percentage
                         co-financing      Estimate       estimate    of appraisal
Borrower C/Funding       Co-financing       24.13           51.03         211
IDA                      Co-financing       67.00           69.57         104
TOTAL                                       91.13          120.60         132




 `                                       25

       Annex 2. Outputs by Component

       Table 2.1: Output indicators by components
Objective/Compone                        Baseline
nt                    Indicator          Value    Target value            Value Achieved

1. Road Investment
1.1. Road upgrading                               104                     104
and paving            Km paved           0

1.2 Rehabilitation of                             at least 200 km         286
existing paved roads  Km rehabilitated   0

                      Km upgraded and             441                     441 km upgraded

2. Road maintenance maintained during 0                                   and maintained

                      4 years                                             during 4 years and 9
                                                                          months.

                      Accident Data               Accident Data           Accident database in
                      collection and              collection and          place but not
                      monitoring                  monitoring system in    functioning
                      system;                     place and functioning;

                      Awareness                   Awareness campaign      Awareness
                      campaign;                   implemented by 2002;    campaign not
                                                                          achieved;

3. Road Safety        Black spot                  Black spot              Black spot
                      improvement in     0        improvement in          improvement carried
                      N'Djamena ;                 N'Djamena before        out but between
                                                  12/2004;                Ngoro and Biltine
                                                                          following
                                                                          component revision

                      National strategy           Approve a national      Strategy was drafted
                      on Road safety.             strategy on Road safety but not approved.
                                                  by March 2004.

                                                                          Objective revised at
                                                                          mid-term to prepare
                                                                          a Priority Rural

                                                  Development of a        Roads Investment

4. Rural Transport    Rural Transport                                     Program for 17
                      Strategy           0        Rural Transport
                                                  Strategy by 2002        regions. The latter
                                                                          achieved only in
                                                                          cotton-producing
                                                                          region

5. Institutional      Establishment of   Inexiste Establishment of a      RMF set up


       `                                      26

Objective/Compone                 Baseline
nt                Indicator       Value   Target value           Value Achieved

Support           a Road          nt      Second generation      adequately and is
                  Maintenance             RMF by 1999            fully functional
                  Fund, office                                   since April 2001;
                  building,                                      office buildings
                  technical                                      completed and
                  assistance and                                 technical assistance
                  training                                       largely provided;
                                                                 training partially
                                                                 achieved

                                                                 Personnel and
                                                                 internal rules
                                                                 developed and

                                          Personnel and internal pasted on sites:

                                          rules developed and    Awareness
6. HIV/AIDS       Awareness on            pasted on sites;
                  HIV / AIDS      0                              campaigns on STD /

                                          Awareness campaigns    AIDS carried out on

                                          on STD / AIDS.         all the six project
                                                                 road sections.

                                                                 23 ABCs and 11
                                                                 CDVs established




     `                                 27

Annex 3. Cost Benefit Analysis

1.      At appraisal a full economic evaluation was carried out on the investment
component which comprised road paving and strengthening of existing paved roads, and
on the pilot program for performance-based maintenance of unpaved roads, and which
represented more than 90 percent of the total project costs. An economic evaluation was
not carried out for the other components, which are Road Safety, Institutional
strengthening and Capacity-Building, Rural Transport Strategy Development and
HIV/AIDS.

Methodology and Assumptions:

2.      The economic analysis of the paving and rehabilitation programs was done using
the World Bank Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model (HDM-III), while
the economic evaluation of the pilot maintenance program was done using the Roads
Economic Decision Model (RED) developed by the Bank under the Road Management
Initiative (RMI) of the Sub-Saharan Africa Transport Program (SSATP). The RED is
customized for the economic evaluation of low-volume roads by estimating the benefits
of ensuring year round access and providing the option of defining the level of service of
unpaved roads, in terms of both roughness and vehicle speeds. Both models (HDM-
I11and RED) were used to perform a life-cycle economic evaluation of project
alternatives, estimating the present value of the net project benefits with relation to the
without-project alternative.    Economic analysis was based on projections of traffic,
vehicle operating costs (VOC), project economic costs (investment and maintenance) and
transport user benefits expressed in terms of time savings. Agency savings from reduced
maintenance costs were not considered in the analysis, as maintenance on the roads was
totally non-existent before the project.

3.      Traffic at appraisal and road condition characteristics of each section were
collected from a network inventory which had been updated in the context of the
definition of the National Transport Sector Program. The inventory identified 61
homogenous road sections for the National Road Network (priority network) of around
6,200 km. For each homogenous section, data was collected on location, length, road
class, traffic, traffic composition, and road condition. Traffic counts were made during
the dry season and the calculation of the Average Annual Daily Traffic (AADT) assumed
that during the rainy season almost 40 percent of the vehicles could not travel at all. The
road condition was defined in terms of access type (permanent or seasonal), duration of
interruptions of traffic, and estimates of reasonable speeds of different vehicle classes in
the dry and rainy seasons. The speed estimates were then used, along with the judgment
of local engineers, to estimate the road roughness of each section.

4.      At completion, the government hired an international consultant to reassess the
economic viability of the project based on new traffic data and vehicle operating costs.
Table 3.1 below shows that traffic increased substantially on all the roads, ranging from
71 percent on the Ndjamena-Guelendeng section to 625 percent on Walia-Ngueli. Post
project analysis did not determine the International Roughness Index (IRI) of the roads



`                                            28

that were improved by the project, as it was determined that a comparative analysis of the
IRI would not have sense given the subjective character of the assumptions made at
appraisal in determining the IRI. Vehicle operating costs dropped on all roads as shown
in Table 3.2 below.

5.      Table 3.3 compares net present values and internal rates of return before and after
the project. Net Present Value (NPV) dropped from the appraisal estimate of US$13.3 to
US$7.18 million, while the Internal Rate of Return (IRR) equally fell from 16 percent to
14 percent.

6.      A sensitivity analysis showed that if cost increased by 20 percent, then the IRR
would drop by 25 percent from 16 percent to 12 percent before the project and by 18
percent from 14 percent to 13.3 percent after the project.       Similarly, a 20 percent
reduction of benefits would yield a 25 percent drop in the IRR from 16 percent to 12
percent before the project and a 10 percent drop from 14 percent to 13.3 percent after the
project. If agency costs were increased by 20 percent and benefits simultaneously
reduced by 20 percent, the project IRR would be 10.3 percent, slightly higher than the
appraisal estimate of 9 percent.

7.      This analysis shows that the IRR is more sensitive to benefit reductions than it is
to cost increases. Hence, the cost overrun of 36 percent was more than offset by the
benefits accruing from the high increase in traffic as shown in Table 3.1 below, and
explains why the project remained economically viable after completion.

                     Table 3.1: Traffic before and after the project


ROAD INVESTMENT                           AADT                                Variation
                            Length        Before Project.    After Project.   (%)
Guelendeng-N'Djamena        144           307                524              71
Djermaya-N'Djamena          27            474                1370             189
Dandi-Djermaya (RN1)        88            196                364              85
Walia-Ngueli                27            304                2206             625
TOTAL                       286           320                1116



Pilot Road Maintenance                    AADT                                Variation
                            Length        Before Project.    After Project.   (%)
Bokoro-Bitkine              143           61                 166              172
Bitkine-Mongo               59            53                 154              190
Mongo-Mangame               129           37                 134              260
Mangame-Oum Hadjer          110           37                 92               147
TOTAL                       441           47                 136              348




                       Table 3.2: Vehicle Operating Costs (US$)


`                                          29

       Paving and rehabilitation: Costs per vehicle-km

                                                                           Articulated.
            car     pickup      bus         Medium truck   heavy truck     Truck
Before      83      84          719         642            642             721          0.753
After       70      75          403         387            442             443          0.5202

       Pilot Road Maintenance: Costs per vehicle-km

                                                                          Articulated.
             car      pickup      bus     Medium truck     heavy truck    Truck
Before       83       84          719     642              642            721           0.6766
After        70       75          403     387              442            443           0.5393

                         Table 3.3: NPV and IRR Before and After Project

                                    Before Project Before Project
                                    Base Case        IRR Sensitivity Analysis (%)
                                    NPV       IRR    A: Costs B: Benefits
                                    (M $)            +20 %     -20 %        A+B
       Paving Program               -2.0      11%    8%        7%           4%
       Rehabilitation Program       8.4       20%    18%       18%          16%
       Pilot Maintenance Program 6.9          22%    15%       13%          7%
       Overall Project              13.3      16%    12%       12%          9%


                                    After Project    After Project
                                    Base Case        IRR Sensitivity Analysis (%)
                                    NPV      IRR     A: Costs B: Benefits
                                    (M $)            +20 %     -20 %        A+B
       Paving Program               1.44     13.0% 12.2%       10.1%        9.4%
       Rehabilitation Program       4.81     14.1% 13.6%       11.6%        11.1%
       Pilot Maintenance Program 2.59        13.9% 12.7%       11.6%        10.4%
       Overall Project              7.18     14.0% 13.3%       10.9%        10.3%




       `                                           30

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


   (a) Bank Inputs: Site Visits


Names                      Title                         Unit  Responsibility/
                                                               Specialty
Lending
Andreas Schliessler        Senior Transport Economist    ECSSD TTL
Ningayo Charles Donang     Senior Procurement Specialist EAPCO Procurement
Moctar Thiam               Rural Transport Specialist    AFTTR Rural Roads
Siélé Silué                Rural Transport Specialist    AFTTR Rural Transport
Jerry Lebo                 Poverty and Transport
                           Specialist                    ECSSD M&E

Colin Gannon               Poverty and Transport
                           Specialist                    ECSSD M&E

Michèle Lioy               Senior Population Specialist        HIV/AIDS
Josée Bamvi Miakukila      Procurement Assistant         AFTTR Procurement
Miguel Mayor               Intern ENPC (Highway
                           Engineer)                     AFTTR Engineering

Jean-Charles de Daruvar    Senior Counsel                LEGAF Legal
Robert Fishbein            Agriculture Economist,
                           Environmental Specialist      MNSIF Safeguards

M. Lamine Ben Barka        Civil Engineer                AFTTR Engineering
Bernard Abeillé            Principal Procurement
                           Specialist                    AFTPC Procurement

Bertrand de Chazal         Senior Financial Analyst      AFTFM Financial
                                                               Management
Joseph Bonlong             Financial Analyst             AFTFM Financial
                                                               Management
Nina Chee                  Environmental Specialist      AFTFM Environment

Supervision/ICR
Andreas Schliessler        Senior Transport Economist          TTL until 2006
Kingson Khan Apara         Senior Transport. Specialist AFTTR  TTL since 2006
Alain Labeau               Lead Transport Specialist    AFTTR  Lead Specialist

Peter Ngwa Taniform        Transport. Specialist        AFTTR  ICR primary
                                                               author
Ningayo Charles Donang     Senior Procurement Specialist EAPCO Procurement
Eric Landureau             Road Engineer                AFTPC  Engineering
Nadège L. Thadey           Language Program Assistant   AFTTR  Program Support
Wycliffe L. Okoth          Program Assistant            AFTTR  Program Support
Anil S. Bhandari           Senior Advisor               AFTTR  Engineering



`                                         31

Africa Eshogba Olojoba  Senior Environmental Spec.    AFTEN        Environment
Sebastien Durand        Road Engineer                 AFTTR        Engineering

Fridolin Ondobo         Financial Management
                        Specialist                    AFTFM        Economics

Etienne NKoa            Sr. Financial Management
                        Specialist                    AFTFM        Fin. Mgmt.

Aissatou Diallo         Finance Officer               AFTFM        Fin. Mgmt.
Amsale Gessesse         Finance Assistant             AFTTR        Fin. Mgmt.
Amine Bennis            Intern                        AFTTR        Program Support
Felly Akiiki Kaboyo     Operations Analyst            AFTTR        Program Support
Robert Fishbein         Consultant                    MNSIF        Safeguards

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                              Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                              No. of staff weeks        US$ Thousands (including
                                                        travel and consultant costs)
Lending
FY96                          0.6                       5.18
FY97                          7.0                       57.82
FY98                          1.0                       8.10
FY99                          23                        187.29
FY00                          42                        207.67
FY01                          12                        39.85
Total:                        85.6                      505.91
Supervision/ICR
FY02                          19                        65.93
FY03                          15                        98.14
FY04                          14                        67.19
FY05                          16                        92.69
FY06                          13                        54.68
FY07                          13                        46.74
FY08                          13                        55.43
FY09                          19.6                      56.02
Total:                        122.6                     536.82
Grand Total                   208.2                     1042.73




`                                       32

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
Although a core ICR does not require a beneficiary survey, the government did have a
consultant conduct interviews with beneficiaries toward the end of the project while
preparing its contribution to this ICR. The results are summarized in Section 3.7 above
and in the project evaluation report listed in Annex 9 a full copy of which is available in
the project files




`                                             33

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
Not Applicable




`                                   34

Annex 7. Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft


PROJET D'APPUI AU PROGRAMME NATIONAL DE
                        TRANSPORT (PAProNaT)

                              Rapport D'Achèvement


1 LE RAPPEL DU BUT ET DES OBJECTIFS DU PROJET ET DU
    PROGRAMME

Le Projet d'Appui au Programme National des Transports (PAPRONAT) fait partie
intégrante du Programme National des Transports 2000/2009. Le but ultime est de
contribuer à la lutte contre la pauvreté et au développement durable du Tchad.

1.1 LES OBJECTIFS INITIAUX DU PROJET ET DU PROGRAMME

Les objectifs initiaux et spécifiques du Projet sont :

    a) contribuer à la lutte contre la pauvreté et l'isolement des communautés,
        particulièrement celles vivant en milieu rural, en leur permettant d'avoir accès
        toute l'année aux marchés et aux services administratifs et sociaux ;

    b) améliorer la sécurité alimentaire ;

    c) assurer l'accès du pays aux marchés régionaux afin de réduire et stabiliser les prix
        à la consommation des produits de base et d'améliorer les revenus des
        agriculteurs.

1.2 LES ENJEUX STRATEGIQUES DU PROJET ET DU PROGRAMME

    La mise en évidence de la place déterminante de l'isolement des communautés du
    pays dans la détérioration des conditions et du cadre de vie de ces dernières, justifie
    les enjeux stratégiques qui sont les suivants :

    1) Améliorer la qualité du système des transports en fournissant un réseau limité
        mais fiable et praticable en permanence par d'importants segments de la
        population et en particulier les pauvres des zones rurales ;

    2) Lever les obstacles au développement rural, au commerce régional et international
        et à l'essor du secteur privé, dus notamment au mauvais état du réseau routier ;

    3) Créer un cadre institutionnel et renforcer les capacités de gestion et d'entretien du
        réseau grâce à un mécanisme de financement durable ;



`                                             35

    4) Ne pas limiter la participation du secteur privé aux travaux neufs, mais l'étendre à
       la gestion et à l'entretien du réseau au travers du contrat de gestion et d'entretien
       par niveaux de service ;

    5) Améliorer la sécurité sur les voies urbaines et interurbaines et ;

    6) Lutter contre l'expansion de la pandémie du VIH/SIDA le long des grands axes
       de communication et autour des baraquements de chantier.

2 - LES OBJECTIFS DU RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT

Par l'Accord de crédit n° 3426 CD signé le 20 novembre 2000 et mis en vigueur le 21
mars 2001, l'IDA a consenti à la REPUBLIQUE DU TCHAD, un crédit d'un montant
équivalent à cinquante millions huit cent mille Droits de Tirages Spéciaux (50.800.000
DTS), pour financer les fournitures et services nécessaires à l'exécution du Projet
d'Appui au Programme National des Transports (PAPRONAT). Un amendement à
l'accord de crédit en date du 04 septembre 2001, a modifié pour les différentes catégories
de dépenses, les pourcentages de financement autorisés sur le crédit.

Cet accord prévoit en son annexe 4 (Programme d'exécution) que le Gouvernement du
Tchad et l'IDA, procéderont 24 mois après la date d'entrée en vigueur ou aux alentours
de cette date, à un examen à mi-parcours de l'exécution du PAPRONAT, portant
notamment sur :

         -   Les progrès accomplis dans la réalisation des objectifs du Projet ;

         -   La performance globale du Projet, mesurée sur la base des indicateurs de
             performance qui avaient été retenus.

En s'appuyant sur cette revue à mi-parcours qui a été réalisée en Février 2004, le présent
rapport a deux objectifs principaux à savoir :

         -   Faire un bilan final sur l'exécution du PAPRONAT après six ans de son
             exécution et l'évaluation des impacts du Projet face aux préoccupations
             et aux attentes pour lesquelles il a été mis en place.

         -   Faire des propositions pour des actions futures.

Pour ce faire, cette post évaluation      a été réalisée par l'analyse de trois aspects
fondamentaux du Projet notamment :

         -   D'abord, la vérification des hypothèses initiales qui consiste à valider
             l'adéquation     entre les objectifs initiaux du Projet et les évolutions
             (politiques, économiques, sociales, institutionnelles) enregistrées dans le
             cadre environnemental actuel du Tchad.

         -   Ensuite, l'examen de l'organisation et de la gestion du Projet qui comporte
             deux volets :



`                                           36

           o D'une part, évaluer l'efficacité du système de pilotage du Projet, en
              partant des organes décisionnels jusqu'aux organes de coordination et
              d'exécution.

           o D'autre part, évaluer l'aspect procédural des différentes opérations
              effectuées dans le cadre du Projet (financement, décaissements, Dossiers
              d'appel d'offres et passations de marchés, comptes divers, etc....) en ne
              négligeant pas le rôle des bailleurs de fonds, des usagers et des opérateurs
              économiques impliqués.

           o Enfin, l'analyse des résultats et de l'impact du Projet par composante,
              c'est-à-dire, examiner dans quelle mesure les objectifs ont été atteints et
              quelles peuvent être les percussions en termes d'effets structurants dans
              les zones où le Projet a été réalisé.

    3 -       LES     PRINCIPAUX         CONSTATS         ET     LES     PRINCIPALES
       CONCLUSIONS

A l'issue de cette post évaluation, il se dégage clairement que, malgré quelques
difficultés de trésorerie et les différentes pesanteurs qui ont fortement ralenti le
rythme des activités dans les différentes composantes du Projet, l'état d'achèvement
du PAPRONAT est globalement satisfaisant. Il est recommandé le passage à une
nouvelle phase du Projet. En effet, de profonds changements positifs ont été
observés dans le cadre du Programme National des Transports au Tchad.

3.1 SUR LE PLAN INTERNE : LA CONCEPTION ET LA MISE EN OEUVRE DU
    PROJET

3.1.1 Concernant l'insertion du Projet dans la stratégie globale de développement
       du Tchad : la vérification des hypothèses initiales du Projet

       Le TCHAD est un pays très vaste, fortement enclavé et vivant dans des
       conditions climatiques très défavorables. Pour un tel pays, la maîtrise du transport
       des personnes et des marchandises est une question vitale. Le transport est le
       principal moteur de la croissance et du développement durable du Tchad.

       L'évaluation de l'insertion du Projet dans la stratégie globale de
       développement du Tchad montre que :

       1 L'environnement économique du TCHAD qui est en profonde
           transformation, a enregistré beaucoup de progrès depuis les années
           2000 : Le PIB primaire hors pétrole est sur une tendance de croissance, certes
           lente, mais continue (croissance moyenne annuelle de 3,4%). Si ce rythme est



`                                           37

     maintenu, les apports prévisionnels des revenus pétroliers ne viendront qu'en
     complément.

   2 L'environnement politique est globalement stable par rapport à la
     situation des années 1990 ; cependant la paix et la sécurité sur l'ensemble
     du territoire constituent des défis pour l'Etat et continueront à capter
     des ressources financières utiles aux Projets de développement: Le Tchad
     a réussi à organiser sans difficultés majeures plusieurs élections sur
     l'ensemble du territoire. Malgré les quelques velléités belliqueuses de certains
     partis politiques qui tournent de temps en temps en rebellions armées contre
     les institutions, le dialogue au sein de la classe politique tchadienne est
     permanent et globalement apaisé.

   3 Une bonne adéquation entre les objectifs initiaux du Projet et le contexte
     économique et social du Tchad : L'évaluation permet de constater que les
     hypothèses, les prémisses et suppositions à la base de l'identification, de la
     conception et de la mise en oeuvre du Projet, restent valides et pertinentes. Le
     PAPRONAT est un Projet innovateur qui s'intègre très bien dans le contexte
     actuel du TCHAD. Il s'attaque à des           problèmes complexes, à savoir
     l'enclavement et la pauvreté, dont les racines sont profondes et nécessitent
     beaucoup de temps pour venir à bout.

   4 Une bonne adéquation entre les objectifs initiaux du Projet et le contexte
     institutionnel : L'idée de faire des institutions tchadiennes, les acteurs
     centraux dans la coordination et l'exécution du Projet était pertinente.
     Certaines institutions n'ont pas été suffisamment efficaces dans le
     management et la gestion des composantes du Projet les concernant. Une plus
     grande attention dans le volet « Appui institutionnel et renforcement des
     capacités » aurait permis d'accroitre le niveau des performances du Projet.

   5 Les obligations contractuelles de l'accord de crédit n'ont pas été
     exécutées avec toute l'attention et la diligence souhaitées pour un Projet
     aussi stratégique, notamment par la partie tchadienne : Les obligations
     contractuelles relatives à la mise en oeuvre du projet ont été réalisées du point
     de vue des reformes institutionnelles concernant le Fonds d'Entretien routier,
     les procédures de passation des marchés. Des insuffisances sont cependant
     enregistrées dans la mobilisation des fonds de contrepartie.




`                                     38

3.1.2 Concernant l'organisation et la gestion du Projet

Au point d'achèvement, l'évaluation montre que :

  i.  L'organe de gouvernance du Projet :

      La mise en place des trois organes à savoir :

          o Le Haut Comité Interministriel : chargé d'impulser les aspects politiques
              du secteur des Transports,

          o Le Comité Technique : chargé de suivre la mise en oeuvre des opérations
              du secteur des transports

          o La Cellule de Suivi et de Coordination des Projets du secteur des
              Transports, a permis d'assurer une mise en oeuvre cohérente et appropriée
              du Projet.

  ii. Le système d'organisation choisi peut être amélioré : Il serait souhaitable que
      la présidence du C.T. soit assurée par le Secrétaire Général du Ministère des
      Infrastructures.

 iii. La gestion des opérations du Projet :

          o Les obligations financières relatives à la contrepartie ont difficilement à
              être tenues, le compte de Projet était régulièrement à découverts dès la
              deuxième année de mise en oeuvre du Projet,

          o Le plan de gestion environnementale n'est pas toujours disponible, malgré
              de multiples incohérences qui créaient des lenteurs et des erreurs,

          o le manuel des procédures a été adapté avec beaucoup de retard,

          o les audits techniques de travaux de génie civil n'ont pas, au cours de la
              deuxième phase du Projet, été exécutés tous les quatre (4) mois et réduit à
              tous les six (6) mois les dernières années avec l'accord des partenaires.

 iv.  Malgré tout, certaines opérations ont été exécutées de manière globalement
      satisfaisante : La gestion et le suivi comptables        du Projet ont connu des
      améliorations, les audits financiers annuels des comptes ont été réguliers même si
      certaines recommandations n'étaient pas adaptées à la législation tchadienne, les
      différents marchés ont été globalement exécutés en conformité avec les



`                                           39

       dispositions prévues et le niveau de transparence dans le système de passation
       des marchés a été satisfaisant malgré quelques contraintes dans la formulation des
       DAO.

  v.   Le système de suivi et de reporting du Projet n'a pas fonctionné de manière
       satisfaisante tant sur le plan quantitatif que qualitatif : En effet, il était prévu
       un système de suivi et de reporting semestriels. A cours de l'évaluation, sur les
        treize rapports prévus, seuls deux étaient disponibles (deuxième semestres 2001 et
        premier semestre 2002). Par ailleurs, sur le plan qualitatif, l'exploitation des
       rapports disponibles ne fournissait pas suffisamment de détails sur l'état
       d'avancement physique et financier de toutes les composantes du Projet : l'appui
       mobilisé à cet effet n'a pas été efficace.

 vi.   Suivi du Projet par la Banque Mondiale : Les missions de supervision ont été
       régulièrement réalisées et le traitement technique des dossiers a été assuré dans les
       délais. Il ya lieu, de noter tout de meme certaines difficultés à la fin du Projet. Le
       traitement des demandes de décaissements a également posé quelquefois des
       problèmes.

       En conclusion, il ressort clairement que grâce à la bonne conception du
       Projet, la gouvernance et le management opérationnel ont été globalement
       satisfaisant tant du coté de la Banque Mondiale que du Gouvernement.

3.1.3 Concernant les résultats des composantes du Projet

     Au titre des réalisations

Le Projet a fait une innovation en mettant en place la composante Gestion et Entretien par
Niveau de Service des routes en terre (GENI'S-RT) qui a été une réussite. Pour les autres
composantes, il y a eu des retards dans la mise en oeuvre. Les difficultés d'ordre
technique et administratif ont contribué au lancement tardif des autres composantes d'au
moins six mois Les résultats des différentes composantes sont repris ci-après :

3.1.3.1 Composante « Investissement routier »

  i.    Prévu :

Renforcement/réhabilitation de 286 km de routes revêtues des routes revêtues » a été
retenue dans ce volet ainsi que le bitumage de 104 km.




`                                            40

  ii.  Réalisé :

           o En fin juin 2007, les routes revêtues longues de 286 km ont été
               renforcées/réhabilitées.

           o Bitumage de 104 km de la route Ngoura-Bokoro a été réalisé sur les
               ressources exclusives du Gouvernement en 2007.

 iii.  Appréciation :        Résultat       globalement        satisfaisant     pour       le
       renforcement/réhabilitation bien que les solutions techniques de base aient fait
       l'objet de modification et satisfaisant pour le bitumage de 104 km.

3.1.3.2 Composante Gestion et Entretiens par Niveaux de Service

  i.   Prévu : Il était prévu que l'axe routier Bokoro-Oum hadjer long de 441 km fasse
       l'objet des aménagements initiaux puis de l'entretien suivant des niveaux de
       services prédéfinis pendant quatre ans.

  ii.  Réalisé : Les 441 Kms de routes en terre ont été aménagées et entretenues
       régulièrement sous contrôle pendant quatre ans et demi (2001-2006).

 iii.  Appréciation : Résultat satisfaisant.

3.1.3.3 Composante « Sécurité routière »

  i.   Prévu : Dans le cadre de cette composante, il était prévu la mise en place d'une
       politique de sécurité routière à travers une série d'actions.

  ii.  Réalisé : Le système de collecte et de traitement des données sur les accidents a
       été mis en place, plusieurs textes en faveur de la sécurité routière publiés, le Projet
       de stratégie nationale de sécurité routière élaboré, la Direction Générale des
       Transports de surface, la police et la gendarmerie ont bénéficié d'une série
       d'outils de travail.

       Dans le cadre de traitement des points noirs, l'avenant n°2 du contrat de travaux
       GENIS-RT a permis de remplacer cinq radiers dangereux par des dalots sur la
       section Bokoro-Bitkine.

Appréciation : Résultat relativement satisfaisant.




`                                            41

3.1.3.4 Composante « Stratégie de Transport en Milieu Rural »

  i.   Prévu : Elaboration d'une stratégie nationale intégrée de transport en zones
       rurales

  ii.  Réalisé : A mi-parcours, cet objectif a été abandonné en faveur de la réalisation
       des plans de desserte des 17 régions du pays et d'un Programme d'Investissement
       Prioritaire des routes et pistes rurales

 iii.  Appréciation : Le nouvel objectif assigné à cette composante au cours de
       l'exécution du Projet a été atteint. Au vu des réalisations concrètes faites avant
       l'achèvement du Projet et leurs impacts prévisibles sur les populations rurales qui
       sont les plus nombreuses et les plus pauvres, cette composante aurait été plus
       performante si elle n'avait pas connu un très grand retard.

3.1.3.5 Composante« Appui institutionnel et renforcement des capacités »

  i.   Prévu : Il était prévu plusieurs activités d'assistance technique auprès de la
       C.S.C.P., des agences d'exécution, de la CJM et du FER, des activités de conseil,
       de formation, l'amélioration du cadre de travail et l'acquisition de divers types
       d'outils de travail pour les différents services chargés de la mise en oeuvre du
       Projet.

  ii.  Réalisé : Plusieurs activités d'assistance techniques réalisées, construction et
       rénovation des bâtiments, plusieurs missions de conseils menées, mise en oeuvre
       partielle du plan de formation, divers types d'outils de travail mis à la disposition
       des acteurs de la mise en oeuvre du Projet

 iii.  Appréciation : Résultat globalement satisfaisant, malgré les pesanteurs dans la
       mise en oeuvre et la conduite des activités.

3.1.3.6 Composante « Lutte contre le VIH/SIDA sur les axes routiers »

  i.   Prévu : Campagnes permanentes de sensibilisation pendant les travaux et
       réalisation afin d'influencer sur les comportements et les attitudes des ouvriers,
       des transporteurs et des populations riveraines face au VIH/SIDA sur les
       différents axes routiers concernés par le Projet.

  ii.  Réalisé : Toutes les activités d'information, d'éducation et communication (IEC)
       ont été réalisées telles que prévues.




`                                             42

 iii.  Appréciation : Résultat mitigé, du fait que la mesure de l'impact des actions IEC,
       importante pour bien apprécier les résultats de cette composante, n'a pas été
       réalisée.

     Sur le plan financier

Les ressources allouées à l'évaluation du Projet n'ont pas permis de réaliser l'ensemble
des opérations :

  i.   La variation du taux de change du DTS a entrainé une réduction de 30 % des
       ressources IDA

  ii.  La dégradation accélérée des routes revêtues devant être renforcées a généré une
       augmentation considérable du coût des travaux

Pour achever le Projet, le Gouvernement a mobilisé 45,6 milliards de FCFA pour le
bitumage de Ngoura-Bokoro et 32,5 milliards pour le renforcement des routes revêtues

3.1       SUR LE PLAN EXTERNE : L'IMPACT DU PROJET SUR LE TERRAIN

Concernant l'impact ou le bilan final du Projet

A - Les impacts positifs sont nombreux :

Du point de vue de l'Economie des transports, le bilan final du Projet est largement
satisfaisant :

A.1 Les effets constatés en amont au niveau des chargeurs (commerçants,
agriculteurs, entrepreneurs, importateurs et exportateurs) sont globalement
positifs :

A.1.1 Augmentation des revenus en termes de chiffres d'affaires ou de gains : Sur 302
chargeurs interrogés, 67 % ont déclaré que leurs revenus sont en augmentation depuis le
début des travaux.

A.1.2 Amélioration des échanges entre la capitale NDJAMENA et les régions : Sur les
1000 personnes interrogées, 92 % sont satisfaites de la régularité des moyens de transport
entre Ndjamena et les régions tant au niveau des voyages personnels que du transport des
marchandises.




`                                          43

A.2 Les effets directs pour les usagers et les autres bénéficiaires du réseau routier
réhabilité, sont importants :

A.2.1 Amélioration de l'offre et des services de transport : Sur           les 450 riverains
interrogés, plus de 55 % sont satisfaits des services offerts par les transporteurs.

A.2.2 Réduction des coûts d'exploitation du transport en termes de carburants, de
lubrifiants et de pièces détachées.

A.2.3 Gains de temps et augmentation du niveau de confort des usagers : 51 % des 450
riverains interrogés, ont noté une nette amélioration du confort dans les conditions de
transport.

A.3 Les effets externes et les effets de développement sont visibles sur le terrain :

A.3.1 Réel désenclavement et mise en valeur de nombreux espaces

A.3.2 Quelques créations de nouvelles activités génératrices de revenus : restauration,
vente des produits locaux, vente d'eau, vente des cartes téléphoniques, etc.

A.3.3 Accès aux services administratifs et sociaux : La plupart des zones traversées
comptent actuellement au moins une école primaire et le niveau de satisfaction des
populations riveraines est de 46 % contre 8 % d'insatisfaction.

A.4. Les effets de distribution et les effets en aval sont réels :

A.4.1 Amélioration de l'habitat, notamment par les populations riveraines,

A.4.2 Plus grande mobilité de la main-d'oeuvre et plus grande accessibilité             aux
opportunités d'emplois : Sur les 450 riverains interrogés, 60 % ont déclaré avoir constaté
un augmentation des opportunités d'emplois dans leurs localités.

A.4.3 Développement des organisations professionnelles allant dans le sens d'une
meilleure utilisation de la route par les différents partenaires tant du secteur public que
privé tels que les chargeurs et les transporteurs.

B - Quelques impacts négatifs sont à surveiller :

B.1 Au niveau de la pollution des sols : Dans les zones de stationnement des engins et
les bases de vie, il reste beaucoup de déchets visibles qu'il faudra traiter : Lubrifiants,
déchets solides inertes, déchets organiques, granulats, etc.




`                                             44

B.2 Au niveau de la sécurité routière : Avec le renforcement de la qualité du réseau, le
volume du trafic s'est accru en termes de nombre et de rythme des véhicules, le taux
d'accident par rapport au parc automobile risque d'évoluer.

B.3 Au niveau de l'environnement : Il est constaté une accélération du déboisement et
du braconnage du fait des populations riveraines et avoisinantes, notamment sur les
tronçons qui traversent les zones boisées. Ce phénomène de déboisement doit être suivi et
réglementé.

De cette évaluation, il ressort, que les progrès réalisés au niveau du système national
du transport, sont importants, notamment au niveau des impacts pour les usagers et
les populations riveraines. Cependant, l'excellence de la performance du Projet est
altérée du fait des résultats limités enregistrés dans certaines composantes. Les
multiples réorientations faites en cours d'exécution pourraient traduire une
insuffisance dans les études initiales de faisabilité du Projet. En définitive, il ressort
clairement que, malgré les quelques impacts négatifs signalés, le bilan global du
Projet est assez satisfaisant.

3    LES PRINCIPALES LECONS

L'expérience du PAPRONAT est riche en leçons pour tous les acteurs et les partenaires
du Projet. La conception et la mise en oeuvre du PAPRONAT ont été des occasions
réelles pour apprendre et comprendre. Les erreurs commises ne sont pas difficiles à
corriger et   dans la perspective d'un nouveau projet sont faciles à capitaliser.       A
l'achèvement du Projet, les principales leçons pour la consolidation des acquis sont les
suivantes :

Points forts:

     Poursuivre l'expérience de GENI'S-RT et l'étendre aux routes revêtues,

     Poursuivre le programme d'amélioration du réseau routier,

     Maintenir le système de coordination et de gestion du Projet mis en place dans le
       cadre du PAProNaT, en revanche la présidence du C.T. devrait être confiée au
       Secrétaire Général du Ministère des Infrastructures.

Points faibles:

     Pour la mobilisation de la contrepartie, une procédure plus efficace devra être
       envisagée,




`                                           45

  La stratégie d'entretien routier devrait permettre de réaliser l'entretien périodique
   en temps opportun.




`                                      46

Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and other Partners/Stakeholders
Not Applicable




`                                    47

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Minutes of PCN review meeting
Aide-Memoire of Appraisal mission
Agreed Minutes of Negotiations
The World Bank, Country Assistance Strategy, May 1999
The World Bank, Country Assistance Strategy, May 1999
Etude d'impact sur l'environnement de la route Ngoura-Bokoro, April 30, 2000.
Etude d'impact du programme national des transports, June 30, 2000.
The World Bank, Project Appraisal Document, National Transport Program Support
Project, September 29, 2000.
The World Bank, Development Credit Agreement (National Transport Program Support
Project) between Republic of Chad and International development Association,
November 20, 2000
Implementation Status Reports
Aide- Etude d'impact du programme national des transports, June 30, 2000.
Memoires of Supervision Missions
Mid-Term Review Report
The World Bank, Country Assistance Strategy, 2003
Project Evaluation Report (including beneficiary survey) 2008 by CIBLE
Borrower's Contribution to the ICR in French, March 2009.




`                                          48

