Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14763
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BARBADOS
SECOND EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
(LOAN 2688-BAR)
JUNE 30, 1995
Human Resources Division
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



GLOSSARY
BCC         Barbados Community College
EPIU        Education Project Implementation Unit
IBRD        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA         International Development Association
IDB         Inter-American Development Bank
MOE         Ministry of Education and Culture
MRSU        Manpower Research and Statistics Unit
NTB         National Training Board
PCR         Project Completion Report
SAR         Staff Appraisal Report
SEN         Special Education Needs
SJPP        Samuel Jaclknan Prescod Polytechnic
S/T         Student/Teacher
SW          Staff Weeks
TVET        Technical and Vocational Education and Training



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June 30, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Barbados
Second Education and Training Project (Loan 2688-BAR)
Attached is the Project Completion Report (PCR) on the Barbados Second
Education and T1raining project (Loan 2688-BAR, approved in FY86) prepared by the Latin
America and the Caribbean Regional Office. Part II was prepared by the Borrower. The
PCR gives a satisfactory account of project experience and outcomes. Part II is in basic
agreement with Parts I and ll.
The objectives of the project were to improve the quality and cost-effectiveness
of primary and secondary education; to enhance the efficiency, quality and relevance of
technical and vocational training; and to strengthen government's capacity to manage and plan
education development. These aims were to be achieved through a broad range of inputs:
construction or upgrading of facilities; equipment purchases; and the creation of two new
administrative units. The physical investments were supported by technical assistance and
training.
Project implementation was affected by the arrival of a new Government with a
somewhat different project concept (implying larger physical and staff inputs, hence higher
costs) and a simultaneous deterioration in the economic situation leading to shortages of
counterpart funds. These two factors caused implementation delays and cost overruns, and left
some buildings incomplete. But most educational facilities were provided as foreseen
(although the buildup of enrollments proceeded more slowly than expected). On balance,
outcome is rated as marginally satisfactory, and institutional development as modest. The
prospects for the project's sustainability are mixed: the positive momentum imparted by
institutional development has to be weighed against the braking force of fiscal constraint.
Thus sustainability is rated as uncertain.
Compliance with legal covenants has generally been good, some lapses brought
on by the difficult budgetary situation notwithstanding.
No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BARBADOS
SECOND EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
(LOAN 2688-BAR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE ........................ i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ............................ iii
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE .1
Project Identity.                                                                      1
Project Background .1
Sector Development Objectives .1
Policy Context .1
Linkages Between Project, Sector and Macro Policy Objectives .1
Project Objectives and Description.                                                    2
Project Objectives.                                                            2
Project Components.                                                            2
Project Design and Organization.                                                       2
Project Implementation.                                                                2
Critical Variances in Project Implementation.                                  2
Loan Effectiveness and Project Start-Up.                                       3
Revision to Loan Agreement.                                                    3
Project Costs.                                                                 3
Project Closing Date.                                                          3
Project Results.                                                                       4
Project Sustainability.                                                                6
Bank Performance.                                                                      6
Borrower Performance.                                                                  7
Major Strengths and Weaknesses.                                                7
Project Relationship.                                                                  8
Consulting Services  ...........................................    8
Project Documentation and Data  ..................................   8
Tls document has a restricted distribution and may bc used by recipients only in the pcrformance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
PART H. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Borrower's Perspective of the Design and Implementation and the
Development Impact of the Project  ..................................  9
PART m. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Related Bank Loans ..................................... 15
Project Timetable   .         ..........................................   15
Loan Disbursements .            .........................................   16
Project Costs and Financing
Project Costs ........................................... 18
Project Financing  .          ......................................   18
Project Results
Direct Benefits .         ........................................   19
Studies/Consultancies .....................................  20
Status of Legal Covenants  ...........                   ...........................  26
Use of Bank Resources
Staff Irputs  .      ..........................................  27
Missions .............................................  28
ANNEXES
Annex I .................................................    29
Annex II  .................................................   30
Annex i   .................................................   31
Annex IV  .................................................   32
MAP IBRD 19396



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BARBADOS
SECOND EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
(LOAN 2688-BAR)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Education and Training Project
in Barbados, for which Loan 2688-BAR in the amount of US$10.0 million was approved on May 6,
1986. The loan was closed on schedule on June 30, 1993 and the outstanding balance of US$1.6
million was canceled on November 2, 1993.
The Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III were prepared by the Human Resources
Division, Country Department m, of the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office while the
Borrower prepared Part II.
Preparation of this PCR was started during an April 1994 mission, and is based, inter alia, on
the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan Agreement, supervision reports, correspondence between the
Bank and the Borrower, and internal Bank memoranda.






iii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BARBADOS
SECOND EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
(LOAN 2688-BAR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
L.    The project objectives were to: (i) improve the quality and cost effectiveness of primary and
secondary education; (ii) improve the efficiency, quality, and industrial relevance of technical and
vocational training; and (iii) strengthen the capacity to manage and plan the education and training
system.
Implementation ExDerience
ii.    The critical variances between planned and actual project imnplementation must be viewed
against the changing political and economic environment since the mid 1980s when the project was
prepared. The new Govermnent which came to power shortly after loan signing requested significant
changes in the size/scope of the civil works activities and introduced a number of policy changes as a
result of political/social pressures. The new administration relaxed the hiring freeze policy,
introduced specialized remedial reading teachers, and lowered teaching loads in primary education.
The deterioration in the economic situation, which led to an IMF sponsored stabilization program,
was reflected in shortages of incremental recurrent funding that adversely affected the completion
phase of key civil works activities.
iii.    Decisions which most affected project implementation included changes in the civil works
component and recruitment of a specialized agency to handle the technical assistance component. The
Government's decision to change the site, size and/or scope of the civil works led to implementation
delays and dramatic cost overruns. This decision was exacerbated by budgetary constraints, which
resulted in shortages of counterpart funds, delays in payments of contractors and suspension of works
(Annex I). A notable example was the Ministry of Education (MOE) headquarters complex. The
change in site selection and scope of work, resulted in a total cost of roughly US$7.1 million, versus
US$3.1 million at appraisal, representing a cost overrun of about 130 percent. By project
completion, US$4.0 million had been spent and the facility remained uncompleted, leaving MOE staff
in the same cramped facilities and raising doubts about the effective use of project funds. With the
benefit of hindsight, these excessive cost overruns could possibly have been avoided by carrying out a
critical assessment of the technical merits and the fiscal implications of the proposed changes. In fact,
it is likely that if the design plans and site selection for the MOE headquarters had remained
unchanged, it would have been feasible to complete the facility by project completion. In comparison
to the decision concerning the civil works component, the recruitment of a specialized agency proved
beneficial in the implementation of the technical assistance component. From project inception
through evaluation, the British Council organized a series of rnissions, assisting the Government in
fleshing out the objectives of the technical assistance component, in prioritizing and scheduling
consultancies and in identifying and supervising suitable consultants.
Results
iv.    Key achievements relate to: (a) enhancements to the learning environment in the 10
amalgamated primary schools; (b) construction of two secondary schools with a total capacity of about
2000 school places; (c) reinforcement of special education needs programs; (d) adoption of a textbook
procurement and distribution policy in secondary education; (e) construction of a new NTB skills



iv
training center (Sayes Court), which accommodates about 315 students annually; (f) construction of
technician level training facilities at the Barbados Community College, which facilitated a 20 percent
expansion in enrollments; (g) improvements in the delivery of courses for public servants at the
Training Administration Division; and (h) production of the Barbados Directory of Occupational
Classification.
v.     Against these positive developments, it should be noted that SAR enrollment targets have not
always been met, capacity utilization at the newly constructed/renovated facilities has been hindered
by staff shortages/turnover (para. 18), and there has been lack of progress in raising the
student/teacher ratio, which was one of the key policy conditions of the loan (paras. 15, 16). By
project completion in 1992/93, the student/teacher ratio declined to 20:1 and 18:1 at the primary and
secondary level, respectively, in comparison to the Government's commitment to maintain the ratios
above the 1983/84 levels (primary: 23:1 and secondary: 19:f1), suggesting the system is probably
more costly today than when the project was launched (Annex II). If the ratio of 23:1 and 19:1 had
been reached by 1992/93 the number of teachers required at the primary level would have been only
1210 (instead of the actual 1430 employed) and at the secondary level about 1116 (in comparison to
1202), representing financial savings of roughly BD$12.0 million in 1993, or about 6 percent of the
education recurrent budget. There has also been lack of progress in formulating measures to achieve
cost savings in vocational subjects in secondary education. Supervision missions did not address these
issues adequately, which was partly related to reliance on one consultant and the absence of a Bank
staff member who would have been in a position to discuss sensitive policy issues. This was reflected
in supervision reports and aide memoires which provided an uneven and incomplete treatment of
implementation issues.
Sustainability
vi.    The factor which augurs well for project sustainability relates to enhanced institutional
capabilities, stemming from training provided under the project, which should lead to improved
decision making and productivity. The key factors which are likely to impede sustainability are the
Government's fiscal constraints, as evidenced during the last two years of project implementation, as
well as the level of commitment to pursuing socially and politically unpopular measures (e.g., freeze
on recruitment). In an environment of continuing fiscal austerity combined with lack of progress in
improving internal efficiency, the Government is likely to experience continuing difficulties in
earmarking sufficient non-salary funds for maintaining the newly constructed/renovated facilities.
Lessons Learned
vii.   The principal lessons derived from project implementation can be summarized as follows: (i)
policy conditionality should be realistically set, requesting the Govermment to take up-front action to
illustrate comrmitment, and closely monitored during the life of the project, taking appropriate action
when there is lack of compliance; (ii) supervision missions should be appropriately staffed with
interdisciplinary teams, and led by the task manager or other Bank staff member able to handle policy
discussions as well as have sufficient time devoted to them; (iii) aide memoires should provide a
balanced treatment of all project components, bringing to the attention of Government authorities
major implementation problems and requesting remedial action; and (iv) civil works activities which
deviate substantially from appraisal estimates should only be approved after a thorough reappraisal by
the Bank, irrespective of Government commitmnent to fund the cost overruns. The key lessons
stemming from project implementation for the Borrower relate to the need to: (i) foster a broad
based consensus among social partners on difficult reform measures prior to negotiating legal
agreements with donors; (ii) continue with recruitment of a firm for overseeing the implementation of
technical assistance activities; (iii) contract to the private sector the elaboration of design plans; and
(iv) establish clearer linkages between technical assistance/fellowships and project objectives,
strengthening follow-up of studies and emphasizing consultancies which involve the delivery of
workshops rather than production of reports.



SECOND EDUCATION AND TRANIG PROJECT
(LOAN 2688-BAR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Proiect Identity
- Project Name:      Second Education and Training Project
- Loan No.:          2688-BAR
- RVP Unit:          Latin America and Caribbean Region Country Department III
- Country:           Barbados
- Sector:            Education
- Subsectors:        General
Technical and Vocational
B. Project Background
1.    Sector Development Objectives At the time of project appraisal in May/June 1985 Barbados
had one of the most highly developed educational systems in Latin America and the Caribbean,
having reached universal coverage in primary and secondary education and an adult literacy rate close
to 99 percent. The Governnent's development objectives therefore emphasized the need to equalize
opportunity, by rectifying the qualitative disparities in school facilities, to modernize the educational
content and to ensure cost containment in the education system.
2.    Policy Context Government authorities placed priority on four key policy issues. First, the
fiscal sustainability of education spending. The Government's free education policy, high coverage of
the formal education system, and relatively low student/teacher ratios (23:1 and 19:1 in primary and
secondary education, respectively) led to 8 percent of GDP and 18-20 percent of the total recurrent
public sector expenditure being devoted to education. While these expenditure levels reflected the
high priority accorded to education they emphasized the need to reduce costs and raise student-teacher
ratios, as well as improve the efficiency of the system. Second, low achievement levels, which were
reflected in the 30 percent of primary school children who performed poorly in secondary school
entrance examinations and about 50 percent who failed the secondary school leaving examinations.'
Factors explaining this poor performance included the automatic promotion policy, the lack of
remedial instruction at the primary level, insufficient instructional time, and delays in curriculum
implementation in secondary education. Third, uneven access to facilities of comparable quality,
particularly at the secondary level. Fourthlv, there were serious education management problems
(e.g. weaknesses in educational planning), which were exacerbated by the inappropriate and congested
premises occupied by the Ministry of Education and Culture (MOE).
3.    Linkages Between Proiect, Sector and Macro Policy Objectives The deterioration in the
economic situation in the early 1980s, which was reflected in declining GDP growth rates of 3-4
percent and rising unemployment levels (11 to 18 percent from 1981 to 1984), revealed underlying
structural problems (e.g., declining competitiveness in tourism and sugar, the key foreign exchange
earning sectors). To overcome these difficulties, the Bank supported the Government's plans to
1/    It should be noted that scores on the secondary school leaving exam (Caribbean Examinations Council
Examination), which are the only ones available, are not representative of achievement levels of all secondary
school students since this exam is targeted to the upper 40 percent of the secondary school-age population.



2
diversify its markets, improve efficiency and increase vocational skills. According to the Staff
Appraisal Report the Project was expected: (i) to provide the incentives to implement quality and cost
effectiveness measures (e.g. improvement in student-teacher ratios, rationalization of vocational
subjects in secondary schools and formulation of measures to achieve cost savings and greater
efficiency in the utilization of educational facilities and resources); and (ii) to contribute significantly
to human resources development, which is essential for a competitive modem economy.
C. Project Objectives and Description
4.    Project Objectives The objectives were to: (i) improve the quality and cost effectiveness of
primary and secondary education; (ii) improve the efficiency, quality, and industrial relevance of
technical and vocational training; and (iii) strengthen the capacity to manage and plan the education
and training system.
5.    Project Components To attain these objectives the project included the following
components: construction/upgrading and/or equipping of: (a) 10 primary schools; (b) 4 secondary
schools (construction of 1, upgrading of 2; and providing supplementary equipment and furniture to
another); (c) facilities at the Samuel Jackman Prescod Polytechnic (SJPP); (d) training facilities at the
Barbados Community College (BCC); (e) Ministry of Education Pedagogical and Administrative
Building; (f) four National Training Board (NTB) skills training centers (3 new ones and 1 to be
equipped); (g) Manpower Research and Statistics Unit (MRSU); and (h) the Training Administration
Division. Technical assistance and local training were also provided to facilitate implementation of
these components.
D. Project Design and Oranization
6.    The project, which was co-financed by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) and the
Government of Barbados, was well prepared and designed, providing timely assistance for the
continuation and broadening of the activities launched under the First IBRD Education Project. The
conceptual foundation of the project was appropriately based on two overriding considerations: (i)
improving/modernizing the learning environment in school facilities; and (ii) raising the cost-
effectiveness of the education and training system through such measures as school amalgamations and
a freeze on teacher recruitment. While there appears to have been a broad-based consensus on the
first point, there was a wider divergence of views on the scope and pace of the policy reform
measures, particularly amongst teachers, teachers' unions, and the new Government which came to
power in 1986.
E. Project Implementation
7.    Critical Variances in Project Implementation The critical variances between planned and
actual project implementation must be assessed against the changing political/economic environment in
Barbados since the mid 1980s when the project was prepared. Two points are worth highlighting.
First, within one week after project signing (May 21, 1986), a new Government came to power,
which wanted to ensure the project was consistent with its priorities. This led to a reassessment and
renegotiation of the project, involving significant changes in the size/scope of the civil works
activities, which in turn spurred implementation delays and dramatic cost overruns. Political/social
pressures drove the new administration to relax the hiring freeze policy, to introduce specialized
remedial reading teachers, and to lower teaching loads in primary education, in part to address the
surplus supply. Second, it should be emphasized that while the project was prepared and launched
during a relatively prosperous economic period it was completed during a period of fiscal austerity,
which coincided with the final phase of a number of major civil works. The Staff Appraisal Report
rightly identified the risks which in practice impeded project implementation, namely the relaxation of
the hiring freeze, the overall economic environment and the related issue of availability of incremental



3
recurrent financing. The major variances between planned and actual implementation are summarized
below:
8.    (i) Loan Effectiveness and Project Start-UR The loan became effective in February 1987
with a four-month delay due primarily to protracted parliamentary discussions prior to project
approval. The project therefore got off to a slow start.
9.    (ii) Revision to Loan Aereement During 1987 the new Government carried out a
reassessment of the project, which ultimately led to a reappraisal by the Bank, requiring preparation
of supplemental documents for the loan amendment. The principal changes to the loan agreement
requested were: (a) relocation of the Ministry of Education pedagogical and administrative units (i.e.,
headquarters complex) to a new site; (b) construction (rather than upgrading) of Queen's College at a
new site; (c) construction of the St. Thomas Secondary School; and (d) construction, furnishing and
equipping of one (rather than 3) new skills training center, and acquisition of equipment/furniture for
one existing large skills training center and up to seven existing small centers. In October 1987 the
Bank agreed to all points except (c), which was expected to leave the appraisal costs essentially the
same. As discussed below, these revisions to the loan agreement ultimately had a significant impact
on implementation, to the extent that they spurred large cost increases and led to a 2-year delay in
launching the civil works component.
10.   (iii) Proiect Costs At project completion, the total project cost was somewhat over US$52
million, in comparison to an SAR estimate of US$37.7 million (IBRD: US$10, IDB: US$17 and
Government: US$10.7 million), representing close to a 40 percent increase.2 The cost overrun was
financed exclusively by the Government, which spent close to US$27 million, raising questions about
the need for external financing.
11.   Cost overruns affected primarily the civil works activities and stemmed from a combination of
factors: changes in site selection and scope of works; delays in initiating civil works; lack of bids
from prequalified contractors; and shortages of counterpart funds, resulting from budgetary
constraints, which led to delays in payments of contractors and suspension of works (see Annex I).
The two noteworthy examples are the MOE headquarters complex and Queen's College, both part of
the 1987 credit amendment. In the case of the MOE headquarters, the change in site selection and
scope of work, resulted in a total cost of roughly US$7.1 million, versus US$3.1 million at appraisal,
representing a cost overrun of about 130 percent. Shortages of counterpart funds forced the
Government to suspend works in April 1992; when the IBRD loan was closed, US$4.0 million had
been spent and the facility remained uncompleted. In the case of Queen's College, the cost of the
facility more than doubled to about US$7.0 million in relation to the 1987 amendment (US$3.1
million) and quadrupled in comparison to the SAR estimate (US$1.7 million). With the benefit of
hindsight, the excessive cost overruns could possibly have been avoided by requesting the
Government to provide detailed design plans and cost estimates during the 1987 amendment and by
taking a more cautious approach in approving documents which implied such substantial cost
overruns. At a minimum, the Bank should have secured the services of a suitable specialist to carry
out a critical assessment of the technical merits and the fiscal implications of the proposed changes.
12.   (iv) Pro)ect Closin Date In May 1993 the Government submitted a request to the Bank for
a 2-year extension of the closing date, proposing to spend the balance of the IBRD loan (US$1.6
million) almost exclusively on the completion of the MOE headquarters complex. The June 1993
2/     The difference between these figures and the project costs cited in Part I of the PCR is interest and
financial charges. According to Part II, which includes these charges, the MDB and Govermment contributions at
appraisal were US$19.0 million and US$16.8 million, respectively (para. 45); by project completion, the total
project costs increased by somewhat over 40 percent (para. 36).



4
IBRD mission worked in close collaboration with Government officials in elaborating a financial and
an implementation plan for completion of the MOE headquarters. The main stumbling block proved
to be the Cabinet's decision of August 20, 1993 that no funds would be made available for the
completion of the MOE headquarters, which forced the Bank to close the loan on schedule and to
cancel the outstanding balance of US$1.6 million on November 2, 1993.
F. Project Results
13.   While important qualitative improvements in the learning environment were introduced, there
was no discernible improvement in the cost-effectiveness of the education and training system and
mixed results were attained in institutional reinforcement, implying that the impact on the education
sector was not as substantial as had been expected.
14.   Improvements in primary and secondary education resulted from: (a) enhancements to the
learning environment in the 10 amalgamated primary schools (accommodating some 4300 children);
(b) construction of two secondary schools with a total capacity of 1980 school places (Queen's
College, 930 and Wotton/Kingsland Secondary, 1050)3, which has allowed the Government to
significantly improve access to quality educational facilities; (c) introduction of a reading assessment
kit; (d) staff training in diagnostic techniques, library and audio-visual materials development; (e)
reinforcement of special education programs; and (f) adoption of a textbook procurement and
distribution policy in secondary education, which stipulates that all secondary schools be given their
own textbook budgets, to be determined on a per capita basis.
15.   The poor performance experienced under the First IBRD-funded Education Project (1978-85)
in raising the cost-effectiveness of primary and secondary education continued during the
inplementation of the Second Education Project. While the Staff Appraisal Report included
enrollment projections, depicting a continuing declining trend over the 1983-90 period, the
Government proved unable to meet the project's cost reduction targets, as it succumbed to social and
labor union pressures to recruit a backlog of newly trained school teachers. This situation was only
partly rectified by efforts to dismiss teachers during the early 1990s, as part of the Government's
stabilization program. By project completion in 1992/93, the SIT ratio had declined to 20:1 and 18:1
at the primary and secondary level, respectively, in comparison to the Government's commitment to
maintain the ratios above the 1983/84 levels (primary: 23:1 and secondary: 19:1, Annex II). These
factors suggest that the system is probably more costly today than when the project was launched. If
the ratio of 23:1 and 19:1 had been reached by 1992/93 the number of teachers required at the
prinary level would have been only 1210 (instead of the actual 1430 employed) and at the secondary
level about 1116 (in comparison to 1202). The potential financial savings of some 310 fewer teachers
(primary: 220; secondary: 90) would have been roughly BD$12.0 million in 1993, representing about
6.0 percent of the education recurrent budget.
16.   While the situation deteriorated for the sector as a whole, there was limited improvement in
S/T ratios in some amalgamated primary schools (see Annex II). Nevertheless, it appears doubtful
that the expected cost savings (20 percent) of these mergers materialized. Moreover, as can be seen
from the table below, even the schools which experienced improvements in S/T ratios did not reach
the SAR targets. This is due primarily to the larger than expected reception classes and to the
decrease in the number of periods (35 to 32) that teachers are required to teach.
3/    The net increase in secondary school places was in fact about 1400 (representing a 7 percent expansion)
since Queen's College already existed and was relocated to a new site.



5
Table #1
SAR
Before          Target          Actual
St Mary's Infants     23:1            26:1             21:1
St Mary's Junior      15:1
St. Matthias Boys     13:1            27:1             21:1
St. Matthias Girls    16:1
Bayley's Primary      17:1            27:1             22:1
Shrewsbury Primary    22:1
Source: Annex mR
17.   While there have been some improvements in technical and vocational education and training
(TVET), there has been virtually no progress in raising the relevance and cost-effectiveness of these
programs. Key achievements relate to: (a) construction of a new NTB skills training center (Sayes
Court), which accommodates about 315 students annually; (b) construction of technician level training
facilities for the Department of Computer Studies, and the Divisions of Technology, Applied Arts,
and Health Sciences at the Barbados Community College, facilitating a 20 percent expansion in
enrollments by 1991/92, of which women comprised roughly 75 percent4; (c) staff training/study
tours/consultancies, which facilitated the introduction of the associate degree program and a new
student records system at the BCC; (d) provision of equipment to the SJPP; (e) pilot testing of a pre-
vocational education program in secondary education; (f) improvements in the delivery of courses for
public servants at the Training Administration Division; and (g) production of the Barbados Directory
of Occupational Classification, which represents an important tool for analysis and monitoring of the
labor market situation.
18.   Nevertheless, SAR enrollment targets have not always been met and capacity utilization at the
newly constructed/renovated facilities has been hindered by staff shortages and/or turnover (e.g.,
NTB, SJPP) and by lack of progress in introducing new policies. For example, there appears to have
been limited progress in implementing the draft plan reviewed at negotiations for the sharing of
workshop facilities among secondary schools and the SJPP; as a result the number of secondary
school students in the day-release program dropped from 347 (1984/85) to 236 (1992/93), in
comparison to an appraisal target of about 700, implying a substantial increase in unit costs. The
overall enrollment target of about 2000 students was not reached as SJPP currently has only 1314
students. Similarly, while the MRSU benefitted from fellowships and supplementary equipment it has
been unable to significantly expand its activities due in large part to staff shortages and rapid
turnover. Moreover, there has been virtually no progress in improving the industrial advisory
committees, industrial job analysis, and follow-up of graduates.
19.   With respect to institutional reinforcement, there appears to have been a general improvement
as training opportunities for managerial and technical staff expanded considerably. Nevertheless,
according to Govermnent officials, the anticipated improvements did not always materialize since the
level of commitment for bringing about change in the public sector was not fully assessed and
resources required were not always available. Limited or no progress has been achieved in some
areas (i.e. educational planning and management; budgeting procedures; school supervision;
curriculum implementation; teacher appraisal). The lack of substantial progress in strengthening
educational planning is particularly disappointing since this was identified as a major sector weakness
41     The upgraded facilities have permitted the BCC to introduce self-funding and income-generating
courses as part of its overall cost recovery policy.



6
during the First Education Project PCRlAudit Report. Factors impeding an improvement in
educational planning included: shortcomings of consultancies, staff vacancies, absence of a statutory
requirement that all schools submit annual returns, and lack of strong ministerial support. The
reliability and accuracy of educational planning statistics and teacher training requirements has been
somewhat questionable. This situation was partly rectified towards the end of the project period, with
the appointment of a senior education officer to the planning section. Likewise, there was no follow-
up to consultant recommendations on the functioning of the National Training Board, which implied
that the institution continued to carry out its service delivery functions, leaving a vacuum in terms of
strategic planning and coordination of TVET programs. The impact on local institutions was most
noticeable in the case of institutions, such as the BCC, which were already well managed and able to
make the most of project resources. With regard to the formulation of measures to achieve cost
savings and greater efficiency in vocational subjects in secondary education, there has been no
discernible progress during the course of the project, and the issue is now being addressed in the
follow-up Human Resources Project approved in July 1993.5 Finally, as already mentioned above,
the MOE headquarters complex was never completed, leaving the staff accommodated in the same
cramped facilities and raising doubts about the effective use of project funds. In retrospect, if the
design plans and site selection had remained unchanged, it would have been feasible to complete the
MOE headquarters complex in a timely fashion.
G. Project Sustainablitv
20.    The factor which augurs well for project sustainability relates to enhanced institutional
capabilities, stenmming from training provided under the project, which should lead to improved
decision making and productivity. The key factors which are likely to impede sustainability are the
Government's fiscal constraints, as evidenced during the last two years of project implementation, as
well as the level of commitment to pursuing socially and politically unpopular measures (e.g., freeze
on recruitrnent). In an environment of continuing fiscal austerity, combined with lack of progress in
improving internal efficiency, the Government is likely to experience continuing difficulties in
earmarking sufficient non-salary funds for maintaining the facilities constructed/renovated under the
project and for the provision of adequate instructional materials for school facilities.
H. Bank Performance
21.    Bank performance was particularly strong in the initial phases of the project cycle
(identification/preparation/appraisal) but was relatively weak during the supervision phase.6 While
supervision missions were fielded at regular intervals, their composition was inadequate as they did
not include multi-disciplinary teams, and often consisted of only one consultant. This implied that a
disproportionate attention was devoted to some areas of project implementation (e.g. civil works) to
the detriment of others (e.g. policy issues, education programs, compliance with legal covenants).
While the use of the same consultant for the majority of supervision missions provided continuity, the
absence of Bank staff at critical periods in project imnplementation was inappropriate, particularly for
51     The study on the formulation of measures to achieve cost savings and greater efficiency in vocational
subjects in secondary education was produced with a delay and fell considerably short of its mnndate. The
British Council funded another consultancy, which produced a report documenting the uneconomical nature of
these course offerings and suggesting remedial actions. A MOE committee was subsequently set up to prepare
an action plan, which became one of the dated legal covenants of the Human Resources Project.
6/     According to the MIS data, 65 percent of staff resources were devoted to
identification/preparation/appraisal in comparison to only 35 percent for supervision. Nevertheless, it should be
noted that the data might underestimate somewhat the actual staff weeks devoted to supervision to the extent that
the reporting for some years is incomplete.



7
the discussion of sensitive policy issues. Bank staff members led only 3 out of the 12 supervision
missions carried out during the life of the project. Furthermore, the staff weeks (s.w.) devoted to
supervision fell considerably below planned levels as well as the Bank norm for similar projects. For
example, during the FY89-92 period, somewhat less than 3.0 s.w. were spent per year, on average,
in comparison to the planned level of 10 s.w. and to a Bank normn of 11 s.w. for education projects.
22.   In general, the majority of supervision reports, aide memoires and confirmation telexes failed
to highlight the lack of progress in the areas of project implementation which ultimately fell
considerably short of their goals. Supervision reports and aide memoires tended to focus on the civil
works components, monitoring closely compliance with preparation of design plans, tendering, and
physical implementation. By contrast, most of the supervision reports rated compliance with legal
covenants a " 1 " and the aide memoires stated that "loan covenants are being met essentially as
scheduled", while the important S/T ratio covenant was not fulfilled. In one case (July 1989
supervision report), the legal covenant category was rated a "2", indicating moderate problems, but
this was not brought to the attention of either Bank management or Government officials.
23.   The principal lessons derived from project implementation can be summarized as follows:
(i) Policy conditionality should be realistically set, taking account of political and technical
feasibility, and the Government should take up-front action to illustrate commitmnent. During
the life of the project, the policy conditionality needs to be closely monitored and appropriate
action should be taken when there is lack of compliance.
(ii) Supervision missions should be fielded at regular intervals, appropriately staffed with
interdisciplinary teams, and led by the task manager or other Bank staff member able to
handle policy discussions as well as have sufficient time devoted to them.
(iii) Aide memoires should provide a balanced treatment of all project components, bringing
to the attention of Government authorities major implementation problems and requesting
remedial action.
(iv) Civil works activities which deviate substantially from appraisal estimates should only be
approved after a thorough reappraisal by the Bank, irrespective of Government commitment to
fund the cost overruns.
I. Borrower Performance
24.   Major Strenhs and Weaknesses The major strengths of the Borrower's performance are
related to: (i) political stability and relatively limited ministerial turnover during 1986-92; (ii) an
experienced Project Implementation Unit with limited staff turnover and competent
personnel/management familiar with Bank procedures and the implementation of donor-funded
projects; (iii) elaboration of regular status reports; and (iv) recruitmnent of an international firm
(British Council) to handle the technical assistance component of the project. The key weaknesses can
be summarized as follows: (a) lack of political resolve to tackle politically and socially unpopular
measures; (b) staff turnover in some institutions (e.g. MRSU, SJPP); (c) reliance on in-house
capabilities for elaboration of design plans rather than contracting this work to the private sector,
which contributed to implementation delays during the initial years of the project; (d) lack of close
follow-up of the project's monitoring indicators, which makes it difficult to ascertain its quantitative
accomplishmnents; and (e) lack of clear linkages between technical assistance/fellowships and project
objectives. The key lessons stemming from project implementation for the Borrower relate to the
need to: (i) foster a broad-based consensus among social partners on difficult reform measures prior
to negotiating legal agreements with donors; (ii) continue with recruitment of a firm for overseeing
the implementation of technical assistance activities; (iii) contract to the private sector the elaboration



8
of design plans; and (iv) establish clearer linkages between technical assistance/fellowships and project
objectives, improve supervision of consultants, strengthen follow-up of studies, emphasize
consultancies which involve the delivery of workshops, rather than preparation of reports, and request
that all participants produce concrete outputs by the end of their fellowships.
J. Project RelationshiR
25.   The working relationship between the Bank and the Borrower can be characterized as
amicable, productive, and problem free. Bank staff/consultants generally provided sound advice,
even though some areas were relatively neglected (para. 22). The relationship between the IBRD and
the IDB was likewise amicable and collaborative. A number of joint missions were organized in the
earlier stages of the project cycle, which provided a good opportunity for discussing project and
sector issues in an integrated fashion. During the supervision phase, an engineer from the local IDB
office also collaborated in supervising the project. While working relationships remained solid during
the supervision phase, each institution appears to have mounted its own supervision effort,
concentrating on its respective project components. Towards the end of the project, the two Banks
were sending conflicting messages to the Government on the importance of the policy conditionality.
While the preparation of the follow-up Human Resources Project provided the World Bank an
opportunity to re-emphasize the importance of improving internal efficiency by raising the
student/teacher ratio, the IDB dropped the student/teacher ratio covenant from its project. In
retrospect, a greater effort should have been made to organize joint supervision missions and to send
consistent messages to the Government.
K. Consulting Services
26.   The Government secured the services of the British Council for the implementation of the
technical assistance/fellowships components of the project. From project inception through
evaluation, the British Council organized a series of missions, assisting the Government in fleshing
out the objectives of the technical assistance/fellowships, in prioritizing and scheduling consultancies
and in identifying and supervising suitable consultants. During the life of the project there was a
substantial conversion of technical assistance funds into fellowships, which Barbadian authorities
found more useful. The quality of the consultancies and the utility of the reports produced was
generally good. A British Council evaluation mission, carried out in June/July 1992, found the
effectiveness and impact of the technical assistance and fellowships to have been generally positive. It
should be stated that there were exceptions. For example, the Hemingway report on ways of
reducing the costs of technical/vocational subjects in secondary education fell considerably short of its
mandate. Nevertheless, the British Council proved responsive to the Goverunent's needs by redoing
the work at no additional cost. The evaluation mission also concluded that where training institutions
had links with Barbadian authorities through consultants the fellowships tended to be particularly
successful.
L. Project Documentation and Data
27.   The Staff Appraisal Report was satisfactory and the economnic analysis was of high quality.
The SAR, in fact, has been identified as one of the few in the Bank's education sector portfolio to
analyze the sectoral implications of the introduction of cost efficiency measures (i.e. school
amalgamations). The data availability for preparing the PCR was generally good, with all status
reports prepared by Government and all supervision reports readily available. However, most aide
memoires made references to annexes, which were not available in either division or LAC files. On
the Government's side, data on project monitoring and evaluation indicators was not always readily
available. With the benefit of hindsight, it might have been more practical to have a shorter list of
indicators routinely reported in all status reports, and to insist on close monitoring by the
Government.



9
PART II. PROJECT REV[EW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    Project Design and Or2anisation
28.    The Second Education and Training Project - Loans 2688-BAR and 201/iC-BA - was a
follow-up on Loan 1642-BAR. It was designed to extend Government's policy of rationalising and
modernising the education and training system by increasing educational opportunity; improving
educational quality at both primary and secondary levels, fostering the quality and industrial relevance
of technical and vocational education and training at the post secondary level; and strengthening the
capacity of Ministries to plan and manage the education and training system. These objectives not
only arose out of the principal issues of the sector but generated a set of strategies which were shared
by the relevant parties of the project beneficiaries.
29.   Innovative aspects of the project were evident in the inter-ministry collaboration generated and
the utilization of a management consultancy firm to assist with the implementation of the technical
assistance component of the project. Three Ministries - Education, Labour and the Civil Service -
participated in the implementation of the project. There were therefore very significant levels of
cooperation, collaboration and information flows among the participating ministries and agencies
which contributed in no small measure to the successful implementation of the project.
30.    Two main events impacted negatively on the timing of the project. These were a major
review and subsequent re-negotiation of the project following the assumption of office by a new
administration on 28 May 1986 and the stabilisation programme of 1991 which led to a severe
contraction in resources available to the project. Had these events not occurred, there is every
reason to believe that the time would have been appropriate for the implementation of the project.
31.   The roles and responsibilities of the participating institutions, while not specifically
documented, were understood and undertaken by the relevant authorities. These included identifying
and selecting personnel for training; arranging for substitutes; planning and scheduling for specialist
services, preparing, vetting and approving terms of reference; evaluating curricula vitae and selecting
consultants; reviewing, evaluating and commenting on the quality of training, and of the consultants
reports; preparing equipment specifications and participating in the relevant aspects of the
procurement of significant furniture and materials; and participating in Banks' supervision missions,
as well as in the periodic review missions of the management .onsultant, the British Council.
32.    The extensive planning and consultations with the practitioners in the education sector prior to
the finalisation of the plans for the schools was the main contributory factor to the successes of the
civil works component of the project.
33.   Lessons learned in the execution of the First Education Project were drawn on by the Project
Implementation Unit. Changes were made to the design of the roofs to make them more resistant to
hurricanes while the sloping windows of the First Project were altered to vertical windows to make
them more accessible to cleaning. The buildings of the primary schools were also constructed
around an open courtyard to permit the principals to have visual control of the school plants.
34.   The agreement with the British Council for the management of the technical assistance and
training component of the project made provision for an inception mission, a mid-term review and an
evaluation mission at the end of the project. The inception mission allowed all the participating
Ministries and institutions to better articulate, prioritise and prepare for their respective technical
assistance and fellowship sub-components. Through the mid-term review the beneficiaries not only
assessed the level of progress realised but were able to shift proposed consultancies to areas of greater
need which became evident following the inception mission. The evaluation mnissions enabled all



- 10-
parties to look in retrospect at the achievements and failures of the programme. It also made
possible the identification of issues and strategies in the education and training system which were
reflected in the design of the IDB Primary Education Progranmne and the new IBRD Human
Resources Project.
B.    Project ImDlementation
35.   The project was modified in September/October 1987 as a result of the re-negotiations with
the World Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank in December 1986. The major
differences were: (a) 18 instead of 21 small schools would be amalgamated to 10 larger schools, the
St. Stephen's School was reduced to a capacity of 630 pupils and existing facilities were to be
renovated into an Infants/Nursery School for 270 pupils; (b) Queen's College would be built on a new
site and the Wotton Secondary would be a 1050 instead of a 1200 school; (c) two rather than four
skills training centres would be provided; (d) the provision of supplementary equipment and furniture
at the Samuel Jackman Prescod Polytechnic would be financed by [BRD instead of IDB; and (e) the
new Headquarters facility of the Ministry of Education would be relocated at the old Queen's College
site at Constitution Road, St. Michael. The technical assistance component and other aspects of the
project remained as planned (appraised).
36.   The outcome of these modifications resulted in a delay of 24 months in the implementation of
the civil works component and a delay of 18 months in the technical assistance component of the
project. By September 1993, project costs had increased by BDS $39.6 mnillion or 43.2% over the
appraisal estimate of BDS $91.6 million. This escalation in cost was due substantially to cost and
time overruns in construction work where increases ranged from 14% on the Barbados Community
College's expansion to 163 % on that for Springer Memorial Secondary School. The latter school
was included in Package Three which was adversely affected by the stabilisation progranmme which
started in 1991. There were other costs including those for road works which were not considered at
appraisal.
C.    Project Results
37.   The civil works targets of the IDB component of the project were fully realised. The
primary schools were built, two secondary schools were constructed, one upgraded and a fourth was
provided with supplementary equipment and furniture. The civil works targets of the IBRD
component were not fully met. Construction of the extension to the Barbados Community College
and of the new Sayes Court Skills Training Centre (now the C. Lomer Alleyne Training Centre) were
completed. However no work started on the Harrison Point Skills Training Centre nor the upgrading
of seven existing centres and construction of the Ministry of Education and Culture Headquarters
Complex was only 35% completed.
38.   All completed schools, the extension to the Barbados Community College and Sayes Court
Skills Training Centre were fully equipped and furnished. The Sainuel Jackman Prescod Polytechnic
and Harrison College received supplementary equipment and furniture. In addition, equipment was
supplied to the Manpower Research and Statistics Unit of the Ministry of Labour and books and
equipment were provided for the Training Division of the Ministry of the Civil Service. However,
the books earnarked for the primary schools were not procured.
39.   Technical assistance represented another significant dimension of the strategy to achieve the
project objectives. Of the 94 persons who received fellowships, the vast majority received training
in Britain and the balance was shared mainly between U.S.A. and Canada. The 258 fellowship
months at appraisal increased over the life of the project reaching 355 at the closing date. Of this
latter figure, 338 fellowship months or 95 % of the training was realised. In general, the vast
majority of the purposes of the fellowships were substantially achieved.



- il -
40.    Twenty-five consultancies amounting to 38.25 staff months were undertaken. At appraisal
there were 101 staff months but these were reduced to 53.75, with the remainder being converted to
fellowship months as personnel needs became increasingly apparent Given this adjustment,
approximately 71% of the consultancies was implemented by the close of the project.
41.   The other aspect of the human resources development component was the provision of local
training. The bulk of this training was targeted at improving quality of instruction in schools. The
project supported the production of a remedial reading diagnostic est for primary schools and the
necessary training for teachers was provided. Of the 348 staff months of local training budgeted,
165 educational administrators received 25.5 staff months of training; 1700 teachers received 126.5
staff months and 112 other public officers received 52.0 staff months of training giving a total of 204
staff months carried out with a success rate of 58.6%.
D.    Project Sustainabilitv
42.    Sustainability of the physical upgrading of the facilities at the primary, secondary and tertiary
levels can be assumed if the appropriate budgetary provisions are made and programmnes of effective
maintenance of plant, equipment and furniture are put in place. With Boards of Management being
responsible for the management, care and upkeep of the facilities at the secondary and tertiary levels,
the quality of contingency and preventive maintenance will be effectively carried out. The Ministry's
Building Section has responsibility for the maintenance of facilities at the primary level. Recent re-
organization of this Section, along with a programme to enable principals to take responsibility for
minor maintenance work at their schools, is aimed at raising the quality of maintenance at this level
of the system.
43.    Cost effectiveness at the primary level has not improved as planned. The appraisal target
was to reduce operational costs by 20% at the primary level but this has not been realised. Indeed,
pupil/teacher ratios declined from 20-19 rather than increased from 20-23. This suggests that the
system is less cost effective than at the beginning of the project. Staffing policy on recruitment of
teachers will be a critical element in achieving any improvement in the cost effectiveness of primary
education.
44.   There has been an addition of 1400 places at the secondary level, giving a 7% increase in
capacity. This has advanced the policy of eliminating "primary tops" and senior schools in the
system. The numbers have been substantially reduced (e.g. from 15 composite schools to 5 and
from 6 Senior Schools to 1) and with the completion of the St. Thomas Secondary School, this
objective will be fully realised. This assumes that the number of Assisted Private Secondary Schools
will be maintained.
45.   Qualitatively, the project has made an impact at the secondary level. A pilot pre-vocational
education programme is in progress in six secondary schools and there are signals that its expansion
to the wider system can have positive effects on teacher quality, student achievement, and the system
of national certification. Other aspects of qualitative improvements include the teaching of specialist
subjects such as Information Technology where network systems are in place; Business Studies where
some schools have modem office centres which provide students with simulated learning experiences;
the re-organisation of the textbook procurement and distribution policy giving each school its own
textbook budget on a per capita basis; and the development of libraries as library and media resources
centres. These improvements resulted from fellowship training and consultancy assistance under the
project. Their sustainability is contingent upon continued staff upgrading and relevant deployment,
effective supervision and feedback; and appropriate budgetary provisions.
46.   Improvements in the efficiency, quality and industrial relevance of technical and vocational
education and training (TVET) at the post secondary level have been assured by the quality of



- 12 -
fellowship training of key personnel at the Samuel Jackrnan Prescod Polytechnic (SJPP), Barbados
Community College (BCC), National Training Board now Barbados Vocational Training Board
(BVTB), Manpower Research and Statistics Unit (MRSU) and the T-tining Division. There is
evidence of improved performance of Instructors at SJPP and BVTB, and Tutors at BCC; student
performance has improved; and feedback from industry acknowledged improved relevance of training
progranmmes. The graduates of the Information Technology of BCC are in very high demand by the
private sector, for example. There is increased demnand for the training programmes of the Training
Division and resource personnel, following the Training of Trainers course, are more confident in
using the audio-visual aids technology procured under the project. This helps to explain the
increased interest in the courses offered. The outstanding feature of the MRSU has been the
production of a Barbados Directory of Occupational Classification based on the latest addition of the
ILO 1988 Intemational Directory of Occupational Classifications. The job titles in the Directory
were incorporated in the 1990 Population Census Survey in Barbados.
47.   Budgetary constraints and the difficulty of recruiting staff in some areas at SJPP, BCC and
BVTB may limit the extent to which the full benefits of the project investment can be reached and
sustained.
48.   Technical assistance was provided to strengthen the institutional capability at the Ministries of
Education, Labour and the Civil Service. Increased training opportunities for management and
technical staff were provided but the impact on efficiency and productivity has been limited in some
areas. In the Ministry of Education, for example, there are still major weaknesses in teacher
appraisal, educational planning and management, curriculum evaluation and development, and
budgetary procedures. Problems of staff turn over, persistence of traditional systems of operation,
slow progress in modernizing the management information system, budgetary constraints and
unsatisfactory physical conditions all contributed to limited progress in these vital areas. The
Institutional Strengthening component of the IDB Primary Education Prograrnme will provide
assistance in tackling these deficiencies in planning and managing the education system. Some
assistance is being offered to other beneficiaries under the IBRD Human Resources Project.
E.    Borrower's Own Performance
49.   Project's successes are attributable to the Borrower's performance in a number of areas.
There were regular monitoring of progress; occasional consultation with the technical staff of the IDB
local office; raising of issues and seeking clarification during periodic joint IDB/IBRD supervision
missions; flexible scheduling of procurement activities to coincide with the opening of schools; and
timely consultation by the Ministry of Education with principals, staff and parents on the
amalgamation and opening of new school facilities. In addition the engagement of a consulting firm
to provide management services for the implementation of the technical assistance component of the
project was a valuable measure. This was greatly facilitated by the use of inception, mnid-term and
periodic (annual) missions which the firm undertook. Its maintenance of a local liaison officer also
helped to clarify issues, resolve concerns quickly and facilitate the effective conduct of consultancies
and fellowship training.
50.   The staffing of the Education Project Implementation Unit was also a critical factor in the
successes of the project. Key EPIU personnel were not only with the project from its inception but
were quite knowledgeable about Banks' procedures which made it possible to maintain effective
working relationships with various parties associated with the project.
51.   There were, however, a number of factors which affected project execution. One of the
contractors, a Venezuelan firm of Inversions ABA, was awarded a contract for three primary schools
but it experienced serious cash flow problems. Work on the three schools was delayed by more than
a year because the Contractor had difficulty in purchasing materials on a tirnely basis. To minimise



- 13 -
the contractors internal problems, the EPIU adopted a policy of always honouring valuations
promptly, in some cases even before the stipulated payment period of 28 days.
52.   The project was the subject of a careful review when a new administration assumed office in
May, 1986. A number of modifications to the civil works component were proposed which
necessitated a renegotiation with the Inter American Development Bank and the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development. The review resulted in a delay of two years in starting construction
work on the schools/institutions and an overall increase in project cost of approximately 43.2 percent.
53.   The stabilisation programme with the International Monetary Fund which started in October
1991 also impacted adversely on the Borrower's performance in the execution of the project. The
austerity measures adopted had the effect of scaling down expenditure on capital projects. The
EPIU's 1991-92 budget was cut back by 35%, contractors on schools in package three were advised
to scale down their operations in September 1991, construction on the Ministry of Education
headquarters building and pedagogical unit was suspended in April 1992, and most of the remaining
activities under the Human Resources Development component were terminated. In a real sense, the
EPIU was powerless to prevent the delays in commencing and completing the project and the
additional costs directly related to the Government's stabilisation programme with the International
Monetary Fund.
F.    Bank's Performance
54.    Both Banks provided invaluable support at vital stages in the evolution of the Second
Education and Training Project. Specialist assistance was provided to the local project preparation
team which eliminated the need for substantial UNESCO support as was done in the preparation of
the First Education Project. The composition and professionalism of the appraisal mission resulted
in a timely and successful appraisal of the project. It is worthy of note that the Bank was able to
secure co-financing from the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) to the tune of US $19.0
million or 41.5% to the project. The other proportions were: IBRD, US $10.1 million or 21.8%
and Barbados, US $16.8 million or 36.7%. IDB's contribution was based essentially on IBRD's
appraisal of the project.
55.   Joint IBRDIIDB supervision missions were undertaken regularly during implementation.
However, the size of IBRD's team was limited for the most part to one Technical Education
Specialist, perhaps due to the fact that IDB operates a field office in Barbados and made local
expertise available, especially the Local Engineering Specialist. These visits were very useful in
clarifying issues of procurement, refining specifications for equipment and furniture; granting
approval in the field for tender documents; and modifying implementation schedules and the technical
assistance component of the project. The latter adjustments were made in response to the changing
needs of the beneficiaries. The supervision missions also helped to strengthen the Bank's
relationship with the various beneficiaries of the project.
56.   A major weakness of the Bank's performance could be linked to its reliance on a single
Specialist in Technical Education who was virtually responsible for all aspects of implementation.
Any weaknesses in project components, e.g. the substantial variance between appraisal estimates of
Ministry of Education Headquarters building as well as St. Lucy Skills Training Centre and the pre-
tender estimates could be due to this reliance on a single officer for supervision.' It should be noted
7/     While indeed the Bank's reliance on a single consultant may have contributed to weaknesses in
supervision, as discussed in Part I, the primary responsibility for cost estimates and for project implementation
rests with the Government.



- 14 -
also that this project was implemented during the period when the Bank (IBRD) was undergoing
substantial internal restructuring.
57.   One lesson to be leamt is that periodic supervision by knowledgeable technical Bank staff
helps to ensure timely compliance with procurement and disbursement conditions which are critical to
the effective implementation of the project.
58.   Another lesson is that careful attention by the client to Bank requirements for issuance of
change orders and adjustments in costs of project components would obviate possible obstacles to re-
imbursement applications.
59.   A further lesson is that client staff receive valuable technical knowledge and expertise in
project preparation and implementation through on-going interaction with Bank personnel.
60.   Perhaps the most imnportant lesson to be learnt is that major project delays, for whatever
reason, will have implications for cost escalation and for not realising all the project targets.
G.    Loan Effectiveness and Project Start Up
61.   As stated earlier, the re-negotiation of the project in December 1986, resulted from a major
review undertaken by the new Administration which took office on 28 May, 1986. The
modifications to the civil works component of the project received the approval of both Banks
between September and October 1987. By December 22, the Government had complied with all
conditions of effectiveness which came towards the end of a three-month extension that was granted.
62.   The project also experienced a delay in the selection of the Special Tenders Committee and
this in turn delayed the processing of the applications for pre-qualification. Construction did not start
until October 4, 1988. However, the technical assistance component started as early as June 22,
1987 with an inception mission by the consulting firm, the British Council.



- 15 -
PART III. Statistical Information
1.    Related Bank Loans
Loan Title           P~~~~Urpose        Aproa        SatsComt
1642-BAR             General Education and       1978       Completed       1.8 years of
Skills Training                                       delay
1642-BAR             General Education and       1983       Completed
Supplemental Loan    Skills Training
3634-BAR             General Education Tech,      1993      Not yet         Effectiveness
Human Resources      Voc. Educ. and Trng.                   effective       expected by
Labor Market Support                                  June 18, 1994
2.    Project Timetable
Ite-:.                                                             .. ........P'.--.-. ..:-  .. :.t.
Identification        10/84                                         10/84
Preparation           2185                                         2/85
Appraisal Mission     5/85                                         5/85
Loan Negotiations     3/86                                         3/86
Board Approval        5/6/86                                       5/6/86
Loan Signature        5/21/86                -                     5/21/86
Loan Effectiveness    9/86                   12/86                 2/6/87
Loan Completion       12/31/92                                      3/30/93
Loan Closing          6/30/93                                      6/30/93
Comments:
Project preparation took less time (7 months) than other Bank-funded education projects (22
months) since it was a follow-up operation. Effectiveness slipped by about 4 months due primarily to
protracted Parliamentary discussions prior to project approval and to the initiation of a reassessment of the
project by new Government. While the project closed on schedule, the Ministry of Education
headquarters complex remained uncompleted.



- 16 -
3.      Loan Disbursements
................                    ......                           .", .    .........'....... '  '  .. '.'.   .....;ti' iS'f Df''f'0'";tAd"'St''''  ''f'l,--0S:00;0.:'S.
'''',:      '      ''    ;'      ' ';'' .  ' . ' ." .    .'.''.   ''.' ..  ...   ....   .. ""....''.''.'.'.
CUMulatves             a '.Estimaedad AculDisbu.em.t
Appraisal       0.1       1.0      3.0       5.8       8.0        9.3       9.8       10.0
Estimmte
Actual          0.0      0.0      0.9        1.6       2.8        4.6       7.1        8.4
Actual as %     0.0      0.0    30.0        28.0      35.0       49.0      72.0       84.0
of Estimate
Date of final disbursement: 11/2/93
Comments:
The funds made available under the loan were disbursed at a much slower rate than foreseen at
appraisal due mainly to the slow start-up, with cumulative disbursements for the period 1986-1988
representing only 22 percent of appraisal estimates. The inability to utilize fully the loan proceeds by
project completion was primnarily due to shortages of counterpart funds for completion of the Ministry of
Education headquarters, which forced the Bank to cancel the balance of US$1.6 mnillion.



-17 -
4.     Project Implementation
-  -   Planned   --   -Actual              -Months
Project Component      Completion             Completion             of Delay-
Civil Works
Primary Schools        12/90                   7/93                  31
Secondary Schools      12/89                   7/93                  43
BCC Training Facilities  12/89                 6/91                  18
NTB Skills Trng. Ctrs.   12/92                11/90                   0
MOE Headquarters       12/90                  Incomplete             42+
Furniture and
Equipment
Primary Schools        12/90                   6/93                  30
Secondary Schools      12/89                   3/94                  51
BCC Training Facilities  12/89                 2/94                  50
NTB Skills Trng. Ctrs.   12/92                 4/92                  none
MOE Headquarters       12/90                  incomplete             42+
SJPP (Polytechnic)     12/88                   1/91                  25
Manpower Research      12/87                  11/90                  35
and Statistics Unit
Training Adm: Division   12/87                 2/91                  38
Ed. Proj. Imple. Unit   12/87                  1/89                  13
Technical Assistance   12/90                   8/92                  20
Local Trainin2         12/91                   8/92                   8
Studies                12/91                   8/92                   8
Comments:
Changes in site selection, which were requested by the new Govermnent in 1987, resulted in
major delays in project implementation. Two notable examples are the MOE headquarters complex and
Queen's College. While architectural design plans were generally satisfactory, the decision to prepare
some architectural design plans at the Education Project Implementation Unit (EPIU) in the early years of
the project spurred further delays due to poorly developed in-house capabilities. The quality of the civil
works constructed under the project is considered good by regional and international standards and the
supervision of the civil works activities by EPIU staff and private contractors was satisfactory.
The procurement of equipment was carried out satisfactorily in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Nevertheless, there were a number of problems with the equipment, such as lack of adherence to
specifications, lack of warranties, and slow follow-up by the procurement agent in addressing defective
equipment.



18
5.   Proiect Costs and Financing
A. Project Cost
USS Milliou
(inlduding Contingendes)
Appraisal Estimate                Revised Estimate. aS                        Actual
i:   f   E :   E iLocat  iForetgn  Local      Foreiga                  Lcaci       Forsgn
Proiect  -comn'msst              Costs   Exzg     Costs  Total    Casts   Exchange Costs   Total         C06tst. Ei4iine:Cast.  Totw]
Primary Schools                   5.7          4.5         10.2      5.7          4.5         10.2        9.0          7.0          16.0
Secondary Schools                  4.7         4.1          8.8      5.5          4.8          10.3       9.3          8.0          17.3
BCC Training Facilities            3.0         3.4          6.4      3.0          3.4          6.4        3.3          3.8           7.1
NTB Skills Trsining Centers       2.1          2.1          4.2      1.4          1.4          2.8        1.1           1.2          2.3
Institutionat Development         2.5          2.2          4.7      2.5          2.2          4.7        2.9          2.5           5.4
(ncluding MOE Headquarters)
SJPP                              0.1          0.2         0.3       0.1          0.2          0.3        0.1          0.2           0.3
Manpower Research & Stat. Unit    0.0          0.1         0.1       0.1          0.1          0.2        0.0          0.1           0.1
Training Administration Div.       0.1         0.3          0.4      0.1          0.1          0.2        0.1          0.1           0.2
Ed. Project Implement. Unit       2.2          0.3         2.5       2.2          0.3          2.5        3.2          0.3           3.5
TOTAL PROJECT COST            20.4         17.2        37.6     20.6         17.0         37.6       29.0          23.2         52.2
al These figures refer to the 1987 loan amendment
B. Project ESnandng
USS Mlliion
O~~inal      Kevl~~~ed              Acual
uBIt     r E twe Cateo          Allocation              Allocation           Disburseanit
Civil works                        4.2                      3.9                   3.8
Furniture and equipment            3.0                      3.3                   2.2
Technical assistance, training and  1.9                    2.1                    1.8
fellowships
Professional services             0.5                       0.4                   0.6
Unallocated                       0.5                      0.3
TOTAL                 10.0                     10.0                  S.4
Co-financing (IDB)                17.0                     17.0                  17.0
Domestic                          10.7                     10.7                  26.8
TOTAL                 37.7  b/                 37.7  b/              52.2
bl Totals may not add to the figures in tables in 5A. due to rounding



- 19 -
6.     Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
Indicators                       Appraisa          Revised    Estimated at       Appraisal
Estinate       -Estimate   Closing Date           %
A. Civil Works/Equipmenit
(Number of Facilities)
(i Primary Schools                                      10           10              10              1C'
(ii) Secondary Schools a/                                4            4               4              i00
(iii)BCC Training Facilities                              1           1               1             10WI
(iv) NTB Skills Training Centers bI                      4            9               1               I
(v) MOE Headquarters                                      1           1               0              n.a
(vi) SJPP                                                 1           1               1             1I0
B. Technical Assistance
(Staff Months)
(i) Fellowships                                        258          332             338             123
(ii) Specialist Services                               101           54 c/           38              38
C. Training
(Number and Staff Months)
(i) Educational Administrators                         221            -             165              -!
(26 sm)
(ii) Teachers                                         2300            -            1700              65
(127 sm)
(iii) School Guidance Counselors                        40            -             112 f"          280
(52 sm)
D. Monitoring indicators                      See Annex IV
a' The loan agreement included the construction of one secondary schi A and the upgrading of three others. The 1987
amendment provided for the constructi.on of two secondary schools and upgrading of two others.
b/ The loan agreement provided for the construction, furnishing .-nd equipping of three new skills training centers and
equipping and furnishing of another; as a result of the 1987 amendment, the project was to provide for the construction.
furnishing and equipping of one and the acquisition of equipment/furniture for one large and seven s.-rnTl :c ters.
c/ The difference between this figure and the SkR estimate represents a conversion of technical ass,st.
feliovwships.
d/ ThL differences between this fgure and the SAR estimate represents training of public officer-  ',. r  -.t ti r
consultancies.
Comments:
Civil works targets included in the 1987 loan agreement amendment were attained with the exceptions Ol --he MOL
headquarters and the NTB skills training centers.  Issues related to low  facility utilization pers:s- due to sauf
shortages/turnover (e.g., SJPP, NTB).



- 20 -
B.Studies/Consultancies
General      1. Audio         Assess requirements  11/15/87     12/12/87       Completed    Enhanced quality
Education      Visual Aids    of Training Division                                          of training
for Audio-visual Aids                                         programmes
Technology,                                                   through application
of audio-visual aids
methodologies.
2. Institutional    Survey Training  11/15/87      12/20/87            n       Created pool of
Strengthening   Division's                                                  trained resource
requirements for                                              personnel to
institutional                                                 spearhead training
strengthening and                                             of staff in the
adopt appropriate                                             public sector.
strategy to achieve
objective.
:3. Initial     Upgrade and         4/4/88         7/1/88                      Increased exposure
Educational    strengthen planning                                          to modemn
Planning      and budgetary                                                  techniques in
processes in the                                              educational
Ministry of                                                   planning including
Education.                                                    greater reliance on
computer
applications.
4. Supplies      Rationalize the    1/24/88        4/24/88             "       Revised policy on
Management   system of selection,                                            textbook loan
Textbook      procurement and                                                scheme resulting in
L oan Scheme   distribution of                                               decentralization of
textbooks.                                                   its operations. It is
now a self
financing scheme
at the school level.
5. Supplies     Rationalize thc     1/24/88        4/24/88             h       More efficient
Management   system for purchases                                            system of
Purchasing    and supplies,                                                  purchases and
and Supplies                                                                supplies in place.
6. School and   Strengthen linkages   10/4/88      11/2/88                     Provided
Ministry      between schools and                                           information on
Libraries     Ministry libraries and                                         strengthening
increase the                                                  library and media
relevance of library                                          resources
resources in student                                          management mn
learning.                                                     schools.



- 21 -
- -j o ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. ...   .   ...  ..
Ar   -,e1U                   Ddned. at            atdat                        aueJpc St
General      7. Audio Visual  Assess and        5/14/88        6/10/88        Completed  On-going
Education      Aids          strengthen television                                        upgrading of
studio management                                           television studio
and equipment                                                facilities and use of
maintenance                                                  some in-house
capability in Audio                                         equipment
Visual Aids                                                  maintenance
Department.                                                 capability.
8. Guidance and  Provide on-the-spot  7/31/88     8/14/88            "       Sensitized guidance
Counseling    training for new                                             counselors and
Guidance Counselors                                         other school
in the school system.                                       personnel to their
respective roles in
an effective school
counseling
programme.
9. Educational    Establish a testing    2/9/88  4/10/88                     Precipitated
Testing and    and measurement                                            training of key
Measurement  unit in the Ministry                                          staff that are
of Education.                                               expected to play an
important role in
designing,
establishing, and
operating a tests
and measurements
unit.
10. Guidance    Provide on-the-spot  3/4/89      3/18/89                     Enhanced
and          training for new                                             confidence of
Counseling    Guidance Counselors                                         Guidance
and strengthen                                              Counselors in
supervision system.                                         undertaking their
duties in the school
system.
11. Training of   Provide resource  1/3/89       1/27/89                     Created a pool of
Trainers     personnel of Training                                        resource personnel
Division with                                               with skills and
training of trainers.                                       techniques in
designing and
delivering training
programmes.
General      12. Information   Modernize        2/17/90        4/l/90         Completed   More efficient
Education      Technology    administration and                                           student record
strengthen relevance                                        system in operation
of curriculum                                               and enhanced
offerings through                                           student learning
application of                                              through increase
information                                                 use of information
technology.                                                 technology in some
programmes.



- 22 -
13. Initial     Assess curriculum   414190         4/28/90                     Provided exposure
Curriculum   evaluation and                                                 to curriculum
Development  development                                                    review and
activities with a view                                        development
to strengthen and                                             methodology in the
modernize these                                               system.
processes.
14. Special     Enable teachers to    3/17/90      4/9/90                      Greater awareness
Needs         address with greater                                          of the problem of
Neecodsry)   confidence the                                                 SEN at the
problems and                                                  secondary level
challenges in                                                 and adoption of
teaching children                                             more enlightened
with special                                                  approaches in a
educational needs                                             number of schools.
(SEN) at the
secondary level.
15. Special     Enable teachers to    4/15/90      5/5/90                      Greater
Education    tackle problems of                                             prominence given
Needs         SEN at the primary                                            to the problem of
(Primary)    level with greater                                             SEN in school
success.                                                      planning and
organization.
16. Special     Enable primary and   9/8/90        9/29/90                     Increased use of
Education    secondary teachers to                                          teaching/learning
Needs         cater to children with                                        approaches
(Primary &    SEN.                                                          targeted to children
Secndary)                                                                   with SEN.
17. Training    Provide school      5/29/90        6/26/90                     Greater awareness
Consultancy   personnel with                                                and utilization of
in           strategies and                                                 information
Information   techniques for                                                sources in teaching
Literacy and   utilizing library                                            /learning process
Management  resources more                                                  at the school level.
of Learning    meaningfully in the
Resources    teaching/learning
process.



- 23 -
~~~~~~~~~~~.        -,,...-,- - . -.,,,-.--.-.,,,-..- . . . ..   -.   , s.-. . .   .. 
..........e.                         ,..                                            .... .. ..
Technical    18.Curriculum    Strengthen and         3/16/91       4/13/91         Completed   Adopted
Vocational      Development  modernize                                                           curriculum
Education                      curriculum                                                        development
& Training                     development                                                       processes in the
processes in the                                                 revision of some
system.                                                          subjects at the
primary and
secondary levels.
19. Curriculum    Provide alternative   9/9/91       9/29/91                       Adopted pre-
Framework   strategies for                                                      vocational
for Upper     delivering pre-                                                  programme in six
Secondary     vocational                                                        secondary schools
education at the                                                 with the emphasis
secondary level.                                                 on profiling
student
competencies.
20. Vocational   Assess organization   1/13/88       3/11/88                       Focused attention
Education     and delivery of                                                  on the need for
vocational                                                       an effective
education with a                                                 planning and
view to                                                          coordinating
strengthening the                                                TVET authority
coordinating role                                                in Barbados.
of the National                                                  Limited progress
Training Board                                                   attained in
(NTB).                                                           restructuring the
NTB.
21. Pre-         Survey prospects     5/24/88        6/25/88                       Precipitated
vocational    for adoption of                                                  increased interest
Education     pre-vocational                                                   in and pursuit of
education                                                        overseas training
approaches in                                                    by key personnel
Barbados.                                                        who are now in
leadership
positions at the
national level.
22. Manpower   Strengthen              1/18/88       2/19/88                       Limited progress
Planning      MRSU's                                                           attained in
(Initial)     capability in job                                                improving MRSU
analysis techniques                                              operations.
and manpower
planning processes.



-24 -
~~ ::.~: ~.:: . M* .   .       ...4...
X*.
Technical    23. Manpower   Strngthen             11/14/88      12/2/88        Completed   Provided ground
Vocauzal        Planning      MRSU's                                                        work for the
Educed=         (Second)      capability in job                                             preparation of
&    1fl                      analysis techniques                                           directory of
and manpower                                                  Occupational
planning processes.                                           Classification for
Barbados.
24. Testing     Enable NTB to       2/6/89         3/17/89                    Led to overseas
Certification   design and                                                 training of key
and Quality   establish testing                                            NTB staff but
Assurance    certification and                                             limited progress
in           quality assurance                                             in designing and
Vocational    criteria (standards)                                         establishing
Educational  in vocational                                                 testing
Training     education.                                                    certification and
quality assurance
criteria.
25.0ccupational  Enable Ministry of   10/9/89      10/20/89                   Produced and
Classification   Labour to produce                                          distributed a
an Occupational                                              Barbados
Classification for                                           Directory of
Barbados based on                                            Occupational
ELO's 1988 revised                                           Classifications
Directory of                                                 which was utilized
Occupational                                                 in the 1990
Classification.                                              National Census.
26. Vocational    Provide basis for  1/18/92      2/29/92                     No progress made
and          rationalizing the                                             in restructuring the
Technical     delivery of TVET                                             delivery of TVET
Education     programmes at the                                            programmes at the
Policy and    secondary level.                                             secondary level.
Cost Study



- 25 -
: .. '' '- :. *-. ' :' ~~~~~~~~~. . . . . . . .   ...   :  -"'.-.'-':-   .'-'"'
Generl       27. Evaluation    Assess initial impact  6/14/92     7/3/92         Completed   Major
of Technical   of technical                                                   achievements
Assistance    assistance                                                     included:
Component    component of Loan
2688 BAR.                                                      *imp)roved
capability in
management and
supervision of the
education system;
*strengthened and
increased
relevance of
TVET at the
tertiary level;
*data bases and
studies informed
the preparation of
education sector
component of the
new Development
Plan (1993-2000);
and
*enhanced public
sector training
capabilities.



26
7.                      Legal Covenants
CREDIT                            DESCRIPTION
AGREEMENT                                   OF                                  TIME
SECTION                            COVENANTS                                FRAME                STATUS                  COMMENTS
3.02(a)        Maintain PIU satisfactory to the Bank              Duration of project            OK          PIU has been generally well
staffed, even though financial
difficulties led to a reduction in
personnel in recent yers.
3.02 (b)        Fumish to the Bank bi-annual progress reports.     Duration of project           OK          EPIU has provided satisfactory
reports but failed to include
information on project indicators.
3.02 (c)        Furnish to the Bank and the IDB the draft revised  September 30, 1988            OK          Textbook policy under
textbook procurement policy and refrain from                                                implementation.
purchasing books under the project until the final
policy has been adopted
3.04          Keep IBRD and IDB informed on attainment              Duration of project         OK         Progress repors generally contain
of educational objectives and provide annual                                                 briefing on education policies
statements on major education policies/plans,                                                and reforms.
4.01 (a)        Maintain records and accounts in accordance with      Duration of project        OK          EPIU has maintained records and
sound accunting practices.                                                                   accounts in a sound manner.
4.01 (b)        Have accounts audited and furnish the Bank with       Duration of project        OK          Audit reports submitted in
audit report as well as certified statements of the                                          timely fashion and documented
special account                                                                              no major problems.
4.01 (c)        Maintain separate records and accounts reflecting     Duration of project        OK
expenditures under the loan agreement
4.02          Maintain student/teacher (S/T) ratios above the       Duration of project        RVS         Recruitment of a backlog of
level prevailing during the 1983 school year                                                 trained teachers during 1986-89
(primary: 23: 1; secondary: 19:1) and not higher                                             resulted in declining S/T ratios.
than 35 in primary schools and 30 in secondary                                              Inspite of efforts to redress this
schools.                                                                                     trend in the last few years, the SIT
ratio targets were impossible to
attain by project completion.
The follow-up Human Resources
Project includes a revised timeframe
for raising S/T ratios.
ACT   Needs use of formal remedies to bring about compliance
NYD   Not yet due
OK    Covenant complied with
RVS   Needs to be revised
SOON Compliance expected in reasonably short time



- 27 -
8.        Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs (Staff Weeks)
..   ....~ ~~ .   -. : .........:                  -  .    .      -:   , - :.- , .      .   .. ,  -
., . , , ,~~. .. ..,, * .   .s...Y
Identification a/             0.4
Preparation                  21.4             -           -              -            -            -            -             -             -
Appraisal                    17.5           25.4          -
Negotiations                   -             9.5          -              -            -            -
Supervisionbl                  -             2.0        11.2            6.1          5.2          2.7            .2          2.6          8.5              5.0
Completion                     -              -           -              -           -             -            -             -             -              2.8
a/ The staff weeks for project idendfication are relatively low since identifiration took place in conjunction with supervision of the First Education Projec.
b/ The staff weeks for FY90/91 appear excessively low As they am inconsistent with those in table 8B.



- 28 -
B. Missions
Stg  orP9~t(y             ~       Mab            1u~t of Paa-i    Sta Wee
.   ...  .    ...     .......    eId                                                        R a    Status 
Identification                      10/84                     1(M)           0.4
Preparation                          2/85                      1(E)         21.4
Appraisal                            5/85            4(A,E,GE,TE)           42.9
Subtotal                                                                64.7     G      M      L      F       P
Supervision I                       12/86                  2(GE,A)           2.8      2      1    na      1       na
Supervision H                        5/87                2(GE,TE)            2.0                   ---na----------------
Supervision IN                      11/87                  2(TE,A)           3.6      2      2     na     1       na
Supervision IV                       7/88                    1(TE)            1.6     2      2     na     1       na
Supervision V                        1/89                    1(TE)           1.0      2      2     na     1       na
Supervision VI                       7/89                    1(TE)           2.0      1      1      2     1        1
Supervision VII                     11/89                    l(TE)           2.4      1      1      1     1        1
supervision VIII                     5/90                    1(TE)           2.8      1      1      1     1        1
Supervision IX                      11/90                    1(TE)           1.2      1      1      1     1        1
Supervision X                        7/91                     1(A)           2.2      1      1      1     1        1
Supervision XI                      12/92                  2(E,OP)           5.2      2      2      2     3       2
Supervision XII                      6/93                     1(A)           1.8      2      2      2     3       2
Subtotal                                                                28.6
Completion                           4/94                   2(A,E)           2.8
TOTAL                                                                    96.1
bl     A- archect; E- economist; GE- gsneral educatr M- manaer (Deputy Division Chief); OP- operations assistant; TE= technical educator
c/     G- overal sutms; M- managemen L- legal covenanw; F- fads xvidablity- P procurement
1 = No significant problems
2 = Moderate problems
3 = Major problems
4= Major problems, but the problems are not being adequately addressed.
Comments:
The frequency of Bank supervision was generally satisfactory, with an average of 2 missions annually. During the
December 1991-June 1992 period no formal supervision missions were carried out as the preparation of the follow-up Human
Resources Project was underway; nevertheless, this involved in-depth discussions of implementation problems and lessons learned
during the on-going project. Staffing of supervision missions appears inadequate as close to 70 percent involved only one
mission member; this resulted in some issues (e.g., cost-effectiveness, cost overnus) not being adequately addressed.



- 29 -
Annex I
Cost Overrmns on Civil Works Activities
(US$ Million)
PoetCMPOnen bl            Aot           %ofpr.S                             I       1)      LCF
Primary School                   5.8             62           -        -       xx        xx       xx         xx
Secondary School                 9.3            145          xx       xx        xx       xx       xx
BCC Tmg. Facilities               1.8            49           -        -        -        xx       xx
NTB Skills Tmg. Ctrs.            n.a.             n.a.
MOE Headquarters                 0.7              23 c/      xx       xx       xx        xx       xx
SS:   Site selection
SW:  Scope of works
DD:  Delays in design
DC:  Delays in construction
LCF:  Lack of counterpart funds
LB:   Lack of bids from prequalified contractors
a!     The decision in 1986 by the new administration to review the entire project following the change of Government delayed the
implementation of the civil works component by about 24 months.
b/     Including professional services.
c/     If contruction had been reactivated in 1994, the estimated cost would have been about US$7. 1, million which implies a cost overrun
of about US$4 million or 130 percent.



30
Annex II
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY SCHOOL
ENROLLMENTS AND STUDENT/TEACHER RATIOS,
1979-1992 
Year       Primary          Secondary         Primary   Secondary
Enrollment       Enrollment        S/T Ratio  S/T Ratio
1979/80         34672           21014                  24         21
1980/81         34036           22248                  23         22
1981/82         33395           22448                  22         20
1982/83         32061           21375                  24         19
1983/84         30748           21375                  23          19
1984/85         29392      l   21501                   22          19
1985/86         28750           21230                  20         20
1986/87         28519           21164                  20          18
1987/88         28845           21185                  19          18
1988/89         28113           21169                  1 8         18
1989/90         28845           21156                  18          18
1990/91         27722           21042                  18          17
1991/92         27883           21222                  1 9         18
199193          27858           21196                  20          18
Source: Ministry of Education



31
Annex III
Pupil/Teacher Ratio of Analgamated
Schools under Project II
Primary  Schools                 Pupil/
Teacher  Ratio's
Existing            Amalgamated        Before  I After   Present
.1                       I                               I         I    RoLL
jSt. Mary's Infants    {St. Mary's          r23:1    T21:1  T335
St.  Mary's Junior       Primary              15:1
St. Augustine Boys       Cuthbert Moore       14:1         21:1      328
! t, Augustine Girls   IPrimary               17:1
iSt. Stephen's Infants  St. Stephen's           19:1        22:1      638
St. Stephen's Junior   Primary                20:1
St. Matthias Boys        St. Matthias         13:1         21:1      358
St. Matthias Girls       Primary              16:1
St. Peter's Girls        Roland Edwards       17:1         16:1      312
Speightstown Boys        Primary              15:1
Mount Tabor Primary    Mount Tabor            14:1         17:1      139
Primary
Bayley's Primary        Bayley's Primary      17:1         22:1      558
Shrewsbury Primary                            22:1
St. Boniface Primary   Gordon Greenidge    19:1            21:1      273
Black Bess Primary      Primary               12:1
S elah Primary            Selah Primary         20:1        17:1      309
St. Swithin's Primary                         10:1
Hillaby                  Hillaby/Turner's      9:1          20:1     328
Turner's Hall            Hall Primary          19:1                     _
Total enrollments       _                                          3 578
Total Primary Schools enrollments                                   27 168
% of Total Primary Schools enrollments                               13.2%



BARBADOS
SECOND EDUCATION AND TRAINMNG PROJECT
MONITORING INDICATORS
PROJECT OBIECTIVE COMPONENTS OF ACIVrnES                          INDICATORS
1987                 1911                  1989                 1990                  1991                 1992                  1993
APP    ACT    APP    ACT    APP    ACT    APP    ACT    APP    ACT    APP    ACT                                                 APP    ACT    APP    ACT_
1.00 ODJECnVE A        1.10 Anslgaintg 21                I. No. of sch built                                        2                    3                     3          1         2          4                    3                                           3
mll,    enmnlc
lIp c the cost           preny shools ino 10              2. No. of KA amwlgnaated                                    5                    6                     6          2          4         6                     6                                          6
elfTcvses Of             larger schools to obain
p tyms td                highertdelteacher                3. SbdentrTeacher radts           1:23                                        1:24                            1:21       1:25       1:18                 1:19                             1:27      1:21
smtaly  aucatim          radtos
4. UnIt cost per student                                                                                               1                                                                           IU 1352
place (USS)
1.20 Upgsraing 3                 I. No. of sch upgaded                                      I                     I                    I
exing secondary
sdho    nd eatmbliahuig          2. No. Of new rh built                                                                                                                 I
on  w   1.20  Place
tecondo y rcKool                 3. StuoentiTeacher rijos          1:19                                       1:20                                       1:21                                                 1:19       1:23       1:20
4. No. of somk_   iun                                                                                                 4300p                                                                       3578p
sch with good physkal
fscilikes                                                                                      4000s                                                                                            2950s
1.30 Providing        technk  l  I. No. of gaff nonth                                                                                                                         44FEL                          119FEL
ancssawe & taining mo:             ofTedmcal Assist.                                                                                                     36SP                                                  165P
2. No. tcWtdmin. trained                                                                                                                     IBMD                            170Ct
32a                                                                        165a
(a) inp e reading nd             3. Redsingwigs est
wr-11  bn prvnuay               scoaes
KhOos                          St. Mattw's Prbmry                                                                                                                                       46.9                 45.6                  42.9
S9. CbrBtlebera Boys'                                                                                                                                   46.7                 50.5                   44.3
NATIONAL AVERAGE                                                                                                                                        48.6                  55.6                  49.9
(b) bhc    leahn of            4. Whether systemn have
speci   Abjects in              been estblished
sxeandary scbools               (a) Bustamis Studies                                                                                                                            6          2
centres setup
(b) Cotputr Studis                                                                                        Trng.                                                           Trng.                 Flw-u
tchs. tr5aied                                                                                          bc5gn                                                            csrupsd              twg
(c) hnlrove curricukbn           4. Whether systems have
imaplanamin stnst4gy            been establshed
Prevocations project                                                                                                                                                     Project
etUp                                                                                                                                                                     iUpltd
(d) inprovc txtbook              5, No. of txibbs procured                                                             192228                272654
prour        nd                tad ditributed
distrbution systesM           6. No. of txbks
vailable in clasrma                                Data ha   not been analysed
(per subject srea)               _



33                      Annex IV
a'                   -t -
t                             N n                U.* 
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-                       s  I
a. -hX
t
tAh!i                                                     I



PROJECT OSJECIIVE  COMPONENTS OF AcnvMEs                  INDICATORS
1987              1988               1989               1990               1991               I992               1993
APP      ACT      APP       ACT      APP       ACT      APP      ACT       APP      ACT      APP      ACT        APP      ACT       APP      ACT
3.00 OEJECTIVE C    3.10 Prvidiuu TA ar:          I. Staff mnihs of TA
(.3 e dien p-ming             provided                                                                                               26F                                   26F
Straw)  die             and nMwugMi                2. Ahcumeot odeduuatn                                                                                    26SP                                  BSP
in.atuinlu            (b) inroducing song-           m g t a plung
G t plan                teem b.gding               3. Ausmsnei of inrove-
ad_p th                 pocan ad cost                mats in P 4dgt
ld al"              uvhw .ncblsi                 processe
spat.          (c)    vig preoductil        4. A_nsast of yslity
aflPihlndsoatais            of psised asslWs
3.20 Provii  uedn            I. Camuncl  of new                                               Stat               Conpit                                          ConLt.            ConsL.
rblItes for te              fciles                                                          COWst.             con$t.                                         bgina             maspd.
Mils. of Eidxsd           2. MOE saff  anenis
w facilites
3.30 Adoptig _mnmtlo         1. Conuct studio ad                                                gbin
inrane  vng and         ...aen feasibiky foernde
dflckIay                    hnpkmnaiwn
(a) Iatingy                                                                                                                                         MARCH
(b) Mas& Pontr                                                                                                                                        APRIL
D
D












IMAGING
Report No:       14763
Type: FOCR



