Documlen of
j                                         The World Bank
FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4280-BAR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
BARBADOS
FOR A
SECOND EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
April 17, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit:
Until November 1973    :    Eastern Caribbean Dollar (EC$)
Since December 1973          Barbados Dollar (BUS$)
December 1971
US$1.00            EC$1.975
EC$1.95     =      US$0.506
Since July 1Y75
US$1.00     =      BDS$2.UO
HDS$1.UO    =      US$U.50
ABBREVIATIONS
BCC         -  Barbados Community College
BUS$        -  Barbados Dollar
.;I:AP      -  Barbados Institute of Managemeat and Productivity
c)XC        -  Caribbean Examination Council
LTVC        -  Erdiston Teacher Training College
Ft'rh       -  Full Time Equivalent
LCB         -  International Competitive bidding
IUB         -  Inter-Americin  Development Bank
LCB         -  Local Competitive Bidding
r'mU        -  Ministry of Education and Culture
MOL         -  Ministry of Labor
M4RSU       -  Manpower Research and Statistics Unit
LNTB        -  National Training Board
PIU         -  Project Implementation Unit
SJPP        -  Samuel Jackman Prescod Polytechnic
Sue         -  Statement of Expenditure
TA          -  Technical Assistance
UNESCU/CP   -  United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization/Cooperative Program
USAID        -  United States Agency for International Development
UWI         -  University of the West Indies
Government of Barbados
Fiscal Year
April 1 to March 31



&&.KBADOS           FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
SECOND EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMIAY
Borrower     : Government of barbados
Beneficiaries:  Ministry of Education and C;itture
National Training boara/Mini;try of Labor
Training Administration
Loan Amount  : US$10.O million equivalent
Terms        :  15 years, including 3 years of grace at the standard
variable interest rate.
Project         The proposed Project would cover 90 percent of the
Description  : Government's five-year investment plan in the education and
training sector and would be financed, on a parallel basis,
by the bank and the IoB. The objectives of the proposed
Project are to:
(1) Improve the quality and cost effectiveness of primary
and secondary education by: (a) amalgamating Z1 small,
uneconomic primary schools into 10 larger schools to obtain
higher student-teacher ratios; (b) upgrading two existing
secondary schools, equipping of a third existing secondary
school and establishing one new secondary school with 1,,bO
student places; (c) providing technical asslstance (44 staff
months of fellowships and 3b statt months of specialist
services) and training of about 1,500 teachers to improve
(i) teaching of reading and writing in primary schools, (ii)
textbook procurement and distribution systems, and (iii)
testing and measurement practices; and (d) supporting a study
to rationalize the teaching of special subjects in secondary
schools;
(Z) Improve the efficiency, quality, and industrial
relevance of technical and vocational training by: (a) expan-
ding the operations of the National Training board througn
the construction, equipping and furnishing of three new
skills training centers and upgrading one existing center;
(b) upgrading and expanding of training tacilities at the
Samuel Jackman Prescoa Polytechnic and the Barbados Community
College and improving efficiency in the use of existing
facilities; (c) improving the data processing capability ot
the Manpower Research and Statistics Unit; (d) upgrading the
training programs ot the Training Administration; and (e)
providing technical assistance (39 staff months of specialist
services and lb staff months ot fellowships) for the
upgrading of course syllabi, improvements in administrative
and financial management procedures, strengthening of the
industrial advisory committees, industrial job analysis and
follow up of on-the-job performance ot graduates.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be wed by recipients only in the performance
of their offlcial duties Its contents may not otherwise be discksed without World Bank authorization.



-i i-
(3) Strengthen the institutional capacity to manage and plan
the education and training system by financing: (a) technical
assistance (26 staff months of specialist services and 26
staff months of fellowships) and training of 150 managers and
500 school teachers for improvement in (i) education planning
and educational management, (ii) budgeting processes, (iii)
school supervision practices, (iv) curriculum implementation
strategies, and (v) educational materials production; (b) a
study on the formulation of measures to achieve cost savings
and greater efficiency in the utilization of education
facilities and resources, as well as to address the issue of
the additional recurrent costs that are expected to be
generated under the proposed Project; and (c) the provision
of adequate pedagogical and administrative facilities for the
Ministry of Education and Culture.
Risks:          No significant risks are associated with the technical
implementation of the proposed Project. There are, however,
potential risks: (a) economies in primary and secondary
education may not be achieved unless the Government maintains
a freeze on the hiring of new teachers in the light of the
decreasing population growth rate; and (b) difficulties may
be encountered in meeting the incremental recurrent costs of
the proposed Project. The latter risk would be minimized by
the introduction of cost reduction measures recommended by
the study to be financed under the proposed Project, the
sharing of expensive facilities among schools and the
adoption of measures to rationalize the selection of optional
subjects taught in secondary schools.
Estimated Cost a/
US$ Million
Project Component                           Local     Foreign       Total
Primary Schools                              4.29       3.57         7.86
Secondary Schools                            3.51       3.31         6.82
S. J. P. Polytechnic                         0.03       0.23         U.26
Barbados Community College                   2.14       2.79         4.93
Institutional Strengthening of MOE           1.84       1.82         3.66
NTB Skills Training Centers                  1.52       1.76         3.28
Manpower Research Unit                       U.03       0.09         0.12
Training Administration                      0.05       0.18         0.23
Project Implementation Unit                  1.82       0.12         1.94
Base Cost (March 1986 Prices)               15.23      13.87        29.10
Physical Contingencies                    U.84       U.71         1.55
Price Contingencies                       4.38       2.67         7.05
Total Project Cost                          ZU.45      17.25        37.70
aatt-
a/ Net of Taxes and Duties estimated at USS3.4 million.



- iii -
Financing Plan
US* Hillion                  X of
Local     Foreign       Total        Total
Government                      10.70        0.00        10.70         28.4%
IDB                              b.25        8.75        17.0U        45.1%
IBRD                             1.50        b.50        1U.00         26.5%
Total                        20.45       17.25       37.70        lUU.U%
". of Total                  54.2%       45.87      1OU.=
Disbursements:                               Bank Fiscal Year
(US" Million)
19_6      19t7    1966    1Vb9       1990    1991   1992    1993
Annual         0.15      U.81    Z.Ub    2.79       Z.24    1.21   U.53    U.21
Cummulative   0.15       0.96    3.02    5.81       8.05    9.26   9.79   10.UU
% of Total    1.5%       Y.6%   3U.2%   58.1%    80.5%   92.b%  97.9%  100.UZ
Rate of Return:  Not applicable
Map:              IBRD 19396



BARBADOS
SECOND EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
BASIC DATA
Land Area:                                           431 sq. km.
Population: 1/
Total Population (mid-1984)                       252,000
Density                                           580 per sq. km.
Average Annual Growth (1974-84)                   0.3%
Literacy                                          99X
GNP Per Capita (1984)                                US$4,340.00
Academic Year:                                       September to June
Enrollment (1984/85):
Total Primary Enrollment                          30,780
of which        Male:              50.4%
Female:             49.6%
As Percentage of Age Group 5-11:               98%
Total Secondary Enrollment                        28,162
of which         Male:             50.4%
Female:            49.6%
As Percentage of Age Group 12-16:             95.0Z
Government Recurrent Expenditures on Education:
as Percentage of Government Expenditures
(1984)                            20%
as Percentage of GDP                             8%
1/ Source: Barbados Statistical Service.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTKUCTION AND) DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIUN UF THE PKESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DlRECTURS UN A PROPOSED LOAN TO bAkRADOS
FOR A SECOND EDUCATION AND TRAINING PRWECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Loan of USA10 million equivalent to Barbados for a period of 15 years,
including 3 years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate,
to help finance a Second Education and Training Project. In addition to
the proposed Bank loan, the proposed Project would be cofinanced, on a
parallel basis, by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) with a loan of
US$17.0 million. The proposed terms and conditions of the IB loan have
yet to be determined. If Ordinary Capital funds are used the IDB loan
would be for a period of 25 years, including 4.5 years of grace, with a
9.5Z variable interest rate applicable at the date of disbursement.
However, the proposed Project could qualify for financing under the IVB's
Intermediate Financing Facility, in which case a 5Z interest subsidy would
apply.
PART I - TiE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report (Barbados - Development Challenges, Report
No. 5bU4-BAR, dated April 26, 1985) has been distributed to the Executive
Directors. Annex I contains the basic country data.
Background and Recent Economic Performance
3.        Barbados, a small island in the Caribbean with limited natural
resources and a high population density (584 per km2), has made impressive
gains in recent decades.  During the 19%Os and 197Us, growth averaged 5Z in
real terms per year, with an average of 7Z in the 19bUs and 3Z in the
197us, and low population growth permitted per capita income to advance to
US$4,340 in 19b4. In the meantime, the economic base developed from a
monoculture producing and exporting (mainly sugar) to a more diversified
structure featuring strong tourism and manufacturing sectors.  by the
beginning of the l9bUs, agriculture, tourism and manufacturing together
directly contributed some one-third of the national product in roughly
equal shares.
4.        As a small open economy, Barbados is subject to fluctuations
generated abroad and it suffered its most severe external shock in recent
times during the 19b1-Bi world recession. Activity in the sensitive
tourism sector, the largest export earner, dropped a cumulative 21Z over
the two years 1981 and 19b2. The economic impact was compounded by poor
sugar harvests and weakening commodity prices in the same years, with the
result that the balance of payments and public finances deteriorated
sharply. The authorities adopted a program of fiscal and monetary
austerity that gained the support of the IMF, and in 1982 the Government
entered into its first stand-by arrangement with the Fund. by the end of
1983, with the successful implementation of that stabilization program, the
deterioration in the public finances and balance of payments was contained.



5.        The economy emerged trom the l981-63 period with its economic
structure severely weakened. Both the tourism and sugar sectors
encountered severe financial difficulties in those years that continued
into 1984. A number of hotel operations failed, debt service delinquencies
multiplied and the sugar industry suffered substantial losses because ot
both output and price declines. The manufacturing sector meanwhile was
sustained by strong growth in the enclave electronics subsector whose
performance more then outweighed the declines in the rest of manufactur-
ing. The low economic activity in those years pushed unemployment from 1IX
in 1981 to about l1Z by the end of 1983. Inflation, however, moderated
along with the slower rise in import prices.
6.        Economic activity revived in 19B4, and the economy registered
positive growth for the first time in four years. GDP rose 2.4Z, mainly
because of a 1UX increase in tourist arrivals, a 17X jump in sugar output
(the first increase in four years) and continued strong growth in the
enclave electronics components industry. tiowever, a major new sectoral
setback created additional problems for the economy. The introduction in
Trinidad and Tobago of restrictive import licencing measures impaired
access of Barbados' domestic manufacturing exports to that important
CARICOM market. The persistence of this access problem, along with
payments difficulties experienced by Jamaican importers, has crippled an
important subsector of Barbados' manufacturing. The positive GUP growth in
19b4 was accompanied by a further increase in unemployment, as several
CARICOM-oriented manufacturers went out of business or cut back operations,
and as cost-cutting strategies in the hotel sector made labor reduncant.
7.        The difficult economic conditions were reflected in the fiscal
and balance of payments outturns for the year. Following improvement
during the adjustment program in 1982/83 and 19b3/84, the Central
Government finances deteriorated in 19b4/8s5.  The main problem was slow
growth in revenues from the corporate profits tax and from import duties.
Thus, while current expenditures grew IUX, current revenues grew only bX
(its poorest performance in seven years) and the budget surplus fell by
one-half in relation to GDP, from 2.3% of GDP in 1963/b4 to 1% of GUP in
19b4/b5. on the balance of payments, an improvement in the current account
was almost offset by a worsening in the capital account, and the net
reserve position remained weak at only one month's imports in liquid
reserves. (Although total reserves were equivalent to two months of
imports, one half represented illiquid assets of the suspended CAKRIUM
Multilateral Clearing Facility; this was a credit facility created to
increase intra-CARICUM trade and which was suspended in 19b3 after its
USIUU million credit ceiling was reached; Barbados was the largest net
creditor to the facility.)
b.        Preliminary data on economic performance in 19b5 indicate that
the economy contracted slightly during the year. Sugar output remained at
about last year's level, 1UU,UUU tons, tourist arrivals declined mainly
because of a very poor summer season, and the electronics industry, which
had been the mainstay of the manufacturing sector over the preceding four
years, itself lost momentum in the face ot lower demand in the computer
industry in 1985.



Development Strategy and Development Issues
9.        Barbados' development has proceeded within a framework of general
reliance on the market mechanism and private enterprise, both toreign and
domestic, with the role of the Government largely reserved to the provision
of supporting infrastructure and appropriate production incentives.  The
development strategy is outward-looking as is appropriate for a country
with such a small domestic market (25:L,UUU people). Given the openness of
the economy, the development strategy aims at diversifying the economic
base so as to strengthen the resilience to external shocks. The
traditional spugar industry, which has dominated Barbados' agriculture over
many years but is now facing difficulties, has to be rationalized, while
exploring for options for agricultural diversification to increase the
country's domestic earnings and export income.- Tourism has grown rapidly
in the past and the country will continue to have a comparative advantage
in that field. In addition, the country has significant assets in its
readily trainable labor force, proximity to the North American market, and
good communications. To capitalize on ti-ase assets, enhancement of the
quality and industrial relevance of the labor force through continued
improvement in the education and training system has to be a central
element of the Government's development strategy.
10.       Barbados continues to face a critical issue concerning the
competitiveness of its production in international markets. While the
recent decline of the US$, to which the b* is pegged, has brought about
some improvement, many of Barbados' competitors, including Jamaica and
Trinidad within CARICUM, have had sharp devaluations over the past year
leaving Barbados as a relatively costly destination for tourism and source
of manufactures. In the sugar industry, although the decline of sterling
against the dollar over the past year has brought about increased local
currency earnings, costs remain high on an international basis. Tnese
developments highlight critical imbalances in the cost/price structures of
the sugar ana tourism industries, which experienced rapid wage increases in
the years preceding the recession and falling prices during the recession
years. Another urgent issue stems from the trade problems of CARICUt that
have effectively curbed intra-regional trade, pointing to the need to
reorient manufactured exports to extra-regional markets. Yet existing
manufacturers have little experience or knowledge of those markets and
would require strong incentives and support to make the shift. Inadequate
capitalization of business firms in tourism and manufacturing, and weak
management, particularly weak financial management, across all sectors are
other sectoral problems exposed by the recent economic difficulties.
II.       The task ahead for the Government is to formulate and implement
corrLctive measures for restoring the viability of these major producing
and foreign-exchange-earning sectors. The problems in the sugar industry
underscore the need to rationalize operations and to increase production
efticiency, in addition to pursuing programs tor agricultural diversitica-
tion. The Government intends to conduct an in-depth review ot the sugar
industry, as a basis for informed policy-making about its future. Further
mechanization appears to be a part of the medium- to long-term plan for the
industry. The tourism industry needs to improve its operating efficiency
and to expand its revenue-earning capacity by better targeting its
promotion at the up-scale market. The hotel sector has already begun to



-4-
rationalize its cost structure by adopting a more flexible employment
policy and the Government has provided assistance to the tourism sector as
a whole in the form of relief from some taxation and fees on tourists,
reduction in water rates for hotels and an increase in the promotion
budget. Manufacturing, meanwhile, is facing a most difficult transition.
A strategy is required to diversify markets and products, attract new
activities such as linkage industries that would help maximize local
value-added, and to examine incentives needed for extra-regional exports.
In all sectors, the approaches imply strong marketing efforts, and enhanced
management and vocational training. Finally, appropriate macroeconomic
policies are of the utmost importance for the country's international
competitiveness. There is the need for the authorities to monitor and
control wage increases, which in the recent past have exceeded domestic
inflation by significant margins (4 to 8 percentage points). Even though
the local currency has depreciated along with the US dollar against
European currencies over the last year, the issue remains important and
needs to be addressed. The Government, in its last budget statement, has
strongly advocated wage restraint and the need for a proper balance between
wage increases and productivity gains. The Government will need to set an
example for wage restraint in its next (two-yearly) public sector wage
negotiations.
12.       The Government's public sector investment program for the medium
term focuses on development and reconstruction of the economic intrastruc-
ture--highways and highway maintenance, runway rehabilitation--and support
of social infrastructure-sewerage development and improvements in
vocational education and training. Its successful implementation will
enhance the country's appeal to visitors and potential investors. The
program is being implemented with support of significant amount of external
assistance and is expected to have a substantial employment impact.
Development Prospects and Creditworthiness
13.       Leaving aside Barbados' susceptibility to exogenous tactors such
as external price fluctuations and unpredictable weather, the economic
outlook hinges strongly on the country's ability to address the tundamental
development issues that have emerged in recent years. The failure of the
economy to sustain the recovery begun in 1984 underscores the urgency for
appropriate adjustment measures. The authorities have in the past
displayed prudence in managing the economy and in maintaining fiscal
responsibility. lt is essential that they continue this pertormance. It
is a favorable sign that policy-makers and industry operators in the major
productive sectors have begun to gather necessary information and to take
measures to promote structural adjustment. Not least among the latter is
the Government's promotion of wage restraint and productivity increases to
enable Barbados to maintain its competitiveness in international markets.
14.       Barbados' government and government-guaranteed external debt in
1984 stood at US$283 million equivalent. The accumulation ot debt slowed
in 19b4, following a 27Z buildup in 19b3, and average annual increases in
the two preceding years of bU7.. These increases were related to borrowings
for large development projects in the public and private sectors. In the
first half of 1985, the Government arranged foreign commercial bank loans
totaling US$44 million to bolster its liquid external reserve position.



l                                 ~~~~~~~~~~- 5 -
Despite this increase, external debt in relation to export earnings
remained low, at a ratio of 50X, in 195. The debt service ratio, which
was 5.7% in 1984, is expected to remain within manageable bounds over the
medium-term. BaIRce of payments projections indicate that the debt
service ratio would peak at about 9X of exports in 1987, then decline to
about 7.5% by 1990. Considering all of the above, Barbados continues to be
creditworthy for Bank lending on conventional terms.
15.       In 1984, the Bank's share in Barbados' outstanding public and
publicly guaranteed external debt was 8.2x; its share in Barbados' external
debt service was 12.3%. It is estimated that, by 199U, the Bank's share in
Barbados' outstanding public and publicly guaranteed external debt would be
about 9.6Z. The Bank's share in external public debt service would then be
about 10.9%.
PART II - THE BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
16.       Barbados became a member of the Bank in 1974.  Since then, the
country has received, net of cancellations, US"60.0 million in loans from
the Bank, covering nine projects, including one loan in supplemental
financing (Annex II). These included assistance in the education, tourism,
industrial, power and highway sectors as well as the financing of technical
assistance to support the Ministries of Finance and Planning, and
Agriculture. In addition, Barbados has benefitted from the bank's lending
to the Caribbean Development Bank (CDB). The CDB lending to Barbados
includes a US$2.6 million loan for an industrial development project in
1978; a US$3.0 million loan for the rehabilitation of two sugar factories
in 1981; and a US$1.1 million loan for the manufacture of clay tiles in
1983.
17.       Despite some delays and associated cost overruns, project
implementation and loan disbursements have, in general, been satisfactory.
With the exception of the Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project (Loan
2432-BAR), which was recently approved, the funds provided under all
Bank-assisted projects have been substantially committed.
18.       The Bank has also maintained a close dialogue with the Government
through its economic and sector work and has, since the inception of the
Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic Development (CSCED) in 197T,
successfully assisted in helping to coordinate external donor assistance to
Barbados.
19.       In early 1984, the Bank approved a graduation program for
Barbados (R84-33, dated February 13, 1984) which provides for, inter alia,
a seven-year phase-out period (FY85/91), with a Bank lending program of
around US$9 million annually in commitments over the period. We will, of
course, carefully review Barbados' capacity to borrow from the markets to
meet its capital requirements over the next several years.
20.       In the meantime, the Bank lending program will seek to strengthen
the economy and its long-term credit worthiness. The proposed Project fits
into this strategy by focussing on one of the sectors in which
institut'Ional capacity needs to be further strengthened. Similarly, bank
lending over the remainder of the current five-year period has been



- 6 -
formulated to support the Bank's graduation strategy and is expected to
include: an agricultural development project; a sites and services
project; a second industrial credit project; a second highway maintenance
and rehabilitation project; and a possible rural roads project.
PAiT III - THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTU(
Overview of Education and Training
21.       Among Latin American and Caribbean countries Barbados has one of
the most highly developed educational systems which is competently staffed
and managed. A literacy rate of about 99Z is the result of easy access to
schooling. Over 90% of the labor force has had at least six years of
formal education, about 752 has had nine years of schooling. Primary,
secondary and higher education institutions were established early in the
1700s, and during the colonial period coverage was gradually increased.
After iudependence in 196b, the school leaving age was raised from 14 to lb
and at present all children between the ages of 5 and 16 are enrolled in
school. Vocational and technical training is still at an early development
stage and is being established at the post-secondary level. Efforts are
being made to provide adequate training opportunities to all youngsters who
do not enroll in the university.
Primary and Secondary education
22.       Reaching universal coverage in primary and secondary education
has been a major achievement, indicating the great importance the Barbados
society accords to education. In 194-b5 about 31,U0U children were
enrolled in some 13U primary schools; and some 24,OU0 children were
enrolled in 21 government secondary schools. In addition, about 4,400
children were enrolled in 15 private secondary schools. The net enrollment
rates of 98% at the primary level and 95% at the secondary level are
comparable to those of the highly developed countries. A policy of
automatic promotion is exercised, and consequently repetition rates are
almost negligible.
23.       In terms of quality, efforts are being made to adapt the original
British curriculum to the Caribbean context. New syllabi for primary and
secondary schools are being developed and are gradually being introduced in
schools. The English school leaving examinations at secondary level have
been replaced by those of the Caribbean Examination Council (CXC), which is
now in charge of certifying knowledge and skills of secondary graduates
both tor university entrance and direct employment purposes. These
curriculum and examination reforms started after l9bb and have been
financed through USAID loans.
24.       Teachers are well trained.  The Erdiston Teacher Training College
(ETTC) trains primary and secondary school teachers and the University of
the West Indies provides graduate level courses for school managers,
offering certificates to university graduates who want to become secondary
school teachers. In addition, the Barbados Community College (BCC)
collaborates with the ETTC to provide training of industrial arts
teachers. in 19b3/84 there were about 2,50U government school teachers.
All primary school teachers and 702 of secondary school teachers were



classified as "trained' (i.e.. they had attended the ETTC courses or they
had a University Certificate). The 'untrained" 30% (about 2U0) of
secondary school teachers are mostly those approaching retirement age,
thus, the MUE does not see a great need to train them given the high
training costs involved.
Vocational and Technical Training
25.       Formal vocational and technical training is still in an early
development stage in Barbados, with two institutions under the MUE
having clearly defined responsibilities for such training. The Samuel
Jackman Prescod Polytechnic (SJPP) provides skills level training for both
lower ana upper secondary school graduates. The bCC provides post-secondary
(grades 12-13) technician level education and training in industrial
technology, tourism, health, commerce and applied arts. It also conducts
the non-pedagogical training for secondary teacher trainees in cooperation
with the ETTC. The teachers in both the BCC and the SJPP are well
qualified and generally have industrial experience.
26.       Non-formal vocational and technical training is provided mainly
by the National Training Board (NTB), which was founded in 1979 under the
Ministry of Labor (MOL). The NTB is responsible for planning and
implementing short and intensive training schemes for unemployed youths
and adults, upgrading programs for employed workers, the tormal
apprenticeship training system, and on-the-job training programs. The
recurrent costs of NTB are financed largely (60% in 19B4) from a national
payroll levy (0.5%) on private sector wages; the rpmainder is provided by
annual budget appropriations. The SJPP cooperates with the NTB in
providing formal skills and technical theory training. In 1983, the skills
training program for young people (16-25 years of age), was transferred
from the MOL to the NTB. This modular curricula program, with courses
ranging from 3-9 months duration, is conducted mostly in temporary and
poorly equipped facilities.
Issues in Primary and becondary Education
27.       Low student-teacher ratios, high costs, low achievement, unequal
access to adequate school facilities and managerial deficiencies are
recognized by the Government as problems which should be overcome in the
next five years.
Zb.       Due to the decline in population growth, school enrollments have
been decreasing and are projected to continue to do so in the coming
years. by 1990 there would be about 25,6U0 primary school age children
(excluding reception age, that is, children below the school starting age
of 5 years), down from 31,000 at present; and 23,6U0 secondary school age
children, as opposed to 25,OUU at present. Student-teacher ratios have
gone down from 24:1 in 1973 to 21:1 in 1983 as a result of the declining
population growth rate coinciding with the appointment of new teachers in
the late 197Us when new vocational courses were introduced in secondary
schools. Although there is now a de facto freeze on the hiring of new
teachers, student-teacher ratios are not expected to rise immediately, as
the young age of the teaching force and the lack of alternate employment
opportunities would not increase the attrition rate (about 12 per year) of
teachers.



- t -
29.       As public education is tree, the high coverage of the lormal
education system places a high recurrent cost burden on the government
budget. The Government subsidizes school meals, textbooks, school unitorms
and transportation to primary schools, and provides bursaries to students
in private secondary schools. In 1VU4, public education expenditures
accounted for about bZ of GOP and about 20% of public sector expenditures.
Public education's share of public sector expenditures is expected ro
remain at the 1iZ to 2UZ level during the coming years. The high level ot
Lthese expenditures, however, underlines the need to reduce costs and
improve the etficiency ot the system.
3U.       About 3UZ of primary school children perform poorly in the
secondary school entrance examinations, and about bUZ of students tail the
secondary school leaving examinations. Failure at the end of primary
school is attributable to automatic promotion ot students, even when they
cannot satistactorily pertorm at grade level. No remedial instruction
programs are now available tor slow learners, particularly in basic reading
and w)riting skills. This issue is especially severe when children who have
not learned to read and write adequately are promoted to higner levels, tor
they cannot then benefit from further attendance either in secondary
schools or in vocational training programs.
31.       Causes ot tailure in secondary schools need to be turther
researcned. lThe CXC is beginning to correlate school achievement scores
with other variables, but results are not conclusive.  It is believea that
one of the main causes of tailure is tnat students are not provided the
time and the instructional materials needed to learn. There are great
ditterences between the instruction times recommenaed in the syllabi and
the instruction times that students actually experience in classrooms.
Moreover, secondary school students are unable to benetit trom the recently
revised curriculum because ot delays in implementation.
32.       Another problem is that access to secondary eaucation is
inequitably distributed: (a) due to lack ot public secondary scthool
places, some 2,2UU children (dX ot the secondary school age group) are
taught in primary school facilities (primary tops), where tney receive an
inadequate education; (b) some l,bUU others (ow) are taugnt in small,
inadequately stafted and poorly housed private secondary schools, which are
closing down because they are not economically viable 1/; and (c) some
1/   There are 15 private 'assisted" secondary schools in barbados.  'These
receive bursaries amounting to about USa47u per year per stucent (ot
UbSob9b recurrent costs in the newer public secondary sctiools). About
half these schools are small (less than 4UU students), have no room
tor expansion, lack good teachers and are ot a much poorer standard
than public schools. Some ot these poor quality schools are already
in the process ot closing down due to lacK or students, as Lhe
increase in tees to enable the schools to raise teachers' pay, improve
tacilities and expand in order to be eco'iomically viable are not
commensurate with the improvement in quality; nenice cney become
unattorciable and theretore, unattractive to parents in spite ot the
bursaries. As tne school owners have no resources to replace tnese
schools, tne cost to the governmenc ot providing the necessary
resources would equal or exceed those of building a new public
school. In addition, the Goverment woula nave to continue providing
the bursaries.



1,500 others (5x) attend public secondary schools built more than one
hundred years ago, which are currently in unsatisfactory condition. It is
estimated that, in addition to upgrading the old, dilapidated facilities,
about 1,ZUU new secondary school places would be needed to enroll all
school age children in adequate conditions.
33.       Although there are good syllabi for secondary schools, the
Curriculum Development Council has not set policies for defining which
courses are to be offered in each school. Subjects are selected by
independent School Boards, apparently without sufficiently analyzing the
appropriate balance between curriculum requirements and instruction time in
key subject areas. Moreover, due to the lack of clear guidelines on the
teaching of vocational subjects, there are attempts by each scnool to
acquire expensive, sophisticated equipment for the various vocational
subjects offered. The need for a rational use of facilities is recognized
in the Development Plan for 1983-88, but a tormal plan to introduce the
sharing of workshops among schools in order to promote effective use of
scarce qualified staff in technical subjects and eliminate the unnecessary
duplication of plant and equipment has not yet been defined and little
sharing has actually taken place.
34.       Education management problems are compounded by the inappropriate
and congested premises occupied by the Ministry of Education and Culture
(MOE). These premises were originally designed as an outpatient clinic,
are owned and also partly occupied by the Ministry of health, and do not
permit room for expansion to accommodate both Ministries. Adequate
rentable spaces are unavailable. Records and files are spread about on
desktops and in boxes due to lack of storage space, and there are no rooms
for meetings among staff from different departments. Under these
circumstances, routine administrative procedures become cumbersome and
inefficient, staff motivation is low, and productivity is greatly impaired
from different departments. Under these circumstances, routine
administrative procedures become cumbersome and inefficient, staff
motivation is low, and productivity is greatly impaired.
35.       Issues in Vocational and Technical Education.  Vocational and
technical training is still in an early development stage in Barbados, and
must o-vercome major constraints if it is to effectively contribute to the
attainment of the country's development objectives. There is a lack of
reliable labor market information. Training programs in the formal sector
for semi-skilled and skilled workers arnd technicians, and in the informal
sector tor pL3duction and services entrepreneurs are of low quality and of
little relevance to sectoral needs; hence, they offer little motivation to
trainees. In addition, the existing training resources are not fully
utilized because they are located in inappropriate, incompletely equipped
facilities, randomly dispersed around Barbados.
36.       Although the Manpower Research and Statistics Unit (MRSU) of
the MOL undertakes periodic household surveys to determine employment
levels, and some information on available manpower and job placement
opportunities is available from official sources such as the Barbados
Institute of Management and Productivity (BIMAP) and the Statistical
Service of the ministry of Finance and Planning, there is a lack of labor
market information in a form which can be used to systematically plan the



- 1U -
country's training efforts to meet market demand. There is likewise a lack
of information feedback from tracer studies on graduates of the system to
determine the appropriateness at the training programs being offered.
These inadequacies contribute to imbalances in available skills and result
in missed opportunities when foreign investors interested in setting up
operations in the country do not encounter the trained manpower they need.
37.       The low quality of vocational and technical training is due
primarily to inappropriate and/or obsolete equipment, lack of appropriate
course syllabi and methodology (which are partly due to poor equipment) and
the limited relevance of training programs to labor market needs. Although
the qualifications of trainers are generally good, curricula need to be
improved and defined in accordance with standards derived from occupational
analyses. In addition, trainers have to be given the opportunity to keep
up to date with constantly changing technological developments and their
corresponding pedagogical techniques. Student motivation could be
increased by improving the quality of instruction and making available the
training options that would enable them to more easily obtain employment.
38.       Training resources (teachers and those adequate facilities which
are available) are inefficiently utilized. The existing small NTH skills
training units are scattered around Barbados, and except for the facility
in St. Lucy, are generally housed in makeshift workshops offering training
in one or two skills with inadequate equipment. Consequently, programs are
difficult to tailor to market needs, the number and quality of outputs are
low, and administration of such a system cannot avoid being inefficient.
Therefore, the consolidation of these efforts into a few strategically
located facilities would increase performance levels and result in a more
economic use of available resources. A similar situation exists with
respect to the bCC: its training programs are also scattered in a number of
inadequate locations outside the main campus, which has room for
expansion. This penalizes students in the outside locations who have no
(or more difficult) access to campus facilities (i.e., library,
demonstration rooms, etc.), leads to duplication of personnel services, and
contributes to a lower utilization of campus facilities. The SJPP on the
other hand has workshops in eight areas of training, which are either
unused or underutilized, due primarily to the lack of or incomplete
equipment. These workshops could accommodate up to 70U secondary school
students for vocational courses, and their more efficient use would avoid
the duplication of facilities and resources.
Government Strategy in the Sector
39.       The Government's policy objectives include the equalization of
educational opportunity, the modernization ot educational content in order
to make education a meaningful tool for development through greater
emphasis on vocational and technical training, and the realization of these
objectives without increasing the relatively high cost of the system. The
Uovernment has put into action strategies designed to address the
deficiencies of the system. In pursuit of these objectives, the Government
has obtained bilateral and multilateral assistance as follows: (a) the
bank's First Education Project (Loan 1b42-BAR) improved student-teacher
ratios in project schools, increased access and achieved economies ot scale



- II -
in amalgamating primary schools and upgrading secondary schools. Teacher
quality was improved through support for the ETTC; bIMAP's capacity to
improve productivity through in-plant treining for workers and supervisors
was strengthened; and key MOE officials were trainea in school
administration; (b) the Inter-American Development bank (IDB) has supported
training programs at the technician and skilled worker levels and tinanced
the construction of tacilities for the BCC and the SJPP; and (c) other
agencies (i.e. USAID, OAS, CIDA, and the british Governitent) have provided
assistance in curriculum development, project execution aid to small
enterprises and higher education. The Government has taken steps on its
own to address the deficiencies of the system: (a) it has etlected a de
facto freeze on the hiring of new teachers to prevent the decrease of
student-teacher ratios which would otherwise occur due to the tailing
population growth rate; (b) it has converted teacher training institutions
to provide only inservice training ot public school teachers and stopped
financing and training of new teachers; (c) it is taking steps tc reduce
Government subsidies for school meals and student transportation; (d) it
continues to support the amalgamation of primary schools to increase
cost-effectiveness; and (e) it has introduced measures to reduce subject
options oftered to secondary school students to increase class sizes and
reduce the need for specialized facilities. The Government, however, taces
the task of consolidating the initial successes in attaining its goals, and
must overcome the adverse effects of the world recession on its economic
performance. Accordingly the Government's plans tor improvements in
efficiency, increase in vocational skills and opening new areas of training
in modern technologies in order to provide the requisite manpower for its
output diversification objectives, are deserving of external support.
bank Strategy in the Sector
40.       Previous bank Experience.  The bank agrees with the Government's
strategy and the proposed Project would be the second bank operation in the
sector in Barbados. The First Education Project (Loan 1642-bAK of US$9.U
million equivalent) assisted the Government strategy of combining measures
to assure equity and relevant general education and skills training with
measures to enhance the cost effectiveness of the system. The project also
assisted the improvement of private sector management training by financing
the BIMAP component. Specifically, the project comprised: (a) construc-
tion, furnishing and equipping of ten primary schools to replace
obsolescent schools; (b) expansion of six existing secondary schools;
(c) expansion of the ETTC; (d) expansion of the facilities of JIMAP; and
(e) provision of architectural and engineering services to the project unit
and 3U staff/months of tellowships to BIMAP. Early implementation delays
caused by site acquisition problems contributed to a 35X increase in
project costs. The Government's difficulty in tilling the increased
funding gap with counterpart resources exacerbated the delay as well as the
cost increases. A supplemental loan of US3.U million was approved oy the
bank on November 6, 19B3, under a Special Action Program, to finance the
foreign exchange component of the project cost increase, and has brought
implementation up to the planned pace with reasonable efficiency. The
project has satisfactorily attained its objectives, all facilities are
operational and the loan has already been substantially disbursed.



- 12 -
41.       To enable Barbados to overcome the adverse effects ot the world
recession (and its particular repercussions within the Caribbean regional
market) on its economic performance, the Bank supports its plans to
diversify its markets, improve efficiency and increase vocational skills.
In the specific area ot hotel management, one ot the development
priorities, BIMAP is currently planning the training programs for managers
and entrepreneurs of small and medium sized hotels, in consultation with
the barbados hotel Association and the darbados Development Bank.  blSIAP
has tEle qualified staff and facilities to carry out this training program
effectively. The training needs in the agricultural sector, another
priority area for development, are being addressed in a proposed
agricultural development project which would be a follow-up to earlier
bank-financed Technical Assistance Project (Loan 2115-bAK). The Bank also
supports the efforts being made by the Government to increase the skills
and competitiveness of its labor force, and to streamline and increase
efficiency in the education sector. To this end, the bank would continue
its collaboration with other bilateral and multilateral development
institutions. The bank's involvement in the proposed Project is necessary
because beyond consolidating the benefits realized under Loan lb42-BAK, it
would (a) provide the requisite incentives to implement quality and cost
eftectiveness measures such as the improvement ot student-teacner ratios,
the rationalization of vocational subjects ia secondary schools and the
formulation of measures to achieve cost savings and greater efticiency in
the utilization of educational tacilities and resources; and (b) it would
contribute significantly to institutional strengthening so as to enable
Barbados to acquire the necessary toundation for human resources
development for a competitive modern economy.
:AKT IV - THE PRUJLCT
Project Origin
4Z.       The proposed Project was tirst presented to the bank in September
19b4 and reviewed by a Bank mission in Uctober 1984. It was identitied by
a bank mission that visited Barbados in iebruary 19bJ.  the proposed
Project was prepared by the Mub, assisted by consultants under the
UNESCO/CP and bank statt and was appraised in June 13bJ. Negotiations were
held in Washington, D.C. in March 19io. The Barbados delegation was led by
Mr. Branston Collymore, Permanent Secretary, Ministry or Education ana
Culture. Supplementary data are contained in Annex Ill.
Project Ubjectives and Content
43.       The proposed Project would be a follow up on Loan 1b4Z-BAK and
would cover 90Z 2/ of the hive-year investment plan tor the whole sector
in order to address a broad range of critical issues. The proposed Project
theretore comprises the tollowing items: (a) the institutional
strengthening of the MUE; (b) the bUC component; (c) the i'41h component;
(d) the MKSU component; (e) the Training Administration component; (t) the
primary school component; (g) the secondary school component; and (II) tne
_J  lfbe areas not covered under this Project include: (a) agricultural
training (para. 41); (b) prLvate sector management training
(para. 41); (c) the student Kevolving Loan Iuncd (U64J.U milLion)
financed by lUb Loan 7Z2/Sb-bA; and (d) repair and remodeliing ot
other existing secondary schools tinanced entirely oy the Uovernment.



- 13 -
SJPP component. The Bank would finance items (a) to (e), and IJB would
finance items (f) to (h). The Bank would finance the administrative costs
of implementing items (a) to (e).
44.       The proposed Project aims to further develop Barbados'
educational and training system and improve the capacity to manage it
through a combination of policies and actions that would enhance the
internal efficiency of education while improving the quality and relevance
of instruction. These efficiency and quality improvements would enable the
MOE to optimize previous investments and manage the system without further
substantial financial assistance. because of its small size, there are no
significant differences between the urban and rural populations of
Barbados, thus the proposed Project would equally benefit all population
sectors. The NTB component particularly addresses the improvement of the
skills of the unemployed and thus the relatively poorer segment of society.
45.       First, the proposed Project would support improvements in the
quality and cost-effectiveness of primary and secondary education through:
(a) The financing by IDB of the amalgamation of 21 small, unecomomic
primary schools into ten larger schools by providing construction,
equipment and furniture. The actual condition of the 22 schools only
permit two out of the five nmalgamation options: (i) full replacement with
new facilities, or (ii) remodelling and expansion of one school. Option
(i) is necessary in nine out of the ten amalgamations. by amalgamating
these schools, operational costs would be reduced by about 2U%,
representing a 5% reduction in the operational costs of primary schools in
the country. Expected savings in recurrent costs would recover the
investment costs within a five-year period after project completion
provided that the current freeze on the hiring of new teachers is
maintained. The Government has provided assurances that the current
student-teacher ratios would not be allowed to decrease from the levels
prevailing during school year 1983 of 23:1 in primary schools and 19:1 in
secondary schools. These ratios would not be increased beyond 35:1 at the
primary level and 30:1 at the secondary level.
(b) The tinancing by the Bank for improvements in the teaching of
reading and writing in primary schools. The curriculum unit of the MOE
would establish a system for diagnosing problems in reading and writing,
and, once the system is in place, train one remedial education teacher in
each school.  Technical assistance (10 staff months (s/m) of fellowships
and 12 s/m of specialist services) would be provided to the curriculum unit
and about 1,50U teachers would be trained in diagnostic techniques.
(c) The re-establishment of the National Curriculum Committee and
financing by the Bank of the following tasks to be carried out by the
Committee: (i) conduct a study to provide the basis for a policy on the
teaching of vocational subjects in secondary schools and the reduction of
recurrent expenditure at this level; and (ii) analyze results of CXC
examinations to determine the revisions needed to make the existing syllabi
more responsive to the country's development needs. The study on
vocational subjects in secondary schools would consider, among other
things, the cost of offering each optional subject, the minimum number of
students required to offer a specific course, the minimum number of hours



- 14 -
required per subject and the maximum number of subjects that a student
should take in a year. Technical assistance (34 s/m of tellowships and 16
s/m of specialist services) and training (3UU teachers and .2
administrators) would be provided to the MOE to support the above
activities as well as to improve the teaching of special subjects in
secondary schools. A draft plan prepared by the Government for the sharing
of workshop facilities among secondary schools and the SJPI was reviewed
during negotiations. The plan would be finalized during the first year of
implementation and put into effect by September 19bd.
(d) The financing by the bank of improvements in the textbook
procurement and distribution system.  The proposed Project would finance
six s/m of specialist services to assist the Supply Management Section of
the MOE. A draft revised policy for textbook procurement and distribution
would be prepared by July 1987, and would be reviewed by the Bank.
Procurement of books for schools under the proposed Project would proceed
only after the policy is agreed upon with the Bank and the IDB.
(e) The financing by the IDB of the upgrading as well as acquisition
of supplementary and replacement equipment and furniture for two existing
secondary schools, the furnishing and equipping of a third existing
secondary school and the building, equipping and furnishing of new 1,2UO
place school. The additional number of places provided to the secondary
school system would accommodate the existing "primary tops". The SUE is
expected to eliminate these "primary tops" by the start of operations of
the new Wotton/Kingsland secondary school in December 199U.
4b.       Secondly, the proposed Project would foster improvements in the
efficiency, quality and industrial relevance of technical and vocational
training, through:
(a)  The financing by the lJB of supplementary equipment in the Samuel
J. Prescod Polytechnic to replace obsolete equipment; peripheral equipment
to maximize the existing training capacity in the skilled worker level
programs of radio-stereo-TV repair, electrical installations and welding,
the print shop and the food preparation laboratory. The provision of
supplementary equipment would increase the utilization of four existing
shops by about 25X, by accomodating up to 700 students in the secondary
school day-release program and help formalize better coordination ot
training programs among the cooperating schools. It would also increase
enrollment capacity by up to 70 full-time students. About 30% of
enrollments would be women.
(b) The financing by the Bank of the construction, furnishing and
equipping of purpose designed" technician level training facilities in the
Barbados Community College. This would include the relocation of the
Division of Applied Arts from its inadequate and desintegrating premises
and the re-equipping and relocation of the health sciences training
facilities from the Ministry of Health to the BCC main campus thus making
the library and other teaching/learning services more easily available to
students in these disciplines and increase their use factor. Additionally,
laboratory facilities would be provided for the new computer science
division, the new industrial electronics program and two additional shops
for the mechanical and civil construction programs. These facilities would



- 15 -
altogether annually accommodate about 4UU full-time and 42U part-time
trainees (an increase of about 2UU) of which about 6UZ would be women.
(c) The financing by the Bank of the construction, furnishing and
equipping of three new skills training centers and equipping and furnishing
of one existing center in the National Training Board. A total of 28b
trainee places would be equipped to provide modular training to about 1, W .
trainees annually in 24 skills programs of 3-9 months duration. The
centers would cater to entry level skills training for unemployed youth and
adults (ages 16 to 3U), apprenticeship training on a day-release basis in
cooperation with local industry, and skills upgrading training for about
500 unemployed workers annually. About 2UZ of basic training enrollments
would be women.
(d) The financing by the bank of supplementary equipment to improve
the data processing capability of the Manpower Research and Statistics
Unit; and books and supplementary equipment to upgrade the tacilities of
the Training Administration.
(e)  The financing by the Bank of technical assistance (ib8 s/m of
fellowships and 39 s/m. of specialist services) for the vocational and
technical training system for: (i) improving instructor capabilities in
planning and upgrading course syllabi and laboratory/shop activities;
(ii) improving administrative, financial manag-sent, accounting procedures
and information gathering and processing; (iii) improving and expanding the
existing industrial advisory committee systems of the SJPP and the BCC;
(iv) formalizing on-the-job follow-up of graduates; (v) improving and
institutionalizing the industrial job analysis efforts of the NTB and the
MKSU; and (vi) assessing the needs in public sector management training and
upgrading the training programs and materials of the Training
Administration.
47.       Thirdly, the proposed Project would seek to strengthen the
institutional capacity to plan and manage the education and training
system, through:
(a)  The financing by the Bank of technical assistance (2b s/m
of fellowships, 26 s/m of specialist services and local training of 150
managers and 500 school teachers) to improve education planning,
educational management, curriculum implementation practices in primary and
secondary schools and school supervision, with emphasis being given to
improve the budgeting process of MOE. In addition, the proposed Project
would assist the MOE in improving the production of printed materials.
(b) The financing by the bank of a study on the formulation of
measures to achieve cost savings and greater efficiency in the utilization
of facilities and resources, as well as to address the issue of the
additional recurrent costs that are expected to be generated under the
proposed Project. The study would include inter alia: (i) the selection
procedures for public examinations; (ii) the marketing output of the
technical/vocational system; (iii) maintenance costs; and (iv) areas of
post-secondary education where savings may be realized. MOE would prepare
Terms of Reference in consultation with the Ministry of Finance and present
these to the Bank by December 1986.



- lb -
(c) The financing by the bank of the construction, equipping and
furnishing of appropriate facilities to house the MOE Pedagogical and
Administration building.
Project Costs and Financing
48.       Project Cost.  The total cost of the proposed Project is
estimated at about US$37.7 million equivalent, net of taxes and duties. 3/
The foreign exchange cost is estimated at USS17.3 million or 4bX of total
project cost, and the local cost at US$2U.4 million or 54X of total cost.
49.       Basis of Cost Estimates.  The baseline cost (in March 198b
prices) is about US$29.1 million. Aggregate physical contingencies (5.3X
over baseline costs) comprise 1UZ for site development and 5Z for all other
categories of expenditure (building designs are adapted from standard plans
developed under Loan 1642-BAR, equipment and furniture lists are complete,
and the technical assistance package contract has been awarded). Aggregate
price contingencies (23% over baseline costs including physical
contingencies) are based on the following price escalation rates:
(a) foreign: (i) 7.2% in 198b, 6.8% in 1987-88, 7% in 1989, 7.1% in 1990,
and 4% in 1991-92 for civil works, furniture, equipment and educational
materials; and (ii) 5% in 1986-92 for technical assistance (T.A.),
professional services, project administration, studies and training;
(b) local: (i) 10% in 1986, 11% in 1987-88, 12% in 1989-90, and 10% in
1991-92 for civil works and furniture; (ii) B.5Z in 19bb, 9% in 1987-90,
and 8% in 1991-92 for equipment and educational materials; and (iii) 6% in
1986-9U, and 5% in 1991-92 for T.A., professional services, project
administration, training and studies. The total foreign exchange cost
including contingencies is estimated at US*17.3 million equivalent or about
46% of total project cost net of taxes, based on foreign exchange
components of 46% for civil works (building and site development), 60U for
furniture, 90% for equipment, 75% for expatriate technical assistance and
fellowships, 5% for local training, project administration and studies and
_UX for professional services.
5U.       Financing Plan.  The total project cost of about US$37.7 million
would be financed by the bank, the IDB and the Government. The proposed
Bank loan of US$lU.0 million equivalent would finance 27% of the total
project cost and would cover 49% of the foreign cost and 7% of the local
cost. In addition to the Bank loan, 45% of the total project cost would be
financed, on a parallel basis, by the IDB with a loan of US$17.0 million
which would cover 51% of the foreign cost and 40Z of the local cost. The
Government would provide US$10.7 million to finance the remaining 28% of
total cost and cover bOX of the local cost. The total cost of the Bank
financed items would be US$17.8 million, and the ID financed items US$19.9
million.
51.       Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Government
would provide its share of counterpart funds under the proposed Project in
a timely fashion. To facilitate the early execution of the bank financed
components, retroactive financing up to an amount of US$250,0UU is proposed
3/ Taxes and duties are estimated at US$3.4 million.



- 17 -
to cover expenditures incurred (for construction, procurement, technical
assistance and project administration) after October 1, 1985.
Incremental Recurrent Costs
52.       When in full operation by 199Z, the proposed Project is expected
to generate additional annual operating costs (in March 1986 prices) of
about US$0.66 million for the MOE and US*U.b3 million for the KOL/NTS.
These amounts represent an increase of 1.1X above the MUE's approved
1984/85 recurrent budget, and 26% above that of NTB8's 1984/b5 budget.
About 82% (US$0.54) of the MOE's additional recurrent budget is attributed
to the BCC component. The increase on the Z0E budget is not expected to
pose an undue burden as 60Z of the bCC incremental recurrent cost would
continue to be funded out of the payroll levy. The substantial increase on
the NTB recurrent expenditures is taken in comparison with its 1985 budget
which is low as it is based on NTH's currently limited operations.  This
budgetary increase is expected to be met without undue difficulty through
the payroll levy. The proposed Project would finance a study on (paragraph
47(b)) measures to achieve further reductions in recurrent costs.
Status of Project Preparation
53.       The Government has demonstrated its commitment to the proposed
Project by providing, in its 1985/86 budget, the initial outlays and
manpower resources needed to proceed with early implementation.
Preparation for project implementation which commenced in early 1986 is
well advanced, with the use of funds allocated for such purposes under Loan
1b42-BAK. Consultants have been contracted for the site surveys and design
of the facilities to be built. Sites for all of the 18 project components
which require new or additional civil works are already owned by the
Government. bidding documents for the construction, furnishing and
equipping of six institutions (3 primary, 2 secondary and 1 NTB skills
center) are being prepared for the calling of bids by June 198b. The final
architectural design for the BCC and sketch designs for the MOE building
were reviewed during negotiations. The Government has awarded the contract
for the management of the proposed Project's technical assistance package
to an institution selected in accordance with Bank guidelines. The
Government was advised of the Bank's concurrence with the proposed contract
award in February 1986.
Project Execution
54.       Implementation Agency.  The existing Project Implementation Unit
(PIU) of the RUE, which has demonstrated a satisfactory performance in
implementing Loan 1b42-BAK, has been officially designated by the
Government to manage the implementation of the proposed Project. In view
of the increased responsibilities under the proposed Project, the current
PIU comprising a project manager, accountant, procurement officer,
architect, quantity surveyor, engineer and support staff, has been expanded
to provide it with the capability of monitoring the educational aspects of
the proposed Project. The additional staff (a project educator, an
administrative officer, and a training officer of the NTB to coordinate the



- 1i -
execution of the NTh component) have been appointed. Costs of these
additional staff are included in the total project cost. Key officers of
the BCC, the SJPP, the tbLSU and the Training Administration have been
designated with the responsibility of maintaining liaison with the PIU to
ensure the efficient execution of their respective components. The PlU
also has in-house, under renewable fixed term contracts, expatriate
consultants (an architect, two engineers and a quantity surveyor) who
render professional services for the design of standard school plans as
well as construction supervision. This in-house arrangement permits the
PIU flexibility in its design work and also, enables it to realize a ZU-3UZ
savings in professional fees.  The PIU professional staft are MOE regular
personnel who are expected to be reintegrated into the Ministry after
completion of the proposed Project. before completion ot the proposed
Project, the MUX would review its needs for school construction and
maintenance and would consult with the isank on the deployment of PeU staff.
55.       Implementation Schedule.  The proposed Project is expected to be
implemented over a period of seven years from January 19Yb to December
1992, one year shorter than the relevant regional profile based on
experience with Loan 1642-BAR. However, it is possible that if the
proposed Project is implemented more efficiently and with fewer delays, the
implementation period could be reduced to five years. This would result in
project costs being reduced from US37.7 million to US$36.4 million. While
the Government would need to provide higher annual counterpart funds (by
US$l.b million in 19&7 and US*U.9 million in 19b5), the proposed Project
benefits would begin to be realized earlier.
56.       Disbursements.  The proceeds of the Bank loan would be aisbursed
over a period of 7.5 years (1986-93) to pay 44X of civil works
expenditures; OUU% of foreign expenditures for directly imported items and
45% of total expenditures for locally procured items covering furniture,
equipment and educational materials; 100% of expenditures for technical
assistance, training and studies; and 5UZ of professional fees for
architectural, engineering services and other services. For contracts
valued at equivalent US*1U,UUU or less, disbursement would be made on the
basis of Statements of Expenditures (SUEs) for which documentation would be
correlated with the relevant withdrawal application and retained by the PIU
for periodic review upon request by the bank in addition to being audited
by auditors acceptable to the Bank. All other withdrawal applications
would be fully documented.
57.       Special Account.  In order to reduce the interval during which
the Government would finance with its own resources the bank's share of
goods and services, a Special Account would be opened in U.S. dollars and
US$500,000 would be initially deposited into it from the Loan Account. The
Special Account would be replenished monthly on receipt and approval of the
Government's applications for replenishment of the Bank's share of eligible
expenditures, totalling not less than US41UU,0UU. The Bank would require a
monthly statement of the Special Account to reflect transactions during the
previous month.
58.       Bank Procurement Procedures.  Civil works contracts for the ASCC
and the MOE Pedagogical and Administration buildings would be awarded on
the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures. because



- 19 -
of the small size of the contracts (US$0.9 million base cost each) and the
phasing of construction which does not permit a larger package, civil works
contracts for the NTB skills centers would be awarded on the basis of local
competitive bidding (LCB) procedures which have been reviewed and found to
be acceptable to the bank' Interested foreign bidders would not be
precluded from participating in such bids. Contracts for equipment,
furniture and educational materials would be grouped, to the extent
possible, to form attractive packages and would be awarded on the basis of
ICB procedures in accordance with Bank guidelines when these packages total
US$50,000 or more. Contracts below US$5U,0OU would be awarded on the basis
of competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with Government
procurement practices which are acceptable to the bank. In addition,
miscellaneous items that cannot be grouped into packages exceeding
US$20,000 would be procured through the Government's Central Purchasing
Department on the basis of three price quotations. All consulting
contracts would be procured in accordance with Bank Guidelines. With the
thresholds established for ICB, contracts awarded through ICB would account
for about 61% of the cost of the bank financed items. The limits for prior
review of bidding documentation by the bank would result in a coverage of
about 69% of the total estimated value of civil works contracts and 79X of
goods contracts.
59.       1DB Procurement Procedures.  Procurement for the IDB financed
items is axpected to follow IB's general procurement procedures and the
clauses on tender procedures agreed with the Government, as well as the
Government's local procurement procedures where applicable.
60.       Monitoring and Evaluation.  Indicators to monitor progress in the
implementation of hardware as well as educational and other software
components of the proposed Project have been developed and agreed with the
Government. The PIU director would be responsible for preparing semiannual
progress reports (due M4ay 15 and November 15) which would provide
information on the quantitative as well as qualitative aspects of the
proposed Project, and measure implementation progress against the
monitoring indicators. These progress reports would be provided to the
Bank and the IDB. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the
Government would keep the bank informed of progress being made in the
attainment of its educational objectives, and furnish the bank annually,
until after six months from the Closing Date, for the bank's review, a
statement on any major education policies or plans formulated by the
Government. A completion report on the proposed Project would be prepared
by the PIU and submitted to the bank no later than six months after the
Closing bate of the bani loan. The Evaluation Unit of the MUE would be
responsible for assessing the impact of the efficiency and quality
improvement measures developed under the proposed Project on the education
system, and in coordination with the NTB and the MOL, on that of tne
training system. The NTB, also in coordination with the MOL would be
responsible for assessing the impact of the NTB training programs.
Guidelines and criteria for evaluation were discussed and agreed with the
Government during appraisal. Information and insights gathered from the
evaluation process would be fed back into the system for the periodic
upgrading of curricula and course syllabi.



- 20 -
61.       Accounting and Auditing.  The auditing and accounting procedures
employed under Loan 1642-BAR are satisfactory and the reports are well
prepared. This practice is expected to be carried on during the
implementation of the proposed Project. The Government would maintain
separate accounts for the Bank and IDB financed items in accordance with
acceptable accounting practices. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that the Government would take steps to ensure that all
accounts, financial statements, certified SUEs and the Special Account
related to bank financed items would be audited annually by independent
auditors, satisfactory to the Bank. The auditor's report would be sent to
the Bank no later than four months after the close of each kiscal Year
(March 31).
Benefits
62.       The proposed Project would help to consolidate improvements in
the education system initiated under the Loan 1b42-BAK. by establishing
cost effectiveness measures, the proposed Project would enable the
Government to reallocate the freed resources towards more substantial
quality improvements in the sector. by strengthening the institutional
framework to manage and plan the education and training system and
providing the appropriate infrastructure for the education central
management and staff, the proposed Project would also establish a sound
basis for the continued pursuit of further efficiency gains.
63.       In addition to providing more appropriate facilities for about
8,U00 students, the major quantifiable benefits of the proposed Project
would be an additional annual capacity to train/upgrade about 1,000
semi-skilled and skilled workers and train about 200 technicians, of which
about 28% and 60%. respectively would be women. The improvements in the
quality and quantity of trained manpower would increase the competitiveness
of local labor, attract investors to set up operations in the country due
to the availability of skills and ultimately facilitate the entry of
Barbados into extraregional markets for its products. The strengthening of
industrial advisory committee systems, industrial job analysis and
follow-up of on-the-job performance of graduates, whiich would ensure that
training programs are more relevant to industrial development efforts
defined in the Development Plan, would contribute to this effort
significantly.
Assessment of Risks
b4.       There are no significant risks associated with the technical
implementation of the proposed Project, as it would be managed by an
experienced PIU. The risk of not attaining the objectives of the
vocational training component is real only to the extent that the economic
strategy set out for Barbados does not meet its objectives. kiowever, the
expected economies in operational costs resulting from the amalgamation of
primary schools may not be realized if the current freeze on the hiring of
new teachers is relaxed and new teachers are appointed in spite of the
decline in enrollments and therefore, the benefits expected from
reinvesting the savings for quality improvements in primary and secondary
education, would be lost. There could also be some difficulty meeting the
incremental recurrent budgets of the BCC and the NTB centers when these



- 21 -
become operational by 1992, if the allocations from the payroll levy prove
inadequate. However, as the proposed Project would provide the capability
to train the technicians badly needed for the success of the development
strategy for Barbados, it is not expected that problems would arise in
obtaining additional recurrent costs financing in the relatively moderate
amounts (US*U.54 million) envisaged. These risks would be minimized, if
not totally eliminated by the Government: (a) taking measures not to
decrease student-teacher ratios by maintaining the freeze on the hiring of
new teachers; (b) putting into early operation the facilities sharing
program between secondary schools and the SJPP, as well as a rational
policy for subject options in the secondary schools curriculum; and
(c) being able to devise and implement cost reduction measures recommended
by the study to be financed under the proposed Project.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
b2.       I am satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve ttie proposed Loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
April 17, 1986



- 22 -                                        ANNEX I
T A B 1. C  3A                                 Paee  1 of  7
RARUADOS               - SOCIAL INDICATOU DATA SHCCT
BARBADOS                             REFRkNrCE GROUPS (WEIGWTED AVRAGES) 
H 8ST                    (HOST RECENT ISTRIATE) /b
RacTr            KDOLE INCONE            KIDDLE 13C034
i 9 (i /Lb  1970.1-b CSTDIAT&lb     LAT. ASAICA & CAR              UROPE
ARIA (C     S S. N)
TOTAL                                0.4         0.4        QU. 
ARECULTUIRAL                         0.3         0.4         0.4
GNP  R CAPITA (Cuss)                    ..          ..       4U5U.0             L875.Y                    2146.3
EOLNM   WDNUITIN PR CAP TA
(KILOGAMS OF OtL QUIVALENT)        2b3.0      1206.0      1402.0              993.6                   1119.
POPULATION AND nTAL STATISTICS
POPULATION.IHtY0-EAR (TOSANDS)    231.0        239.Z       252.b
URBAN POPULATION (Z OP TOTAL)       35.5        37.2        41.4               67.7                      47.5
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (:aLL)                             0.3
STATIONARY POPULATION (9ILL)                               0.4
POPULATION HIHENIWI                                        1.4
POPUXATION DENSITY
PER SO. Di.                      537.2       556.3       s81.4               48.0                      84.7
PER SQ. Di. AGRI. LAND           770.0       646.5       626.8               91.1                     1".9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (2)
0-1'* YRS                        38.0        37.4        28.2               38.5                      31.2
15-64 YRS                         55.1        54.4        62.0               57.1                     61.5
65 AHD ABOVE                       6.7         8.1         9.7                4.2                       7.2
POPULATION CROWTH RATE (2)
TOTAL                              0.9 Ic      0.3 Ic      0.4 Ic             Z.4                       1.6
URBAN                              1.4         0.8         1.1                3.b                       3.7
C' UuE BIRTH RATE (PER THOuS3       33.6        10.6          .5               30.v                      .3.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)         9.1         8.7         8.9                8.0                       8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              2.0          1.5        1.1                2.0                       1.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNAL (TOUS)
USERS (2 OF MARRIED WOW)           ..          ..         46.0               45.3
FOOD AIM NiflEIfom
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                      103.0       108.0        72.0              109.6                     109.1
PLR CAPITA SUPPLY Or
CALORIES (2 OF REQUIRIENS)       106.0       119.0       138.0              113.2                     131.5
PROT'INS (GkAnS PER DAY)          67.0        79.0        96.0               69.4                      92.4
OF NIICH ANDIAL AND PULSE        36.0        48.0        56.0 /d            34.2                      34.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEAT  RATE          6.8         1.9         1.3                4.8                       4.7
SALIH
LIVE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEAM)        64.3        68.5        71.6               64.8                      67.2
INFANT HORT. RATE (PER TNOUS)       74.0        40.1        22.9               59.7                     53.3
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                                         9n.0                           65.3                      70.2
URBAN                              ..         95.0         ..                76.5                      89.4
RURAL                              ..        100.0         ..                44.2                      57.0
ACCESS TU EXCREA DISPOSAL
(C XOF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..       100.0         ..                56.3                      59.6
URBAN                              ..        100.0         ..                73.4                      65.9
RURAL                              ..        100.0         ..                25.5                      47.6
POPULATION PER PRYSICIA           3040.0      1910.0      1240.0 to          1909.7                    1070.6
POP. PER NURSING PERSON            510.0       270.0       320.0 re           608.2                     769.5
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            170.0       100.0       110.0 /I           362.0                     328.3
URBAN                            160.0 If   120.0        i&o.0 7            *22.0                     201.9
RURAL                              ..        160.0 /h   190.0   b           2716.7                    4519.7
ADMISSIONS PER NOSPITAL BED          ..          9.2        10.2       ~       27.5                     20.0
1uSING
AVERSrE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              4.0         4.0
URBAN                              ..          ..
RURAL                              ..          ..
AVERAGE '10. OF PERSONS/ROOK
TOTAL                               1.2         1.0
URIAN                              ..          ..
RURAL                              ..          ..
PERCENTAGE OF DWELLINGS WITH ELECT.
TOTAL                               ..        59.1
URB                                ..          ...
RURAL                              ..          ..



ANNEX I
T ALE 3A                               Page 2 of 7
IIRADOS                  SOCIAL INDICATOI  DATA SHET
BARADOS                              LEFURENCE  toui (WiXziD  A GEB) i
105T                     ("DST RECENT ESTIMAT) b
bECENT              OLE INCONE           NIDDU ININZ
,960Lk     157W... ESTI4ATMLd.      LAT. A%IlCA * CAR            hIJ MOPE
WqATIOU
ADJUSTED RN1OLUENT RATION
Pl?AWs   TOTAL                    1Ob.0      106.0       110.0              lub.?                     IUMA
MAL                    11.6.0     t11.0       112.0              103.5                     108.2
?XNALL                102.0        105.0      108.0              104.6                      97.5
SECOtIDAIYt TOTAL                 39.0        71.0        S9.0               44.2                     57.5
MALE                   46.0        70.0        86.0               42.7                      64.9
FEMALE                 33.0        72.0        91.0               44.9                     50.0
VOCATSOXUL CZ Or slCoou )             5.2        4.1         ..                13.3                      21.0
PUPIL-TEACOIt RATIO
PRImD                             40.0        33.0        20.0               29.9                      25.1
SICONDAET                         29.0        27.0        23.0               16.7                     19.1
PASSENCER CARSTHOUSAND POP           34.6       80.7       102.8 /d            46.0                      54.2
AWO R9CtIVIU/TR0USAID POP           151.5      372.1       757.9              328.3                     170.7
TV RECETVS/THOUSAN Do                 ..         66.9      215.4              112.4                     149.3
NEwSPAPIR ("DAILY CENERAL
NTrEREU") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPUIATION             46.2        96.2       155.6              81.1                      97.0
CaNR   ANNUAL ATT!NDANCEICAPITA      7.0 /I      5.4         ..                 2.4                      2.7
TOTAL LABOR FORM (TOtS)              91.0       90.0       112.0
FDIALE (PERCENT)                  42.0        39.9        45.0               23.6                      36.3
ACRIJCULTURE (PERCENT)            26.4        21.0         b.1i              31.4                      4U.8
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                27.0        22.0        25.0               24.3                      23.3
PARTICIPATION RAE (PERlCENT)
TOTAL                              39.6       37.8        44.4               33.5                      43.1
HALE                              51.2        48.3        53.9               51.3                      55.1
PAULE                             30.2        26.4        34.7               15.9                      31.4
ECONOMIC DEEENC   RATIO               1.1         1.2        0.9                1.3                      0.9
INOa DISllTN
PERCENT Or PRIVATE INCO1M
RECE!IVED St
HNICZST SZ 0! HOUSEHOLDS           ..          1.6 /k
HICIEST 202 OF HOUSEHOLDS          ..           .0         ..
LWEST 20: OF HOUSEOLDS            ..          6.6 7       . 
LOWEST AME OF OUSEHuOLDS           .          18.6         ...
?ERYI TAXT   -
STIATOED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..        484.0 Id           28S.3
ROAL                               ..          ..        484.0 /d           185.3
ESTIMATED RELATVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (tUSS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..         ..        518.0 /d           519.8
RURAL                              ..          ..        51s.o 7            359.7
ESTIMATED POP. BrLGw ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL CE)
URBAN                              ..          ..         23.0 /d
RMLAL                              ..          ..         23.0   d
W. T AVAIARZ
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
Ia  The group averages for each indicator are population mghted aritheatic mans. Coverage of countries
swag the Indicators depends on availability of data and La not uniform.
/b  Unloes otherwie noted, Dnoat for 1960" refer to any year beatwan 1959 and 1961; 'Data for 1970" bateWen
1969 and 1971; and data for "Most Retcnt Etimate" bCtwen 1981 and 1983.
/c  Due to nigration population grmwth rate is laAer than race of natural increase;  /d 1977; /1 1979;
/f 1962; LL 1976;  /b Governmnt hoepital escablishmnts;  /i 1963;  11 1980; ;tnCOe. recipient;  /1 1978.
JUNE. 19b3



-  24-                                ANNEX  I
Page 3 of 7
DDQ MlMONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Not; Altoug the dauea drwn frw somrwr  gmraiy judpd the mio authontauve and rdiable. It shoud also be notcd hat th,ey may not be mnternauonlly
compamble beam of the Lac of sutnddind dlasition and coneepts used by different counties in colltmng the data. The data arc, nonnhekms, useful to
descibe are ofasgaitlude indicate tnd.o, an chaimeriz cem in maor differen between countries.
The rd    go   a l(I) te eacounty soup of tbc bject mumy end(2)acountry group with somewhtl higher average ncome than the country
group of te .bj  coDy (spe Hor Hig Icoe Oil Expowm  group whee -Middlc Income North Afrncaad Middle Easti tschosen beause dofsrongr
eococukltural stiw). A   rdece group data tbe   ltem  Ca peoulason weiaghted anthmscc me  for each indicator ad show  only when majonty
otfeunmnapoi         da uor that idito Sincetecoveweorcounu amog the indictors dpends on the evalabilt odta and sno unifonn.
cm u t heebe oind in migaveragofone indicar to tonotber Tbeaveragnsre oniy useful n compang tbe valueofon idicatorata  umeamong
tie cmutry and reums grup.
AREA (thousand sq.km.)                                          Cr  SBir'  Re (per tAousad)-- Number of live births in the year
Total-Total surface area comprising land area and inland watcrs;  per thousand of mid-ycar population. 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                       Cr.dt Deth Rtet (per rhousand)-Number of deaths in the year
4gricikral-Estimate of agricultural area used temporarily or    per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
permanently for crops, pastures market and kitchen gardens or to  Gross Reprodarion  Rar-Avcrage number of daughters a woman
lie fallow. 1960, 1970 and 1982 data.                           will bear in her normal reproductive period if she experiences
present age-specific fertility rates: usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current        in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market prices. cakulated by same conversion method as World     ir,.y Planniu-Acceprss Anal (ihnasa -Annual num-
Rank Adas (1981483 basis); 1983 data.                           ber of acceptors of birth-control devices under auspaces of national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                   family planning program.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite.      Fmndp Planniaeg-Lsws (peret of rreied wamues,-The peren-
petroleum. natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geothermal elec-  tage of married women of child-beanng age who arc practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any Formn of rontraception. Women
1982 data                                                       of child-bearing age are generally women aged 15-49. although for
sorne countries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VrIAL STATISTICS                                 groups.
Total Pop1a98 i   MM-Yea-t Jrkuandv-As of July 1: 1960. 1970.   FOOD AND NUTRITION
and 1983 data.
Iruex ofFoodP  ducio PerCapita(969-71 =100j -Index of per
Ulth o. ltinpfrcent of tono      -Raio Of urban to total        capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
opulation; daifferent definitions of urban areas mnay affect compar-  excludes animal feed and seed for agriculture Food commodities
ability oaa cinclude primary commodities (e.g. sugarcane instead of sugar)
* _Ppatim Projecion                                             which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Population in year 2000-The projection of population for 2000,  excluded): they comprise cereals. root crops. pulses. oil seeds.
made for each economy separately. Starting with information on  vegetables. fruits. nuts. sugarcane and sugar beets. livestock. and
total population by age and sex, fertility rates, mortality rates. and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
international migration in the base year 1980. thesc paramters  on national average producer price weights: 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intcrvals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population becarne stationary             Per Capita Slpply of Calories (perenxt ofrequiremeats)-Comput-
Stationary population-Is one izn which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies availabic in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Avaiiable supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertilitv rates have simultaneously remained at replacement level  tion. Imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate= 1). In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate, the age structure Is also  food processing. and losses in distnbution  Requirements were
constant. and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature. body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex dsstnbution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement level.                                      waste at household level: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Popularont Momentum-Is the tendency for population growth to    Per Capita Supply of Pote (grms per day)-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day Net supply of food is defined
achieved: that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year t is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of which 10 grams
the year r. given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protean. T-hese standards are lower than those of
ment lecvel from year : onward. 1985 data.                      75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
Popation D&Jy                                                   average for the world. proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqkm.-Mid-year population per square kilomneter (100 hec-   Supply; 1961, 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                Per Capita Protein Suppy From A rni   and Pulse- Protein supply
Per sq.knz. agrrultural lmd-Computed as above for agricultural  of food derived from animals and pulses in gramsper day: 1961-65.
land only, 1960, 1970. and 1982 data.                            1970 and 1977 data.
Populatio  Age Structure (percent)-Children (0-14 years). work-  Chl (ages 1-4) Deat  Rate (perthousand)-Number of deaths of
ingage(I5-64years) andretired (65 years and over)as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in Lhe same age
of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.              group in a given year For most developing countries data derived
Population Growth Rate (perceurI--oraF---AnnuaI growth rates of  from life tables: 1960. 1970 and 1983 data
wtal mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.     HEALTH
Population Growth Rate (percert)-arbha-Annual growth rates      Life Expectancy at Birh (years)-Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.     infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortahty for all people



-25-                                    ANlEX  I
Page 4 of 7
at the time of of its birth wer to stay the same throughout its life;  PupIl-teacher Xatio - primary, and secondary-Total students en-
1960,1970 and 1983 data.                                       rolld in primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of
Ifw Mmet  Rare (per )esand)-Number of infants who die    teachers in the cormsponding levels.
befoe reaching one year of age per thousand live births in a given
year, 1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                                CONSUMPTION
Acat te So  RWu  (p=90 of             M)I.           md        Paegr Cars (per thMousd populerme-Passngcr cars com-
rualNumber of people (totaL urboa and rural) with reasonable   prise motor cars seating le  than eight persons: exdudes ambul-
acces to safe water supply fincludes trted surface waters or   ances. hearses and military vehicles.
unteatd but uncontaminated water such as that from protected   RoAn Rewles (per thossand popuaio)-AIl types of receivers
boreboks spings and sanituy wds) as peicentages of their respec-  ror radio brwdcasts to general public per thound or population.
tive populations. In an urban am  a public fountain or standpost  excludes un-licensed receivers in countries and in years when
loated not more than 200 meters from a house may be considered  registration of radio sets was in effect. data for recent years may
as being withn reasonable  oms  of that house. In rural areas  not be comparable since most countries abolished licensing.
reasonable access would imply that the housewfe or memben of the
houslhold do not have to spend a disproportionate part of the day  TV Reies (pw tpJ-m1dpepul-TV receivers for broadcast
in fetching the famly's water needs.                           to general public per thousand population: excludes unliccnsed TV
receivers in countries and in years when registration of Tv sets was
Acces to Excrete Dspal (perent of p*puWru)-toi  urba           i v eea,.
and rwra-Number of people (total. urban, and rural) served by  m     d
excreta disposal as percentages of their respctivc populations.  Newspaper Cirec_ati  (per thourandpopalauon)-Shows the aver-
Excreta disposal may include the collection and disposal. with or  age cirulation of -daily general interest newspaper." defined as a
without treatment, of human excreta and waste-water by water-  perodical publication devoted primarily to recording general news.
borne systems or the use of pit privies and similar installations.  It is considered to be -daity- if it appears at least four times a week.
Popfaluo per PhysPdao-fbpulation divided by number of prac-    Cinema Anna AftendAne per Capa per Year-Based on the
tisingphysicins qualified from a medical school at university level.  number of tickets sold during the year, including admissions to
Poputadoi per Nurin Person-Pbpulation divided by number of     drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
practicing male and female graduate nurses, assistant nurses.
practical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                      LABOR FORCE
Poplou- per Heoat B&d-trowa, xrbn,  ad ruta-Populatian         Total Labor Force (thousnd)-Economically active persons. in-
(totaL urban, and rural) divided by their respeetive number of  luding armed forces and unemployed but excluding housewives.
hospital beds available in pubic and private, general and specialized  students. etc.. covering population of all ages. Deinitions in
hospitals and rehabilitation centers. Hospitals are establishments  various countres are not conparable; 1960. 1970 and t983 data.
permanently staffed by at last one physician. Establishments prov-  Fecak (prcewt-Fa ma1e labor force as percentage of total labor
kding principagly custodial care are not included. Rural hospitals.  formc.
however include health and medical centers not permanently staffed  Agrnknlae (perent)-Lahor force in farming. forestry, hunting
by a physician (but by a medical assistant, nurser midwife etc.)  and fishing as percentage of total labor force. 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient accommodation and provide a limited range  data.
of medical facilities.                                         Indmury (percent)-Labor force in mining. construction. manu-
Admissios per Hosptl Bed-Total number of admissions to or      facturing and electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.       force: 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
Pwriperwn Rare (percenr)-ortal make. audfamaL-Panicipation
HOUSING                                                        or activity rates are computed as totaL male. and femae labor force
Aere Size of Houxeho  (pes   per koaWhd)--torat. rban.         as percentages of total, male and female population of all ages
andrural-A household crnsists of a group of individuals who share  respectively: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. These are based on ILO's
living quarters and their main meals. A boarder or bldger may or  participation rates reflecting age-se situcture of the population. and
may not be induded in the household for statistical purposes.  long time trend. A few estimates are from national soures.
Aperage Numbr of Persons per Roornm-otal, urbn, and rural-     Ecnomirc Dependrecy Rato--Ratio of population under 15. and
Average number of persons per room in all urban, and rural     65 and over. to the working age population (those aged 15-641.
occupied conventional dwellings, respectively. Dwellings cxclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.                 INCOME DISTRIBIUTION
Percentage of Dueln  wis Ekctricity-toral, urban, and rural-   Percentare of Total Disposable Incnser (both in cash ad kind)-
Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as perccn-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.        hold income.
EDUCATION                                                      POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
A4asted Eurdwaetn Rario                                        The following estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
Prbay scSooI - total, male and fernak-Gross totaL male and     levels. and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enrollnent of all ages at the primary level as percentages of  Estimed Absoirte PoverryrIcome Level (USIper capia i-u-rban
respective primary school-ag populations. While many countries  and rural-Absolute poverty income level is that income lvel
consider primary school age to be 6-I1 years. others do not The  below whicb a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differences in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not afrordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Estimnaed Relatve Poverty Incomw Level  USS per cwap-urban
education, gross enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some  and rural-Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
age.                                                           derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secondary school - total. make and female-Computed as above:    living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at least four vears of approved pri-  Estimnted Population Below Absolute Poverry lncomw Leve (per-
mary instructio  provides general, vocational. or teacher training  ceant-urban and rural- Percent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspond-  who are -absolute poor.-
ence courses arc generally exduded.
Vocational Enro/lneni (percent of serondan)-Vocational institu-          Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions include technicaL industriaL or other programs which operate     Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independently or as departmcnts of secondary institutions.                              June 1985



Pelatleem       Gan    1I0I-141                                                   -  26  -                                                    ANNEX  I
SP per capita  11111163.310 UI ,)                                                                                                             Page  5  of  7
Wlato    - E lmiC 14DICATUAS
Ament
lndiltmr                MD mhlim at                                          A--        al aroeth Rats CZ)
mrrmet pries.)                                   Aatal                          Eat.                              Projected
134               17       1979      130      131       202       236      1934                  Isis      31                 1U0
TTIlO.L AU1153
ore aamatic Predet                   1151.               6.0       7.       5.2      -3.       4.4    -4.2         2.2                   2.0      2.D       2.5      3.5
AriStaW.                             70.7                0.0      3.1     5L       -16.0      -2.4      4.5      103                    .          ...
ilqing & Irnitry                    132.1               3.0      13.7      6.4      .6.7      0.4       2.2      -1.2                   ...       ...      ...
Serylm                              C34.J               5.7       7.3      4.5       C.4      -5.2     -0A        2.0                   ...       ...      -.        _.
Comnsuptio                            994.0              -4.9      5       10.3       2.3      4.1       7J        8.4                   3.3       1.3     -2.6       1.5
area, iiwstmnt                        200.4              17.4       3.4     17.4      16.0    -14.4       5J       -5.7                   2.6      4.3       5.1      5.3
Expert. f Cff                         740.5              122.6     11       -1.2      -7.7      9J.       4.3       7.4                  12.5      173        .1      4.3
lqWert of GNS                         783                 0.4      17.7      9.2       7.5      2.0      10.3      10.5                  14.0     15.6       3.7      3.3
Gross bNtl64el Sevlip                 164.2              77J    -10.       -I10D      27.5     46.0      36.0     40.                           .        .
GOP dftlater (1376   1001                              115.0     29.3    153.2    130.9    137.7         210.3    224.5               235.7     2.5    273.6    295.5
Exchup rate                                             2.0       2.0      Z.0       2.0      2.0          2.0      2.0                 2.3       2        2.0      2.0
Sham of GOP at Iterkat Prices CZ)                                           Avenga AEwea lIna'ae    (s)
(et cerrent Prices)                                                    (at  fataet 1371 priced
1937     1932     1957                                         1977-6     ID247        1367-4 S     ID -0
arms omestic Product 4J                                      100.1    100.0    100.0                                            2.5          0.6         2J          2.2
Auriltwr                                                     3.2      6.1       -.                                           -0.5 1.                   _.           _.
141nm   I_ astoy                                           IOJ      12.1       .-                                            2.1          ...
semyla                                                      06.      72A.4      -.                                            2.9          _.          _.           _
Indirect Taee   Is"e Se*aIdI                                II.S     10.3       ...                                          2S            ...         ._
Cecaetlm                                                      52.4     63.3      62.5                                           2.3          2.2         1.0         3.1
Gram  lo_eatmnat                                              2J       2L.6      18.5                                           37         -2.2          5.          2.3
Ex-w ts3                                                      607J     61.4      74.7                                           9.4         10.1         S.4         7.3
lrta ClfS                                                     65.9     67.3      75.7                                           7.2         9.4          3.5         8.3
Cr  Ntlal SeIvig4                                             2IA       18.5                                                   7.1
As Z of OP
pUa.IC FINMCE                                                                              1377    I273       11       19BW
Garnnt Ree   (Cr;)                                                                       23.9     26.7      24.5     24.7
Cuurut Excpdit.e (CCJ                                                                   23.4      23.0      23D      23.4
Suwpl.saefclt (CD)                                                                       0.5       3.7       1.0      1.3
s.rpluabtlclt (PS)                                                                       3.0       6.5       4.2      ..5
Copital Expendiuraa (PS)                                                                  9J       6.6       7.7      63
Foreign Fiecing tPSI                                                                    2J        2.7       2.9      1.4
... Nt aWEl lai.
a, At   _       t primas come_nts weaWxprnad at fector cat and Wll not *dd  to tatl dun   to mxci. dI    net Indirect tax" md saibidle.



-27-
-' Ppuatlant    0.252    aied-1984)                                  2ANNEX  I
as  pr capita   U3,93W  (1983)                                                                                    Page  6  of  7
aMADOS - EXIRIi ThOE
Annual Orowth Rate CS)
Indiotwr                (USS m1111e  at                                     Cat amatmt 1976 pr -l
juwrent pricee)                                Actuil                              Eat.        Projected
1934              118       1979      190       1981     1982      193        364      1915     1966
archandise Exrta (dmetic)            289.2               14.1     10.2      17.9      17.0      18.1       2.5      4.9      17.1      19.2
Sur wi Molea                        30.6               -.       25.1       3.7    -51.4       32.6    -16.3      11.1      -2.7      -I.S
Other                              25L.6                a.m.     ...      30.4       2.3      12.2     8aJ        3.3      19.S      21.2
Mwchmndime Impor (retained)          58A.4               4.        9.0       0.8       3.8      -6.5     -4.4      -2.5      12.5      13.7
Food                                aus.  ...                                                                     ....... @..*-..
Petrolet                           1035                 ..       ...       ...       .     ..  .     ..   ...     .     ..       *     *.
mchilm                             218.2..                       ..        ..        ..        ..        ..       ..        ..        ..
Otlrs                               M. .9              ...       ..        ..        ..        ..       ..        ..         *        .
I'RICES
Expert Price index                                      114.7    129J      159.7    175.9    173.1    179.2    137.4    194.5    205.9
laort Prim  Index                                      123.1    142.2    161.8    164.J    159.4    t54.2    153.0    160.4    172.1
Temra of Trade land                                     93.2      91.3      98.7    106.7    IOS1        116.2    122.5    121.3    119.6
Caaposltlon of Iarca1ndiu Trade CZ)
tot ewrrent prlice)
1978          1984           1986
Exports Cd0metic)                                         100.0          100.0          100.0
Sugar and blamse                                        23.6            10.6           8.3
_Nfacturaa                                               61.0           78.7          81.7
thire                                                   10.2           10.7           10.0
Iuyrte Crote ined)                                        100.0          100.0         100.0
Food                                                     19.9           12.1            ...
Petrol.,                                                 11.6           15.1             .
Ibchlnery                                                17.0           31.7            ...
Other                                                    51 .5          41.1            ...
Share of Trade with                   Shre of Trade with
Industrial Countries CS)             Developing Countries CZ)
1973     1978    1984                  1973     1978    1984
DIFECTION OF TRADE
Expt*                                                    56.0      50.4    37.3                  43.2     49.6    62.7
lwaorta                                                  67.0      48.7    63.7                 33.0      51.3    36.3
... * Not Avalble.



- 28 -
Pepulstlni       0.2    (mid-l196)                                                                              ANNEX  I
ar per apitai uUS3930 t1213)                                                                                      Page.7  of  7
WAIOS - BDAU     OF PAWUd,IS R10ERAL WITAL AN1 DEIfr
Actal                                   Est.                  Projected
1978     1179      1960       1962 1962          1913      1964      1965      1986      198       1990
MICE OF PAYI S OM  ml  lIon)
Exwitoe  of ONfS                    M5.4    422.0    497.2    518.4    538.2    591.4    635.8    742.4    922.2   1217.3   1594.5
of bWIct  llrrcendIn f.o.b.       94.2     120.3    169.6    146.0       15a       253.6    287.6    353.4    453.3        S6.o    737.5
hqports of CNS                     334.9     4533      SSOA      631.5    597.4      66.6      678.6    810.7    105.A    1264.1   1599.9
of wbichs irchundlse c.l.t.      Z77.0    389.       465.6     52.5      461.3    556.6    583.4    6913    e66.4    1091.9   1362.7
Not Factor Servlces                  1.6      -1.6       23        0.0      -2.6    -15.6    -13.4    -I4t         -12.5    -33.0    -42.S
Net Trensfure                       16.4      18.9      25.8      27.1      20.4      20.8      2D.0      22.6      253       3.1       34.1
Current Account 8allno.              -11.4    -24.0    -37.4       -6.0    -41.3    -S0.0    -36.2    -605           -76.8    -49.2    -14.2
Private Direct Invest_mnt              -         -         7.0       6.5      15.0        ...    10.0       15.0      15.0      15.0      15.0
I4T tnt)                              16.1       6.6      14.1      8OA       51.2      59.6      27.4      61.3      94.4      58.6      29.4
Other Capital n.c.l.                  17.6      27.0      36.2    -26J       -30.6       5.6      -0.1       -        -         -         -
Clunge In rmserves (Incres x *-      -22.3      -9.6    -19.9       24.6       5.7      -4.0      -1.1    -15.8    -32.6    -24.6    -30.2
DCT5IM  CPITAL AWD DEEIT
Cross Ol burwint                     19.7     12.9      21.8      87.1      57.0      69.3      38.0      85.6    124.9    104.8        84.6
M-ltileteral                       9.5      12.1      12.4      22.7      21.3      18.2      15.3      62.1      58.1      56.5      60.2
I}tO                             -         -         0.8       3.6       6.9       7.2       7.6      8.5       9.7      15.2      22A
Coe                              ...       0.8       2.7       7.6       4.J       33        0.1       3.6      8.2        1.0      -
IDB                              4.4       5.0       6.8       9.2       4.9       5.2      4.0       5.0      193       29.9      36.7
Other                            ...       63        2.1       2.3       2.7       2.5       3.6      42.0      20.9      10.4       0.7
Other (off. I priv. sourms) '         .        0.8       9.4      64.4      35.7      52.1      22.7      3.5       66.8      48.3      24.4
Official Grants                        0.       0.6       1.0       1.1       1.4       1.3       1.8                           ..         .
Exteea I ODbt
Debt Outstanding A Disbursed bV   64.2      70.5      8123     IS9.1    206.1    262.4    282.9    3423          436.7     566.0    641.6
Dobt Service
Total Service Paynts               6.2      12.5      14.5      14A       21.5    32.6        31.9      45.2      55.3      85.7    104.6
Interest                         3.        5.7       5J        7.4      14.3      15.6      19.5     20.8      24.5      39.0      48.J
Amortization                     4.4       6.        8.7       7.4       7.2      11.0      12.4      24.3     30.A      46.7      55.7
Debt Services as Z Exports c/       3.5      3.8       3.4       3.6       4.9       5.2       5.7       6.9       7.1       8.0       7.4
Average Interest Rate on Nw          -         -         -         -         -         6.4       6.9      10.0      10.0      10.0      20.0
Lons (1)
Averago   tutirity of Now Loans (years) -      -                                                1 -  -  -  3.0  24J  20.4     17.5      12.2
... - Not Aval lable.
2/  includes other pubilc end publIcly guaranteed financing frau bilaterol and private sorces.
bV  Historical yoxrs reflect cancel lotios and otter adjustmnts.
c/   mastic exports and gross btrvel receipts.



- 29 -
ANNEX 11
Pg. 1 of I
STATUS UF BANK GKOUP UPERATIONS IN BARBADOS
A.   Statement of Bank Loans as of April 7, 198b 1/
-~~~~~~~~~~~
US$ million
(Amount less Cancellation)
Loan        Year   Borrower   Purpose               Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
1642-BAR    1079   Barbados   Education              9.U     -         U.0
1685-BAR    1979   Barbados   Tourism                7.3     -         U.0
1813-BAR    1980   Barbados   Industry              10.0     -         1.2
1940-BAR    1981   BLPC         Power                b.O     -         2.9
2115-BAR    1982   Barbados   Technical
Assistance           2.7      -        0.8
2260-BAR    1983   Barbados   Ind. Credit           1U.5     -         5.3
1642/1-BAR  1984   Barbados   Education Suppl.    3.0        -         0.4
2432-BAR    1984   Barbados   highway Maint.        11.U      -       10.3
TOTAL                     59.5      -        20.9
of which has been repaid  b.2       -         -
TOTAL Outstanding         51.3      -        20.9
B. Statement of IEC Investments as of April 7, 1986
717-BAR     1984   Caribbean  Finance for            0.3
Financial   productive         (equity)
Services    ventures in
Corp.        the Caribbean.
1/ The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate
report on all bank/IDA-financed projects in execution, which is updated
twice yearly and circulated t3 the Executive Directors on April 30 and
October 31.



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
BARBADOS
SECOND EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
SECTION I: TIME TABLE OF KEY EVENTS
(a) Time taken to prepare project: six months.
(b) Agency which prepared project: Ministry of Education and Labor,
assisted by Bank.
(c) Project first presented to Bank: September 1984.
(d) First Bank Mission to review project: October 1984.
(e) Departure of Appraisal Mission: June 1985.
(f) Completion of Negotiations: March 1986.
(g) Planned date of effectiveness: July 1986.
SECTION II: SPECIAL BANK IMPLEMENTATION ACTIONS
Financing of project preparation under first education project
(Loan 1642-BAR).
SECTION III; SPECIAL CONDITIONS
(a)  The Government of Barbados would ensure that the student-teacher
ratios are not permitted to decrease below the levels prevailing
during the 1983 school year, namely: 23:1 in primary schools,
and 19:1 in secondary schools nor to increase beyond 35:1 at the
primary level and 30:1 at the secondary level; (paragraph 45(a)).
(b) The Government of Barbados would ensure that a draft revised
policy for textbook procurement and distribution is prepared by
July 1987 and that the procurement of books for the proposed
project proceed only after the policy as agreed with the Bank and
the IDB (paragraph 45(d)).
(c) The Government of Barbados would ensure that the Bank is kept
informed of progress being made in the attainment of its
educational objectives and that the Bank is furnished annually,
until a date six months after the Closing Date of the proposed
project for the Bank's review, a statement on any major
educational policies or plans formulated by the Government
(paragraph bO).



IBRD  19396
ao                    70
North Point                                                                ArLANrlc
OCEAN
CRABHILL. 'K                                                                 C,                                0  KMS.   400
s5Op  g    DOMINICAN          MILES
PIE CORNER                                               HAIt,    I      PUERTO RICO
ST   LUCY                                                         JAMAICA
__~ , Coribbeon    Seo                                                                BARBADOS
/ -ATRINI
AND
CLtNKETM;'                                 g _ PANAMA                                                                      TOBAGO
.       P,U   SOUTH   AMERICA
El~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
SPEIGHTS-          p   T     E R    MILL'            BELEPLAINE
TOWN                            I
I               S,kMPSt I          /  AFAP
~JI  BRGHTON'    ON        UEEN
BRIDGETOW     I\ONlAR'A                  )    '
LAB                CTHIAsLEWAS       BATHSHEBA              O
!\ )SPLUM TREE    IWENE IA n
N |   v         /WE~~LCH/AIAN)S                  ,R
>    . ,       ,        of ~~~~~HAt LL                        l .iUl  CLLET5ON
~ HOLETOWN J >   S  l           |l      )    ft    X  j    <  r e r ITlS      
0   ,'  /rrl  I  / / |jJ $~  1 J 0H Pt ~ >  Rgged  Ao1i7t
BAR*1'BA J ) DO_-f f S   MARLEY
SECOND EDU t v-C-4AtTION                               Sh PoinVALE
.     P,I ARY SCHOOLSKMAN//
zZ       l~~ SEONAR NSCOOLS
NS~~~S   A   R WERD
o    N  SI                                                                                \ TRAINING CENTRC  CRAN
A    BARBADS COMMUNTA COILBG
S EL.RES    POLTECAR
BRIDGHTOWN                  E ENOrSL             G 
H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,.AdoSTING S ec.R'i , -.*  OWOTOr /f /im NIi lan n iehuOn
I 6 V   W. AN I 
MILESES
ST LAWREN14;C                                                                    OEM          198
BARBADOS
SECOND EDUCATION                                       South Point
AND TRAINING PROJECT
O    PFRIMARYSCHOOLS
(3    SECONDARY SCHOODLS
C)   NTE SKI LLS TRAINING CENTER
A     EBARBaDos COMMUUNITY COL LEGE
SAUEL J. PRESI:00 POLYTECHNIC
MOE PEDAGOZGICAL I ADM INISTRATI0N SUILOING    rbs   rsp 0~ olord by Th oud W*sH SO s-kp*iw NWr C WC Of
BUILT-UP AREASnx Cnao Thi  bOrM.11 Uhdn                                     V 7UK>t   hof O  a A d 
MAJOR ROADS                                  o l ensau    r  v   tvveSSww2o4diic  
----PARISH BOUJND RIES
-- tNTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                    O       1      2      3       4      5
MlILESA
NOVEMBER 115






