Doemit aof
The World Bank
FOR OMCL4AL USE ONLY
Report No. 5905-BAR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BARBADOS
SECOND EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
April 17, 1986
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
IThis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance l
|Of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization. 



BARBADOS
SECOND EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
BASIC DATA 1/
Land Area:                                          431 sq. km.
Population: 2/
Total Population (mid 1984)                  252,000
Density                                      580 per sq. Km.
Average Annual Growth (1974-84)              0.3%
Literacy                                     99%
Academic Year:                                       September to June
Enrollment (1984/85)
Total Primary Enrollment                     30,780
Of which Male:                         50.4%
Female:                       49.62
As percentage of age group (5-11):     98.0X
Total Secondary Enrollment                   28,162
Of which Male:                         50.4%
Female:                       49.6%
As percentage of age group (12-16):   95.0%
GNP Per Capita (1984)                               US$ 4,340
Fiscal Year:                                        April 1 to March 31
Government Recurrent Expenditures on Education:
As Percentage of Government Expenditures
(1984)                                       20%
As Percentage of GDP                         8%
Currency Exchange Rate:                             US$1.00 = BD$2.00
1/ See Annex I for comparative educational data.
2/ Source: Barbados Statistical Service.



wO OFFmAL USE ONLY
SECOND EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY *     ................... see.......  i-iii
I. THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR .............................   1
Overall Development Context ........... ............. ........    1
Overview of Education and Training ........I....      .....e    1
Primary and Secondary Education ..............................   2
Vocational and Technical Training  ..... o......eeeeeee.         2
Issues In Primary and Secondary Education.o..................   3
Issues in Vocational and Technical Education ..e...so...oooos   5
Government Strategy in the Sectoroo oeeoe..e.................. 6
Bank Strategy in the Sector......o . ..........* .... .... ......e.   6
Previous Bank Experienceo...................... . ...656   6
-I.  THE PROJECT .....eeee.s.es.se.ee.S.ees....eee.ee.S.e.eseS   7
Project Origin  ..ee......se.S.e.....ecs.Sseece....... o    .   7
Project Objectives and Content  ooo ... o00.0896..e............   8
Objective 10............ .ce...... e...ec00 .. e e.e.c........  8
Objective 2 ................os.e.c....................... 9
Objective 3o.....o..o..... o....o.o............................ 10
Project Costs and Financing.......0ee...ec0..SS.c0e0s..... -s..  11
Project Cost ....... ......... o...c S.e.... .............  11
Basis of Cost Estimates ...coo..... c... ...c.. ......eS.@e  11
Financing Plan o.o..o......o..... oo...o... o.o..o.. o..........   ll
Incremental Recurrent Costs...... ....0........e   .... ecess  12
Status of Project Preparation...........oo.ooo...............  12
Project Execution ....o...S.e.c......o..........................  13
Implementation Agency ......o. . ................ ....   .....  13
Implementation Schedule ........... o.-........ cSee  e.oe.e   13
Disbursements..........................................  13
Special Account                  ...... .ooo...... e... es  14
Bank Procurement Procedures............................  14
IDB Procurement Procedures.............................  14
Monitoring and Evaluation .....o..0......... ..e..........  14
Accounting and Auditing ....0..0.0.. 00......... e.s.e....  15
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Barbados in May/June 1985. The appraisal mission comprised Messrs. Leonardo
N. Concepcion (Architect, mission leader), Wesley W. Hobbs (Technical
Educator, consultant), Christopher Dougherty (Economist, consultant) and Ms.
Hicelda Martinez (General Educator).
Wm documn s haa esukid dtlbuYtin and ma be md by nip*nu only in the pefrme
| cthe offloi dutl It, contsn, may S oftn"e be dbdcnd wthut Wod Oatk iradkionuX



Table of Contents (Continued)                                          Page No.
III. BENEFITS AND RISKS ..........................................  15
Benefits ...................... 15
Assessment of Risks ......... moe.........eee see.....    16
IV * ACTIONS TAKEN AND AGSREIENTS REACHED ........     .................   16
ANNEXES
1. Comparative Education Indicators
2. Structure and Organization of the Formal Education System
3.  Student Teacher Ratios in Government Schools from 1973-1983
and School Enrollments by Grade
4. Impact of the Project on Public Recurrent Expenditures
5. Employment and Manpower De-and
6. Primary Schools to be Amalgamated
7. Unit Costs in Primary School Education
8. Technical Assistance and Training Requirements
9. Schedule of Accomodations: Secondary Schools
10. Samuel Jackman Prescod Polytechnic
11. Barbados Community College
12. National Training Board
13. Strengthening of the Manpower Research and Statltics Unit
14. Training Administration
15. Summary Account by Project Component
16. Financing of Project Costs
17. Project Implementation Schedule
18. Allocation of Loan Procceeds and Dlsbursement Schedule
19. Procurement Arrangements
20. Monitoring Indicators
21. Independent Audit Situation
22. List of Documents in the Project File
MAP



BARBADOS
SECOND EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
GLOSSARY
BCC         -  Barbados Community College
BDS$        -  Barbados Dollar
BIMAP       -  Barbados Institute of Mauagement and Productivity
CXC         -  Caribbean Examination Council
ETTC        -  Erdiston Teacher Training College
FTE         -  Full Time Equivalent
ICB         -  International Competitive Bidding
IDB         -  Inter-American Development Bank
LCB         -  Local Competitive Bidding
MOE         -  Ministry of Education and Culture
MOL         -  Ministry of Labor
MRSU        -  Manpower Research and Statistics Unit
NTB         -  National Training Board
FIU         -  Project Implementation Unit
SJPP        -  Samuel Jackman Prescod Polytechnic
SOE         -  Statement of Expenditure
TA          -  Technical Assistance
UNESCO/CP   -  United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization/Cooperative Program
USAID       -  United States Agency for International Development
UWI         -  ITniversity of the West Indies



BARBADOS
SECOND EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
LOAN AND PRGJECT SUMMARY
Borrower      : Government of Barbados
Beneficiaries:  Ministry of Education and Culture
National Training Board/Ministry of Labor
Training Administration
Loan Amount      US$10.0 million equivalent
Terms            15 years including 3 years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Project          The Project covers 90 percent of the Government's five-year
Description  :  investment plan in the education and training sector and is
financed on a parallel basis by the Bank and the IDB. The
objectives of the Project are to:
(1) Improve the quality and cost effectiveness of primary
and secondary education by: (a) amalgamating 21 small,
uneconomic primary schools into 10 larger schools to obtain
higher student-teacher ratios; (b) upgrading two existing
secondary schools, equipping of a third existing secondary
school and establishing one new secondary school with 1,200
student places; (c) providing technical assistance (44 staff
months of fellowships and 36 staff months of specialist
services) and training of about 1,500 teachers to improve
(i) teaching of reading and writing in primary schools, (ii)
textbook procurement and distribution systems, and (iii)
testing and measurement practices; and (d) supporting a study
to rationalize the teaching of special subjects in secondary
schools;
(2) Improve the efficiency, quality, and industrial
relevance of technical and vocational training by: (a)
expanding the operations of the National Training Board
through the construction, equipping and furnishing of two
new skills training centers and upgrading one existing
center; (b) upgrading and expanding of training facilities at
the Samuel Jackman Prescod Polytechnic and the Barbados
Community College and improving efficiency in the use of
existing facilities; (c) improving the data processing
capability of the Manpower Research and Statistics Unit; (d)
upgrading the training programs of the Training
Administration; and (e) providing technical assistance (39
staff months of specialist services and 188 staff months of
fellowships) for the upgrading of course syllabi,
improvements in administrative and financial management
procedures, strengthening of the industrial advisory
committees, industrial job analysis and follow up of
on-the-job performance of graduates.



-ii-
(3) Strengthen the institutional capacity to manage and plan
the education and training system by financing: (a) technical
assistance (26 staff months of specialist services and 26
staff months of fellowships) and training of 150 managers and
500 school teachers for improvement in (i) education planning
and educational management, (ii) budgeting processes, (iii)
school supervision practices, (iv) curriculum implementation
strategies, and (v) educational materials production; (b) a
study on the formulation of measures to achieve cost savings
and greater efficiency in the utilization of education
facilities and resources, as well as to address the issue of
the additional recurrent costs that are expected to be
generated under the Project; and (c) the provision of
adequate pedagogical and administrative facilities for the
Ministry of Education and Culture.
Risks:           No significant risks are associated with the technical
implementation of the Project. There are, however,
potential risks: (a) economies in primary and secondary
education may not be achieved unless the Government maintains
a freeze on the hiring of new teachers in the light of the
decreasing population growth rate; and (b) difficulties may
be encountered in meeting the incremental recurrent costs of
the Project. The latter risk would be minimized by the
introduction of cost reduction measures brought out by the
study financed by the Project, the sharing of expensive
facilities among schools and the adoption of measures to
rationalize the selection of optional subjects taught in
secondary schools.
Estimated Cost a/
US$ Million
Project Component                           Local      Foreign       Total
Primary Schools                              4.29        3.57         7.86
Secondary Schools                            3.51        3.31         6.82
S. J. P. Polytechnic                         0.03        0.23         0.26
Barbados Community College                   2.14        2.79         4.93
Institutional Strengthening of MOE           1.84        1.82         3.66
NTB Skills Training Centers                  1.52        1.76         3.28
Manpower Research Unit                       0.03        0.09         0.12
Training Administration                      0.05        0.18         0.23
Project Implementation Unit                  1.82        0.12         1.94
Base Cost (March 1986 Prices)               15.23       13.87        29.10
Physicfal Contingencies                  0.84        0.71         1.55
Price Contingencies                       4.38        2.67        7.05
Total Project Cost                          20.45       17.25        37.70
a/ Net of Taxes and Duties estimated at US$3.4 million.



Financing Plan
USS Million                Z of
Local     Foreign      Total       Total
Government                     10.70       0.00       10.70        28.4%
IDB                            8.25        8.75       17.00        45.1%
IBRD                            1.50       8.50       10.00        26.5%
Total                      20.45       17.25       37.70       100.0%
Z of Total                  54.2Z       45.8%      100.0%
Disbursements:                             Bank Fiscal Year
(US$ Million)
1986      1987    1988    1989     1990    1991   1992    1993
Annual        0.15      0.81    2.06    2.79      2.24    1.21   0.53    0.21
Cummulative   0.15      0.96    3.02    5.81      8.05    9.26   9.79   10.00
% of Total    1.5Z      9.6Z   30.22   58.1%    80.5%   92.6Z  97.9%  100.0%
Rate of Return: Not applicable



CHAPTER I. THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR
Overall Development Context
1.01      During the 1960s and 1970s Barbados made substantial progress in
expanding its economy and diversifying its economic base. Growth averaged 5%
a year, with tourism, manufacturing and agriculture comprising the major
sources of that growth. With its low rate of population increase, Barbados
saw its living standards rise as per capita income advanced at thLe
satisfactory rate of 2X a year. The country enjoyed high levels of literacy,
a relatively equitable pattern of income distribution, and generally good
standards of health, education, and social services.
1.02      In the early 1980s, the economy encountered serious difficulties as
a result of the 1981-83 world recession, marketing and payment difficulties
within the Caribbean Common Market, and the accelerated strengthening
(1983-84) of the US dollar to which the Barbados dollar (BDS$) is pegged at
the fixed rate of 2:1. GDP declined by 2.6% in 1981 and 4.3% in 1982.
Overall unemployment rose from 11% in 1981 to 18% in 1984, with unemployment
for women averaging 23% in all sectors.
1.03      The Bank's most recent analysis of the economy (Barbados
Development Challenges, April 1985) concludes that although the economy has
now begun to recover and in 1984 demonstrated a positive growth rate of 2.4%,
the serious difficulties of the early 1980s revealed structural problems
whose correction will require new policies and programs. Specifically, the
report states that Barbados must adjust to a changed development
environment. The steady growth of the 1960s and 1970s was the result of a
demand-led environment, with tourist facilities filling as fast as they can
on-stream, with agricultural products (specifically sugar) sold largely under
protected markets, and with manufactured goods protected within the Caribbean
Common Market. Now, with greater competition from all parts of the world for
tourists, increased costs and decreased prices for sugar and erection of
protectionist barriers between trading partners in the Caribbean, Barbados
must adjust to a different environment. The country must formulate policies
and programs to address the multiple challenges of restructuring productive
activities, restoring international competitiveness and reorienting
manufacturing to extraregional markets.
Overview of Education and Training
1.04      Among Latin Americaii and Caribbean countries Barbados has one of
the most highly developed educational systems (Annex 2) which is competently
staffed and managed. A literacy rate of about 99% is the result of easy
access to schooling. Over 90% of the labor force has had at least six years
of formal education, about 75% has had nine years of schooling. Primary,
secondary and higher education institutions were established early in the
1700s, and during the colonial period coverage was gradually increased.
After independence in 1966, the school leaving age was raised from 14 to 16
and at present all children between the ages of 5 and 16 are enrolled in
school. Vocational and technical training is still at an early
development stage and is being established at the post-secondary level.
Efforts are being made to provide adequate training opportunities to ali
youngsters who do not enroll in the university.



- 2-
Primary and Secondary Education
1.05      Reaching universal coverage in primary and secondary education has
been a major achievement, indicating the great importance the Barbados
society accords to education. In 1984-85 about 31,000 children were enrolled
in some 130 primary schools; and some 24,000 children were enrolled in 21
government secondary schools. In addition, about 4,400 children were
enrolled in 15 private secondary schools. The net enrollment rates of 982 at
the primary level and 95% at the secondary level are comparable to those of
the highly developed countries. A policy of automatic promotion is
exercised, and consequently repetition rates are almost negligible.
1.06      In terms of quality, efforts are being made to adapt the original
British curriculum to the Caribbean context. New syllabi for primary and
secondary schools are being developed and are gradually being introduced in
schools. The English school leaving examinations at secondary level have
been replaced by those of the Caribbean Examination Council (CXC), which is
now in charge of certifying knowledge and skills of secondary graduates both
for university entrance and direct employment purposes. These curriculum and
examination reforms started after 1966 and have been financed through USAID
loans.
1.07      Teachers are well trained.  The Erdiston Teacher Training College
(ETTC) trains primary and secondary school teachers and the University of the
West Indies provides graduate level courses for school managers, offering
certificates to university graduates who want to become secondary school
teachers. In addition, the Barbados Community College (BCC) collaborates
with the ETTC to provide training of industrial arts teachers.  In 1983/84
there were about 2,500 government school teachers. All primary school
teachers and 70% of secondary school teachers were classified as 'trained-
(i.e., they had attended the ETTC courses or they had a University
Certificate). The "untrained" 30% (about 200) of secondary school teachers
are mostly those approaching retirement age, thus, the MOE does not see a
great need to train them given the high training costs involved.
Vocational and Technical Training.
1.08      Formal vocational and technical training is still in an early
development stage in Barbados, with two institutions under the MOE having
clearly defined responsibilities for such training. The Samuel Jackman
Prescod Polytechnic (SJPP) provides skills level training for both lower and
upper secondary school graduates. The BCC provides post-secondary (grades
12-13) technician level education and training in industrial technology,
tourism, health, commerce and applied arts. It also conducts the
non-pedagogical training for secondary teacher trainees in cooperation with
the ETTC. The teachers in both the BCC and the SJPP are well qualified and
generally have industrial experience.
1.09      Non-formal vocational and technical training is provided mainly by
the National Training Board (NTB), which was founded in 1979 under the
Ministry of Labor (HOL). The NTB is responsible for planning and
implementing short and intensive training schemes for unemployed youths and
adults, upgrading programs for employed workers, the formal apprenticeship
training system, and on-the-job training programs. The recurrent costs of
NTB are financed largely (60% in 1984) from a national payroll levy (0.5%) on
private sector wages; the remainder is provided by annual budget



appropriations. The SJPP cooperates with the NTB in provid'ng formal skills
and technical theory training. In 1983, the skills training program for
young people (16-25 years of age), was transferred from the MOL to the NTB.
This modular curricula program, with courses ranging from 3-9 months
duration, is conducted mostly in temporary and poorly equipped facilities.
Issues in Primary and Secondary Education
1.10      Low studeitc-teacher ratios, high costs, low achievement, unequal
access to adequate school facilities and managerial deficiencies are
recognized by the Government as problems which should be overcome in the next
five years.
1.11      Due to the decline in population growth, school enrollments have
been decreasing and are projected to continue to do so in the coming years.
By 1990 there would be about 25,600 primary school age children (excluding
reception age, that is, children below the school starting age of 5 years),
down from 31,000 at present; and 23,600 secondary school age children, as
opposed to 25,000 at present. Student-teacher ratios have gone down from
24:1 in 1973 to 21:1 in 1983 (Annex 3) as a result of the declining
population growth rate coinciding with the appointment of new teachers in the
late 1970s when new vocational courses were introduced in secondary schools.
Although there is now a de facto freeze on the hiring of new teachers,
student-teacher ratios are not expected to rise immediately, as the young age
of the teaching force and the lack of alternate employment opportunities
would not increase the attrition rate (about 12 per year) of teachers.
1.12      As public education is free, the high coverage of the formal
education system places a high recurrent cost burden on the government
budget (Annex 4). The Government subsidizes school meals, textbooks, school
uniforms and transportation to primary schools, and provides bursaries to
students in private secondary schools. In 1984, public education
expenditures accounted for about 8% of GDP and about 20% of public sector
expenditures. Public education's share of public sector expenditures is
expected to remain at the 18% to 20% level during the coming years. The high
level of these expenditures, however, underlines the need to reduce costs and
improve the efficiency of the system.
1.13      About 30% of primary school children perform poorly in the
secondary school entrance examinations, and about 50% of students fail the
secondary school leaving examinations.  Failure at the end of primary school
is attributable to automatic promotion of students, even when they cannot
satisfactorily perform at grade level. No remedial instruction programs are
now available for slow learners, particularly in basic reading and writing
skills. This issue is especially severe when children who have not learned
to read and write adequately are promoted to higher levels, for they cannot
then benefit from further attendance either in secondary schools or in
vocational training programs.
1.14      Causes of failure in secondary schools need to be further
researched. The CXC is beginning to correlate school achievement scores with
other variables, but results are not conclusive. It is believed that one of
the main causes of failure is that students are not provided the time and the
instructional materials needed to learn. There are great differences between
the instruction times recommended in the syllabi and the instruction times
that students actually experience in classrooms. Moreover, secondary school



-4-
students are unable to benefit from the recently revised curriculum because
of delays in implementation.
1.15      Another problem is that access to secondary education is
inequitably distributed: (a) due to lack of public secondary school places,
some 2,200 children (8% of the secondary school age group) are taught in
primary school facilities (primary tops), where they receive an inadequate
education; (b) some 1,800 others (6x) are taught in small, inadequately
staffed and poorly housed private secondary schools, which are closing down
because they are not economically viable 1/; and (c) some 1,500 others (5Z)
attend public secondary schools built more than one hundred years ago, wildch
are currently in unsatisfactory condition. It is estimated that, in addition
to upgrading the old, dilapidated facilities, about 1,200 new secondary
school places would be needed to enroll all school age children in adequate
conditions.
1.16      Although there are good syllabi for secondary schools, the
Curriculum Development Council has not set policies for defining which
courses are to be offered in each school. Subjects are selected by
independent School Boards, apparently without sufficiently analyzing the
appropriate balance between curriculum requirements and instruction time in
key subject areas. Moreover, due to the lack of clear guidelines on the
teaching of vocational subjects, there are attempts by each school to acquire
expensive, sophisticated equipment for the various vocational subjects
offered. The need for a rational use of facilities is recognized in the
Development Plan for 1983-88, but a formal plan to introduce the sharing of
workshops among schools in order to promote effective use of scarce qualified
staff in technical subjects and eliminate the unnecessary duplication of
plant and equipment has not yet been defined and little sharing has actually
taken place.
1.17      Education management problems are compounded by the inappropriate
and congested premises occupied by the Ministry of Education and Culture
(MOE). These premises were originally designed as an outpatient clinic, are
owned and also partly occupied by the Ministry of Health, and do not permit
room for expansion to accommodate both Ministsies. Adequate rentable spaces
are unavailable. Records and files arespread about on desktops and in boxes
due to lack of storage space, and there are no rooms for meetings among staff
from different departments. Under these circumstances, routine
administrative procedures become cumbersome and inefficient, staff motivation
is low, and productivity is greatly impaired.
1/   There are 15 private -assisted- secondary schools in Barbados.  These
receive bursaries amounting to about US$470 per year per 3tudent (of
US$696 recurrent costs in the newer public secondary schools). About
half these schools are small (less than 400 students), have no room for
expansion, lack good teachers and are of a much poorer standard than
public schools. Some of these poor quality schools are already in the
process of closing down due to lack of students, as the increase in fees
to enable the schools to raise teachers' pay, improve f?cilities and
expand in order to be economically viable are nor commensurate with the
improvement in quality; hence they become unaffordable and therefore,
unattractive to parents in apite of the bursaries. As the school owners
have no resources to replace these schools, the cost to the Government
of providing the necessary resources would equal or exceed those of
building a new public school. In addition. the Goverment would have to
continue providing the bursaries.



from different departments. Under these circumstances, routine
administrative procedures become cumbersome and inefficient, staff motivation
is low, and productivity is greatly impaired.
1.18      Issues in Vocational and Technical Education.  Vocational and
technical training is still in an early development stage in Barbados, and
must overcome major constraints if it is to effectively contribute to the
attainment of the country's development objectives. There is a lack of
reliable labor market information. Training programs in the formal sector
for semi-skilled and skilled workers and technicians, and in the informal
sector for production and services entrepreneurs are of low quality and of
little relevance to sectoral needs; hence, they offer little motivation to
trainees. In addition, the existing training resources are not fully
utilized because they are located in inappropriate, incompletely equipped
facilities, randomly dispersed around Barbados.
1.19      Although the Manpower Research and Statistics Unit (MRSU) of the
MOL undertakes periodic household surveys to determine employment levels, and
some information on available manpower and job placement opportunities
(Annex 5) is available from official sources such as the Barbados Institute
of Management and Productivity (BIMAP) and the Statistical Service of the
Ministry of Finance and Planning, there is a lack of labor market information
in a form which can be used to systematically plan the country's training
efforts to meet market demand. There is likewise a lack of information
feedback from tracer studies on graduates of the system to determine the
appropriateness of the training programs being offered. These inadequacies
contribute to imbalances in available skills and result in missed
opportunities when foreign investors interested in setting up operations in
the country do not encounter the trained manpower they need.
1.20      The low quality of vocational and technical training is due
primarily to inappropriate and/or obsolete equipment, lack of appropriate
course syllabi and methodology (which are partly due to poor equipment) and
the limited relevance of training programs to labor market needs. Although
the qualifications of trainers are generally good, curricula need to be
improved and defined in accordance with standards derived from occupational
analyses. In addition, trainers have to be given the opportunity to keep up
to date with constantly changing technological developments and their
corresponding pedagogical techniques. Student motivation could be increased
by improving the quality of instruction and making available the training
options that would enable them to more easily obtain employment.
1.21      Training resources (teachers and those adequate facilities which
are available) are inefficiently util'zed. The existing small NTB skills
training units are scattered around Barbados, and except for the facility in
St. Lucy are generally housed in makeshift workshops offering training in one
or two skills with inadequate equipment. Consequently, programs are
difficult to tailor to market needs, the number and quality of outputs are
low, and administration of such a system cannot avoid being inefficient.
Therefore, the consolidation of these efforts into a few strategically
located facilities would increase performance levels and result in a more
economic use of available resources. A similar situation exists with respect
to the BCC: its training programs are also scattered in a number of
inadequate locations outside the main campus, which has room for expansion.
This penalizes students in the outside locations who have no (or more
difficult) access to campus facilities (i.e., library, demonstration rooms,
etc.), leads to duplication of personnel services, and contributes to a lower



- 6 -
utilization of campus facilities. The SJPP on the other hand has workshops
in eight areas of training, which are either uused or underutilized, due
primarily to the lack of or incomplete equipment. These workshops could
accommodate up to 700 secondary school students for vocational courses, and
their more efficient use would avoid the duplication of facilities and
resources.
Government Strategy in the Sector
1.22      The Government's policy objectives include the equalization of
educational opportunity, the modernization of educational content in order to
make education a meaningful tool for development through greater emphasis on
vocational and technical training, and the realization of these objectives
without increasing the relatively high cost of the system. The Government
has put into action strategies designed to address the deficiencies of the
system. In pursuit of these objectives, the Government has obtained
bilateral and multilateral assistance as follows: (a) the Bank's First
Education Project (Loan 1642-BAR) improved student-teacher ratios in project
schools, increased access and achieved economies of scale in amalgamating
primary schools and upgrading secondary schools. Teacher quality was
improved through support for the ETTC; BIMAP's capacity to improve
productivity through in plant training for workers and supervisors was
strengthened; and key MOE officials were trained in school administration;
(b) the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) has supported training programs
at the technician and skilled worker levels and financed the construction of
facilities for the BCC and the SJPP; and (c) other agencies (i.e. USAID, OAS,
CIDA, and the British Government) have provided assistance in curriculum
development, project execution aid to small enterprises and higher
education. The Government has taken steps on its own to address the
deficiencies of the system: (a) it has effected a de facto freeze on the
hiring of new teachers to prevent the decrease of student-teacher ratios
which would otherwise occur due to the falling population growth rate; (b) it
has converted teacher training institutions to provide cnly inservice
training of public school teachers and stopped financing and training of new
teachers; (c) it is taking steps to reduce Government subsidies for school
meals and student transportation; (d) it continues to support the
amalgamation of primary schools to increase cost-effectiveness; and (e) it
has introduced measures to reduce subject options offered to secondary school
students to increase class sizes and reduce ti.' need for specialized
facilities. The Government, however, faces the task of consolidating the
initial successes in attaining its goals, and must overcome the adverse
effects of the world recession on its economic performance. Accordingly the
Government's plans for improvements in efficiency, increase in vocational
skills and opening new areas of training in modern technologies in order to
provide the requisite manpower for its output diversification objectives,
are deserving of external support.
Bank Strategy in the Sector
1.23      Previous Bank Experience.  The Bank agrees with the Government's
strategy and the proposed Project would be the second Bank operation in the
sector in Barbados. The First Education Project (Loan 1642-BAR of US$9.0
million equivalent) assisted the Government strategy of combining measures to
assure equity and relevant general education and skills training with
measures to enhance the cost effectiveness of the system. The project also
assisted the improvement of private sector management training by financing



the BIMAP component. Specifically, the project comprised: (a) construction,
furnishing and equipping of ten primary schools to replace obsolescent
schools; (b) expansion of six existing secondary schools; (c) expansion of
the ETTC; (d) expansion of the facilities of BIMAP; and (e) provision of
architectural and engineering services to the project unit and 30
staff/months of fellowships to BIMAP. Early implementation delays caused by
site acquisition problems contributed to a 35% increase in project costs.
The Government's difficulty in filling the increased funding gap with
counterpart resources exacerbated the delay as well as the cost increases. A
supplemental loan of US$3.0 million was approved by the Bank on November 8,
1983, under a Special Action Program, to finance the foreign exchange
component of the project cost increase, and has brought implementation up to
the planned pace with reasonable efficiency. The project has satisfactorily
attained its objectives, all facilities are operational and the loan has
already been substantially disbursed.
1.24      To enable Barbados to overcome the adverse effects of the world
recession (and its particular repercussions within the Caribbean regional
market) on its economic performance, the Bank supports its plans to diversify
its markets, improve efficiency and increase vocational skills. In the
specific area of hotel management, one of the development priorities, BIMAP
is currently planning the training programs for managers and entrepreneurs of
small and medium sized hotels, in consultation with the Barbados Hotel
Association and the Barbados Development Bank. BIMAP has the qualified staff
and facilities to carry out this training program effectively. The training
needs in the agricultural sector, another priority area for development, are
being addressed in a proposed agricultural development project whi_h would be
a follow-up to earlier Bank-financed Technical Assistance Project (Loan
2115-BAR). The Bank also supports the efforts being made by the Government
to increase the skills and competitiveness of its labor force, and to
streamline and increase efficiency in the education sector. To this end, the
Bank would continue its collaboration with other bilateral and multilateral
development institutions. The Bank's involvement in this Project is
necessary because beyond consolidating the benefits realized under Loan
1642-BAR, it would (a) provide the requisite incentives to implement quality
and cost effectiveness measures such as the improvement of student-teacher
ratios, the rationalization of vocational subjects in secondary schools and
the formulation of measures to achieve cost savings and greater efficiency in
the utilization of educational facilities and resources; and (b) it would
contribute significantly to institutional strengthening so as to enable
Barbados to acquire the necessary foundation for human resources development
for a competitive modern economy.
CHAPTER II. THE PROJECT
Project Origin
2.01      The proposed Project was first presented to the Bank in September
1984 and reviewed by a Bank mission in October 1984. It was identified by a
Bank mission that visited Barbados in February 1985. The proposed Project
was prepared by the MOE, assisted by consultants under the UNESCO/CP and Bank
staff and was appraised in June 1985.



- 8-
Project Objectives and Content
2.02      The proposed Project would be a follow up on Loan 1642-BAR and
would cover 90% 2/ of the five-year investment plan for the whole sector in
order to address a broad range of critical issues. The Project therefore
comprises the following items: (a) the institutional strengthening of the
MOE; (b) the BCC component; (c) the NTB component; (d) the MRSU component;
(e) the Training Administration component; (f) the primary school component;
(g) the secondary school component; and (h) the SJPP component. The Bank
would finance items (a) to (e), and IDB would finance items (f) to (h). The
Bank would finance the administrative costs of implementing items (a) to (e).
2.03      The proposed Project aims to further develop Barbados' educational
and training system and improve the capacity to manage it through a
combination of policies and actions that would enhance the internal
efficiency of education while improving the quality and relevance of
instruction. These effic±ency and quality improvements would enable the MOE
to optimize previous investments and manage the system without further
substantial financial assistance. Because of its small size, there are no
significant differences between the urban and rural populations of Barbados,
thus the Project would equally benefit all population sectors. The NTB
component particularly addresses the improvement of the skills of the
unemployed and thus the relatively poorer segment of society.
2.04      Objective 1:  The Project would support improvements in the quality
and cost-effectiveness of primary and secondary education, through:
(a) the financing by IDB of the amalgamation of 21 small,
unecomomic primary schools into ten larger schools by providing construction,
equipment and furniture (Annex 6). The actual condition of the 22 schools
only permit two out of the five amalgamation options (Annex 7): Ci) full
replacement with new facilities, or (ii) remodelling and expansion of one
school. Option (i) is necessary in nine out of the ten amalgamations. By
amalgamating these schools, operational costs would be reduced by about 20%,
representing a 5% reduction in the operational costs of primary schools in
the country. Expected savings in recurrent costs would recover the
investment costs within a five-year period after Project completion provided
that the current freeze on the hiring of new teachers is maintained.
The Government has provided assurances that the current student-teacher
ratios would not be allowed to decrease from the levels prevailing during
school year 1983 of 23:1 in primary schools and 19:1 in secondary schools.
These ratios would not be increased beyond 35:1 at the primary level and 30:1
at the secondary level.
(b) the financing by the Bank for improvements in the teaching of
reading and writing in primary schools. The curriculum unit of the MOE would
establish a system for diagnosing problems in reading and writing, and, once
2/   The areas not covered under this Project include: (a) agricultural
training (para. 1.24); (b) private sector management training (para.
1.24); (c) the student Revolving Loan Fund (US$3.0 million) financed by
IDB Loan 722/SE-BA; and (d) repair and remodelling of other existing
secondary schools financed entirely by the Government.



- 9 -
the system is in place, train one remedial education teacher in each school.
Technical assistance (10 staff months (s1/) of fellowships and 12 s/m of
specialist services) would be provided to the curriculum unit and about 1,500
teachers would be trained in diagnostic techniques (Annex 8).
(c) the re-establishment of the National Curriculum Committee and
financing the by the Bank of the following tasks to be carried out by the
Committee: Ci) conduct a study to provide the basis for a policy on the
teaching of vocational subjects in secondary schools and the reduction of
recurrent expenditure at this level and; (ii) analyze results of CXC
examinations to determine the revisions needed to make the existing syllabi
more responsive to the country's development needs. The study on vocational
subjects in secondary schools would consider, among other things, the cost of
offering each optional subject, the minimum number of students required to
offer a specific course, the minimum number of hours required per subject and
the maximum number of subjects that a student should take in a year.
Technical assistance (34 s/m of fellowships and 18 s/m. of specialist
services) and training (300 teachers and 22 administrators) would be provided
to the MOE to support the above activi'ties as well as to improve the teaching
of special subjects in secondary schools (Annex 8). A draft plan prepared by
the Government for the sharing of workshop facilities among secondary schools
and the SJPP was reviewed during negotiations. This plan would be finalized
during the first year of Implementation and put into effect by September
1988.
Cd) the financing by the Bank of improvements in the textbook
procurement and distribution system. The Project would finance six s/m of
specialist services (Annex 8) to assist the Supply Management Section of the
MOE. A draft revised policy for textbook procurement and distribution would
be prepared by July 1987, and would be reviewed by the Bank. Procurement of
books for schools under the Project would proceed only after the policy is
agreed upon with the Bank and the IDB.
Ce) the financing by the IDB of the upgrading as well as
acquisition of supplementary and replacement equipment and furniture for two
existing secondary schools, the furnishing and equipping of a third existing
secondary school and the building, equipping and furnishing of new 1,200
place school (Annex 9). The additional number of places provided to the
secondary school system would accommodate the existing -primary tops". The
MOE is expected to eliminate these 'primary tops' by the start of operations
of the new Wotton/Kingsland secondary school in December 1990.
2.05      Objective 2:  The Project would foster improvements in the
efficiency, quality and industrial relevance of technical and vocational
training, through:
(a) the financing by the IDB of supplementary equipment in the
Samuel J. Prescod Polytechnic to replace obsolete equipment; peripheral
equipment to maximize the existing training capacity in the skilled worker
level programs of radio-stereo-TV repair, electrical installations and
welding, the print shop and the food preparation laboratory (Annex 10). The
provision of supplementary equipment would increase the utilization of four
existing shops by about 25%, by accomodating up to 700 students in the
secondary school day-release program and help formalize better coordination
of training programs among the cooperating schools. It would also increase
enrollment capacity by up to 70 full-time students. About 30% of enrollments
would be women.



- 10 -
(b) the financing by the Bank of the construction, furnishing and
equipping of -purpose designed- technician level training facilities in the
Barbados Community College (Annex 11). This would include the relocation of
the Division of Applied Arts from its inadequate and desintegrating premises
and the re-equipping and relocation of the health sciences training
facilities from the Ministry of Health to the BCC main campus thus making the
library and other teaching/learning services more easily available to
students in these disciplines and increase their use factor. Additionally,
laboratory facilities would be provided for the new computer science
division, the new industrial electronics program and two additional shops for
the mechanical and civil construction programs. These facilities would
altogether annually accommodate about 400 full-time and 420 part-time
trainees (an increase of about 200) of which about 60X would be women.
(c) the financing by the Bank of the construction, furnishing and
equipping of three new skills training centers and equipping and furnishing
of one existing center in the National Training Board (Annex 12). A total of
288 trainee places would be equipped to provide modular training to about
1,000 trainees annually in 24 skills programs of 3-9 nine months duration.
The centers would cater to entry level skills training for unemployed youth
and adults (ages 16 to 30),apprenticeship training on a day-release basis in
cooperation with local industry, and skills upgrading training for about 500
unemployed workers annually. About 20% of basic training enrollments would
be women.
(d) the financing by the Bank of supplementary equipment to improve
the data processing capability of the Manpower Research and Statistics Unit
(Annex 13); and books and supplementary equipment to upgrade the facilities
of the Training Administration (Annex 14).
(e) the financing by the Bank of technical assistance (188 s/m
of fellowships and 39 s/m of specialist services) (Annex 8) for the
vocational and technical training system for: improving instructor
capabilities in planning and upgrading course syllabi and laboratory/shop
activities; improving administrative, financial management, accounting
procedures and information gathering and processing; improving and expanding
the existing industrial advisorv committee systems of the SJPP and the BCC;
formalizing on-the-job follow-up of graduates; improving and
institutionalizing the industrial job analysis efforts of the NTB and the
MRSU (Annex 13); and assessing the needs in public sector management training
and upgrading the training programs and materials of the Training
Administration (Annex 14).
2.06      Objective 3:  The Project would seek to strengthen the
institutional capacity to plan and manage the education and training system,
through:
(a) the financing by the Bank of technical assistance (26 s/m of
fellowships, 26 s/m of specialist services and local training of 150 managers
and 500 school teachers) (Annex 8) to improve education planning, educational
management, curriculum implementation practices in primary and secondary
schools and school supervision, with emphasis being given to improve the
budgeting process of ME. In addition, the Project would assist the MOE in
improving the production of printed materials.



- 11 -
(b) the financing by the Bank of a study on the formulation of
measures to achieve cost savings and greater efficiency in the utilization of
facilities and resources, as well as to address the issue of the additional
recurrent costs that are expected to be generated under the Project.  The
study would include inter alia: (i) the selection procedures for public
examinations; (ii) the marketing output of the technical/vocational system;
(iii) maintenance costs; and (iv) areas of post-secondary education where
savings may be realized.   MOE would prepare Terms of Reference in
consultation with the Ministry of Finance and present these to the Bank by
December 1986.
(c) the financing by the Bank of the construction, equipping and
furnishing of appropriate facilities to house the MOE Pedagogical and
Administration Building.
Project Costs and Financing
2.07      Project Cost.  The total cost of the Project is estimated at about
US$37.7 million equivalent net of taxes and duties. 3/ The foreign
exchange cost is estimated at US$17.3 million or 46% of total Project cost,
and the local cost at US$20.4 million or 54% of total cost. Detailed cost
estimates are presented in Annex 15.
2.08      Basis of Cost Estimates.  The baseline cost (in March 1986 prices)
is about US$29.1 million calculated on the basis of unit prices described in
Annex 15. Aggregate physical contingencies (5.3% over baseline costs)
comprise 10% for site development and 5% for all other categories of
expenditure (building designs are adapted from standard plans developed under
Loan 1642-BAR, equipment and furniture lists are complete, and the technical
assistance package contract has been awarded). Aggregate price contingencies
(23% over baseline costs including physical contingencies) are based on the
following price escalation rates: (a) foreign: (i) 7.2% in 1986, 6.8% in
1987-88, 7% in 1989, 7.1% in 1990, and 4% in 1991-92 for civil works,
furniture, equipment and educational materials; (ii) 5% in 1986-92 for
technical assistance (T.A.), professional services, project administration,
studies and training; (b) local: (i) 10% in 1986, 11% in 1987-88, 12% in
1989-90, and 102 in 1991-92 for civil works and furniture; (ii) 8.5% in 1986,
9% in 1987-90, and 8% in 1991-92 for equipment and educational materials; and
(iii) 6% in 1986-90, and 5% in 1991-92 for T.A., professional services,
project administration, training and sLudies. The total foreign exchange
cost including contingencies is estimrated at US$17.3 million equivalent or
about 46% of total Project cost net of taxes, based on foreign exchange
components of 46% for civil works (building and site development), 60% for
furniture, 90% for equipment, 75% for expatriate technical assistance and
fellowships, 52 for local training, project administration and studies and
20% for professional services.
2.09      Financing Plan.  The total Project cost of about US$37.7 million
would be financed, on a parallel basis, by the Bank and the IDB. The
proposed Bank loan of US$10.0 million equivalent would finance 27% of the
3/   Taxes and duties are estimated at US$3.4 million.



- 12 -
total Project cost and would cover 49% of the foreign cost and 7% of the
local cost. In addition to the Bank loan, 45% of the total Project cost
would be financed on a parallel basis by the IDB with a loan of US$17.0
million which would cover 51% of the foreign cost and 40% of the local cost.
The Government would provide US$10.7 million to finance the remaining 28% of
total cost and cover 60% of the local cost. In the context of this financing
plan, the costs of the Project would be shared by the Bank, the IDB and the
Government as shown in Annex 16. The total cost of the Bank financed items
would be US$17.8 million, and the IDB financed items US$19.9 million.
2.10      Assurances have been obtained that the Government would provide its
share of counterpart funds under the proposed Project in a timely fashion.
To facilitate the early execution of the Bank financed components,
retroactive financing up to an amount of US$250,000 is proposed to cover
expenditures incurred (for construction, procurement and technical
assistance) after October 1, 1985. It is expected that during the same
period the entire Project would have acquired commitments of about US$1.0
million (of which US$0.4m correspond to Bank financed items and US$0.6m under
IDB).
Incremental Recurrent Costs
2.11      When in full operation by 1992, the Project is expected to generate
additional annual operating costs (in March 1986 prices) of about US$0.66
million for the MOE and US$0.63 million for the MOL/NTB (Annex 4). These
amounts represent an increase of 1.1% above the MOE's approved 1984/85
recurrent budget, and 26% above that of NTB's 1984/85 budget. About 82%
(US$0.54) of the MOE's additional recurrent budget is attributed to the BCC
component. The increase on the MOE budget is not expected to pose an undue
burden as 60% of the BCC incremental recurrent cost would continue to be
funded out of the payroll levy. The substantial increase on the NTB
recurrent expenditures is taken in comparison with its 1985 budget which is
low as it is based on NTB's currently limited operations. This budgetary
increase is expected to be met without undue difficulty through the payroll
levy. The Project would finance a study on (para. 2.06(b)) measures to
achieve further reductions in recurrent costs.
Status of Project Preparation
2.12      The Government has demonstrated its commitment to the Project by
providing in its 1985/86 budget, the initial outlays and manpower resources
needed to proceed with early implementation. Preparation for project
implementation which commenced in early 1986 is well advanced, with the use
of funds allocated for this purpose under Loan 1642-BAR. Consultants have
been contracted for the site surveys and design of the facilities to be
built. Sites for all of the 18 Project components which require new or
additional civil works are already owned by the Government. Bidding
documents for the construction, furnishing and equipping of six institutions
(3 primary, 2 secondary and 1 NTB skills center) are prepared for the calling
of bids by June 1986. The final rrchitectural design for the BCC and sketch
designs for the MOE building were reviewed during negotations. The
Government has awarded the contract for the management of the Project's
technical assistance package to an institution selected in accordance with
Bank guidelines. The Government was advised of the Bank's concurrence with
the proposed contract award in February 1986.



- 13 -
Project Execution
2.13      Implementation Agency.  The existing Project Implementation ,nit
(PIU) of the MOE, which has demonstrated a satisfactory performance in
implementing Loan 1642-BAR, has been officially designated by the Government
to manage the implementation of the Project. In view of the increased
responsibilities under the proposed Project, the current PIU comprisirg a
project manager, accountant, procurement officer, architect, quantity
surveyor, engineer and support staff, has been expanded to provide it with
the capability of monitoring educational aspects of the proposed Project.
The additional staff (a project educator, an administrative officer, and a
training officer of the NTB to coordinate the execution of the NTB component)
have been appointed. Costs of these additional staff are included in the
total Project cost. Key officers of the BCC, the SJPP, the MRSU and the
Training Administration have been designated with the responsibility of
maintaining liaison with the PIU to ensure the efficient execution of their
respective components. The PIU also has in-house, under renewable fixed term
contracts, expatriate consultants (an architect, two engineers and a quantity
surveyor) who render professional services for the design of standard school
plans as well as construction supervision. This in-house arrangement permits
the PIU flexibility in its design work, and also, enables it to realize a
20-30X savings in professional fees. The PIU professional staff are MOE
regular personnel who are expected to be reintegrated into the Ministry after
completion of the Project. Before completion of the Project, the MOE would
review its needs for school construction and maintenance and would consult
with the Bank on the deployment of PIU staff.
2.14      Implementation Schedule.  The Project is expected to be implemented
over a period of seven years from January 1986 to December 1992 (Annex 17),
one year shorter than the relevant regional profile based on experience with
Loan 1642-BAR. However, it is possible that if the Project is implemented
more efficiently and with fewer delays, the implementation period could be
reduced to five years.   This would result in  Project costs being reduced
from US$37.7 million to US$36.4 million. While the Government would need to
provide higher annual counterpart funds (by US$1.6 million in 1987 and US$0.9
million in 1988), the Project benefits would begin to be realized earlier.
2.15      Disbursements.  The proceeds of the Bank loan would be disbursed
over a period of 7.5 years (1986-93) (Annex 18) to pay 44% of civil works
expenditures; 1OOZ of foreign expenditures for directly imported items and
85% of total expenditures for locally procured items covering furniture,
equipment and educational materials; 100% of expenditures for technical
assistance, training and studies; and 50% of professional fees for
architectural, engineering services and other services. For contracts valued
at equivalent US$10,000 or less, disbursement would be made on the basis of
Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) for which documentation would be correlated
with the relevant withdrawal application and retained by the PIU for periodic
review upon request by the Bank in addition to being audited by auditors
acceptable to the Bank. All other withdrawal applications would be fully
documented.



- 14 -
2.16      Special Account.  In order to reduce the interval during which the
Government would finance with its own resources the Bank's share of goods and
services, a Special Account would be opened in U.S. dollars and US$500,000
would be initially deposited into it from the Loan Account. The Special
Account would be replenished monthly on receipt and approval of the
Government's applications for replenishment of the Bank's share of eligible
expenditures totalling not less than US$100,000. The Bank would require a
monthly statement of the Special Account to reflect transactions during the
previous month.
2.17      Bank Procurement Procedures.  Civil works contracts for the BCC and
the MOE Pedagogical and Administration Buildings would be awarded on the
basis of international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures. Because of the
small size of the contracts (US$0.9 million base cost each) and the phasing
of construction which does not permit a larger package, civil works contracts
for the NTB skills centers would be awarded on the basis of local competitive
bidding (LCB) procedures which have been reviewed and found to be acceptable
to the Bank. Interested foreign bidders would not be precluded from
participating in such bids. Contracts for equipment, furniture and
educational materials would be grouped, to the extent possible, to form
attractive packages and would be awarded on the basis of ICB procedures in
accordance with Bank guidelines when these packages total US$50,000 or more.
Contracts below US$50,000 would be awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally in accordance with Government procurement
practices which are acceptable to the Bank. In addition, miscellaneous items
that cannot be grouped into packages exceeding US$20,000 would be procured
through the Government's Central Purchasing Department on the basis of three
price quotations. All consulting contracts would be procured in accordance
with Bank Guidelines. Annex 19 summarizes proposed procurement arrangements,
the limits on the type of procurement applied and prior review thresholds for
the IBRD financed items. With the thresholds established for ICB, contracts
awarded through ICB would account for about 61% of the cost of the Bank
financed items. The limits for prior review of bidding documentation by the
Bank would result in a coverage of about 69% of the total estimated value of
civil works contracts and 79% of goods contracts.
2.18      IDB Procurement Procedures.  Procurement for the IDB financed items
is expected to follow IDB's general procurement procedures and the clauses on
tender procedures agreed with the Government, as well as the Government's
local procurement procedures when applicable.
2.19      Monitoring and Evaluation.  Indicators to monitor progress in the
implementation of hardware as well as educational and other software
components of the Project are shown in Annex 20. The PIU director would be
responsible for preparing semiannual progress reports (due May 15 and
November 15) which would provide information on the quantitative as well as
qualitative aspects of the Project, and measure implementation progress
against the monitoring indicators. These progress reports would be provided
to the Bank and the IDB. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
the Government would keep the Bank informed of progress being made in the
attainment of its educational objectives, and furnish the Bank annually until
after six months from the Closing Date, for the Bank's review, a statement on
any major education policies or plans formulated by the Government. A
completion report on the proposed Project would be prepared by the PIU and



- 15 -
submitted to the Bank no later than six months after the closing date of the
Bank loan. The Evaluation Unit of the MOE would be responsible for assessing
the impact of the efficiency and quality improvement measures developed under
the Project on the education system, and in coordination with the NTB and the
MOL, on that of the training system. The NTB, also in coordination with the
MOL would be responsible for assessing the impact of the NTB training
programs. Guidelines and criteria for evaluation were discussed and agreed
with the Government during appraisal. Information and insights gathered from
the evaluation process would be fed back into the system for the periodic
upgrading of curricula and course syllabi.
2.20      Accounting and Auditing.  The auditing and accounting procedures
employed under Loan 1642-BAR are satisfactory and the reports are well
prepared. This practice is expected to be carried on during the
implementation of the proposed Project. (Annex 21) The Government would
maintain separate accounts for the Bank and IDB financed items in accordance
with acceptable accounting practices. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that the Government would take steps to ensure that all
accounts, financial statements, certified SOEs and the Special Account
related to Bank financed items would be audited annually by independent
auditors satisfactory to the Bank. The auditor's report would be sent to the
Bank no later than four months after the close of each Fiscal Year
(March 31).
CHAPTER III. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
3.01      The proposed Project would help to consolidate improvements in the
education system initiated under the Loan 1642-BAR. By improving the cost
effectiveness of the system, the Project would enable the Government to free
resources earmarked for education and reallocate these resources towards more
substantial quality improvements in the sector. By strengthening the
institutional framework to manage and plan the education and training system
and providing the appropriate infrastructure for the education central
management and staff, the Project would also establish a sound basis for the
continued pursuit of further efficiency gains.
3.02      In addition to providing more appropriate facilities for about
8,000 students the major quantifiable benefits of the Project would be an
additional annual capacity to train/upgrade about 1,000 semi-skilled and
skilled workers and train about 200 technicians, of which about 28% and 60%
respectively would be women. The improvements in the quality and quantity
of trained manpower would increase the competitiveness of local labor,
attract investors to set up operations in the country due to the availability
of skills and ultimately facilitate the entry of Barbados into extraregional
markets for its products. The strengthening of industrial advisory committee
systems, industrial job analysis and follow-up of on-the-job performance of
graduates which would ensure that training programs are more relevant to
industrial development efforts defined in the Development Plan, would
contribute to this effort significantly.



- 16 -
Assessment of Risks
3.03      There are no significant risks associated with the technical
implementation of the Project, as it would be managed by an experienced PIU.
The risk of not attaining the objectives of the vocational training component
is real only to the extent that the economic strategy set out for Barbados
fails to meet its objectives. However, the expected economies in operational
costs resulting from the amalgamation of primary schools may not be realized
if the current freeze on the hiring of new teachers is relaxed and new
teachers are appointed inspite of the decline in enrollments and therefore,
the benefits expected from reinvesting tne savings for quality improvements
in primary and secondary education would be lost. There could also be some
difficulty in meeting the incremental recurrent budgets of the BCC and the
NTB centers when these become operational by 1992 if the allocations from the
payroll levy prove inadequate. However, as the Project would provide the
capability to train the technicians badly needed for the success of the
development strategy for Barbados, it is not expected that problems would
arise in obtaining additional recurrent costs financing in the relatively
modest amount (US$0.54 million) envisaged. These risks would be minimized,
if not totally eliminated, by the Government: (a) taking measures not to
decrease student-teacher ratios by maintaining the freeze on the hiring of
new teachers; (b) putting into early operation the facilities sharing program
between secondary schools and the SJPP as well as implementing a rational
policy for selecting subject options in the secondary curriculum (as a result
of studies financed by the Project); and (c) studying and adapting measures
to achieve cost savings and greater efficiency in the utilization of
educational facilities and resources at all levels.
CHAPTER IV. ACTIONS TAKEN AND AGREEMENTS REACHED
4.01      The Government has:
(a)   reconvened the National Curriculum Committee which will undertake a
study on vocational subjects in seccndary schools (para. 2.04(c));
(b)   acquired all the sites for eighteen new project schools/centers
(para. 2.12);
(c)   officially designated the PIU of Loan 1642-BAR as the PIU of this
proposed Project (para. 2.13).
(d)   prepared a draft plan of action for the sharing of workshop
facilities among secondary schools -ad the SJPP (r-ra. 2.04(c));
(e)   completed the final architectural and construction plans, for six
project schools/centers (3 primary, 2 secondary and I NTB skills
training center); fin3l architectural designs of the BCC
facilities; and preliminary sketch plans for the MOE building
(para. 2.12);



- 17 -
(f)   completed the final furniture and equipment lists, specifications
and bidding documents (para. 2.12);
(g)   awarded the contract to the institution selected to manage the
Project's technical assistance package. The draft agreement for
contracting this institution's services, and the draft terms of
reference for the technical assistance requirements of the Project
were reviewed during negotiations (para. 2.12); and
(h)   reached agreement with the Bank during negotiations, on areas where
a study would be undertaken to increase cost savings and achieve
greater efficiency in the use of educational facilities and
resources. Assurances were also obtained that the Goverrment would
implement the measures recommended by the study on the basis of a
timetable satisfactory to the Bank and the IDB.
4.02      The Government has agreed to include the following covenants:
(a)   that the student-teacher ratios would not be permitted to decrease
from the levels prevailing during school year 1983 of 23:1 in
primary schools and 19:1 in secondary schools (para. 2.04(a)).
These student-teacher ratios would not be increased beyond 35:1 at
the primary level and 30:1 at the secondary level;
(b)   that a draft revised policy for textbook procurement and
distribution be prepared by July 1987, and that procurement of
books for the Project proceed only after adoption of the policy as
agreed with the Bank and the IDB (para. 2.04(d)); and
(c)   that the Bank be kept informed of progress made in the attainment
of the Government's educational objectives and that the Bank be
furnished annually until six months after the Closing Date for the
Bank's review, a statement on any major education policies or plans
formulated by the Government (para. 2.19).
4.03      Subject to the above conditions and assurances the Second Education
and Training Project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$10.0
million to the Government of Barbados, repayable over a period of 15 years
including a three year grace period.



SECNM MKICATION AM  TRAINIM  raoj3DCr                                                  A_        I
CMWANA?fvg RoPCOLTIM smicATniis
lemb
rynnaL
Gm"NNM
11111POINTIGOR  FJKICATIaN                     crprLrylom           emnriw
CW UWATtCM  KRO-KRElfr                         ItATF FM             POIT OM    PRDCRrscien
tmr rrm              As "JMW"       3MI'VER111"I"Itrc  LfTPJtArV' PRFMRRY PRMRV    PitIVARY  Pitf-ART    MATI! FRM    gf"WDAEV' SMMDAPY MIVRF4
MA-W   P.P. CAPITA  PV.QCRIIT W TnTAL IWJMAL AtAprTKp In, RATM         RKFA".L. qf.WML     SIVINDIM FIMFC4Tt4J1 PRI%&Wy 7"  M~j.L.   swwmm  r.,enU_
TrAlt 1111.1.4. (t'S$l  ftr4frrOM TO  CWJRNWWJIT   PRI  49.1c  "I    C21    RATin   eyrLp   PER       A-19 PPJKmrr srAmOmAry   RATin     rim       ItArt.,
(19141 (19")   In-CATICW  F.XPFADtTrnr.         It)       c 19763   (2)        CT)     rFAMrO  CWICAPM          (it)       (7)     TrAmr.       (2)
(I J    (2)        (1)          (4)           M            (h)      C7)       CM)       (4)        Ceti)                   (121      9131    (16)
nrvr.LO"n
At-STRA1.14        on    IA.ab  R.Min      %.I.        14.6                                           lno         71       -            90          73        II      21..Oq
rAMADA            at   21.7b  q.6ink,   7.1-          Im.%_       in.? 14.? 2'"?   gob       intA     lno         II       14.9-T       In!)        47-       in      7?-hdl.
VFMqAmv F.*.       70    61.2  lz.zm       4.4         4.9.       -    ---  --      "h       A"       Irv"        -        --                       44.               31-in.
NF.T.1wil.min      re    14.-h 1 440.,   Iq                       In   I"   2%      99t.?    96        es         In                                92        11      17.4n
"P.M ZMAJAVII      4-             nal                             II   11  2a       qqh      110      inn         24                                J,        I
.1           an           2        %       .%.Rn..
W..IV3            yq    '1.1  12.2so      4.0        14.2        it   in  In       geh      99-      ifn        In.       14.4         Jew         IQ.       in..
FASTER4 AFRICA
WYMUMA            Al      I.ob    oZqb    4.11        22.n        41   14   27      40      [on        77         12       111.4        an          in        21       1.q
111-11PNIII       43    A.z       71i      ?.Itt-     19.0        GI   2a   27      25       2 OA      is        37        20.2          12          V        17       I.m
DANUM             94      0.41.  -14S      1.4-       zM.n        44   ze   22      44        76       4A         le       -             411        1-        7m       n_"
RITIN.'TI          44     ".4     41181    1.0        11.9        71   24   ...    in        42        66         4a       67.n         Aq          in        to
rT"[,-Flft               12 Rh    14Pb    z:oP                    :5   2-b  in      53       42        VW        61        19.1         oi-         14       1.4       n_4s
K.14VA                   II:      .2nb    % imb                    5   lh   If    4Ah        Ill       ig         16       14.4          IS         in        76
82        b    . jib    J.%         16.0       is  'ti           S-)%     I Is-     41        4n         9.6          46         21        21       1-"
MADAGAS0411        77    *                                                                                                  4.a          38         14        11       Ijub.
.:%      In     4-o'        Z4.11       VI  IN   Io       Sn       40-       '13       %%b
4ALAW11"S           J             zvlh    I s          11.4       IP   14   2%      2sb      62        21        65         I.M          12          4        21       n.4
%    170%    4 IL        1, it       at,  16    I     R"b       41       7?         71                    itm
"MIRIT                    J _I1"  I.                                                                                       11.0                     %"        72         m
-%I                     9.06       27.4        71   If.  31      17h      46%       in        40        16.0          9                    16
RWAIM.J.",                s       2701,                                                                                                                                 _40
SFETC11%  _.      yq            J.??"      i-O        21.11.      14-  11-  IfW    ---       ---                 IS        ---           --                   ---     ---
-PULI            Pi              Zim      I_%        In.%        inh  A&h   At-   %O        22b       gnh       Zqb        9.41,       imb         szh       22       1.m
V'nAM             Fm    :9.2b    iRab    I A          --          66   19   ...    12        'I..      FA        14         1.4         44          Jr.      14       ...
SWAZI             :.'   11:7%   11411"    1:*11.      2n 4        %I   u     3%     sib      el        Sn         11       13.4         oil         2q        in       i.no
I'ANTANLATIAM            ..s      26n      i 9        17:7        L7   in   16      79b      9ph       RY        41        11.0          lgb         I        zn      M.I.
I-CAMIA            -n    I 2.ah    VW%                                  p  ,n%    48        U.        al         U        -             37          i        'I       n_
'AIRE.,                  -, sh    210b    ?.I         2.&                  to      i4b      7t.       2%        VI        23.0         4n                             7 on
z&4RT             an      ': Th'   shfih    4.%P      11.1        48   zi   zz      "%       45        an        4M        12.4          19                   27       J:%.
114PAWK           Al      7.-h    yanih   1_1         lq.S       fiz   12   06    4 at-      on        5%        19        20.0         sks         es       2.1       n.in
Llr-MTRN APtiCit
RE%TX              79     1.4h    I,nb    a.-w        Isn         41   21    %    13b        47       'M                   I"           le          11       &I        I .(Hp
RPIIKIVA          Al      ..S     2inh    Z.1.        21.7        41   20   ZR      9        1.        2%        57        24.11        14           I        94       0.01
rA?WRnn            7A     A       S-,Pn    7 97       106.4-      il-  ai-  zn-   -          74-       &%-       VW        11.4-        2n.         141       I&       1.34T
R          7.       :27    Z n     'I:W?,
(.1 L4 D           ya     4 4     iza      Z.Gh-      2  lb.                                 Zs-                 77                                           21       n.20-
rrplm              7A     1:s     67n      9-nA-      211: 7.                                                    'hW                    In                   431-      4.nn--
CAIMIN             77     n.fi  .1 .4.13    I_jby      4.4v                                                       6b.      -                                  lql-
CAFMIA             77    .1.4     zzn      1.1-        4_jb       44   7"    4-   Ill,       4n?-      9m        271M      44.7.        An          tzb-      17
CM411A             76    1        &nn      4 ri?       11.5b      ---  --  --    -           7ift-     --        27by      -                        'Ab_      21
GIIIVIA                                                           2%-  24-  201-  20         la        16         34       2n.n-P       AS          14        20       7.nW
twoRT crmkST      41    A. 2b  1.074b   JAfl          4i.0        11   46   [l   '10         ho       A&         41        24.0         47          1 J.-    26        t .90.7
LZIWR A           Rn                                              Al   zi   24    In                   12        is        2n:n         76          22       2n        2 on
I              Al             I'o"n    4":       "q. :'Y'-   in   21 I                                                isI          FA
-IAL                                                                               In        In        "n                                                                9"'
RITARIA                                            14.*        13   11   21    .1-       '12                  44         z           in           -       2S         .37
,EC                 R                                  A                                               SW                                                    Zab
ri,            7         2     300     4 3-7       1  W?       -12-  &I-   1-   It        37                  41-       111.7.       Go           2                 n.2ny
MlcmRI4           -3    ql.hb    7ftob    I.47        14-n        -    __ 12.A  16           91        7D        36        Mi           46.7        22.i     in        2
%Vq9rAL                   '.S     asn      %n         21A         44   34  Zn    10          14b-7    -          41b,      -            20          in       71        2.76bil
.1111.111RA LPAM   77     3.4     250      4r'b       la.el,      -    --- __    I%b         17-       -         35        2S.nb        PA          15-      zz        n.hnb--
Tnw                74     2.4     4"n      4.SQ-      ZA."        3"   ZOP  21-   IR         74        41)       54b.      34.0         %2          12by    tmb         filp.
LALTIN MfMTCA AND THE CAN I SWAM
A.     MA          ?A    27.3   2.21n      2.7        14.4        41.  'll.  top   %lb       49       -12        17        -            my          11                Zi.ncs
RANAKLq           79      0.2   2.770      %.?        19.1        36   36   11    9-lb       99        97        24        -            97          75       Is       ---
SARJLVWK           78     ;:2X  2,;;      1-1         22.1-       41-  11-  th-   94h       morw       0-                  J..q.        goo         74-      "Y
Is-              12-W
"'I 7  '10:2                                                     23-                                I"v      14-T    I2.fi2b
SR  ;r             ;;   I I'-.%   1.7741    $.A        4          11               76        711-1     -                    4.jb        161.
CIIILF             76    In.*   j.M9o      3.247      Ii.ah       -                -        I lqb-     -         34bv      -            --          55b-     Znb-    II-eal-
colimiA           an    2%.7b  1.11job   11.3         21.0        3i   24   2n    Sib        7a        16        32         6.6         -           47       Zn       to-02-1
CMA RICA           on     2.2b  1.0134b    4.4.       11.1        40   27   13    9n         9-1       77        VI         S.%         77          4a       27       14-rWI
C""                im     9.8     -        4.0        tI.0        --   -- -       9%        I 12b-     94        iRby      -            911         7lb-     Is       Iq.n2bV
nougicAll R.".    an      %.I   1.*38      2.9        11.41       39   21  22   fAb          Rn        31        54         3.2         94         'in      '31       lb."O
KWAVOR            an      MAN, I.jIn       4.np       36.7        4i   13   16    43        105        --        16        12.&         86          47       1#6      ZO-00
AL SALWAMR         77     4.4     G"       3.4bv      2i. I b.          R 27    62           42h"      32        19        -            41          Zfiby    27b-      7-90b.
'aTRM'J.a         7R     &.4   Inlo       I _"T       Iz.sh                       -          Gob-     -          .3sh,                  be          lsb.7    lqby     s-sn-
GUTAIIA            7&    11.4     630      4.1by       It.xbv                      --        "b-       -         32by                   -           Sob"     -         I.mb.
KAITI             so       .Ob    210    'I 4-                                       b       in        2n        41        14.0         62.          4-      27        0-90
r.                                               4.   An
NnNDFRAS           78    'J       $24      )Nle       I           :12-       "I    21        Rgb-7    w          &lb,      111.4.       FA.         Zi-      19        R-041
JAMUCA,            no     2::   1.110    41.5          11.7       37   41   in    9n         94        9R        40         1.3         05          RI       22        NXII
PNMIIM             so    G$ 11   I am      4 7        17.11-           to  1%    02          qn        53        44         9.%         46          Sh       17       10.10
ICICARACPA         74     2:fib   ;gob     1:1)       14:nh            -- ---   9Mh          .0-       24        l7b       -            -           zfib.    30b      -
FAKVU             7R      I.Mb  I.S50b    S.'t,       2I Rhy      4z.  11-  11    A21,       qsb.      -         2ibv      11.06        as-         SobT     z7by    m4nb-
FAUGUAT                   1.0                                                                                                  r
PM,                                                                     i is    an            I                  IQ         9.4         R9                    2        4 4n.
so    16.6   : :D'"no   ":'G"      JAL : 21    'I               So        :1        iz        zm         1.1         76          22       12
34       1
TRINIBAO L Tol-   77      1:1.  1.410                  JI-Aby    'A   12  ID    0%           .4        91        3D        io-ST        49          62       24
L,WWAT             713    2     2.soo      2 -1        O.Aft                       94       insh-      -         24h                                GAI-     -        17.moy
VEWZPrLA           ym    14.4   1.440    -,:IT        I4.9h                        RI       I nah.     -         28                                 lnb-     17       zi-iny



aBMa.    nacanan AND T3AIKIUC PSfCT                                                         £,,
Pug. 2
OUIPA3ATIV MUICATINU IUICATO3s
Apr33 I3. 3954i
ESPUEtIZI'3I   RIWCATKOM                           bigpLrlflI            EttlqEStr
ON EPPCArIIR   RwrCSIeSr       MaLMT               RATE PCI              P511r '733   PUnRen,3'ino
38EF  'NI.  CAPrTA  ruM'IX  CP TOTAL WINSM. ALwnr.AII  'Mt RtATE             33133.L. RCOUS       311331UT  roOCTM   PRIMA%RY 10  F.SROLL.   5W31131   315.3..
T3A5 MIL'S9. (I55)   333M10113W Ta  CiWRIME        PSI  3tC  III    (2)    RATIO   CYClE!         PEE       As 0300W  SEIINSARY    RATIO          PER        RATIO
(167' (1679)   UWCATIMI aPO rUrI1u                 (23        (33176)   (2)         (2)     TASER  CUP/CAPITA          (2)          (2)    TEACHWS       (13
(3)           (2)                 (42(1)                      (4)       (7)       (a)         t6)        (0            I)          (2          I)      (4
IROWUPSIA          RI   3110.¶,   S20        2.1          9.1         70   24    £6    12's        on        hi          17        33.0          PA           21        2'        1.In
SOWAP               32    16.1k  I4fls    1.79            20.13       34   34   33       16        99         98         41        39e           95           44        15       21.90
PNAIYS1A            AL     31.2'  I~iob    ,.3            14.7        lo-  41"  In-    l0ob        67%       67          24        13.S"          -           72        22        4.011
PAPP'A MN.C.        31      I.43    32       S.           16.0        40   31   22       -         ha         70         1ts       31.0          is           ll        27'       3.50"
PNILIPPIMFSq        yo    Am.31s  *Ari3    2.11           14.0        44   14   --       71's      34        4s          it71 13     .            9           Ss        14       71,n1
sVicAPOR            an      2.4   4.420      2.7           4.1        16   40   3f.    A1          32        52          13         5.A.         oh           SS        77        5.nn
IOL. '4 3M1.        *I      o.2's   440      06*4P        lu.i34      43   14   20       Is        2t         -o         27        30.1          40           20        IN        7.1*1
THAILANDi           52    4964h    amin       1.4         20.1        So   14   30       NO'      303        u.S         23         Q."~         44           44.       in        4.00
589Th ASIA
aAW.AUIESM          Fe    67.1l,    go        3.3P        30.3w'      I1   37   20       27's      fil.       -          ¶          S.4          -            34        21        3.41
IPTAM              -a      3.2       an      1.4         33I.0       --       --        30         Ii        -           -        -              -- 
IMNDIA              17   414.        730     3.5?           .0W-      -----              j6        ?6.        -          i         -                           m        -          1'
lEESI.              52    31%.0b    3113      3.4       -             --   ---           I3        10                    inU       -                          23        21        j.7fl5
PAMtICTAS           52    37.3's    31101    2.0           7.0        In   2n   2        22        SO        4 1         10         1.6          '14          23I       31        1.
WIEP.NIL   AT AN  u'IBM  APRICA
AWII3ASIW3AS   1~1    I1.1.     -        3.7          1.7        41   13   Is       12        II"s      h6         317'       --            42            M        77'       3.u,
4132IIIA            76     33.1 310 1.         5""         3'I .1     14'  74'  21'    is          31v        a1"        17         7.01          I21   26'             7         1.70'
WIT                 3Z    41.10       u  41*3 4.4          7.6        13'  1%' 296       44        71'       5533        14-        3,55.        51a          41-       In       I  3.00
cxrAa  ~       74      *.1   4,140       LJP         304"l       17   24   23       -         giby       -           4b        ob2           -           1645      2770     I 31.40's
3645                76     10.6     -        1.75"       34.3"'       --   -             1        311w'  -              32   -                   -            44.'      24'      4.600
tEAt                I6 2.4   7.130           &.1'm        6.4.6                         -        300'                  25        -              -           4W-        290       Q:10"
sIss                s      to'   'so 4m .p'              ums9                           s         6]        Go         29         -In                       R3         14       33l.n0
zn-sN              aml      1.zh  3*20       j.00         30.2        1    44  139       704.      ST        as         12z        31.            -1                    15        5.60
LP5MMUW             79      2.1      -114.4" --                                - --   -         90'       --          39               -                   440       --       27.110k'
3W34223             MA    23.5's   4283's    44n          22.9        -5   41   l3       IS        1570        9         13        1. MT                      34'       in        M.6
0334                52      0I.3.  1.41f11s    2.10       32.7'               -     -    lat.?h    713        G1         2-1       -             533                    3 4       .
POETICAL            79      6.5's  2.0.0    .1.4          22.2        1n   24   33       15i       97        20          I65       3 2.5         355          41'       11'       6.10'
p019.51             73    22.3   2*301I   )I9's            4.2w                        6        30440      --                   -                           54'ssb    22s      uns.n's
IPAftN              74    17.8    4.620       2.3'        I&.W                            -        6b.       --                    -             -            6747      --       23'
S1334               78      N.A4  1.370      4.4P         I0.1        16   21   24       %a        silb'     so          'sk      -               8           41%'     231s      32.40n
105351*       ~~~~76  4.4   1,310       7.04        36.0        42   19  I3a        42bs    3003.       no         -,b       12MR                 in    .I'        in       o.oo
TPSET               53      47.1  3 .2101    1. 3.2                   10   22   24       71'      130it      77         13          4.0          I's2                   n         mnoo
7530 4.3.           a0     0.-4      420     1-43"        37.0        64    7    7       It' 1b     7         32'       13'       47.0           as            1        20        1.10
VhSg  P.O.q.        32      2.0's    4,83b    7.q          6.7        4$-  36'   54    11          GI         14         21        22JW3         44           17        20        2.1n
MMMARW FOR 313WWW1.OPa 125'YRIER:
MaahreFVCoomIrt..:                         PA               61       70   46   47       Al        62        45         65        45             71          63         MR      31
W-IN:                          ~~~~~~(I.4-      (1.1-  (23-  (5-  (5-    (n-         (32-      (12-        (17-      (3.4-          (in-        (3-        (51-    (0.103-
30.01)         14.1)  34)   44)  13)    933I      3392        9            77)      37.0)          1n0)         P43       453       MD~)
03.0183.11 Upper:                           1.46           23.7      13   14   22       RI        As        me         41        20             57           41        24      I33.0
Meditan:                        4.0           34.3      41   25   19        ¶1        5     3 Al hi        i         33             As          24        22        1.7
Lan.r:                          1.0           33.0      35   23   3)        21        30        IS         2'         6             40          34        3 4       3.0
03artIIe Orsatlon:                          3.1             1.4    4.1  1.1  4.1   28.04        19.0      22.         7.0       1.4           21.'6       34.1        1.1        1.0
M-a:                                        4.4            31.0      44   25   3n       53        14        so         14        14             62          13         21        4i.6
standard 0.i.ts:                              0             5.1      32   30    7       29        27        24         33        31             2?           21         7        1.4
1s"Ino:                                     4.0            34.0     4l   25   36        A1l5                43         IS         31            41          73         22        1.7
S-oW:It                                                                   FOOflThFl1:
-   04111 VRAYAI3A5LE                                                     A- 31A7113 PRIOR TO 3453 TERM                 5 - NDIRISTS  nr eIRCATIIIR ("DE) OeLT
R532TIIU  RILe ORNVLICIMILE                                           3a- 0410 IRE t    BM4W TI3A5 IUE TMA           T - 35w AM VTATS COVEI'PMI CML?
7    0111 ffESTOM4EZ                                                      I -  333wr P31Wr-I                           W9 -  3Z  PPI31PSRrC 03
*    !C3S3335 PAWr-TIC  ThSS                                                   MleT SUILPEN  RATIO                           I  1CU3'3E OnER%-ACE P 137
Pr- 0335  3333N.JWI  34r10                   T   I-N11358  55-MW
15303:=           Cole.  I and 2:  hind  nalt Atlas or MAcaltn s.ceor ftied o.1..3n..
C.3..u'  3 to 34:  arId Use' Vinat:ttop secttr s8.las              r b.n.w.t nowrep  and/cr elm Pusce. Statistical Toorboast.
C.y-artiw  IMastic. Dtea are warf"t in tic swalmatios of various .dursein  aystse and analysis at roatlves stags, of sducsttiosl dsaswtht-. various
countrIesm mm.   o s.cr  ON tc 'msat  of the prsasst date. cross-natItanal ensorison  should 4. approached with groat cautio.  'nota pr.snwtod I. the aba. table ho-.
bean collacItod larscly by Ran's Ninsteen froa gowerose seress  tic vonsIndar ar  staff esftimte  or data tros, Ithsnco.  Efforts 'save bass ad. to standards.,
d.fIstot-ds  mnd.  Kttifo  lisle., to eback tic meccoracy at chs. data.  Rewerthelns. ouch data am sttil I.srfsct to sovoral respacto  and the Ran's Ls workIo  to
twos.a time, pregrssatly an tic occeanic. of its oppatlsoal noct'.  In ticas nof athtss  dots. teb  follotsu  qalificsttoaa sIcId be 'sept in slot4:
(82   E1dscattss -   del 0food in ti.ctabin tocludos at!  d-clatln and training, bath fotnI and non-f.rssl.
(2)   -Primarr  aiscstian ratr ats  o - 'mction at tmw ftint let and  s.candarC  a.Icattan refers to all sictla  at tic ancniry Ion) rsgardleon  of tp.
(eI.g. on-mal. togisiesl. agrialoueral).
(3)    Literac   rtaea  (cot. 4) sarc oftan obtasind from, country cernanes.  In  -oy coaertan tic, arc mly approginatians, snt It is dosbtfoJ iliac. any 43orn
dafti,ttLso of literatsC baa buss tolled contost"tyv.
(42   'PmtlIc sspssdtt.re In education- (cotsi. 4 and 1)  Watra to all capital sod recurrooe               s Msaitrna doyc.t.d ts adaration 4. -bhit. and qus-publIc
agansciv.
(5)   'gorolisst rstlot (Colo. 7. 12 MA  34) rater en scoo  year,sod ac  tic peresseage, of el1Igl  ebBildroa, nvanoII   tsl-etie In tch  sppropriats sChool,
public and prIvate by level. hay eme often, sabisce to a odds margin, ot error iq tic doveloping emantrtes aise to varimttooo in tic secsrsev ot bugle
data (i.e. * soc-smpcifc se apalatian ma ndvarllmanot).  ftrotlonet figrate  frtreaqesl  arc btghur ties Elm oue  ot otudan   actually in schol .
GMT,-sgaw swtbe  ay M"  Ibelfoci"     is tbma  FiEtas and can Inflate tic ratios.



-20-
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2
BARBADOS
SECOND EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
Structure and Organization of the Formal Education System
Modeled on the British school system, the structure and organization
of Barbados educatonal system is similar to that of other English speaking
Caribbean countries. A primary cycle of 6 years is preceded by one or two
years of nursery education (see Annex 2, page 2).   The primary cycle is
divided in two grades of "infants" and four grades of 'juniors." Children
are admitted to nursery school when they are 3 or 4 years old, and they start
first grade (infant school) when they are 5 years old. About 35% of the
children 3-4 years old attend nursery school and virtually all children 5 to
11 years old attend primary school.
At age 11, all children take the Secondary School Entrance
Examination (Common Entrance Examination). Good performers are assigned to
schools of their choice. Poor performers are given bursaries to attend
private schools. Children who fail stay in primary composite' schools which
provide them with a mediocre secondary education, or they may attend a
vocational school (now called senior school). In 1984-1985 about 95Z of the
secondary school age population were attended the secondary school cycle of 5
years. About 73% was enrolled in government secondary schools, 17% attended
private schools and 10% was enrolled in "tops' of the composite primary
schools or in the vocational schools.
Flow of students through the sytem is very regular because it is
based on a policy of automatic promotion. About 98% of the children are
promoted every year from one grade to the next and about 90% of the students
reach the last year of secondary education at age 16. It is
costumary,however, to hold weak students for one additional year in this last
grade of secondary education so as to prepare them for the secondary school
leaving examinations.
At age 14 children may take the School Leaving Certificate and at
age 16 students take the Ordinary Level Examinations ("0" levels) prepared by
the Caribbean Examination Council or by the British Syndicate.  These
examinations certify the graduates for specific jobs and are necessary for
admission to university programs. In addition, a few students (less than 1Z
of each graduating class) continue their secondary education for two more
years (up to the age of 18) in order to take the Cambridge Advanced Level
Examinations ("A' level) valid for entry in European Universities. These two
additional years of secondary education are provided by two government
schools: Harrison College and Queens College, to a very select group of
students who desire to continue their university education overseas.



-21-
ANNEX 2
BARBADOS                                           Page 2 of 2
SEcoD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJkC
Structure of the Formal Systm of Education 1985
Age:-
3e4 el5    5      617   7/8   819  9jlO  1Ill1  11 L1/12 11/13 1j/14 Ij/15 11/16  16   1J117 17/18
1 U E S E S E E   q3 E [q14                     3                      t61 
Nursery    Infants            Juniors                        Seniors                     Sixth Foro
Grades:
Primary School                                         Composite - Primary Top.                 Polytecuec a/
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _E
rIaston Teacher
|      ~~Senior School                         Trainlog
Comumnity Collegeb/
Government Secondary                   {H      
University
Private Secondary_
R    Reception Class                                                              a/ It is not really post secondary
in that it will accept tralnees
Comon Entrance Examination -CEE                                                 by special examination who are
IN~i                                                                                 16 years of age and have c-
IA - Infants A                                                                       pleted only 9 years of sebool.
IB - Infants B                                                                       Ras skills level progre  only.
Cl - Class I                                                                      b/ Technician level program. for
Fl - Form I                                                                          secondary sebool graduate.



-22-                                         a     3
P  1 Et 3
SoAb|       w RI   l Cov i   u G   Sdu     fn  1973 to 19
Nmb   c71d                             f Um~gmaTedh  R*tS
U                                        fmy  tlmry                         Bt1Y
_               il O                          d   S                          S  ,                a_ ,
1973      37,563         7,059    54,622       1,414          891     2,            2a           2D         24
1974      37,047        17,734    51,781       1.410          902     2.321          26          2D         24
1975      35,708        19,042    54,750       1,390          968     2,358          a           20         23
1976      35,992        19.064    55,056       1.453          997     2,450          25          19         22
1977      36,039       2D0.32    56.671        1,496        1.041     2,537          2           2D         22
L978     35,555        20.741    56,296        1,472        1,042     2,414          24          20         22
1979      34,672       21,014    55,686        1,469         1,019    2.48           23          21         22
198D      34,036       21,198    5524          1,483        1,034     2,517          23          21         22
1981      33,395       21.448    54.843        1.492        1,114     2,606          22          a9         2i
1982      32,061       21,696    53,757        1,3          1,115     253            23          19         21
1983      30,748       2,037    52,785         1,335        1,125     2,60           23          19         21



-23-
AJNEX 3
NATIL5M                                             Page 2 of 3
SDCOND EDUCATIONII ID TUUNIG PROJECT
Sehool Enrollents by Grade
Ultuorical Figures (1980-1984) and Prolectlons (1985-1"90)
1985/86                 1990
1980 Censs                Bnrollments
School Ae-                                             Projected               Projected
Age   Population   1981/82   1982/83  1983/84   1984/85  Populatn  Enrollut  Populatn  Enrollat
Reception        4-5      4,511       3,793     3,119    3,094     3,282     4,300     3,400        4,500  3,800
Infants A        5-6      4,857       5,074     5,029    4,791     4,559    4,300    4,300          4,000  4,000
Infants B        6-7      4.812       4,743     4,681    4,588     4.346     4,500     4,550        4,100  4,100
Total Infants
and Reception    4-7     14.,iO      13,610    [2,829   12,473    12,186    13,100    12,250      12,600 11,900
Class 1          7-8       5,288      4,875     4,830    4,638     4,487     4,500     4,350        4,200  4,200
Class 2          8-9       5,293      5,161     4,853    4,768     4,545     4,500     4,450        4,200  4.250
Class 3           9-10     5,057       5,419     5,126    4,825    4,782     4,500     4,550        4,200  4,300
Clas 4          10-11     4,820       5,531     5,686    5,318     4,789    4,600      4,800        4,300  4,500
Total Juniors    7-11    20,458      20.986    20,495   19,549    18,594    18,000    18.150       [6,900 17,250
Infants & Juniors 4-11    34.638     34.596    33,324   32,022    30,780    31,200    30,400       29,500 29,400
Form 1          11-12     4,914       5,763     5,906    5,858     5,592     4,700     4,800        4,400  4,400
Form 2           12-13     5,150      5.053     5,203    5,466     5,560     5,000     5,300        4,600  4,500
Form 3           13-14    5,279       5,149     5,265    5,041     5,230     5,200     5,300        4,600  4,600
Forn 4           14-15    5,464       4,839     5,144    4,895     5,039     5,300     5,200        4,600  4,600
Form 5           15-16     5,613      5,754     5,993    6,053     6,247     5,400     5,300        4,700  4,800
Form 6           16-17                  465       519      412       494         -       500            -    500
Total Seniors    11-17    26.420     27,023    28.030   27.715   28,162    25.200    25.900        22.900 23,600
Total            4-17    61,058      61.619    61,354   59,737    58,942    56,400   56,300        52,400 53,000



-24-
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 3
S      EUATIO AD TRAX)RIN     PW1
Sdol nrllzmnts (1983/84)
ay Type of Sclol and by le1l
Gmrmnt                                  Private             Totail
(Inc1udi                 Ser
Le.                Tops) Sedy  (Vcational)  Total   Assisted   Assisted         Total
Reception     2,356           _        a/        2,356      _          738        738     3,094
Infants A     4,250           _        _         4,250      _          541        541     4,791
Infants B     4,720           -        -         4,072      -          516        516     4588.
Subtotal (I)  10,678          -        -        10,678      -        1,795      1,795    12,473
C-1s I        4,209           -        -         4,209      -          429        429     4,638
Class 2       4,338           -        -         4,338      -          430        430     4,778
lass 3        4,382           -        -         4,382      -          443        443     4,825
Class 4       4,875           -        -         4,875      -          443        443     5,318
Subtotal (J)  17,804          -        -        17,804      -        1,745      1,745    19,549
_+J          28,482           -        -        28,482      -        3,540      3,540    32,022
ForM 1          715       3,717      153         4,585  1,243           20      1,263     5,848
Form 2          669       3,604      172         4,445  1,006           15      1,021     5,466
Form 3          449       3,706      171         4,326    703           12        715     5,041
F-m.  4         287       3,953       67         4,307    563           25        588     4,895
Forn 5           89       5,062      112         5,263    727           63        790     6,053
Form 6L           -         229        -           229      -           -          _        229
Form 6U           -         183        -           183    _                                 183
Subtotals     2,209      20,454      675        23,338  4,242          135      4,377    27,715
Total        30,691      20,454      675        51,820  4,242        3,675      7,917    59,737
Sacur: Plannrg Office - Ministry of Education
_       Pregocationl trainixg ony.



-25-
ANNEX 4
Page I of 11
BARBADOS
SECOND EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
Impact of the Project on Public Recurrent Expenditures
Outlook for Current Expenditures on Education
1.        Recent Trends.  Two adjustments should be made to the recurrent
cost estimates of the Ministry of Education and Culture (MOE) to bring them
into line with conventional estimates of education expenditure. The school
Deals service, which absorbs about 8% of the budget, should be excluded, and
expenditure on uniforms and secondary school textbooks, which appear as items
of capital expenditure, should be included. During the past five years
public recurrent expenditure on education, with these adjustments, has
amounted to between 182 and 212 of total public recurrent expenditure, the
lowest proportions occuring during FY 1981/82 and FY 1982/83.
2.        Outlook for FY 1985/86. Adjusted expenditure is expected to
increase in nominal terms by 16.6Z in FY 1985/86, significantly faster than
total public recurrent expenditure, but this growth reflects the combined
effect of the large wage settlement and the labour-intensity of education,
rather than any especially favorable treatment of the sector.
3.        Medium term outlook.  Both the MOE and the Ministry of Finance and
Planning see education retaining Its present share of public recurrent
expenditure for the foreseeable future. One argument is that the bulk of its
expenditure is in the form of wages and there is therefore little scope for
maneuvre. On closer inspection, however, three factors will have a major
effect on education expenditure over the next five years and will introduce
considerable scope for restructuring: falling primary and secondary school
rolls, improvements in student-teacher ratios, and the partial absorption of
the private sector.
(a) Falling school rolls
4.        At present the average age cohort for primary school children is
about 4,700 and that for secondary school children about 5,000. Over the
next five years both will fall to about 4,300 (population projections in
Volume I of the Loan Request). This reduction reflects a fall in the birth
rate from 33 per thousand in 1960 to 16 per thousand in 1980 caused partly by
the emigration to Britain in the 1950s and 1960s of those who are now young
adults, partly by the activities of the Barbados Family Planning Association,
and partly by the effect of a rising standard of living. Taken in isolation,
and as a rough approximation, the falling population of school children will
permit a fall of 8X in recurrent expenditure on primary education, 15% in
that on secondary education, and 8% in total recurrent expenditure on
education.



-26-
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 11
(b) Improvement in student-teacher rations
5.        At present the student-teacher ratio for government pre-primary and
primary schools is 23:1 and for secondary schools 19:1. If the present
process of rationalizing both levels of education led to class sizes of 35
and student-teacher ratios of, say, 29:1 in primary education and 23:1 in
secondary education, there would be (again, as a rough approximation) a
reduction of 20Z in expenditure on primary education, 16% in that on
secondary education, and 12% overall.
(c) Partial absorption of the private sector
6.        At present 14% of pre-primary school children, 9Z of primary school
children, and 16% of secondary school children attend private schools (data
for the school year 1983/84). It is clear that a large proportion of those
now attending private secondary schools do so because they have been unable
to secure a place in a government school. The MOE recognizes that it is
providing insufficient places and distributes bursaries to 2,900 students to
attend the 'assisted' private schools. It also pays the salaries of some of
the teachers at these schools and provides further grantF, the total costs
being 6% of total recurrent expenditure on secondary education.
7.        Several of the assisted private schc,ls have a reputation for
excellence, but the majority are of inferior quality. They have a much
higher proportion of untrained teachers than government schools and inferior
examination results. Only 36% of their graduates obtained the School Leaving
Certificate or an 0-level, as opposed to 76% in government schools. (This
last comparison is of course biased by the fact that many of the children
attending the private schools do so solely because they were unsuccessful in
the 11+ examination).
8.        In the case of primary schools the position is less clear cut, all
children having a right to a place in a government sclhool. However, it seems
likely that the demand for private education will wane over the next few
years if the quality of government schools improves and the real cost of
private education increases as a result of the rise in real wages.
9.        Assuming, somewhat arbitrarily, that half of pre-primary and
primary school children, and two-thirds of secondary school children, who
would otherwise have held places in private schools, transfer to the
government schools as more places become available and quality improves,
expenditures on primary education would increase by 5% and on secondary
education by 8%, holding other factors constant. The secondary figure
assumes that all bursary-holders will be absorbed by the government schools
and the bursary program dtscontinued. The combined effect would be to
increase total public recurrent expenditure on education by 4%. Taking the
thrue factors together, expenditure on primary education would fall by 23%,
expenditure on secondary education by 22%, and total recurrent expenditure on
education by 15%.
10.       The primary school calculations imply that there will be a demand
for about 1,007 teachers in five years' time. In school year 1983/84 there
were 1,335 teachers In post and a further 196 on leave, some being trained at
Erdiston Teacher Training College, making a total of 1,531 in all. With only
120 teachers aged over 50 in 1983184, the attrition rate through retirement



-27-
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 11
cannot be expected to be more than about 12 each year. The wastage rate for
other causes also appears to be low, a total of 28, including those retiring,
leaving the service in 1982/83. A reduction of the staff to 1,007 over a
period of five years would require the wastage rate to be increased by about
75 teachers per year. From the point of view of the profession as a whole
the situation will be aggravated by the loss of jobs in the private sector.
The Barbados Union of Teachers, a strong body, is already aware of the threat
to jobs and is proposing a number of measures which would sustain the demand
for teachers: the creation of senior "departmental' teaching positions with
partial teaching loads, a reduction in the number of teaching hours per day
for all teachers, the introduction of special "remedial' classes, etc.
11.       Similarly, the number of teachers in secondary education would have
to be trimmed if the student-teacher ratio of 23:1 were to be attained. In
1983/84 there were, 1,085 teachers in post in government secondary schools
and a further 76 on leave, making 1,161 in all. A 23:1 student-teacher
ratio implies a requirement of only 874 in 1990.
12.       The school meals service.  There is one further opportunity for
structural change in the MOE budget. Though not strictly speaking
expenditure on education, the school meals service is counted as part of its
current expenditure an represents 8% of it. Its budget amounts to
approximately US$160 per child in primary and pre-primary education, that is,
US 85 cents per school day (schools function for 190 days each year).
13.       The school meals program was originally introduced as a means of
improving the nutrition of primary school children. It is not evident that
is is still necessary for that objective, since nutrition in Barbados appears
to be excellent, and the service is expensive in terms of its delivery costs;
only 40X of the budget is actually spent on wages and materials, the bulk of
the remainder going on wages. While a straight forward abolition is probably
not a feasible option politically, it might be possible to find an acceptable
compromise which would both satisfy parents and release resources for other
purposes. For example, parents could be given a credit of US 50 cents per
day per child for the materials for a packed lunch and a US 35 cents per day
credit for purchasing books. The food credit would be 50% more than present
expenditure on materials for the lunches, and the book credit would be worth
US$66 per year. At present primary school children spend only about US$20
per year on textbooks, notebooks, pencils, etc.
14.       One qualification to this discussion:  a large proportion of the
wage cost of the school meals service is spent on the wages of persons who
would otherwise probably have difficulty in obtaining employment, given the
current 172 rate of unemployment; accordingly the shadow cost of the service
may be substantially less than the accounting cost.
15.       Conclusion.  In summary, if the MOE retains its present share of
public recurrent expenditure, there will in principle be ample scope for a
reallocation of its resources from wages to materials. In primary schools,
where textbooks and equipment are in short supply, this could have a
significant effect on the quality of education without increasing its
budget. The same is also true of secondary education, to a lesser extent.
The reallocation is however likely to be frustrated by the difficulty in
finding alternative employment for surplus teachers and inducing them to
move. Indeed, the most likely outcome is that overmanning will increase



-28-
ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 11
rather than decrease in the short term and that when these two levels are
finally streamlined the resources released will not be reallocated to
materials but will be transferred to tertiary education, for which there will
inevitably be a growing social demand. It is therefore important that the
Project should at least not exacerbate the overmanning problem, and ideally
it should encourage a shift of resources within these two levels to materials
before the appetite of tertiary education becomes voracious.
Impact of the Project on Recurrent Expenditure on Primary Education
16.       The rate of return to the type of amalgamations under consideration
(complete replacement of the existing schools with new schools) was estimated
at 13.5% in Annex 7, page 6. The annual return, all of which would be in the
form of a reduction of recurrent expenditures, would therefore be of the
order of US$540,000 per year, a figure which represents 3.3% of MOE recurrent
expenditure on primary education and 1.1% of its total recurrent
expenditure. The potential savings in recurrent expenditure would be of the
same order of magnitude if the amalgamations took any of the other forms
involving the re-use and/or expansion of existing schools. For example, the
most obvious alternative, the expansion of an existing school to accommodate
all the children, would yield the same saving in recurrent expenditure at a
lower capital cost and a higher rate of return. In practice, however, it is
unlikely that the full potential savings will be realized, for the reasons
outlined above, and it is not possible to guess what kind of compromise might
be achieved.
Impact of the Project on Recurrent Expenditure on Secondary Education
17.       Wotton/Kingsland School.  In the short run, provided that it is
built quick enough, the construction of Wotton School would increase MOE
recurrent expenditure by about US$280,000. Taking the data for the newer
government secondary schools as a guide, public recurrent expenditure per
student would be of the order of US$696 per year, including a provision for
textbooks. There would however be a saving in subsidies to the -assisted'
schools. In 1985/80 the MOE is sponsoring 2,900 students at these schools,
paying bursaries towardr. fees and making some direct grants to the schools.
The total budget allocation for this purpose is US$1,354,000, that is, US$467
per student. Assuming that the direct payments are reduced in proportion to
the number of sponsored students, the net increment in recurrent expenditure
on transferring a student from an assisted school to Wotton will be US$229
per student. Total enrollment at Wotton is to be 1,225 students, and hence
the total increment in recurrent expenditure would be US$280,525. This
figure represents 1.6% of the recurrent expenditure of the MOE on secondary
education and 0.5% of its total recurrent expenditure.
18.       In the longer run the net effect of public recurrent expenditure
will be minimal. With falling school rolls it will be possible to provide
places in the existing government schools for all students, sponsored or
otherwise, who wish to take them up. The construction of Wotton will
therefore have negligible effect on direct teaching costs. It will simply be
responsible for the reallocation of teachers in the primary tops-. The
chief additional cost will be overhead expenditure on new administrative and



-29-
ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 11
maintenance staff. To some extent the additional overhead expenditure may be
offset by reduced need for maintenance expenditure in the existing schools.
19.       Harrison and Queens.  The Project provides for the creation of 70
new places at Harrison College and 84 at Queen's College. The same remarks,
on smaller scale, apply to these items.
Impact of the Project on Recurrent Expenditure on Vocational Training
20.       Samuel J. Prescod Polythecnic (SJPP).  The additional recurrent
costs, when the Project component is fully operational with the additional
equipment in the 1987/88 school year would be about BDS$163.000 (US$81,500)
in constant 1985 prices (July 1, 1985). This represents an Increase of about
5% over the SJPP's recurrent budget allocation of BDS$3.48 million for the
1985/86 school year, which, in itself, represented an increase over 1984185
of 24%   Recurrent costs per student in 1984/85 was BDS$3,125 (US$1,562)
which in view of the types of programs is adequate.
21.       Barbados Community College (BCC).  The additional recurrent costs.
when the BCC is fully operational in 1989/90 in the new and fully equipped
facilities would be about BDS$1.28 million (US$0.64 million) in constant 1985
prices (July 1, 1985), this represents about 12$ of the projected 1989-90
budget:  In view of the Government's high priority for technician training
out of the 'payroll levy" be inadequate. The incremental recurrent costs are
estimated as follows:
Projected Increase in Student Enrollment by Division
Full-Time           Part-Time b/            Total b/
Computer Science           30                    25
Fine Arts/Applied Arts   130                     20
Health Science             90 a/                 20
Technology                100                    45
Commerce                   50
Total                 400         +         110                   510
a/  Of which costs for 80 have been budgeted under Ministry of Health and
which would be transferred to the College.
b/ In Full-Time Equivalent (FTE).
Per capita cost of educating a student at the BCC: US$1,250 (1984-85)
Projected additional recurrent cost due to increased student enrollment:
US$1,250 x 510 FTE = US$    637,500 in 1985 prices
Less transfer of about BDS$200,000 (US$100,000) from Ministry of Health
Budget to the BCC to cover cost of transfer of Health Sciences training.
Net additional recurrent costs: US$637,500 - US$100,000 = US$537,500
1984/85 Recurrent Cos; Budget - BDS$4,173,000
1989/90 Estimated Recurrent Budget- BDS$5,448,000



-30-
ANNEX 4
Page 6 of 11
NTB Skills Training Centers
22.       Finance.  The financing of NTB's operations are from Government
grants, allocations from the National Training Fund and very minor amounts
from cost recovery training schemes. The latter will be expanded
significantly when the new centers become operational. The National Training
Fund is annually replenished by a training levy of one-half of one percent on
all private sector payrolls (increased from one-fourth of one percent in June
1985). This increased levy is expected to generate about BDS$4 million in
FY1986, of which 50-60% is expected to be allocated to NTB. In FY84 about
54% of NTB's total budget revenues of BDS$1.68 million was from the training
levy. This revenue was for the recurrent costs of the NTB and included
payments into an equipment depreciation fund to amortise capital investments
in equipment over a period of 10 years (motor vehicles - 5 years). Any
significant capital investment, however, requires a special capital
allocation from the Ministry of Finance.
23.       Recurrent costs of training in FY1985 (year ending March 31, 1985)
per student was about BDS$645 for each apprenticeship trainee. The higher
costs for the former is a result of the BDS$35/week/trainee stipend for the
participants (who were all unemployed) and the fact that the NTB carried the
entire costs. The major costs of apprenticeship training ir carried by the
employer.
24.       Marginal Recurrent Costs of the NTB Component.  The additional
recurrent costs resulting from the NTB component would be significant as
they would be replacing existing small and inefficient training centers
offering only one or two training programs in each. The new centers would
offer a total of 24 training programs running simultaneously, and would
result in a net increase of at least 10 instructors for day classes and as
many as 18 (9 FTE) more for the evening classes. Based upon mid-1985 costs,
the estimated additional recurrent costs of this component, when the four
centers are operational in 1988/89, would be about BDS$1.26 million (US$0.63)
representing about 24% of their projected total budget for that year and
about 11% over the 1985-86 budget request. Detailed below are estimates (in
1985- prices) of the in:iemental recurrent expenditures of four centers
(including the existing unit which would be provided supplementary equipment
under the Project).



-31-
ANNEX 4
age rof 11
Estimates of Annual Incremental Expenditures of Four NTB Centers
(1985 Prices)
Trainee Allowances                                               Costs in BDS$
24 trades x 15 trainees x 42 weeks x BDS$35 per week                529,000
Training Materials
24 Trades x 3 Modules x BDS$3,000 per module                        216,000
Boo&s and other Materials (2.5% of materials)                         5,400
Supplies, Repairs, Replacements and Cleaning (10% of materials)   21,600
In-Plant Training of Demonstrators                                    5,000
TOTAL                  248,000
Utilities
Water: 4 new centers at BLS$4,000 per year
Electricity: 4 new centers at BDS$4,800 per year
Telephones: 4 new centers at BDS$900 per year
TOTAL                   77,200
This estimate is based on the present cost of utilities which are paid by the
NTB for its Skills Training Programs.
10 Demonstrators e $16,452 per year each c/                          164,520
10 Maids @ $9,744 per year each                                      97,440
4 Maintenance Supervisors @ $16,452 per year each                    65,808
4 Gardeners @ $9,744 per year each                                   38,976
4 Security Officers e $9,888 per year each                           39,552
TOTAL                   406,296
GRAND TOTAL      BDS$1,260.696
c/ Additional required above the 14 existing full-time instructors and
varying numbers of part-time instructors.
Summary of Incremental Recurrent Costs of the Project
(Cost in US$ millions)
Incremental
Recurrent Budget    Recurrent Cost of Project
Institution              1984785i985J8  Amount    of 84/85  Z of 85/86
MOE:  Primary                  19.00    22.32   -0.27    - 1.4         - 1.2
Secondary                19.97    24.44   +0.31    + 1.6        + 1.3
Vocational Training       1.86     2.30   10.08    + 4.3        + 3.5
BCC                       2.00     2.41   +0.54 d/ +27.0        +22.4
Others                   39.10    19.53    n.a.       -          -
Subtotal/MOE             61.38    71.00   +0.66    + 1.07       +0.93
MOL/NTB:                        0.50             +0.63    +26.0
d/  Net increase after taking into account transfer of operational budget for
health sciences training from the Ministry of Health to MOE.



-32-
ANNEX 4
Page 8 of 11
Unit Costs in Secondary Education and the Cost of Vocationalization
25.     Aggregate Estimates of Unit Costs (in US$, converted at BDS$2 - US$1)
Table 1: Secondary Education Unit Costs
Total           Students           Unit Cost
Public recurrent costs
Older government schools           6,337,000        6,989                906
Never Government schools           9,563,000       14,157                675
Textbooks                            450,000 
Subtotal, Public Costs        16,350,000      21,146
Private recurrent costs
Uniforms                                                                 120
Textbooks, notebooks, etc.                                                40
Bus fares                                                                135
Examinations                                                               8
Opportunity cost of income foregone                                        0
Subtotal Private Cost                                               M1Y3
TOTAL recurrent cost                                               1,076
Amortized capital costs
Construction and civil works                                             292
Furniture                                                                 17
Equipment                                                                 54
TOTAL capital cost                                                   363
TOTAL recurrent and capital cost                                   1,439
26.       Public recurrent costs.  The data relate to the 21 gwovernwent
secondary schools forFY1983/84.  The older government schools incur greater
public recurrent expenditure per student but this may largely be attributed
to the fact that they employ a much higher proportion of graduate teachers
(86%, as opposed to 46%), and graduate teachers are relatively highly paid.
The student-teacher ratios are similar (older schools, 17.0:1: newer schools,
19.4:1). Graduate teachers are graduates of the Erdiston TeacAer Training
College. The cost of textbooks was taken from the MOE of Edueztion capital
budget.
27.       Private recurrent coste.  For the same reasons as in the case of
primary education, it is assumed that the opportunity cost of income foregone
is zero. Of the 1,225 children who had left secondary school in 1983/84, who
had not emigrated and whose current activity was known, only 241 were in
employment and the great majority of these were aged 17 or more, that is,
were graduates or close to graduation (Ministry of Education Digest of
Statistics 1983/84, Table 28). The examinations item is the US$40 charge for
the school-leaving examinations held at the end of the five years.



-33-
ANNEX 4
Page 9 of 11
28.       Capital costs.  The capital cost data are from appraisal estimates
of the new Wotton secondary school. The estimates of the amortization costs
assume a 25-year lifetime for construction and civil works, a 15-year
lifetime for furniture, a 10-year lifetime for equipment, and a 10% interest
rate per year. The corresponding amortization rates are therefore 11%, '3Z
and 16% per year, respectively.
29.       The Cost of Vocationalizing Secondary Education.  The following
paragraphs provide estimates of the incremental cost of increasing the
vocational content of secondary education in Barbados. The estimates show
the cost of replacing one student-hour per day of ordinary academic classroom
teaching by one student-hour of vocational teaching, for the main types of
vocational education. For reference, the incremental cost of a student-hour
of science teaching is also calculated. No allowance has been made for
repercussions on administrative costs or other overheads. The calculations
employ the following assumptions: (a) students spend seven hours per day in
school; (b) the class size for ordinary lessons is 30 for workshops and
laboratory work 15 (c) teachers, technical instructors, classrooms and
workshops are fully utilized; (d) the capital costs (construction, furniture
and equipment) are based on appraisal estimates of the new Wotton school.
30.       Instructor costs.  The conversion of one hour per day of classroom
teaching into one hour of workshop teaching requires one additional teacher
for one-seventh of the day (two workshop instructors instead of one classroom
teacher, for one hour per day). Since public recurrent expenditure per
student in 1983/84 was US$773 (Table 1) and 90% of this was wage costs, the
wage cost per student was US$696. The cost of an additional teacher,
one-seventh time, is therefore approximately US$100 per student-year. This
estimate is biased upwards because the public expenditure figure includes
administrative and other non-reaching wage costs. The Barbados Estimates
1985/86 indicate that teachers' salaries account for approximately 85Z of the
wage costs of the government secondary schools. The marginal teacher cost of
increasing vocational teaching by one hour per day is therefore of the order
of US$85 per student-year.
31.       Capital costs.  Table 2 presents the Wotton data for three types of
vocational training, for science laboratory work and for classroam teaching.
The cost of two other workshops (auto and electrical) are based on these
data. The science laboratory costing assumes that the students will work in
pairs and makes provisions for storeroom space. Construction cost is
estimated at US$536 per sq.m. for wzrkshops, US$714 per sq.m. for laboratory
facilities and US$629 per sq.m. for classrooms (including the cost of
buildings, site work, professional fees, and physical contingencies of 10).
Furniture is costed at 10% of building cost and the cost of equipment is
based on standard kits. The amortization assumptions are as stated in para.
28. The capital cost per student-year of switching one hour per day of
classroom time to workshop time is one-seventh of the amortized cost ner
student-place of the workshop, less the corresponding figure for a clacsroom
place.



-34-
ANNEX 4
Page 10 of 11
Table 2: Capital Costs of Workshop and Classroom Places (US$)
Workshop                 Cost/     Amortized
Cost      Places       Place     Cost/Place
Woodwork
Construction (100 sq.m.)        53,604       20        2,680          295
Furniture                        4,125                   206           27
Equipment                       20,000                 1,000          160
Total                              77,729                 3,886          482
Metalwork
Construction (100 sq.m.)        53,604       20        2,680          295
Furniture                        4,125                   206           27
Equipment                       30,000                 1,500          240
Total                              87,729                 4,386          562
Basic Auto
Construction (120 sq.m.)        64,325       20        3,216          354
Furniture                        4,950                   248           33
Equipment                       25,000                 1 250          199
Total                              94,275                 4,714          586
Electric/Electronics
Construction (80 sq.m.)         42,884       20        2,144          236
Furniture                        3,300                   165           22
Equipment                       15 000                   750          120
Total                              61,184                 3,059          378
Technical Drawing
Construction (90 sq.m.)         56,606       30        1,887          208
Furniture                        4,356                   145           19
Equipment                        9,000                   300           48
Total                              69,962                 2,332          275
Science
Construction (90 sq.m.)         64,325       30        2,144          236
Furniture                        4,950                   165           22
Equipment                       20 000                   667          107
Total                              892340                 2,976          364
Classroom
Construction (54 sq.m.)         33,964       30        1,132          125
Furniture                        3,530                   118           15
Total                              37,494                 1,250          140



-35-
ANNEX 4
Page 11 of 11
Table 3: Cost of One Additional Workshop/Laboratory Hour
per day, per student-year (USS)
1/7                Marginal
Amortized   Amortized  Classroom  Capital   Instructor   Total
Workshop      Cost/Place    Cost         Cost      Cost        Cost        Cost
Woodwork         482           69        20         49         85          134
Metalwork        562           80        20         60          85         145
Basic auto       586           84       20          64         85          149
Electricity/     378           54        20         34          85         119
Electronics
Tech. drawing    275           39        20         19         85          104
Science Lab      364           52       20          32         85          117
32.       Incresental cost by workshop. Table 3 combines the estimates of
marginal capItal cost and marginal instructor cost for each type of workshop
and for science laboratory work. The marginal cost of converting one hour
per day of classroo, teaching into, say, woodwork !nstruction is US$155 per
student-year. Since the average cost of a student-year is US$1,439
(Table 1), this would represent an increase of 11%. The average cost of
vocationalizing one hour per day is US$130 taking the options listed. The
cost of converting one hour of classroom teaching to laboratory work is 10I
lower than this figure.
33.       Conclusion.  It appears that the cost of converting one hour of
teaching per day into vocational training is equivalent to 9% of the present
average of secondary education. The cost of converting it into science
laboratory work would be about 10 less than the cost of vocationalization.
The estimates are subject to two qualifications. First, they assume
efficient use of classrooms, workshops, teachers, vocational instructors and
full-size teaching groups. In practice, efficient utilization is not the
norm. Second, they make no provision for the cost of materials and power
used in the workshops and science laboratory, w.Ahich may be 202 or more of the
total cost. The estimates are therefore biased downwards and should be
regarded as minimum flgures.



-36-
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 2
BARBADOS
SECOND EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
Employment and Manpower Demand
1.        Despite very small changes in total industrial employment between
1983 and 1984, there was considerable redistribution among sub-sr.ctors.
While the garment sub-sector had a loss of 370 jobs, there were increases of
246 in non-metallic minerals, 124 in data processing and S8 in electronics.
The job increases were mainly in the higher skilled worker classifications,
while the losses were mainly in the unskilled and semi-skilled
classifications.   Further evidence of this redistribution of employment is
seen in the decline of 7X in employment in the tourism sector even though the
sector had a real growth rate in GDP of 7X. These and other such employment
shifts carry implications for training, especially in light of the lower
population groroth rate. The kinds and levels of skills required for entry
level jobs in the modern sector enterprises are rapidly changing. As
investment (both local and foreign) in export industries increases, the skill
level requirements of both skilled workers and technicians are rapidly
rising. Concurrent with this situation is a roughly corresponding increase
in the levels of skills required in the service sectors, such as,
transportation, communications, electricity, water, and others on which
modern industry is increasingly dependent. Foreign investors in medium and
higher technology industries demand relatively high levels of performance of
craftsmen and technicians. They cannot and will not wait on the slow and ad
hoc on-the-job training system which has been traditional in Barbados for
these types of skilled manpower, nor can they afford to provide themselves
the required levels of skills and still compete in international markets. If
such entry level skills are not availaole, so that workers can be quickly
upgraded on-the-job, then the potential iLn-estors will go elsewhere.
2.        BIMAP's manpower projections a/ from 1980 to 2000 indicate a highly
significant growth in demand for the more industrially oriented and higher
technological levels of trained manpower. While the study on which these
data are based suffers from a number of deficiencies, among which are errors
in classification between technician and professional levels (too many are
classified higher than they should be), the orders of magnitude provided are
helpful indicators of which areas of training need to be strengthened.
Occupation                   1980/85    1985/90    1990/95    1995/2000
Professional Technicians            1073        1926       2005        1968
Skilled Workers:
Bookkeepers, Cashiers, etc.       246        524         578         583
Machine Fitters, Assemblers       261        536         553         605
Construction Workers              683        1789       1841        1734
Plumbers, Welders, etc.           134        383         387         363
a/ A Preliminary Report on Professional and Technical Manpower Requirements
in Barbados 1980-2000. BIMAP, September 1982.



-37-
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 2
3.        Mission discussions with high level officials of the Ministry of
Planning and the Industrial Development Corporation, as well as visits with
more than a dozen managers of major industries, resulted in verbal
confirmation of the general validity of these projections. Moreover, it is
expected that an 'establishments survey now under planning by the Ministry
of Labor will show an even larger growth in demand for certain types of
technicians and skilled workers.
4.        The Government of Barbados is fully aware of the increasingly
critical need for both entry level training for skilled workers and
technicians and the upgrading of employed workers' technical skills. Both of
these types of training require that the training take place either wholely
or partly in well-equipped training centers. Consequently, the upgrading and
expansion of the Samuel J. Prescod Polytechnic, the Barbados Community
College (BCC), and the National Training Board (NTB) Centers are directed
towards this end.



-38-
I  6
Pi I d 2
uw -         -    im
ftkmry Sduols to be Am1Ena
Ninud 9tmeu 1PofSh            inwa
Tae aJ      90eed 11mli            1990         Tm-n          Rmta   mat.                  oob
_1 u          _   imi                                     ihl b .                & Odu       I
ANMWHd                                                              q:F_t.      a- &                           -
Siedu         QMdt    RPt  JIdt              km.  Thal.   Imd   IMutaf  Ixs.   StafE    Jam .M.                koft P
St. Ibt's          42D      60       IM     240    42       1       6        9      6       1:30    I:D       I       Tb adlqdfkleW:
do a  dp atAib.;
-m ddldmaA thmfr
tmdin (SE fra
'big  (50) a
bay (5D); rIndpI to
do rLaw" imL.
UyIl*b             360      40       100    190    330      1       6        8      5       1h23   1IM2       5
st. h     mtX     42D       3D       13M    240    30       1       5        9      S       1:3     II        4
sc.-  d           42D       20       123    240    311     1        5       9       5       1:5    I:D        2
habb               350      59       9D     UO    32D       1       5       8       5       I*U     1 23      8       frupm1 to do raw"
*     Imap bdF l fr
:t .r              360      40       110    210    360      1        5       8      5       1:30    1:31      7       %Ialf e           afmlmut
1tbuad  slhid be
SMMMdAI. Pdndpd
to do rAda uod.
SpuI"tw            360      40      100    20    340      1        5       8       5       1:30    1:25      6       Ftfndr1 tdo raw
SBy]s             423       50      110     220    30D     1        5       8       6       1:32    I:D       9       1dimlto do rmi
mAck DM            360      2D       90     130    290     1        4       8       5       1:27    12       10
St. 9tom          8so       SD0     2D      40    710      1        10      17      8       I:D     1:5S      3
".   ,                                                    23       70      10      75
_wjatd  tiU    430                                         10      56      92      55
13      14       12     20
aC~mi_itm am i *o a_bul mS  of uaX a tat In sta*d    a   c3muum   MIW.



-39-
5AD08                                    AEX 6
U     D zDrArX  hWWAUD  Pau=                           Pp 2 of 2
Prim" Sdioob to be _I_ed
Cqa-      kStd_                           Cfrmatk. Costirwtion
city      PdaY           A      _yomik-  Not  Cst(lDOOO) COt(U)60)  15       Ttdal         Wl1L
hmlgmtsl   oE          Sdro1s to        tion      An                              Site    CV.il  Furnd- X
Sdmol      Mug.    be RqldW           AnJ   In             .       pwr   Sub  D1rel   Waft   tore
Sdioola                             sq. 6       sq. a. eq.6 TCA   Ozt    out    Out
SAIN  MMY's  420   St. thy's lIfants A c            1013 359   355  0.78  1066.69
St. M9y's Pamy OCrd (ait   20D0 (          0  0.40    80.00
Total       1213       355         1146.69 172.00  133.69 60.00  63.00
STAUTD's  420   St.MWnt1mS   "    Ac. adc           1013 352   355  0.78  1066.69
St.bxnetm Girls Osrd Cexut   200 CZ        0  0.40    8000
Total       1213       355         1146.69 172.00 131.69 60.00  63.00
sr. Snow's  840   St.Stq2pun JmIom  Ade,    1768 3^    619  0.78  16.70
St.Stqdmn infuz.  Owrd Cart   400 at       0  0.40   160.00
Total       2168       619         2021.70 3M.26  2324.96 136.00  63.00
Sr. WKTAS        4)   St. Ihtthime Boys  Ac         1013 3s    355  0.78  1066.69
St. lAtthiin Glrls COrd Cort   200 (O      0  0.40      MO.00
Total       1213       355         1146.69  172.00 13B3.69  60.00  63.00
SPEGRTSIW     360   St. Pter's lirls   11_           8  3s   311  0.78   935.06
SpeightstD  Boys  Curd Cart   200 CZ       0  0.40    8.00
Total       1088       311         1015.06 152.26 1167.32 60.00  56.00
MT. MUM        360   Mt. Mhbor          Acmdc        888 35Z   311  0.78   935.06
Quiy Grvwe        Curd Cmrt   200 (K       0  0.40       0o.
Total      108        311         1015.06 152.26 1167.32 60.00  56.00
BDAIEY'S      42D   Bayley'e            A8rndr    1013 35    355  0.78  1066.69
Skffrn1           Cwrd Ourt   200 0K       0  0.40    80.00
St.catheivI       Total       1213       355          114669 172.00 1338.69 60.00  63.00
BLACK ESS      360   St. Bafard         A-dc         888 35Z   311  0.78   935.06
:ackc Ban         Curd Caurt   200 CZ      0  0.40    80.00
TOl         1088       311         1015.06 152.26  1167.32 60.00  56.00
SEL4{         360   Selsh               Acmdic       556 35   .195  0.78   585.47
St.  dd.is        Curd Cawt   200 (K       0  0.40    80.00
Total        756       195          665.47  99.82  76529 60.00  56.00
HIIABY         360    ULlaby            Acede        88 35Z   311  0.78   935.06
Troes  dlA         Ourd Cart   200 (K      0  0.40    8D.00
Total       18         311         1015.06 152.26  1167.32 60.00  56.00
Alaemc    9928        3475        10454.18
TlL          4320                     OnCld Cout  2200         0          88D.00
Total      12128      3475  0.73  11334.18 1700.13 13034.31 676.00 595.00
Costper                                                                              _                     _ __5_2 6
Ccst per Plabne (R~)                                                       21iZ3.65        3017.20 156.48  13J.73



-40-
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 6
BARBADOS
SECOND EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
Unit Costs in Primary Education aad
the Rate of Return to Primary School Amalgamations
Note: All estimates are in US$, converted at B$2 - US$1.
I. Aggregate Estimates of Unit Costs
Public Recurrent Costs
1.        The calculations of public recurrent costs per student-year are
based on 1983/84 aggregate data for all government schools providing pr'uary
education (infants, juniors and composite). In 1983/84 public recurrent
expenditure on primary education was US$15,700,000, of which US$14,694,000
was wages and national insurance and US$1,006,000 other recurrent expenditure
(Barbados Estimates). total enrol,ment in that year in government primary
schools, including seniors in the composite schools, was 30,691. These
figures imply a unit cost of US$512 per student-year, US$479 for wages and
salaries and US$33 for other recurrent expenditure.
Table 1: Primary Education Unit costs
Public Recurrent costs
Wages and National Insurance           479
Other Recurrent Expenditure             33
Private Recurrent Costs
Uniforms, Shoes, school Bags            90
Textbooks, Notebooks, and Pencils       20
Opportunity Cost of Income Foregone   -0-
Total Recurrent Cost                     622
Amortized Capital Costs
Construction and Civil Works           193
Furniture and Equipment                 21
Total Capital Cost                       214
Total Recurrent and Capital Cost         836



-41-
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 6
Private Recurrent Costs
2.        The estimates of private recurrent costs are based on data obtained
in school visits. No transportation costs are included since most primary
school children walk to school, but by the same token provision has been made
for the purchase of shoes. the opportunity cost of income foregone has been
assumed to be zero since primary education is compulsory and in any case,
with unemployment at 17Z, it is doubtful whether a child of primary school
age could command a significant wage. In this respect it is worth noting
that agriculture accounts for only 8% of employment and there is therefore
not even much scope for unpaid employment on family landholdings.
Capital costs
3.        Capital costs are derived from the estimated costs of a 360-student
school: US$632,500 for construction and civil works, including circulation,
walling, sunscreening and site development, and US$30,028 for furniture, the
corresponding costs per student place being US$1,757 and US$160,
respectively. The estimates of the amortization costs assume a 25-year
lifetime for construction and civil works, a 15-year lifetime for furniture
and equipment, and a 10% interest rate. (The amortization rates are
therefore 11Z and 13% per year, respectively.)
II. School Amalgamation and Unit Costs
4.        Unit costs derived from aggregate data differ from those
encountered in project work in two respects. Firsts, they take no account of
the dispersal of the population and the fact thiat schools vary in size, and
second they relate to the average rather than the marginal cost of a
student-year.
5.        The amalgamations in the project involve the combination of two or
three (in one case, four) small schools into larger new schools of more
efficient size. Discussions with head teachers on school visits revealed
that the ideal size of a primary school would be between 400 and 420 places.
This would permit the school to run two classes of 30 children in each of the
three pre-primary grades and in each of the four primary grades. In practice
the two classes in the first pre-primary grade ("reception") would be smaller
than 30 since not all children eligible for admission to it (those who will
reach the age of 5 during the school year) present themselves promptly at the
beginning of September.
Advantages of the Twin-Class,School
6.         Although in principle a school could be designed on the basis of a
single class in each grade, that is, with a total enrollment of 200, the twin
class system has several significant advantages.
7.        First, it permits children to be streamed by ability in each grade,
allowing more careful attention to be given to the needs of both fast and
slow learners. In some of the schools visited, slow learners were found to
be unofficially repeating a year, being seated at the back of the class



-42-
ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 6
below. In one, they had been grouped into a "remedial" class and it was by
no means evident that this isolation was to their advantage.
8.        Second, the fluctuations in the enrollment in each grade caused by
variations in the population of school age are in general less severe for a
larger school with a wider catchment area.
9.        Third, the fluctuations in enrollment caused by changes in parents'
preferences between local schools are eliminated if the school is large
enough to cater to its entire catchment area.
10.       Fourth, the logistical problems caused by a teacher going on
short-term leave or being absent sick are less severe in a school vwth twin
classes..
11.       Although the optimal size of a school would appear to be at least
400, half of the schools in the proposed project are for only 360 children.
In most of these cases (but not all), the catchment population projected for
1990 will not be large enough to support a full-size school.
Amalgamation Options
12.       In each of the 10 amalgamations in the project it is proposed that
the existing schools should be replaced by one new school built from
scratch. In some cases this may be the only practicable option, the sites
and structures of the existing schools being unsuitable for re-use. But in
others the re-use and expansion of one or perhaps even two of the existing
schools may represent a more efficient alternative, securing the same
economies of scale with a smaller capital outlay. One of the objectives of
the amalgamation is to reduce teacher salary costs by improving
student-teacher ratios, and it can be achieved equally well by combining
infants and juniors in one school or by teaching them in separate schools.
Further economies in overheads (in particular, the salaries of a head teaeher
and kitchen workers) can be achieved by having one school rather than two,
but these savings are not necessarily as important.
13.       While there is no single amalgamation pattern, the following
example is representative and illustrates the range of options available and
the costs involved. It also permits the calculation of the rate of return to
typical options. It will be assumed that two schools with enrollments of 120
and 240 exist in the catchment area and that the following options are being
considered.
(a) (for reference) to leave the two schools as they are;
(b) to amalgamate them into a new school with 360 children;
(c) to amalgamate the schools, teaching the pre-primary children in the
larger of the two existing schools and building a new school for
the primary schoolchildren; and
(d) to expand the larger of the existing schools, retaining its
existing premises and adding extra classrooms to furnish
accomodation for 360 children.



-43-                                            7
S,=  SM      MAD GRIP
TUbl 2L- Ainlgmtia  Optims  for PrInx  Schw3s
WPIG A           011DE B         (WYlE C          aff= D           tmM B
New      d8tLig    f Ek tstg    zIstit
&IM1z Sw    W      NiS bo    S               S         Sdbol        sd1o1
P1                               2240       12D         360         215       145       360        215   145
Pkb1fr bewra  -gaLtr
BHd  DTeahr                     15,000   15,000      15,000       15,000   15,000     bawrst       Reoreut
Otber Tead1zu                  158,400   92,400    184,800      105,600   79,200    cats -         cots -
Other 1                         12,600   12,600      12,600      12,600   12,60D    for 3          for C
Otber Cut                       9,120    5,700       10,500       6,360    4,98e
Total by Sdmol              195M    125,700    222,900       09,WO   111,780
-ctal by OPtim                   320820          222,900           251I280         222,90D      251,280
Cm twoim, and Civil             -                   632,500     517,00                 1,000        90,000
R,rdbire awd  1q.mt                                  59,600      48,700                18,000        9,000
TOTAL                                     692,100      565,700               19s.oo       99s.mo



-44-
ANNEX 7
Page 5 of 6
Notes and Assumptions for Table 2. Private recurrent expenditure and
expenditure on materials for meals have been excluded from the table because
the per student cost is unaffected by the choice of option. Average monthly
salary of head teacher is US$1,250 and of other teachers US$1,100. Each
school requires 3 kitchen staff paid US$320 per month and a part-time
gardener/handyman paid USS90 per month. Other costs are 5Z of public
recurrent expenditure (average for this item for primary education as a
whole).
Option A. The existing 240-student school will in p-inciple be running twin
ciasses for each grade and have 14 teacher posts, with undersize classes.
However, it will have eliminated one reception class, since not all children
attend promptly, and one class in another grade where a fluctuation in the
local birthrate has been responsible for a small number of children. The
existing 120 student school will have 7 teachers, one for each grade.
Option B. The new 360 student school will require 14 teachers, one for each
twin class in each grade. Capital costs are as in the Loan Proposal.
Ottion C. The new 215-student school will require 8 teachers, two for each
ot the four grades of primary school. The existing school being re-used will
require 6 teachers, two for each pre-primary grade.  The estimate o' the cost
of construction and civil works for the 215-student school assumes the same
configuration as the 360-student school, the number of classrooms being 8
instead of 12 and hence the total number of sq. m. 752 instead of 920. The
cost of furniture and equipment is based on the estimate for the 360-student
school and reduced in the same proportion as the construction costs.
Option D. The capital costs assume the construction of 6 new classrooms on
the site of the larger of the two existing schools (252 sp.m. at US$712 per
sp. m. including circulation, sunscreening, civil works, etc.), and furniture
and equipment at 102 of construction cost.
Option E. The capital cost of the re-use of the existing schools - one now
housing all the primary children and the other housing all the pr-primary
children - assumes the construction of one new classroom on the larger site
and two on the smaller one, with corresponding furniture and equipment.
14.       Table 2 provides estimates of the recurrent costs and t;.'
incremental capital costs of each of these options, making appropriate
assumptions. For simplicity, expenditure which would be unaZfpct'pd by the
choice of option (private recurrent expenditure and the cost of materials for
meals) have been omitted from the calculations.
15.       Table 3 presents (a) the rate of return to implementation
Options B-D, in each case taking Option A as the alternative, assuming a
25-year lifetime for furniture and equipment as well as for construction; and
(b) the net present value of each option, again relative to Option A,
assuming a discount rate of 10% per year.



-45-
ANNEX 7
Page 6 of 6
Table 3: Rate of return (Z) and Net Present Value o;
Options B-D, relative to Option A
Option B Option C Option D Option E
Rate of Return             13.5      11.5       49.5      70.0
Net Present Value      196,700      65,500    690,800   532,200
16.       The figures indicate that a development on the lines of Option D is
likely to be the most efficient alternative, achieving a substantial
reduction in recurrent expenditure with a relatively small capital
investment. The re-use of an existing school would eliminate the need to
build new central facilities and the cost of the marginal classrooms is low.
17.       Option E has an even higher rate of return, but on a smaller
investments, and the net benefit (present discounted value of the reduction
in current expenditure, less capital cost) is slightly lower.
18.       In those cases where the existing schools occupy sites where
expansion is impossible, Option B is likely to be preferred to Option D. If
a new school has to be built at all, it is worthwhile incurring the extra
cost of making it large enough to accomodate all the children.
19.       Since many of the project schools are housed in old church halls or
similar buildings in cramped, centre village sites, Option B may well be the
typical outcome. It may be preferred even where Option D is a feasible
alternat4ve if the quality of the education is likely to be significantly
enhanced by the provision of new buildings. The amortized capital cost of a
student place in primary educaiton represents only a quarter of the total
cost per student year and hence the effect on the quality of schooling may be
an overriding factor.



-46-
Pa 1 of 2
9!K 1 EllJd    AM  1RIM  I
Tedhcail Asuistw   Ni 1Taididv hF&*ize
FRW Pdhy mu   miz  Ezatimi ad
and Tmtiwtlmnl hwkpinE cc the PM
TMIMLM   scoimzri
mrald Ar                                          Oft4utb)        Oiu Tcal mmw
Educatlio Pmamirg       ]Improup the budgetfig and        5             5
aid NmIqtmE              axmii roins of ME,
fntrodud1* a loqp-tem
hadWtIZI  IIII data
-ta         tedmique ad
Tq,rcwe adioli supervision       3             3         105 beal tee.hezo - (15 dgas)
pi=alces (for Head Natem).                               20 swoidry sdDol
heida nstern    - (15 days)
Review tetLrg aid    ue         12            12         32 udhmtlou  f fkceu
uMit jaies  usel by I,IE                               and 40 sdmol gutddce
ccxmello        - (1 das)
Tqrcwe ddlis for u.ondr         12             6         32 educalbor offkcezo (5 days)
-og In ahzmtion (for
educationEfi                   lters).
Supply !hnamein          Tuwea  textbodk procaummet                     6         3 suppIly         steff
aiddistribtion system.
Teaddxt  Practfm  In     1ugrove curdoicluu              12             6         32 auzcmtlio officar - (5 days)
PrIn.ry WA semwxary      me-aa   strategies.                                     100 sdxuo1 temim  - (10 days)
sdwdg ~ ~  ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     0
Tl     teghix  LE subect        10                       200 tedhern - (5 das)
mrm (e.g. foze:gp ]azgusg,
bzsi _s ediuation, pargwge
arts, rnthmtice aid
sdenw.
Tprawe teaobizg of reaIirg.     10            12         1500 teadhem -
wrLtig. uimracy aid                                      (3 wo.mbkpB - 3 day. eadi)
i-     arts.
IAudio Viminl Alids     TIqirce producIon of printed      3             3
untedalss in ME.
lipe educatilal tedng1a   y      3             3         50 tea_be  - tD be trdneld in
prcgrnm - telelsvu     aid                               the use cf libraxies.  - (2 days)
sdiool library iearvice.
Rmorgdw ME Liwaxy                -             6
iuThIS                                          70            62         10,445 d-s



*                               I                      1
111                               -                                  S1  
KX   g I   o  oW  o  S I   too        o     g      11# -I   I-
.  t  z ; F "~.              I.        [I.



-48-
BARBADOS                               AMX 9
Pap 1 of 2
S-  =D ANAD M T W
Sduchz*  fA    _  da   : Seton    Sdcaools
Type of             .N No    Net Area Circulation Coxticn  FurniwUe  .ThL
AcctSOdatlmSI          Of    of    (sq. Dl.) & Walirg   Cot (BC00D)  aai            lMllE
unit              Place  Units  -                  -                  Eq ut   Cot
Per  Sub  Z  sq. .  per   Sub    Costs
Unit Total            sq. m. Total
Regular Clwaserccs          30      10  54   540 35%   189    0.88  641.52
Spcial clWssroams           30       2  75   150 35X   53    0.88  17&20
SdLence Lab Inc Prep. Arer   30      4  90   360 35%   126    1.00  486.00
Art and Crafts Inc Storage   30      2  90   180 35%   63    0.88  213.84
Ibrary                               1 180   180 35%   63    0.88  213.84
Tedmlcul Drndg              30       1  75    75 35%   26    0.88   89.10
AhIdntteach Roams/Lounge             1 250   250 35%   88    0.88  297.00
Nafrite-a e/Storage/Utility          1  25    25 35%       9    0.88   29.70
Tbilets Loc.kers                     1 200   200 35%   70    1.20  324.00
Subtotal                                    1960       686          2473.20
Add 15% Site Develop                                                 370.98
Add Repairs/Alteratious                     1600               0.35  560.00
TOML Civil Workt                                                    3404.18
Furniture Cost                                                                185.60
Equlptnt Cost                                                                 292.00
TOML PRWJCr (DST                                                    3404.18  477.60    3881.78
SPRfl(Z 1MUCA
LIbrary                              1  180  180 35%   63    0.88  213.84
Tedmica1D  ndrg             30       1   75   75 35%   26    0.88   89.10
Abhint.FerShe'W RIoDS                1  250  250 35%   88    0.88  297.00
Science lab inc Prep Areas   30      i   90  180 35%   63    1.00  243.00
SHkk Bay                             2   10   20 35%       7    0.88   23.76
Tbdlet/Lodems                        1  100  100 35%   35    1.20  162.00
Covered HiltIpurpose Area            1  300  300  OX    0    0.75  225.00
Subtotal                                    1105       282          1253.70
Add 10% Site D1be1qu.nt                                              125.37
Add epairsm/Alteratlocs                     700                0.35  245.00
TOMAL Civil Works                                                   1624.07
Fumiture Cbst                                                                 133.50
EwqIn.ut Cost                                                                 200.00
TOTAL PRCJEtC awS_                                                  1624.07  333.50   1957.57



.49-
HARBAOS                                alEX 9
Pip 2 d 2
SOND  1EATICI AND TRhAThT    PRD
Schedule of  hadatiu: Secondary ShboolsCAflIC AND TRAINING PFWECr
T~ype of             No    No    Net Area Circulation ConstuCtiol  Fumibte   IUl
Arcanodatl01           of    of    (sq. m.) & Walliz    Cost (3$000)  aid           PE)E
ulit               Places Units    -               -                  E*- -mnt   Cosut
Per  Sub  X  sq. m.  per   Sub    Cuts
Unit Total            sq. m. Total
Regular Claseroccs          30      24  52  1248 35Z  437    0.88 1482.62
Special Clasroams           30       3  78   234 352   82    0.88  277.99
Scieno  Labs w/ Frep area    30      4  90   360 352  126    1.00  486.00
Mbsic RoDn                  20       1  80    80 35Z   28    0.88   95.04
Arts and Crafts             20       2  78   156 35%   55    0.88   185.33
Photo Iab                            1  30    30 352   11    0.88   35.64
library                              1 150   150 352   53    0.88  178.20
Temical Dawidg              30       1  78    78 352   27    0.88   92.66
Commerce/Typiqg Room        30       2  78   156 35Z   55    0.88  185.33
Coddig                      20       2  78   156 352   55    0.88  185.33
5 . d mjN g  o i # l   Y I a f t  20  1  60    60 352   21    0.88   71.28
Ahdcddt rrher/Roaus/LourAge          1 300   300 352  105    0.88  356.40
l4slntenanoe/Storage/Utfilty         1 120   120 352   42    0.88  142.56
j 8nteen                             I 100    100 35%   35    0.88  118.80
lbiliets/[DCkerw                     1 240   240 35Z   84    1.20  388.80
Sirk B                               2  10    20 32        7    0.88   23.76
Cowvered Mujt1pupse Area             1 300   300  0%    0    0.50  150.00
AgKrculture Shed                     1  60    60  0(       0    0.88   48.00
WoNetal WorkssWs wJ8tor  20          2 120   240 252   60    0.75  225.00
Subtotal                                   3468       1214          4728.74
Add 15X Site Developzent                                             709.31
ITOAL Civil Wark8                                                   543B.06
Furniture                                                                    300.00
Equipment Cost                                                               600.00
ITOAL PmiaEr 26ST                                                   5438.06 900.00      6338.06
1ARSI 0IU_                                     _
Civil. Waiks                                                                 none
Funiture Cost                                                               115.40
Equlpment Coste                                                              160.00
70rLp PFJj (ST C_                                                            275.40     275.40



-50-
ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 4
BARBADOS
SECOND EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
SAMUEL J. PRESCOD POLYTECHNIC:   Proposed Upgrading and Expansion
of Training and Strengthening of
Administrative Procedures
I. Proposed Program Development
Objectives of Component
1.        The proposed project component would directly assist the Government
in implementing its new policies, as stated in its 1983-88 Development Plan,
of ensuring that the education and training system can fully support the
overall economic policy goal of diversification of the economy. It
contributes directly to the attainment of four of the five stated objectives
of the plan.
Description of Component
2.        The proposed project would provide the following inputs to
facilitate the attainment of the stated objectives.
3.        Improving Administative Procedures.  Improvements in practices and
procedures in student enrollment and records keeping, financial management
and accounting, inventory control, personnel management and institution
general management would be assisted through the provision of:
(a) a small computer, software, peripheral and related
related office equipment                                US$12,000
(b)  staff training (mainly locally)                             3,000
Sub-Total                                     US$15,000
4.        Improvements in instruction, in internal efficiency and external
effectiveness of training programs and moderate increases in the outputs of
trained manpower would be assisted through the provision of:
(a)  Supplementary equipment so as to make more efficient use of
existing facilities:
-  Communications electronics           US$45,000
-  Electrical installations                 36,000
-  Food preparation                        25,000
-  Printing                                 50,000
-  Welding                                   5,000
-  Mechanical programs                     84,000
Sub-Total                                   US$245,000
(b)  Staff training-local and abroad                          160,000
(c) Specialist assistance (curriculum)                        100,000
Total Cost                                  US$520,000



-51-
ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 4
5.        Quantitative improvements resulting from the above investments
would be:
(a)  Increases in enrollments of full-time students:
-  Communications electronics                36
-  Printing                                  15       56FTEl/
-  Mechanical                                 5
(b)  Increases in apprentices and secondary school trainees on one and
two day-release training programs:
-  Communications electronics                36
-  Electrical installations                  54
-  Welding                                   54
-  Carpentry                                144      702 (154 FTE)
-  Garment making                           144
-  Mechanical                               144
-  Food preparation                         144
(c) Increases in evening class enrollments:
-  Electrical installations                  36
-  Printing                                  30       66 (11 FTE)
Total Increased Capacity                824 (221 FTE)
(d) Total enrollments:
- Actual in 1984-85 schoolyear:
* Full time day students              576
*  Appentiship trainees               145
  Secondary cooperative students    347
*  Evening cooperative students       473
Total Enrollment              1,541 (16% girls)
- Projected as a result of supplementary
equipment:
2 Increase
 Full time day students              632              40
*  Apprenticeship trainees            145                0
*  Secondary cooperative students    702               100
* Evening cooperative students        539               14
Total Enrollment             2,0182/ (30% girls)
1/   PTE - Full time Equivalent
2/   This increase could be attained with only a total additional investment
of about US$310 per additional trainee (or US$1,100 per full timc
equivalent trainee), all of which is for supplementary equipment. This
contrasts very sharply with the approximately US$8,500 per full time
trainee it would cost to build furnish and equip separate training
programs in the above trades for this number of trainees.



-52-
ANNEX 10
Page 3 of 4
6.   Qualitative improvements resulting from this component would mainly be:
(a)  increased efficiency, in the utilization of existing capital
investments;
(b)  enhancing the quality of instruction;
(c)  improving student motivation and retention as a result of improved
equipment and course syllabi;
(d)  improving articulation and coordination of vocational and technical
training effort among the secondary schools, the Polytechnic and
the Comu-nity College (all under the Ministry of Education) on the
one hand, and between- them and the National Training Board, on the
other,; and
(e)  improving the relevan e of training prog-rams to the rapidly
evolving needs of industry through, in addition to the above,
strengthening and formalizing its relations with industry and
follow-up of on-the-job performance of graduates.
Marginal Recurrent Costs of Project
7.        The additional recurrent costs, when the project component is fully
operational with the additional equipment in the 1987-88 school year would be
about B$163,000 (US$181,500) in constant 1985 prices (July 1, 1985). This
represents an increase of about 5% over the Polytechnic's recurrent budget
allocation of B$3.48 million for the 1985-86 school year, which, in itself
represented an increase over 1984-85 of 25% (Annex 4).
Instructor Recruitment and Training
8.        The Polytechnic has consistently had considerable problems in the
recruitment and retention of good technically qualified instructional staff
for the full-time positions. However, through vigorous recruiting, partially
abroad, they are able to keep staffed with fairly well qualifi3d
instructors. Recruitment is complicated by the fact that the top of the
instructor pay scale for the Polytechnic is about 10% less than that for
vocational teacners in the secondary schools where the actual technical
skills requirements are much lower. This was called to the attention of the
Permanent Secretary of MOE who promised to look into an equitable solution.
9.        In-service pedagogical training is provided under the project for
upgrading instructional skills. The technical skills of key instructional
staff would be upgraded through study tours abroad (72 staff months).



-53-
ANNEX 10
Page 4 of 4
Institutional Management
10.       Short-term study tours to similar institutions in more advanced
countries would be provided the principal and deputy principal of the
Polytechnic to help them strengthen their planning and management
capabilities. The second-level managers -- registrar, accountant and
guidance counsellor - would have their capabilities upgraded through a
combination of training locally and abroad (total 4 staff mo/hrs); for the
registrar in improving and computerizing student enrollment ana performance
records, through local training in improving and computerizing the management
of financial records for the accountant; and a short internship in a similar
institution in an advanced country for the guidance counselor to observe the
organization and operation of successful guidance and counselling programs.



-54-
ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 3
BARBADOS
SECOND EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
BARBADOS COMMUNITY COLLEGE: Proposed Upgrading and Expansion of
Training Programs and Strengthening
of Administrative Procedures
I. Proposed Institutional Development
Objectives and Component
1.         The proposed project component would directly assist the
government in implementing its new policies, as stated in its 1983-88
National Development Plan, of ensuring that the education and training
system can fully support the overall economic policy goal of diversification
of the economy. The component contributes directly to the attainment of four
of the five stated objectives of the plan.
Description of Component
2.         The proposed project would provide the following inputs to
facilitate the attainment of the above objectives.
3.         Impovements in general administrative efficiency and in the
practices                 of financial management and accounting, student
enrollment and records, inventory control and personnel management would be
facilitated through: (a) expanded administration, student enrollment/records
(registrar) and financial accounting spaces; (b) provision of modern
accounting, student records and personnel management equipment, procedures
and related training; and (c) consolidation of instruction (except of hotel
training) all on the central campus where it can be more effectively
supervised and administered which would permit sharing of facilities and an
increase in their rise-factor.
4.        Improvements in instruction, internal efficiency and external
effectiveness of training programs, and expansions in the outputs of
technicians in response to the needs of the growth sectors of the economy
would be facilitated by the provision of: (a) 'purpose designed'
instructional laboratories and shops (to replace the seriously inadequate
spaces now widely scattered over the city) for training program in applied
arts and crafts, allied health cccupations, and the new training programs in
industrial electronics and computer science; (b) appropriate training
equipment, furniture and training materials for the above programs, in the
other industrial technologies and in the business and commerce programs;
and (d) fellowships training to Improve course syllabi and methodology,
program planning and instructional capabilities of key teachers:



-55-
ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 3
5.        Summary of Inputs and Estimated Base Costs (US$ million)
Construction, furniture, equipment and related
technical assistance:
Construction                                      US$ 3.06
Professional Fees                                     0.36
Furniture                                             0.25
Equipment                                             1.25
Fellowships                                           0.18
Total Base Cost                          US$ 5.10
Summary of Equipment and Furniture Costs
(US$ millions CIF)
Estimated
Division                                                   Base Costs
Computer Science                                           US$  0.26
Technology: (Industrial)
Mechanical ard others         US$ 0.12                       0.28
Electronic                        0.16
Applied Arts                                                    0.34
Allied Health Sciences                                          0.45
Administration                                                  0.15
Total Base Costs (March 1986 prices)              US$  1.48
Say     US$  1.50
6.        Quantitative Improvements of this component would be:
(a) Increases in the enrollments and additional annual outputs:
(Full-time and Part-time)
Additional
Division                   Full-time  Part-time  Total  Annual Outputs
Applied Arts                   130         70       200         65
Industrial Technology          100        174       274         75
Allied Health Sciences          90 a/       78      168         15
Commerce/Tourism                50                   50         20
Computer Science                30        100       130         30
Estimated Totals         400         422       822       205
a/   These are mostly resulting from the nursing program which is being
transferred from the Ministry of Health to the Community College
and are not real increases in 7.Arses training.



-56-
ANNEX 11
Page 3 of 3
7.        Qualitative improvements resulting from this component would mainly
be:
(a) Increasing efficiency and effectiveness in the administration of
the instructional process and in financial management (pIra. 3);
(b) Enhancing the quality of instruction, student motivation and
retention as a result of the project inputs;
(c) Upgrading the technological and pedagogical expertise of
instructors and consequently the quality of instruction; and
(d) Improving the relevance of training programs to the rapidly
evolving needs of industry, strengthening and formalizing
relationships with industry and follow-up of on-the-job performance
of its graduates.
Instructor Recruitment and Training
8.        Instructor recruitment and retention has not been a problem at the
Community College except for the industrial technology division.
Consequently extensive use has been made of part-time instructors during the
4-9 p.m. evening hours. This has its strengths in that instructors are more
fully up-to-date on industry requirements; however, the utilization of
laboratories and shops during the morning hours is relatively low. As the
supply of industrial technicians becomes more in line with demand, the
recruitment of full-time instructors will be much easier.
Marginal Recurrent Costs of Project
9.         The additional recurrent costs, when the component is fully
operational in 1989-90 in the new and fully equipped facilities would be
about B$1.36 million (US$0.64 million) in constant 1985 prices (July 1,
1985). This represents about 12X of the projected 1989-90 budget: In view
of the governments' high priority for technician training, these a-4iLtional
costs are not expected to present any problem. Details are shown in
Annex 4.



-57-
ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 6
BARBADOS
SECOND EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
NATIONAL TRAINING BOARD: Proposed Upgrading of Skills Training Program
I. Proposed Program Development
Objectives of Component
1.        The proposed skills training component would directly assist the
government, as stated in its National Development Plan of 1983-88, in
implementing the new policies of ensuring that the education and training
system can fully support the overall economic policy goal of diversification
of the economy.   The component contributes directly to the attainment of
each of the five stated objectives of the plan.
Training Centers Characteristics
3.        There would be 6 trades to be taught in each of the centers
selected from among:
Furniture making
Carpentry
Masonry, plastering and tile setting
Steel forming and placement for concrete construction
Plumbing and pipefitting
Electrical installations
Auto mechanics tune-up and general repair
Furniture and automotive upholstery
Electric and oxy-acetylene welding
Garment making
Note: Based upon industrial demand, some trades would be rotated over time
between two or more centers.
4.       NumLer of trainee places per trade in each center would be 12, with
a total of 72 trainee places per center.
5.       Centers would be operational for seven hours in the day shift and
three hours in an evening shift for five days per week and about 10 months
per year.
6.        Training programs would be of three types - apprenticeship training
on a one or two day per week -day release basis in cooperation with local
industry apprenticeship programs; the regular skills training programs for
providing entry-level skills to unemployed yot?th and adults of ages 16-30;
and those for upgrading the skills of employed industrial workers.



-58-
ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 6
(a) Apprenticeship trainlng activities in the NTB Centers would
supplement the on-going programs currently arranged with the
Polytechnic. Hbowever, they would permit the "tailorivg" of
training in accordance with the special needs of individual
companies and their annual production schedule. Such "tiilored"
training would be based upon the ILO 'modules of employable skills"
and/or on "special" training activities jointly planned with the
sponsoring company. This type of apprenticeship training would,
for many trainees, be a vast improvement over the necessarily
rather rigidly structured scheme currently arranged with the
Polytechnic due to its having to place the apprenticeship trainees
in with the full-time regular students.
(b) Regular skills training programs are based upon the ILO modules of
employable skills materials and procedures and, depending upon the
number of hours per week of instruction, the additional outputs
produced annually would be:
from modules of 3 months - 1,000; or
from modules of 6 months  -    500; or
from modules of 9 months  -    290  Trainees
Note:  Evening class enrollments could about double these
numbers.
An output of this magnitude contracts sharply with the current
annual output of about 500, mostly young unemployed adults from the
three month programs in the 8 existing makeshift, highly
unsatisfactory and poorly equipped training locales. These
makeshift 'centers would be shut down once the new centers are
operational.
(c)  On the job training would be assisted by qunolementing the on-the-
job training activities with short and ik..  tve part-time center-
based training activities for such special modules of training
(theory or practice) which the employer cannot economically
conduct.
7.        Physical plant requirements would be as follows:
(a) Locations of the three proposed new centers and the one existing
facility with adequate buildings and services which has been given
to NTB, are based upon the criteria of
-    road and transportation systems;
-    availability of adequate numbers of prospective
traineees; and
-    demand for trained workers.
Consequently, it is proposed to locate one in Bridgetown to serve
the more densely populated West Central region of the country; a
second one in the rapidly developing South Coast and South East
parishes; a third one in the Central Parish of St. George; and
provision of equipment only for the existing center located in the
Northern Parish of St. Lucy. Each of these centers would be well
served by existing bus lines and would be within about 30 minutes
of their total service area. Sites would be acquired by the time
of Board Presentation.



-59-
ANNEX 12
Page 3 of 6
(b)  Civil Works requirements for each of the new centers would be as
follows:
No. of       Size of    Subtotal
Type of Space                     Spaces        Space (m2) Space (m2)
Workshops                            1            196 m2      196 m2
Workshops                            1            160         160
Workshops                            4            125         500
Classrooms                           2             35          70
Instructors Preparation Room         1             50          50
Administrative Office                1             20          20
Clerical Office                      1             15          15
Canteen/Assembly Hall                1            120         120
Rest Room - Men                      1             12          12
Rest Room - Ladies                   1             45          45
Shop Storage Rooms:
(adjacent to shops)                1             45         45
5            24         120
Interior Circulation and Talls    (15%)                       203
Total Space Requirement of Each Center                      1,556 m2
Total Space Requirement for Three Centers                  4,668 m2
Estimated Total Base Costs                            US$ 2.16 million
(c)  Furniture and Equipment requirements 1/ would be as follows:
(CIF costs in US$'000) (12 trainees/shop)
No. of     Cost per    Total
Program of Training               Programs    Program      Cost
Furniture making                         3          30,000    90,000
Masonry, plastering and
tile setting                          2          12,000    24,000
Plumbing and pipe fitting                3          12,000    36,000
Electrical installations                 2          12,000    24,000
Auto mechanics tune-up                   3          24,000    72,000
Furniture and automotive
upholstery                            1          10,000    10,000
Electric and oxy-acetyline
welding                               2          24,000    48,000
Garment making                           3          20,000    60,000
Steel forming and placement              1           8,000      8,000
General carpentry                        2          13,000    26,000
Auto body and painting                   1          24,000    24,000
Arts and Crafts                          1          18,000    18,000
Classroom, office and canteen
furniture and equipment           4 centers 1/   30,000   120,000
Base Costs (CIF)  US$   560,000
1/  For the 3 new centers and the existing physi-cal facilitY
recently given to NTB in St. Lucy Parish.



-60-
ANNEX 12
Page 4 of 6
Marginal Recurrent Costs of Component
8.        The additional recurrent costs of the project would be significant
as they would be replacing existing small and inefficient training locales
offering inadequate training in only one or two skills in each. Based upon
mid-1985 costs, the estimated additional recurrent costs of the component,
when the four centers are operational in 1992, would be about B$ 1.26 million
(US$0.63 million) representing about 24X of their projected total budget for
that year and about 11% over the 1985-86 budget request.  (See Annex 4 for
details).
Specialist Assistance and Staff Training Abroad
9.        Because of the amount of specialist assistance which has been
received from multilateral and bilateral sources over the last 2-3 yers, the
NTB's specialist assistance needs under the project would only be about nine
more months. Also, because of the extensive staff training activities
(locally and abroad) during the last two years, only 24 man months of short-
term internships abroad would be required under the project. The total costs
of it is estimated at US$65,000 and staff internships abroad at US$125,000
(Annex 8).
II. Significant Characteristics of NTB Training System
Instructor Recruitment and Training
1.        NTB is not expected to have difficulty in recruiting the 10
additional full-time instructors and the 18 part-time instructors for the new
centers, as the salary scale is quite competitive with similarly skilled jobs
in industry. Also the working conditions are much more attractive.
Furthermore, part-time instructors would be increasingly used, especially in
the night classes, and these should be attractive for ma)y employed and
well-qualified skilled workers and supervisors.
2.        Instructors must have a minimum of five years of industrial
experience after having attained full certification in their skill
specialization.
3.        Short pre-service (120 hours) and in-service training to both full-
time and part-time staff is provided by two full-time instructor trainers who
also provide technical assistance to in-plant apprenticeship supervisors.
All teaching staff have participated, during the last two years, in formal
training activities conducted by both the NTB instructors training staff and
specialists from ILO, OAS, USAID and CINTERFOR.   Four instructors also
participated in a special 8 week training course abroad.



-61-
ANNEX 12
Page 5 of 6
Curriculum Development
4.        Most instruction is based upon the ILO Modules of employable skills
materials, with modifications to the Barbadian situation made where
necessary. In support of this, a 40 hour workshop on curriculum development
was conducted by ILO specialists in October 1984. Because of the importance
attached to this system of training by the NTB, all (18) instructional,
curriculum development and supervisory staff (including the director and
assistant director of NTB) attended the full course. Additionally, one of
the curriculum development staff attended a two week (80 hours) course abroad
on occupational analysis with the objective of improving staff capabilities
in maintaining the relevance of course syllabi.
5.        The nine NTB 'trade advisory committees' play a very important role
in keeping the training courses relevant to national development needs.
These committees range in size from six to 10 members, are appointed by the
NTB Board of Directors to staggered terms and have representatives from
industry management, employees, and from the Ministries of Education, Labour,
and Transport and Public Works.
6.        A special study to determine the relevance of existing training and
to identify additional training needs was carried out by the Research Unit
and its findings are being incorporated into the 1985 training activities.
Management
7.        The management of the NTB is well organized and in spite of very
crowded physical facilities is functioning effectively. It has received
considerable assistance in management from both multilateral and bi-lateral
agencies over its five year life. The overcrowding situation will be largely
relieved when the expansion now underway is completed in late 1985.
8.        The administration is being strengthened through increases in key
personnel and the upgrading of existing personnel as a result of the findings
of specialist assistance received and local and foreign training activities.
One of its major strengths is its active board of directors consisting of 13
of the top managers from industry, government and workers union, several of
whom are also members of the trade advisory committees".



-62-
ANNEX 12
Page 6 of 6
BARBADOS
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
NATIONAL TRAINING BOARD SKILLS TRAINING CENTERS:  Increases in Vocational
and Technical Training
Enrollments and Outputs
by Program when Centers
are Fully Operational in
1992.
Programs of                Skilled Workers                Technicians
Training              Enrollments   Outputs a/   Enrollments   Outputs a/
(FTE)                      (FTE)
Industrial Trades           1,180           840          190           75
Commercial-Tourism            140            65           50           20
Health Occupations             36            36            40          15
Arts and Crafts                74            74           165          65
Computer Science                             -            80           30
Totals          1,430         1,015 b/        515         205 c/
a/ Assuming a 10% drop-out rate for semi-skilled and skilled worker programs
and 20% fpr technician level programs.
b/ About 28% women.
'E/ About 60% women.
FTE - Full Time Equivalent



-63-
ANNEX 13
Page 1 of 3
BARBADOS
SECOND EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
Strengthening of Manpower Research and Statistics Unit
1.        If the Manpower Research and Statistics Unit is to fulfill its
assigned role in the 1983-88 National Development Plan, it must upgrade its
capability to:
(a) provide the public and private sectors with more up-to-date,
detailed and accurate information on the present, as well as the
future demand for and supply of labour; and
(b) qualify and quantify the level of skills requirements and
availability to serve as a rational basis for the planning of
education and training programs.
At the present in Barbados there is an acute lack of information on available
labour skills. There is also a lack of in-depth knowledge of what skills
ought to be available in the immediate future. As a result, there is
inadequate coordination between training and educational programmes and the
required skills which the economy demands.   This situation has resulted in
the provision of excess skills in a number of areas on the one hand and a
severe shortage of skills in strategic areas of need, on the other. A
manpower survey is essential, in order to identify areas where there are
actual shortages, provide accurate estimates of needs, to reveal areas of
Lxcess capacity, point out where the emphasis needs to be placed in regard to
both formal and informal training, and serve as an instrument of policy for
addressing the unemployment problem.
Background, Objectives and Functions of the
_~ianpove Researchand Statistics Unit
Background
1.        The Manpower Research and Statistics Unit was established in 1982.
Technical assistance was acquired from the Organization of American States in
the form of an expert who advised in the setting up of the Unit. The OAS
expert also provided advisory services to the Ministry of Labor in the areas
of Manpower Planning and Labour Market Information (LMI).
Objectives
2.        The main objectives of the Manpower Research Unit are:
(a) To promote the development of human resources through effective and
efficient manpower training;
(b) To establish a strong linkage between manpower planning and overall
national economic planning.



-64-
ANNEX 13
Page 2 of 3
(c) To develop a vell organized and efficient Labour Market Information
System.
(d) To provide the Barbados Government with an adequate amount of LMI
so as to meet its planning and policy needs which the operation and
management of modern-day Government demands.
(e) To develop a programme of research in the economic and social
aspects of Labor requirements.
Functions
3.        Among the major functions of the Unit are:
(a) Undertaking manpower research through the carrying out of surveys
and analyses; and
(b)  Providing Labour Market Information with respect to employment,
unemployment, job placement, wages, conditions of work and others;
4.         The Unit works closely with other agencies in the LMI System
including the Statistical Department and the Labour Department. The Unit
will undertake research activities, which are not undertaken by the
Statistical Department. There will be no overlapping of responsibilities
between the Unit and the Statistical Department.
Future Plans for the Manpower Research and Statistics Unit
5.        The Unit will continue to develop and upgrade its research
facilities while at the same time enhance the technical skills of its
personnel, through access to specialized training, particularly in the area
of computer technology. In this connection, the staff of the Unit, which at
the present time comprise: a Senior Economist, an Economist and a
Statistical Clerk will be increased In order to cope with projected LMI
demands of user agencies. There will therefore be the recruitment of the
following: a Job Analysis Specialist (Consultant for 9 months); a Senior
Statistician; a Lmsearch Officer; an Adminstrative Officer; and a
Stenographer/Secretary. It is envisaged that the above personnel will be
assigned to the Unit by the end of 1986.
Training Program
6.        The Ministry of Labor recognizes that in order for there to be an
effective and efficient utilization of computers in the execution of its
overall functions, it is Imperative that professional training of its
personnel in the operation and management of computer services by urgently
undertaken. Additionally, training in industrial job analysis will also be
required of key full-time and part-time technical staff.
7.        In this regard, the Ministry proposes to acquire training for its
personnel with respect to the following:
(a) A basic course in computer appreciation, computer programming and
data processing;



-65-
ANNEX 13
Page 3 of 3
(b)  An advanced course in the Management of Information Systems
(computer related).
(c)  A course in Management Accounting (computer related).
(d)  The Job Analysis  Specialist would provide on-the-job training to
his counterparts on industrial job analysis which is necessary for
the development of relevant training programs.
Estimated Base Costs
1.   Technical Assistance
Planning of Management Information System (3 months) US$ 25,000
Job Analysis Specialist (9 months)                           75,000
Short Internship in Similar Unit abroad (1 month)             5,000
2.   Computer Equipment (hardware and software)
This entails purchase of a computer system
that has the capacity to accommodate at least
60,000 records of personal data which will be
updated on an annual or biennial basis                       15,000
3.  Local Training
Computer internships in appropriate local
industry                                                  5,000
Total Estimated Base Cost of Project                US$ 125,000



-66-
ANNEX 14
Page 1 of 2
BARBADOS
THE SECOND EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
TRAINING ADNINISTRATION: Proposed Improvement of Management
Training in the Public Service
Objectives and Content:
1.        The Government of Barbados is committed under the Barbados
Development Plan 1983-1988, to the expansion and development of Public
Service Training activities, both off-the-job and on-the-job, in order to
ensure the improvement of organizational and individual competencies wh,ich
are required to meet relevant manpower development needs within the context
of the stated priorities of economic, social and cultural development goals.
2.        Training Administration has the responsibility to provide local
in-service training courses which reflect the shifts in public service
traininp needs and qualification requirements of the work force and conduct
studies that are relevant to the operational, procedural, organizational,
policy and evaluation aspects of manpower development goals of the
Government. Strengthening its professional competence in these areas will
further develop its institutional capability and maximize its
e'ficiency/effectiveness to meet the changing needs of human resources
development within the Public Service.
3.        The proposed project would assist in this regard by:
(a) providing technical assistance (total base cost: US$180,000)
(i)   to help identify/assess the priority areas of program
development to meet the specific needs and the requirements
of the Barbados Public Service. Emphasis would be given to
the improvement of management and lecision-making processes
in the environment of inter-dependeat activities which exist
between Ministries, Departments and Statutory Organizations
(total: 6 staff months);
(ii)  to develop course manuals, case study materials, evaluation
instruments and other relevant training materials for use in
the various training programs conducted by Training
Administration, and evaluate the effectiveness of existing
ones. (Total: 12 staff months).
Training Administration has taken the initiative to develop a
matrix of courses, designed within a structured continuum of
Programme Offerings that have been made available to the
Public Service Clientele and implemented during the period
1980-1983. nurrent training programs are designed to include
lectures and practical exercises. These teaching methods are
supplemented by group discussions, recommended reading
assignments (textbooks and government documents), film



-67-
ANNEX 14
Page 2 of 2
presentations, case study material and research project
activities. The programs are structured in content and
emphasis as considered appropriate to the particular level of
course participation. In addition, a relevant blend of
subject coverage is rationalized and validated within the
context of each program. Accumulated inputs from Training
Administration's professional staff and teaching resource
personnel from management/specialized disciplines (both
internal and external to the public service) have assisted in
raising the quality and level of staff training and
development activities. The proposed programs would not
duplicate nor unnecessarily compete with those management
programs that are being conducted by the University and/or any
other local training organizations/institutions.
(b) Financing the acquisition of (total base cost: US$50,000):
(i) supplementary textbooks, journals, monographs,
reading/research assignments and fact-finding project
exercises on statutory instruments, legal documents and
related information/reference material; and
(ii) supplementary training equipment and relevant audio-visual
hardware items and technological support systems to upgrade
the teaching methods and enhance the learning processes.
Public Support
4.        The current level of expansion and improvement of the various
training programs has already resulted in increased participation by public
service personnel. From a maximum of 240 participants in 1979, 1,362
participants attended the various training courses during 1980-1983. Upon
completion of the project, it is estimated that the utilization will increase
significantly. The level of public service nominations for the current
programs provides strong evidence that Training administration is uniquely
poised to further expand the quality and quantity of its local in-service
staff training and development programs.
5.        The expected end-of-project results will greatly maximize Training
Administration's capability to further expand its activities to meet the
training needs of the public service target population of approximately
20,000 employees. The primary source of benefits is the expected level of
performance improvement and the development of organizational and individual
competencies that are required for operational, supervisory and management
functions within the highly complex system of public service activities.



mim                                                                   a    15
E RN  AID WJm= Finn
ism    -  m am        mpm
mmT!Z o imbr   atimof tin        Itjaa
ufllatY of Iati                      a1TCIg               Pd-m ilidtar   Iiqm~at
SE1A J.    Ua!kid   ZIatsiotk.W    MS1k   Rini aid    *1j                  W J.PI0miml
Pdrimy  fowarym    fInc       Gmaiy Srmpgtmauf  TrmaAid   Stnmatim    A6don1ad-1m     hplinmatfan
Sdol    Pdmla  Falmd    G w               Of mm      Ck.=        Ifdt      ________              it        lam     L~~j
x.~~~~ ~ ~ ~ .umf  b.1                                              ;e O
A. St Imud t               I6.0   ,.7             -        S3W3     506.3         ml               -                       -        4.45L4    9.3    43.2
B. cbitnmin. mqf1l        11,335.0  9,266         -      5.596.h  3.375.0      3AM0.9       -             -                -       33.36&3    5.0  f1,66A
ad FlA)Um
C. Fmutmm                   676.0   734.5        2M0       500       300         210O       -             -                -        2.510.5   5.0   12M5
IL SWP=  all bmtaL    595.0  1.2L0              50.0    2,0M0       226.0      1.1200       300         100.0             600       6.31.0    5.0    312
lbouim
r   l Tnh                     -         -         -          -      4000          -                       -                -          400.0   5.0    20.0
F.      al mam                -         -         -          -     1.7917        32A.4     2100         360.               -        2.743.1   5.0   137.2
ad 7.U_aala
C. Wrim.mu1 s5Im           1.43D.7  1.1.9         -        727.6    43J          47.6       -             -                -        4.h    5.0   213.0
L   ja   d mtm                -         -         -          -        -           -         -             -             3.W2.?      3.82.7    5.0   191.1
L   9m                        -         -         -          -       20           -         -             -                -          2M0     5.0    IZ.0
1.1  _wtnc CDts              15.732.7 13.637.     520.0    9,E7.7   7,316.8      6.0         240.0        460.0           3.AO.7      58. UBL6    5.3  3J119.6
2Oa1 s1h  ra0               15.732.7  1.637.      50.      9.57.7   7.316.8     6.547.0     260.         460.0           3.83.7      58.34.6   5.3  3.09.6
Nqiml1 SIi8nd-             71      735.9      26.0       494      391.2       353.6      12.0         23.0             m9l.       3.9.6    0.0      0.0
Prim  _athpdm           3.859.6S  2.567.1     69.2     ZA61  2.225.9        2.19L9       I7.5         3.6              6908      14,1617    5.1   725.2
Tai P1oJaM Cmto             20.463.  16.91L7       615.2   12 6l32   9.9M3.9     9.0g9.5     29.5          ZA             4.967.7     75. B9   5.1  3.Q.8
I     1.Ip   a          8.893.2  7,951.1     54A       6.97.0  4657.0       4.583L2    2366          407.5            3D0.6      3.491.1   4.9  1,674.9
G Cttn. mc we 'm   d   tun                 . fw -1ar suuwm ad mrtM  at S3375-500 per _. for -  kdldwud         . ISS175 per a._. for rm&dellq . ad 3M of til
hd3Ai m.t for gito & p_. eq*al   fgd 0du   a n u                 m Hao        Id  i hua n amr&am idti rst qoratim md  i. rwIvd. bmUtate 1mimak    mivim
m  wtin d at W,5W pr "f    dad fadlAIgp.    11.50 to U.oa per staff a 4 deg ul. tm fidd of wndy ad thm lmtimoff the tralift hmtlbgSo
amiato&  Mm na1 ct td cd-td                the _elat Is.  ,, atap  thm ame  am. apmiaomd  mWw&n  of tie FIMI for 1   16424U3 mdjtted to reflam the letrud
ad fh1 ad _nfp=2mtlm udar dom pecawI pr4m  ad  ammts to b   7S of tod "qa ut a.  oultat art_Oratt d-pn ad mmwima fS  -ihgb
*3 of bd2dbg ad olti d.wepz i       Imimfe m    hX   of In-um cadate rd otrnai/a             r  _Bmakmu   af tih FM
ad-u  nm   1I1.0 - 33 o.



69-
AMM 15
Wpa  f 2
SEW   -WCXEM AD   -     1fTW
sumay of Prolmd Cbt_
Z      Z Tet1
(M$scNav)                 (CsI3$00)       _      ore%p    Um
TAo1                Total    Iflc*1    t         Ing    - w         -
A. HDhISM OF E IK   AND CM2=
1. P cIMK7 Sdtwos                  8,5836   7,149.1  15,732.7   4,291.8   3,574.6   7,866.4   45         27
2. S9cxlay Sdwols                   7,022.1   6,615.6  13,637.7   3,511.0   3,307.8   6,818.9   49        23
3. Smel J. Pmaxd Polytedmic           58.0    462.0    520.0        29.0    231.0   2NO0    89             1
4. BUbr Q Cmity bl]eg              4,275.3   5,572.4   9,847.7   2,137.6   2,786.2   4,923.9    57       17
5. Insutl:wal Dnqwent cf HCE    3,683.2   3,633.6   7,316.8   1,841.6   1,816.8   3,658.4   50           13
Sibl                        23,622.1  23,432.8  47,054.9  11,811.0  11,716.4  23,527.5    50      8i
B. HUhSMIF IAEI
1. NM SkIIa Qers                    3,033.3   3,513.7   6,547.0   1,516.6   1,756.9   3,273.5    54      11
2.L mI_r Statstiw                     55.5     184.5    240.0       27.8      92.3    120.0   77          0
-d Peardi Unit
Shbtot                       3,088.8   3,69L2   6,787.0   1,544.4   1,849.1   3,393L5    54        12
C. GI( CF DE PRDIE MMIS
1. T   yIzIM AMndstratioa [hdt          10D.0    360.0    460.0       5D.0    180.0    230.0   78            1
a00to.0. 100.0    360.                             46.        50.      10.0    23.    78            T
D. P      1D=  NnWMM
1. Poject  l           Uit            3,637.6     245.1   3,887    1,818.8    122.6   1,94L4       6         7
Subtotal                    3,637.6    245.1   3,882.7   1,818.8    122.6   1.1J.&       6         7
IUDL BASUIE                          30,44h4  27,736.2  58,184.6  15,224.2  13,868.1  29,092.3   48        100
PhysLcal   iiendes                   1,684.2   1,415.4   3,099.6    842.1    707.7   1,549.8    46         5
Price C   0miLiec                   8,770.1   5,339.5  14,109.7   4,385.1   2,669.8   7.054.8    38       24
1DTAL PlBlE  MSM            40,902.8  34,491.1  75.393.9  20,451.4  17,245.6  37,696.9   46       130
NOAL  Figar may not aid up due to ranEig.
at    E!t oE tu    ards duties ettimtd  at US$3.4 uiUion.



-70-
AN= 16
BAIM
SmD   UICH AND 1AUDRC PYQJCr
ftnmcing of Project Costs
(COfts 1ndw  Cotinwnd   in ISM)
1D              m           1BARDOS         T&.aI
_          %A-mt  Z               bmmt  Amxt  I   Cost
Prim.ry Sdkhols        0.0    0.0  9154.8   89.5  1076.7   10.5    10231.5
Seccuiary Schools      0.0    0.0  7569.9   89.5   890.3   10.5       8460.2
Irutitutiomal       3218.7   64.8      0.0    0.0  1748.4   35.2      4967.1
stre.gtbeinbg of ME
Cbnamity Colle      3757.1   59.6     0.0    0.0  2547.6
SIP Pblytedtic         0.0    0.0   275.2   89.5    32.4   10.5        307.6
NIB Skiils fnters    2598.6   57.2     0.0    0.0  1947.3   42.8      4545.9
Hxipmer Remsrdh       133.9   99.4     0.0    0.0     0.8    0.6        134.7
and Statistics Unit
Traixirg Admin       258.6   989       0.0    0.0     2.8    1.1       261.4
Prodect Addxn         33.3    1.3      0.0    0.0  2450.6   98.7      2483.8 a/
Total               10000.0   26.5  17000.0   45.1  10696.9   28.4    37696.9
a/ Cut of the total PIU cost, US$1.55m correspoids to the IED finowed ccupnments and
US$0.93n awr xpodsl to the IKB financed caopoxents.  uemr, IB  odly dishurs
US$33,300 (for the equijpnet) and IDB, nne.



-71-
AlEX 17
BAUADOS
SEa    EU         AD TRAThl  Pmm
ProJect Tupleientaticn Schedule
(Omu]tive Prgrs in %)
Project  ponett              CY1986   Cr1987   Cr1988   CY1989   c1990    Cr1991    Cr1992   C21993
eLvil. Works:
Primary Sdhools               7%       4CM       62%      8a%      loci
Secodary Scols                CZ       51%      96%      lOct
Barbados COaunity College    cit       28%      7A%       loc
NIB Skill  entrS              ci       22%       38%      57%       76%       93Z      10=
MDE DIdErg                    ci        Om      18%       67%      10c
Prmwt: Prnib               ntdp:
Prin.ry ScbooS                9%       38%      58%       68%      100l
Secxndary Schools            C(        55:      94X      loci
Barbados Camzity Collee    CZ           CZ       73.      10aZ
NMIB Skis Centers             a%       31%       41%      61X       65%       91X      10(1
HE B 1Udirg                   (c        CZ        CZ      6C1      10(a
P1ytedmic                     CZ       76%      10c
Mno.er Research Unit        5c       10(1
Trainirg Administation       5al      10(1
FM                            ci      ioci
Tech3ical Assistance:
FellaAhbps                   122       36%      62%       82%      1O0Z
Special. Servie              17%       57Z      82%       92%      lOci
lDcal TrainixE                   (9       9S       27%       52Z       78Z      10(1
Studies                          CZ      1M        37%       57%       78%      1001
Professinal Servioe8            18       33%       6CM       83Z       9ci       95X     lOc1
Evaluatim:
FeadirgJwritfrg TIst Scores         Report 1
Secoudary airiculimteadbiig                                       Report 1
Texbock proawnemtdistrib.           Report 1
NIB trinirg prgras                  Report 1
BOC trainig prcgrs                                                Report 1
PlibUc sector trainlg progras       Report 1
MRS data analysis                   Report I
Educatim managmnt practie           Report I
MVE bud1 tary pracices              Report 1
Educ. mteris inprcement             Report 1
LOM DISJRSElfNT                1.5%      9.6%    30.2Z     58.1%     80.5Z    92.6%      97.9%   100.Ci



-72-
ANNEX 18
Page 1 of 2
BARBADOS
SECOND EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
SCHEDULE 1
Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of Expenditures
Category of                  (Expressed in                   to be
Expenditures               Dollar Equivalent)              Financed
1.  Civil Works                4,150,000         44%
2.  Furniture,                 2,950,000         100X of foreign expenditures
Equipment and                                and 85% of local expenditures
Educational                                  for items locally procured
Materials
3.  Consultants'               1,920,000         IOOX
Services, Training,
Fellowships,
and Studies
4.  Professional Fees            480,000         50%
for architectural,
engineering and
other services
5.  Utallocated                  500,000
TIOT'AL                   10,000,000



-73-
AMEX 18
lag. 2 of 2
URUDDS
SECOND EDUCATIO AND TRAINING PROJECT
Disburmennt Schedule
luTlL  RE=T             cn10              n7                 0ns             cm                CY"               en.              cnz                            MAL
EIPFAlIIIISLIOT  ELipi      ubw Lu En          lis'    zp E  daiL   ELp'S   Cliiw  ELps   1hii    ELpid   Aior   Eipid                  lido             ELpe_d   3idv
P. Per'd       1759.9  12U4.2  11032.1  9159.4  11411.4   9511.5  7590.4  5135.3   4001.0   255.3  1222.1  5U1.0   474.0              HI.2            379.9  27000.0
Inlutiw        1175.9  1244.; 1t22.0  1O03.3  2424.4  114.3 3171.0  23140.1  35791.1  22m.9  37020.9  2tC13.30214                   21400.0          3179.9  27000.0
I oS .DU1       447i    4.411 *   3.93%  37.131   44.211   41.911   94.3      97.9     94.941    7.m     ".211    9.3I1     .0M      IM.AO
IS      Peio        44.0   445.3  2z .7   tM.2  5313.7  3239.0  4541.5  255.7  2360.1   1229.7  1222.1    119.0   47.o                    I11.2           177I4.1  10000.0
Mr       umIat      649.0    455.3  1457   2220.4  3941.4   509.4  13510.9  904.2  1111.0  92.9  170.1  91113.B  1774.1                  10000.0          17749.1  10000.0
1Ju14L       3.l   0.405    20.461   22.201  50.3    55.M    74.04?   Waal  PJ32    92.91   91.20    W.141  20.001               100.01
IISANEIIT naWLtEL         1 1B4 4l MM         9111 CM  712   1099/1 N   811K2   CMII  C9Z   11901 1"90l  n  12n   C"1       C112  £19211         1912  c1311
of 13 CoIIITS            FPB612   ns7:2  FP7712   P1N99    FP03:2   Fill!  FP1392  FP10t  FP012   FV9II  F991/2  nV2h   FV212                   F19311   F93i2                MAL
End of CT FLpuittn                    449.0            2916.7           5513.7            4541.5            230.1            1222.1               474.0                       17749.1
EFd Dofl  Iirsauet                    445.3s           IM.2             3219.0            2554.7            1229.1            SI.L                 114.2                       1000.0
Snstral   sbhdrut            222.4   222.4    17.4   B17.&   1444.5  1444.   1279.4  2138.4   410.9   414.9   259.0   259.0                 3.1    93.1                        1000.0
E oi  Ft la rammt          2m.1              1110.2           2532.t            2922.9            1993.2             173.9               352.1              93.1              10000.0
VltrImls4l mIth lag)         149.9    74.2   740.1   370.1   143.1   944.1   193t.4   974.3  1262.2   431.1   32.4    291.3               234.7   117.4    93.1                11000.0
Fad 0 FT Disburemt           148.4             014.4           200.1D 27.4                         22U3.4            121S3.               54.0              210.4              20000.0
S f total DotuZmt              1.S              C.1? l.l4                         27.9n             22.4S             12.1S                5.31              2.11               100.01
Ealatiuu Olambmnt            114.4             942.3            30.1.9           5113.5            9549.9            9243.               973.4            20000.0              10000.0
3 dl Total DlasIt              1.3               9.41            3-.2             53.11              9B.51             92.61               97.S1            100.01               100.3
kami aPrulile% aR I    13 2                     1R 33    R 34    r.5      1R I      3R 7     3R 0    13 9    13 10
f91311N9  PRECTS       1.01    4.?    14.01 2O.'    43.0    54.01    4.n    C0.0?    9.01   S5.01                                                                 LN 1642-fl
ALL SE1.1 s           4.01    15.0?    32.0?   51.0?    70.0r    94.0    94.0?   100.0?
1442-3Wlriutltl       0.01     9.4?    27.n      o.1    73.n    95.7S   127.0      3.n                                                                               900000.0  riiaul
ISSuplat)    0.01      7.2S    20.01   3S.1    55.41    71.71    95.0?   100.S                                                                             12000000.0 Ulsp1It
T11S Pll2:
tT1tt        1 .     24.1?   42.31    70.am    37.91   97.13     n.r. 1200.0?
in           1.S      94     30.2?   3B.1?    0.51    92.41    97.91   :3.0?
n            L.6     17.7?    49.41   749       92.31   100.01



-74-
ARM 19
SIN E 3    AM  IATMI  PKwB
,mcaPfM AEWt
prouem h-bd             Tota
Project                     (ua                 OD,   ant
R1mi                       -      Us$   lin
CIvIl Wbad                6.78        3.00      0.11 l/ 9.89
Furnture                  0.30        0.38      0.08 a/ 0.76
Eqtdpmt and E4cational
Materials                1.93       0.50      0.15 a/ 2.58
Tedmical Aatstanc
aid sdes                 1.82       0.00      0.20 b/ 2.02
ProfessIonal Servce       0.00       0.69       0.31c/ 1.00
Project  8rdstation       0.00       0.00       1.52 d/ 1.52
;Dtll              10.83       4.57      2.37   17.77
1                  61         26        13      1oa
a/ IoCal ub2ppizg
bI  Iwlubw ccmtrartig of astidies, trainXi, ard sedalist
services.
cl/ I-hlmze ccxuultats of tie PIIJ.
_i  Ptoared thraigh local acutsition pocedue.
LUits aon Tpe of ProanEst and Prior Review Tme d (MSSOO0)
Prior
Tpe of       Revlvs   GOtract           te
Contract      LiLt      Value            lhdt      Type of Proazrest
Civil Works    500     greater than or    -        ICB
equal to 1,000
(BaC aid ME
buldiiM)
less than 1,000  3,000     IU:B alth fregn
(NMB sidis                  bLddes hwirg the
centers)                    ippDrtrdmity to
pzxticipate.
F,nniture,     100     greater than or    -         ICB
:pnmt and          equal to 50
FMAtI0nal
Materials              20-50            500        ICEB idth foreign
1bddders bavirg the
cpportuiity to
participate.
up to 20         200        Price qutatioi  fron
at least tdee
bid&zs.
50     greater than or             Prspals irwitae
Services,              equal to 100                fran sbDrt list Of
___m ZWintermationa'l and
Tratnirg                             ~~~~~~~~~~local coimu]t5nts.



mmm                                                              i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hnS   23
WOW MlrAT3M AN -NM    -M
Wm    M =t~t  D2IU22mllOr5I
ITAPIM      CMt       cT.       CM        03119     090      091       CM0       CMt
2.2200ECrTIWAs  MO 0mlgu.cttt 21  i2. I. I AI 1eT Ofmnd.olahbdlt  hialy                  101...       -         2         5         I        la2
Pnaim ic yLo.t  aclola  1.12 11wber d1 admola       Amdy   21 rqlace          -                  II        2?1       21
Ippume tie ant   itt. 223 lauyer ametla to          mmIii-d
*ffsctis.n    of   itatoL hdatr bwb.*/      1.13 Sojalat/tadver ratlh    At projem   I:2 1Z:23a              -       I2:21      -       1:23       -         -       1.
ad        candor rtll.                      in Project arimlol             to"ala
usoadary                           2~~~~~~~~~~~~~.2'. IbI  ot  yet Ielsmafro    At rtoiat  2111.184  -  -    -         -      tU52.1"1
.tnrtIa                                          Place                   aeatlon  (29116 SI
1.201 LWardtK I ad.tlit    1.21 Meitner of sditios       Anual ly    3 upoa1a      -         I           
wmculaty  &-elo ad               qiwmr
eatdchishitt ame vm%        1.22 Moto1r of mw ideal.   AuaLl ly        I sea       -         -          I2
2 .2212-pla  mouday             mut*Ublipd
1da                       1.23 Shah.it/tmmIwr ratl.   A,MsL'ly      1.23       1:19       -       220                 1 1:2                        I -  223
1.2, b6ofwr of cdidrnm 1o    Am.alIV  4323 prim        -        mu1   2.40D1   3.5(1       4.100O
Idmlol .4th o.1 Pl'V              'OOD) as.      -       1 .2231    2.400    4.210
Cal fatlutis.
1.30 pcorldUu tudmlcai      2.32 lksdT of stall -matte  AMessly  '.4 oe Fel        -             m    123 on   2... m    31        Sd. 
Aaalaiarw. & tratolq  to:        of Todmlcal   aiaStm               Sis am Sp     3 m       It -      20..    a1 so       %-
(a) iqem. malitt nd              pr.wided 
writliw In prbany       1.32 1&idar of teah.r/m&I- Anneol ly  21100 tdhr  pr~.ep    2220tiw   541 td eeS th   2000 rter 1440 tctr 2102 titir find
sd,olta                      tsdwatot trainedi                    32 Main prep pr.  16 .kdn              32 adod                      wak.to
'6) Iprcme tendhiM of       1.33 Pbe1ir/writimn t-n      Ammi !Y              dmIgo   stmt of yearly   yearl    yearly   yearly   yearly   yealy
medal m2dd.n In              worse of prtmry                                eme    m.tecato  eval,notn  inal.nts  easluto  waliafl  salmh. evalutli
moatdas  aetisla             ansiet                                        CrIrt1ta
(c) iqewve awrlcuiu.        1.34 %4tIwttr "aetom  lia,    At pr-oje                -               tidtial                                 fin'ld
2mplaesrtat1on strito        t,ern a.tbullimbd       oepfrtloemn                                                  easlab             agiab
(d) t.ygrose tie totbodo    1.351'.imr of tamtbakdpro- Amally  to 2e 4e-                 Policy   policy    nun of yealy   yearly   yearly    find
prc .nvm     and dlisot-     cried ad disctibuated              tcm.ifsd             retlad   MateI    valuaE  e.aisah  owaliuh   emalsash  wal.OI
btfoo. apetem           3.36 MMal,ed teaced..        MA-s ly  to bo. d-  start 0  yearly   yearly   yearly   yearly   yearly   yearly    find
aaislable in clmaenoi              temiwIn  eval1ain  evalctn esla,mtn  realmotu  evalsth  evalusbi oasast.    Isahui
L  OGB0JEMV   3: 2.t0 29ypsdhu the qere,   2.12 Numbr of eme-v  tel:  Mesly   3 rme ,                                    I         -        2         --                  3
clam  01 tIe Nat4msad            or uWmale                          I u drd        - T
apdad iqeom Trailol. bmn2 tro4ft           2.12 t6mter ofjem  lormr       nusalty  I2 r0 em       -         -    258'year5Of 500/year 23yer 75Wyr           750/yr I AOiYy
the offud EyT.   cle coocructlom. tuenishtlq       trainedI                             SW UFOd                       223yeru  25/erw  250year   375/yr        3S/yr   5(lWW
tmiy end       sod e*dWv of tee mw   2.13 t4ofer of tralirt'  hon Amaal Iv   400 No./              -    2001L year 7Wyer 41WyEar 8001year  I .WW11    I.2WWiIy  W1.41/r
at.0  tadatlrl e*dppiq( of one mdatlI    2.16 NSam oedtaleon of01'                                            qr:la   stntt of yearly   yearly    yearly   yearly   flod
adinctlenal    uter                               lumnm ard quilty of                                     clItoris  ..slmns  evalush. evahata  evalsat enalmsh  emahamt
trauin                                            trirsliqi pu
2.15 MBbr of wumen tredad l - Wo ly  300/year                         70year 250/yea  15030ea  2M/year 22D/yea  213Wyear
2.20 tpjpwIdi:  ed einmumlon 2.21 11Z eMardid/auwided                 2  .q&-a     -     stan      csaplete  ianw
of tuiauzd   at tie Barwm                                                                cnetruct      trmuct qperatk
casirty  Olib    ad         2.22 lNumber of yeuMon        Messly  lfXVyer          -         -        -      123/year 250/yea  1110/year 2130/yea  200/year
iywo.olqi efficiency in ito.     tralod
ue, et edstlzw  fmacilIt  Z.23i Moqlammics eeal-:tlo  Ameslty                      -         -        -     &iwlqp  astmt of yearly   yearly   yeary
of spmlty 1oamw ettCriteilg evahahi wabash. wallastf eg&lat
3.2. Staber of .wan trainel AMesily   230year         -         -        -          -     90/year I0/ar-  1223/ear £21/yea
2.30 hwiz.L  efficientm  2.31 %balr of no-6.JP           Amually  700 pert,t    -        J... pta  blaplma  3(1psyar 502/yea  600/yea  74)Iyver  72Dlyea
some]na  .ld=   piweiad        anmndu   oshariqi us or             1220 ft.ilJr        athriq   stadl    60/yea  I100/ea  223/year  123/year  1223/ye
Pblytednte fcilittem             lacitlm                            per year
2.32 Morwwet's evemlanl     An Mau  ly            doqie  *ta  of yearly   yearly    --Tea         yeary   yeary         fF01
of quality                                    criteria  eealwatp  Nabahn.  wat coahat    shm  e.al,mh. aisliash  .salash
2.33 l4x.r 1 -ow  tralnat Aml y  250/year             -         -       -       20Q/year 223yea  15/year 2001year 20yea
2.40 ProldIzM MA for:       2.41 fAsass.ot of cralrdqi  AMesly                 &-vlop  sea  ef yealy   yealy   yearly   yeartly   yearly             find
Cs) industrial. sdvhary          plat  for publi nmoor                         crib..rIa  eoalutn eoal,asa  eealcait ewabasm. eaimt ehi   abto  tealsas
(bo) 111d.strila  job w4asasly    2.42 Anoames of data   lousily              firisele   at   d1yearly   yearl         -yeal    yearly   yearly      lieA
(C) follow-J 01 yrabaste.        asivlysi of focte                             criteri  evalusta  wnabas     umto waas.   alscam   maiash. wabastn eehastn
fd) lqerwtws In the
M.aiAs1 of public       2.1.3 Staff soMl ot ix       bosmlly  111.e- Fa       R 21     a Stm    la on   1511 -    liSa
wetar mov~                   prwIod"                             39 - Sp   20 on    305.          39 -
Ce) I"apmwq .surenr         2.". Bmbmtloo or TA           Mnassaly                -      sart of yearly   yeaorly   yearly    find
lsfmetton fpdvdqi.           afecttas-ns                                               lesitn  evalash. evallash  evlmh. ealuato
3.00 02m55M C: 3.10 Prodldiqi Mt fort          3.11 Staff meacha of TA      AnmsaLY    36m   e       3m   Sm            l e   5a   Zm   21  a6  e
(a) Admt.too plamclh1a nO        Wvded                              2ME si        3..       a1.       15..    21. m      3 mm
Stregilas de          inWWrt                  3.12 ~Asement of educeton~ Arualy                  find iz  sart atye yeadyearlyrly  lyEI    yearly   yearly              find
1:etit.tlinmlt    Cl) InerutOudenqI   -tam .nt   & PlaMdIM                                        criceris ~ealmdto  evalmms  evdaLssU  evabuti evalush. aralita  wabast.
cmty to pla        bdwtbg prwao  ad  3.13 Aaa.aLntt of Iqopr-  Ar              ly              flndltze  srtm  of yearly   yearly   yearly   yearly   yearly         find
ad          the       cmtarv .W..   indLad,         =Bis In kbLiAmis                              crttlt.a  esahceto  evahmtn eoahato  ~ealu.0. ovalaSt  e,alsat. smlahab
.dUCC101 adi      (C) iqwizum ProdctI of            Prcese
t-rAnk6 Wa- aii          -     matrial,
3.24 Ameawa  of q.aliry of Annualy                 finelIt stun ofyearly   yerly   yearly   yearly   yearly              flned
pIelnCd noterfals                            Criteria evaheta  eqwatseb.1lstR eAd.am  aemlumina ewebash  wAabash
3.2  2'roes,1z  adequet.    1.21 Qoutnxiucl   01 E       Amml!y       I re        -      flodbu    start  comlete   star
fadltitb   for tie MlE      faclUtia.                                                d m'W    c tx  cmuue:   nezalo
3.22 MM1 atoff mm-mme~  of 2bd/yr of-                          -                                   Ctmt of
me faiKlitla            ocnqwuo                                                               evabuto
3.30) Mqzlrw am.s t.   3.31 Candut tudanmd ad            at ".roc              draft ~fniz  itnitiat                  firdfiar diamusa  nopte   dqe
ume... minvqI  ad                r    dbly Ior  o-peltlo                  ia       fh        sadh                rq-Att   chin)   rTwit   rcnt
I__  _         fficlency                  4almtaii-



-76-
ANNEX 21
BADOS
SECOND EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
Independent Audit Situation
The independent auditors' report on the financial execution of the
First Education Project (Loan 1642-BAR), has been prepared by Brian Griffith
and Co. within the deadline contemplated in the loan agreement, which is
March 31 of each year.
The auditors have issued a clear statement according to which, the
statement of source and application of funds, and the supplementary financial
information on the project, present fairly the funds contributed to the
Project by the Government of Barbados through the Ministry of Education, as
well as the funds from and the status of Loan 1642-BAR, in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles and the conditions established in
the operational loan.
The independent auditors have issued a separate report on
compliance with the financial and accounting covenants since FY83. The
reports state that the Borrower and the Project Unit have complied with all
conditions of the Loan Agreement, and make special reference to the adequacy
of the system of accounts for recording, monitoring and reporting the
utilization of funds in the project by origin, and related costs and
benefits.
Brian Griffith and Co. is a small, national firm of chartered
accountants with a small but faithful clientele. The auditing fine was
visited and thoroughly briefed by a Bank mission on the Bank's audit
reporting requirements, produced a good report for FY84, and incorporated
improvements recommended by the Bank for FY85. The audit report for FY86,
which was underway by March 31, 1986, will be issued also within the agreed
deadline and will reflect the latest Bank audit refinements. B:ian Griffith
and Co. has been designated by the Borrower as the auditor for the Second
Education and Training Project.



-77-
ANNEX 22
Page 1 of 3
BARBADOS
SECOND EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
List of Documents Available in the Project File
A. Selected Working Papers
Al.   Loan Request to be Submitted to the
World Bank: Vols I-III, (May 1985).
A2.   Barbados First Draft Proposals in Report of Second Stage Loan to
the World Bank (September 14, 1984).
A3.   Project Proposal, Funding Under the Proposed Second
World Bank Project. TITLE: Manpower Survey for Barbados.
A4.   Proposal for the Provision of Data Processing Facilities for
the Statistical Service.
AS.   Micro Computer Project, Ministry of Finance and Planning.
A6.   Government of Barbados Training Administration.  A Proposal for the
Expansion and Improvement of Management Training in the Public
Service.
A7.   IBRD/Barbados Proposed Second Education Loan Project - Pedagogical
unit.
A8.   Draft Project Proposal
TITLE: Strengthening the National Vocational Training Scheme.
A9.   Barbados Community College
Design Report and Architectural Design Plans
A10.   The Ministry of Education Headquarters Complex, Marine House
All.   Skills Training Centre, Sayes Court Architectural Plans
A12.  Wotton/Kingsland Secondary School
Architectural and Structural Plans and Technical Specifications
A13.   Queen's College
Architectural and Structural Plans and Bills of Quantities
A14.   St. Stephents Primary School, Architectural Plans
A15.   Bayley's Primary School, Architectural Plans
A16.   St. Mary's Primary School, Architectural Plans
A17.   Primary Schools, Equipment and Furniture Lists
A18.   Equipment and Furniture Lists
Samuel Jackman Prescod Polytechnic
Barbados Community College
National Training Board Skills Training Centres
Manpower Research and Statistics Unit
A19.   Furniture and Equipment Bidding Documents (Draft)
A20.   Educational Worksheets
A21.   Proposed Programme for Sharing Between the Secondary Schools and
the Samuel Jackman Prescod Polytechnic
A22.   Detailed Project Cost Tables
A23.   Detailed Plan for Sharing Project Costs
Between the Bank, the IDB and the Government
A24.   Draft Project Proposal
Strengthening the National Vocational Training Scheme
A25.   Project Working Papers



-78-
ANNEX 22
Page 2 of 3
B.   General Reports and Studies on the Sector
B1.   Statement of Philosophy Relating to Primary Schools of Barbados,
1980.
B2.   Syllabus for Primary Schools:
- Language Arts
- Social Studies
- Religion and Moral Education
B3.   Government Secondary Schools of Barbados, A Guide (1985)
B4.   Science Curriculum Guide, Years 1-3
B5.   Primary Mathematics Teachers Guide
B6.   Teaching/Learning Experiences, 7-8+ year olds
B7.   Core Curriculum Outline, 7-8+ year olds
B8.   Integrated Language Arts Scheme, 7-8+ year olds
B9.   Proposed Curriculum for Junior Secondary Stage
B10.   Geography in the Field
Bil.   Industrial Arts in Secondary Education
B12.   Syllabus for Secondary Schools:
-- Spanish
- Geography
- Agricultural Science
- Language Arts
- History
B13.   Caribbean Examinations Council, Annual Report, 1983
B14.   Caribbean Examinations Council
Secondary Education Certificate Fact Sheet
B15.   Caribbean Examinations Council
Secondary Education Certificate
General and Basic Proficiency Examinations (June 1983, June 1984)
B16.   Caribbean Examinations Council
Secondary Education Certificate - Syllabuses (16 subjects)
B17.   Caribbean Examinations Council - The Examinations System
B18.   BIMAP Annual Report and Financial Statements (1981-1983)
B19.   Barbados National Training Board
Annual Report for the Year (April 1983 - March 1984)
B20.   Samuel Jackman Prescod Polytechnic
Report for the Academic Year 1982-1983
B21.   Barbados Community College
Annual Report for Academic Year (Sept 1983 - August 1984)
B22.   Barbados Comaunity College
Statement of Grants for Financial Year 1983-.984
B23.   BIMAP - External Management Training Prospects for 1985
B24.   Ministry  of Education Draft Estimates 1985-1986
B25.   BIMAP - 1982 Annual Report and Financial Statements
B26.   BIMAP - Management, Training Programme
B27.   The National Training School of Barbados
Report on the Skills Training Programme for 1984



-79-
ANNEX 22
Page 3 of 3
C. General Reports and Studies
Cl.   Barbados Estimates 1985-86
C2.   Barbados Economic Report 1984
C3. Central Bank of Barbados Annual Report 19134
C4.   Barbados Industrial Development Corporation:
Annual Reports 1980 through 1983
C5.   Dictionary of Occupational Classifications for Barbados:
Interim Publication on Select Hotel Occupations 1984
Beer and Malt Products Manufacturing 1985
Select Construction Occupations 1985
C6.   Development Plan 1983-1987
Barbados Industrial Development Corporation
C7.   Demographic Data, March 1984
Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Sports
C8.   Labour Market Information Report, 1976-1983
C9.   Barbados Development Plan 1983-198B



IBRD 19396
l~~~~~~                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~ _  O*  70.
North Point h                                                                A Tl ANrIC
.OCEAN
0     400
CRADHILL:                                                                     0C                                            400
.4D(WINICAN             MILES
PIE CORNER                                 H2AII                          PuERtO IrtCO
0  Z    ST   LU CY                                                           JAMAICA
- /#(    _ _--   ,--i                                   Coribbean   S eo                      BARBADOS
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TRIINIDAD
AND
CLINKETTS.   y                   /                                              - PANAMATOBAGO
_t   -   \   ,/  \      Y                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10*
%m.   SOUTH  AMERICA
.  PFIGHTSTOWN .
SPEIGHTS-    >1T  P    T E R        MILL              BELLEPLAINE
TOWN        '
-S_--   sCl Rznl^^r-d  W   /t'   X ~     ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     aggd Pin
X   s          5     2~~~~ HILLABY J r\CATTLEW~AS        BAHSHEBA              °
} PtLUMTREE!-HI, AFY / Z
0-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
BRGTN   t '            OUFENS         S)   'O*
. -~ |   j  o 5    ELCH                                                                            ECANRANE
'>=~~~;; W ~ HALL g                                M   ^O 
BDHOLE       ETwN !
ov ~ ~~~~~~~~~  TH                                                                                           Ma      _)T              ofRgg,ed Pomnt
fb                                                          T} 1 g r H * gS AlI GUSTINFS S
O    ! {        % \~~~~ j  ACKSO4              )              JRi/                                 J
ANDS TRAiNINT  PRO JEC TR
*b r P'NIMARYp SC rHOOLS                         C)
o SCONDARY SCHOOLSHA
BRIDGETOWN     tC       D    L    L    E     C    E         <                    <BR
o~~~        /        IIULDN- SKLL TRINN  CENTER       -A                    1   DM
~~~~~~Tn                  F^WEN'ES 
ARBADOR DOLLEGE
AND~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~H TRANIGAROEC
@ PRIMAV SCHOOSPIGI
<3    SECOHDARY SCHOOLS ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~     ARES
O    H7B SKILLS TRAIN4NG CENTER  H 
SASUUEL J. PRESCOD POLYTECHNIC
MOE PEDAGOGICAL I ADMINISTRATION BUILDIHG T.co    r no. on P'dorno. by Ph iIdw N M l e   csw.I       e a
UPS c-eds eM., os .*v Do. ro rernSr  op h.Ild nrO e ISOh,POOSOIrr
BUILT-UP AREAS                                F..,o. lCa,pv :In Ph.. dhOorb- Od JeM r PS *ra fd'O 015001 05_ IPr 05 dos r 
.'r rJn in..pv d. rr. Tn. b'Vo. 111   aed ISO b500010 Fo.n. Coa,pdI,o *nry rol005
MIAJOR ROADS                                  on IPSo r.0 .1.1 or ony ~.I'v o05 .nO5500 _ s   *Ov1fC dra   0.00500075I_s
----PARISH BOUNDOqIES
-    -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                     0      I       2      3 S            5
I      I       I      I       I       I
MILES                             j
NOVEMBER 1985



