      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                  Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      BO Investing in Children and Youth(P101084)



                                                                                                                     Report Number : ICRR0020148


1. Project Data



 Project ID                                        Project Name
 P101084                                           BO Investing in Children and Youth

 Country                                           Practice Area(Lead)                                 Additional Financing
 Bolivia                                           Social Protection & Labor                           P123120



  L/C/TF Number(s)                                        Closing Date (Original)                                         Total Project Cost (USD)
  IDA-43960                                               31-Dec-2013                                                                 19,550,000.00

  Bank Approval Date                                      Closing Date (Actual)
  11-Mar-2008                                             30-Jun-2015

                                                                IBRD/IDA (USD)                                                      Grants (USD)

  Original Commitment                                               17,000,000.00                                                              0.00

  Revised Commitment                                                12,489,035.81                                                              0.00

  Actual                                                            11,823,442.27                                                              0.00




 Sector(s)
 Other social services(70%):Central Government(30%)

 Theme(s)
 Social Safety Nets/Social Assistance & Social Care Services(40%):Nutrition and food security(40%):Improving labor markets(20%)

 Prepared by                          Reviewed by                          ICR Review Coordinator                Group
 Katharina Ferl                       Judyth L. Twigg                      Joy Behrens                           IEGHC (Unit 2)




2. Project Objectives and Components

a. Objectives
    The Project Appraisal Document (PAD, p. 8) states that the objectives of the project were to: “i) contribute to a reduction in the prevalence of
    chronic malnutrition in children ages 0-2 years old living in the most vulnerable rural areas of the country; ii) improve the management and
    operation of the skills development program to enhance its effectiveness in increasing low-income youth’s ability to find and maintain a good
    quality job; and iii) improve government capacity to design and manage a coherent, measurable, and effective social protection system in the
    medium term, and develop instruments to improve inter-institutional coordination and monitoring."
    According to the Financing Agreement (p. 5) of July 31, 2008, the objectives of the project were to: “i) reduce the prevalence of chronic
    malnutrition in children up to 2 years old living, in the most vulnerable rural areas of the recipient’s territory; ii) improve the management and
    operation of the recipient’s skills development program for low income youth to enhance its effectiveness in increasing the ability of low-
          Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
          BO Investing in Children and Youth(P101084)



     income youth living in urban and peri-urban areas to find and maintain a formal job; and iii) improve the recipient’s capacity to design and
     manage a coherent, measurable and effective social protection system in the medium term, and develop instruments to improve inter-
     institutional coordination and monitoring."
     This validation will use the objectives as stated in the Financing Agreement. Targets that were labeled PDO-level targets by the project were
     revised at a December 2013 restructuring, but as these targets were for outputs, a split rating will not be conducted.




b. Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
     No



c.   Components
     The project consisted of three components:
     Component 1: Implementing and scaling up the Social Protection Program for Mothers and Children (MCP) to combat chronic
     malnutrition (appraisal estimate US$12.4 million, actual US$5.80 million, 46.7% of appraisal estimate): This component was to
     finance support for the government in implementing and scaling up a program of conditional cash transfers (CCTs) to families with
     pregnant woman and/or mothers of children below the age of two years. The project was to finance the implementation of the Zero
     Malnutrition Program (ZMP) in the 52 most vulnerable municipalities of the 164 municipalities targeted by the ZMP. The three different
     types of project activities focused on: i) providing benefits for mothers and children to combat malnutrition; b) implementing an information,
     communication, and education strategy; and c) managing and monitoring the MCP.
     Component 2: Improving and expanding a skills development program for low-income unemployed youth living in urban and
     peri-urban areas (appraisal estimate US$3.60 million, actual US$4.72 million, 131.1% of appraisal estimate): This component was
     to finance improving the effectiveness of the existing “My First Job with Dignity” (MPED) program through the following activities: i)
     improving the effectiveness of the “First Employment Program” (FEP); ii) strengthening the institutional capacity and implementation
     arrangements of the Ministry of Labor (MoL) to administer and monitor the FEP; iii) providing opportunities for skills training and a first
     labor market experience for low-income youth; and iv) supporting the MoL to formulate a mid-term strategy for youth unemployment.
     Component 3: Institutional strengthening of the Social Protection and Integrated Community Development Network (RPS-DIC)
     (appraisal estimate US$1.0 million, actual US$1.14 million, 113.9% of appraisal estimate): This component was to finance support to
     the government to meet RPS-DIC’s long-term objective to build a sustainable and integrated social protection system. Activities focused
     on: i) strengthening the technical coordination unit (TCU) of the MDP and developing a mid-term social protection strategy; ii) designing
     and testing a registry of beneficiaries and a monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system for the RPS-DIC; and iii) evaluating selected
     programs of the social protection network, including a pilot of the FEP and the initial expansion of the MCP to the first 10 municipalities.




d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates
     Project Cost: According to the PAD (p. 92), the project was estimated to cost US$17 million. Actual cost was US$11.66 million (68.6%
     of appraisal estimate) due to lower than expected enrollment rates in the MCP.
     Financing: The project was to be financed by an International Development Association Credit of US$17 million, of which US$11.66
     million was disbursed (68.6% of appraisal estimate).
     Borrower Contribution: There was no planned contribution to be made by the borrower.
     Dates: The project was restructured three times:

          • On January 13, 2011 the project was restructured to: i) transfer responsibility for the implementation of component 3 from the
          MDP’s Technical Coordination Unit (TCU) to its Economic and Social Policy Analysis Unit (UDAPE), and to support UDAPE in its
          technical and administrative capacity and information technology (IT) infrastructure to execute the defined monitoring instruments; ii)
          transfer the responsibility of the TCU’s project coordination to each executing agency (Ministry of Health, MoL, and USAPE) to
          become the Bank’s direct counterparts for the respective components; and iii) adapt the description and cost of component 3 and the
          related intermediate outcome indicators to reflect the institutional changes and the revision to the evaluation work program.
          • On December 23, 2013 the project was restructured to: i) extend the closing date by 12 months from December 31, 2013 to
          December 31, 2014 to allow for the completion of ongoing and remaining activities under components 2 and 3; ii) reallocate part of the
          unused funds: US$1.69 million was reallocated from component 1 to component 2, and US$0.34 million was reallocated from
          component 1 to component 3. The remaining funds of US$3.83 million were cancelled as of December31, 2013; and iii) adjust targets
          for several indicators in the Results Framework, mainly downwards.
               Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                              Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
               BO Investing in Children and Youth(P101084)



               • On October 31, 2014 the project was restructured to: i) extend the closing date by six months from December 31, 2014 to June 30,
               2015 to allow for completion of activities; ii) create a new expenditure category under component 2 to finance the stipends of MPED
               beneficiaries through a new payment system; iii) create a new expenditure category under component 1 to finance a contractual
               procurement audit; iv) reallocate US$1.03 million within the expenditure categories of component 2 and US$0.04 million within the
               expenditure categories of component 1; and v) eliminate the legal requirement to complete a procurement audit for component 3 given
               the reduced number of procurement processes, the existence of ex-ante revision mechanisms, and the satisfactory procurement track
               record of UDAPE.




   3. Relevance of Objectives & Design

   a. Relevance of Objectives

       High: At the time of project preparation, approximately 60% of Bolivia’s population was living in poverty. Children and youth, representing the
       majority of the Bolivian population, were particularly vulnerable. Over 80% of children below five years of age in rural areas lived in poverty.
       This project was aligned with the government’s efforts to strengthen the effectiveness of its social protection system by supporting the design,
       financing and implementation of two flagship interventions, the Social Protection Program for Mothers and Children (MCP) (later renamed to
       “Juana Azurduy Grant”) and the First Employment Program (FEP) (later renamed to “My First Job with Dignity”). Both programs focused on
       the poorest and most vulnerable children and youth. The objectives of the project were also in line with the government’s National
       Development Plan, which aimed to reduce poverty and inequality through social protection interventions. The project's objectives were also
       highly relevant to the three pillars of the Bank’s Interim Strategy Note for Bolivia (FY07-08), which aimed to improve good governance, foster
       job creation, and promote social inclusion. The project's objectives were still highly relevant at project closing, since one of the pillars of the
       Bank's strategy (2012-2015) focused on improving the living conditions of the most vulnerable through programs to promote human capital,
       reduce infant and maternal mortality and chronic malnutrition, increase school enrollment, and reduce dropout rates by extending education
       and health services and providing water, electricity, and basic sanitation.




       Rating
       High


   b. Relevance of Design

       Substantial: Planned activities to reduce the prevalence of chronic malnutrition in children up to two years old included a conditional cash
       transfer program aiming to increase the food consumption of beneficiary households and the utilization of health care services among
       participating pregnant women and children, providing information and implementing a communication and education strategy. In order to
       increase the employability of low-income youth, the project planned to improve and expand a skills development program, strengthening the
       capacity implementation arrangements of the MoL. Activities to enhance capacity to design and manage a social protection strategy included
       strengthening the technical coordination unit of the Ministry of Development Planning, developing a mid-term social protection strategy,
       and designing and testing a registry of beneficiaries and a M&E system to assess different programs. The causal relationships between these
       interventions and underlying assumptions about how program actions would lead to intended outcomes were logical and properly laid out.




       Rating
       Substantial



   4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy)
PHREVISEDTBL
               Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                              Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
               BO Investing in Children and Youth(P101084)



    Objective 1

    Objective
     Reduce the prevalence of chronic malnutrition in children up to 2 years old living, in the most vulnerable rural areas of the recipient’s territory

    Rationale
    Outputs:
    • As of December 2012, 46,500 pregnant women and 83,609 children between the age of 0 and 2 years enrolled in the MCP program in
    participating municipalities. Between 2009 and 2012, on average, only 30.3% of mothers with children younger than two years of age living in
    the targeted municipalities received MCP transfers, not achieving the original target of 70% or the revised target of 50%. This indicator lacked
    a baseline.
    • In December 2014, 45% of children below two years of age participated in growth monitoring sessions in the areas of intervention, not
    achieving the revised target of 50%, which was reduced from 80% during the 2013 restructuring. This indicator did not have a baseline.
    • 35% of pregnant women living in the targeted areas had complete prenatal controls, achieving the revised target of 30%, which was
    reduced from 70% during the 2013 restructuring. The baseline at 43% is higher than the target, as it was based on national data rather than
    data in target areas, where the country’s most vulnerable municipalities are located. A 2012 Impact Evaluation showed that the MCP had a
    positive impact on the demand for prenatal and postnatal care as follows: i) a 6- and 10.3-percentage-point increase in the probability of
    having at least one and four prenatal check-ups, respectively; ii) an 11% increase in the probability of having a health check-up before week
    20 of pregnancy and a decrease equivalent to 2.3 weeks of pregnancy for the first prenatal control; and iii) an increase of 4.9 percentage
    points in the joint probability of having an institutional delivery and having the first post-partum check-up, in rural areas.
    • In December 2012, approximately 91% of female beneficiaries knew their rights to access services and co-responsibilities to participate in
    the program, surpassing the target of 91%. This indicator lacked a baseline.
    • 340 municipalities signed agreements to enter the program, achieving the target of 340.
    • The Management Information System (MIS) was completed and is operational, achieving the target. All the participating municipalities now
    have adequate IT-related equipment and are connected with the MIS, achieving the target.

    Outcomes:
    • The percentage of children participating in the MCP program who had anemia decreased from 84% in 2008 to 74.1% in 2012, not
    achieving the target of 40%.
    A 2012 impact evaluation found that the likelihood of utilization of nutritional supplements by children participating in the MCP program was
    10.8 percentage points higher than those who did not participate in the program. This impact evaluation also showed that the MCP had a
    positive impact on reducing low birth weight (8.3 percentage point decrease in the probability of birth weight being below 2,500 grams in rural
    areas).
    • The percentage of two-year-old children participating in the program with a height-for-age below 2 Z scores decreased from 38% in 2008 to
    21.4% in 2012, exceeding the target of 22% (a 2 Z score is used as cut-off to classify low-weight-for-age, low-height-for-age, and low weight-
    for-height as moderate and severe undernutrition). However, this outcome cannot solely be attributed to this project, as these outcomes
    are also influenced by other factors that were beyond the project’s control.
    Given the attribution issues noted above, lack of anticipated progress on anemia, and the overall relatively low participation rate of children
    under two years in the targeted poor municipalities, achievement of this objective is rated Modest.




    Rating
    Modest

PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 2

    Objective
     Improve the management and operation of the recipient’s skills development program for low income youth to enhance its effectiveness in
     increasing the ability of low-income youth living in urban and peri-urban areas to find and maintain a formal job

    Rationale
    Outputs:
               Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                          Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
               BO Investing in Children and Youth(P101084)




        • 1,367 low-income youth were enrolled in the skills development program during the project-supported expansion, not achieving the
        original target of 3,800 or the revised target of 1,750.
        • The national unit for the First Employment Program (FEP) was not fully staffed and operational as described in the operations manual,
        not achieving the target.
        • Three departmental offices for the FEP have adequate staffing, are operating and are connected to the MIS, not achieving the target of
        five offices.
        • The targeting mechanism to select low-income youth was designed and tested and the system to certify providers was tested and is
        operational, achieving the target.
        • The process evaluation was designed and implemented, achieving the target.
        • 93% of the youth enrolled in the program completed the in-class phase of the program, surpassing the target of 80%.
        • Of those participants who completed the in-class training, 86% completed the internship, surpassing the target of 80%.
        • 59% of youth who completed the internship were women, surpassing the target of 40%.
        • 1,095 beneficiaries (80% of participants that were enrolled) completed the entire program and received a medium-level technical degree
        accredited by the Ministry of Education.
        • 46 training programs focusing on apparel construction, gastronomy, construction, metallurgy, and domiciliary service installations were
        conducted, of which 44 programs were successfully completed.


    Outcomes:
    • The final survey indicated that 72% of beneficiaries had an employment contract for four months or more after the end of the internship,
    surpassing the target of 50%. The Impact Evaluation found that 21.9 percentage points of the employment rate could be attributed to the
    MPED. This indicator did not have a baseline. However, even though the outcome targets, based on percentages, were achieved, the
    absolute number of enrollees was significantly lower than anticipated.
    • The formal employment rate (with social security contributions) increased from 5.2% to 18% among male and from 2.2% to 10% among
    female participants.
    • All participants enrolled during the expansion of the program were poor, achieving the target.
    Due to the low number of program enrollees relative to targets and lower-than-anticipated development of program infrastructure,
    achievement of this objective is rated Modest.




    Rating
    Modest

PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 3

    Objective
     Improve the recipient’s capacity to design and manage a coherent, measurable and effective social protection system in the medium term,
     and develop instruments to improve inter-institutional coordination and monitoring

    Rationale
    Outputs:

        • The register of beneficiaries (RUB) was unified and the monitoring system was designed, achieving the target.
        • The new operational manual of the BJA, based on results of impact and process evaluations, is in use, achieving the target.
        • In 2012 a health and nutrition evaluation survey was conducted to collect information for the BJA Impact Evaluation. 8,433 households
        were interviewed.
        • Surveys of beneficiaries were conducted at the time of enrollment and in December 2013 and 2014. The data collected was used to
        conduct an impact evaluation of the MPED program in 2015.
        • A Social Program Monitoring System was operationalized, aiming to support the management of social programs by systematically
        monitoring progress in outputs and outcomes under each program’s logical framework.
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                              Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         BO Investing in Children and Youth(P101084)




 Outcomes:

    • An Impact Evaluation of the BJA program was conducted in 2013.
    • Data from the Social Monitoring System is being used to monitor progress of seven national social programs. The MPED program is
    being incorporated into the Social Monitoring System. Also, data from the Social Monitoring System is used for annual progress reports on
    the social protection and integrated community development networks.
    • The Unified Register for Beneficiaries is now operational.
    • All bi-monthly reports on compliance with co-responsibilities are systematized through the MIS, surpassing the target of 80%.
    • All payment agencies have enough funds to pay beneficiaries on time, achieving the target.




 Rating
 Substantial



5. Efficiency

Modest: The PAD (p. 34) provides an economic analysis estimating an Internal Rate of Return of the project between 17.9% and 19.5% for a
30- to 60-year time period. This result is higher than the standard discount rate of 10% used in the Bank’s project evaluations.
The ICR conducts an economic analysis for the BJA program based on the Impact Evaluation conducted by the UDAPE in 2015. The analysis
assumes an economic value for each Disability Adjusted Life Year (DALY) gained by the BJA equal to the GDP per capita as a proxy to
estimate the economic benefits of the project through the product of the quantity of the DALYs prevented and the GDP per capita. The analysis
also compares the cost-benefit values it derives with the values published by the WHO’s CHOosing Interventions that are Cost Effective
(CHOICE) program, to evaluate the relative effectiveness of an intervention. The ICR estimates a cost-benefit ratio of the BJA of 0.298,
indicating high cost-effectiveness.
The ICR also uses the incremental social benefits generated by the MPED, the program costs, and the social discount rate to compare the
benefits and costs at present value. The analysis assumes that the wage gain due to the program will remain throughout the beneficiary’s
working life. The analysis estimates an Internal Economic Rate of Return of 52% and a cost benefit-ratio of 0.18 for a discount rate of 3%, a
cost-benefit ratio of 0.37 for a discount rate of 6%, and a cost-benefit ratio of 0.72 for a discount rate of 12%, indicating that the program is
efficient. The ICR does not conduct an economic analysis for component 3.
However, the project experienced significant implementation challenges (see Sections 9 a/b and 11b), indicative of inefficient use of project
resources. As a result, project efficiency is rated Modest.




Efficiency Rating
Modest


a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and/or Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the re-estimated
   value at evaluation:

                                              Rate Available?             Point value (%)                   *Coverage/Scope (%)

                                                                                                            0
 Appraisal                                                                0
                                                                                                            Not Applicable

                                                                                                            0
 ICR Estimate                                                             0
                                                                                                            Not Applicable

* Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                              Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         BO Investing in Children and Youth(P101084)




6. Outcome

The relevance of objectives is rated High given Bolivia’s high poverty rate among children and youth at the time of project appraisal and
relevance to Government and Bank strategy. The relevance of design is rated Substantial given the plausible link between project activities and
intended results. The achievement of the first and second objectives is rated Modest, and the achievement of the third objective is rated
Substantial. Efficiency is rated Modest given the delays and challenges in project implementation. These ratings are indicative of significant
shortcomings in the project's preparation and implementation, resulting in an Outcome rating of Moderately Unsatisfactory.



a.     Outcome Rating
       Moderately Unsatisfactory



7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating

The government continuous to be committed to supporting the BJA and MPED programs. This commitment increases the likelihood that
outcomes achieved under the project will be sustained. Also, a new Bank operation will continue to support skills development programs in 15
urban centers and expand MPED training modules to attract poor youth entrepreneurs, as well as secondary education programs. The MPED
program will continue to benefit from technical support under the new Bank operation. Achievements made under component 3 are likely to be
sustainable due to the strong institutional and technical capacity of the UDAPE and the MDP. In addition to cash transfers, the BJA conducted
workshops and provided counseling to change behaviors related to infant health and nutrition among beneficiary households, aiming to sustain
lower malnutrition and anemia rates.
However, the sustainability of achieved outcomes under the BJA might be negatively impacted by the limited implementation capacity of the MoL
and the MoH. Also, a less favorable economic situation might impact improvements made in regards to malnutrition and the availability of
internships to complement training programs and post-training opportunities.



a.     Risk to Development Outcome Rating
       Modest


8. Assessment of Bank Performance

a. Quality-at-Entry
     The Bank ensured that the project design benefited from lessons learned through an extensive survey of similar projects, conducted under
     the Social Protection Analytic and Advisory Activities (AAA) program, which was prepared at the same time.
     The Bank identified relevant risk factors. Those that were rated high included the conflict of roles between the national and local
     administration, systematic corruption, a difference in views among the implementing agencies regarding basic program design issues,
     implementation capacity and sustainability, implementing agencies with limited procurement skills, and financial sustainability of the
     programs after project closing. The Bank addressed these risks by providing technical assistance, phasing implementation, carrying out
     evaluation activities, having a government unit responsible for overall project coordination, and establishing an independent payment agent
     for the BJA. However, these mitigation efforts were not sufficient, as the Bank overestimated the commitment by the government to
     implement these measures.
     Also, the project was overly ambitious and supported the implementation of two very different and complex programs by two line ministries
     that had limited technical and institutional capacity. Furthermore, the Results Framework had significant shortcomings (see Section 10a).



     Quality-at-Entry Rating
     Moderately Unsatisfactory


b. Quality of supervision
     The Bank conducted regular supervision missions that included appropriate sector specialists and ensured ongoing tracking of key
      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                  Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      BO Investing in Children and Youth(P101084)



  indicators during each supervision mission, as well as fiduciary compliance. Also, the Bank conducted trainings in financial management
  and procurement to overcome implementation challenges that resulted from limited capacity in the implementing agencies. However, the
  Bank agreed with the government’s decision to eliminate the TCU as the project coordination unit, which made supervision more
  challenging and costly since the Bank had to support three different implementing agencies. Continuing supervision activities by the TCU
  might have helped to overcome some of the implementation challenges with the MoH and the MoL and decrease long delays in contract
  approval and submission of financial statements and audits. During the mid-term review the Bank identified weaknesses that led to the
  second restructuring of the project.



  Quality of Supervision Rating
  Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating
   Moderately Unsatisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance

a. Government Performance
  The government was strongly committed to the implementation and sustainability of the two programs. The government ensured the
  availability of financial resources to support the implementation of the programs and the continuation of financing of cash transfers for
  component 1 once the Bank’s support in this area was stopped after the mid-term review.
  The project was designed to be a pilot program in selected municipalities to allow for modifications of its design and of the administrative
  and Information Technology and Communication (ITC) systems. However, the government decided to implement the program nation-wide,
  leading to implementation challenges due to the MoH’s limited capacity. Also, the amount of the CCTs had not been adjusted since 2009
  and therefore did not reflect current transportation and opportunity costs especially for mothers living in rural areas. Furthermore, the BJA
  program was implemented at the ministerial level and was not integrated within the existing health care services delivery network at the
  departmental and municipal levels.
  In 2011, the government moved responsibility for project implementation from the TCU to the three executing agencies, the MoL, MoH, and
  UDAPE, leading to coordination challenges. Throughout project implementation the MoH and MoL experienced high turnover of ministerial
  and project staff, resulting in slow implementation and financial management challenges.



  Government Performance Rating
   Moderately Unsatisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance
  The project was implemented by three implementing agencies, the MoH, the MoL, and the UDAPE.
  MoH: Unsatisfactory
  The MoH weakly implemented component 1 for several reasons. First, the MoH did not allocate sufficient resources to implement the
  program on a national level and enable synergies between the provision of health care services and the management of the BJA
  program at the local level. Second, the MoH established a central fiduciary unit for the lifetime of the project, which lacked qualified staff
  and did not sufficiently coordinate with the BJA’s technical unit, which was responsible for the operation of the program. Third, the MoH
  experienced high turnover of staff at the project and ministerial levels.
  MoL: Moderately Unsatisfactory
  The MoL was responsible for the implementation of component 2. The performance of the MoL had several shortcomings. Due to
  changes in administration within the MoL, the implementation start of the program was delayed from 2011 to 2012, which made an 18-
  month extension of the original closing date necessary. The MoL did not fully disburse the resources that were reallocated to component
  2 under the 2013 restructuring, encountered difficulties in complying with some financial management requirements, and left key
  positions in the national project coordination unit empty, negatively impacting project implementation. Furthermore, the MoL was not able
  to reach the expected number of beneficiaries over the extended project implementation period.
  UDAPE: Satisfactory
  The UDAPE was responsible for the implementation of component 3. All project activities under this component were implemented as
  planned. The UDAPE’s financial management and procurement performance was adequate. Also, the UDAPE carried out an impact
  evaluation of the BJA and MPED programs, which required significant inter-institutional efforts.
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       BO Investing in Children and Youth(P101084)




   Implementing Agency Performance Rating
   Moderately Unsatisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating
    Moderately Unsatisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization

a. M&E Design
   The PDOs of the project were broad and lacked specificity and clarity. PDO 1 did reflect the objective of the BJA program, to reduce
   chronic malnutrition, but it was overly ambitious and influenced by external factors outside the control of the project. PDOs 2 and 3 were
   vague, and the PAD did not specify how “enhanced effectiveness” for PDO 2 should be measured and what baseline should be used.
   The Results Framework included a large number of indicators (31), with many lacking baselines.
   The M&E design planned to conduct two process evaluations. One evaluation was intended to assess the BJA program once the first 10
   municipalities had been incorporated and households and communities were receiving their benefits. It was also planned to conduct
   another process evaluation of the MPED program during the first year of implementation to assess the pilot and, if necessary, make
   adjustments. An Impact Evaluation to assess the outcomes of the BJA was to be conducted in cooperation with the Health Adaptable
   Program Loan III project, which was implemented in the same target municipalities. In addition, beneficiary surveys were to be conducted
   during the implementation of the BJA program.




b. M&E Implementation
   The Management Information Systems at the MoH and MoL tracked physical and financial progress. Implementation progress reports were
   generated on a regular basis. While these two systems could be improved, they were fully operational.
   The implementation of the BJA evaluation was delayed and took place eventually in 2012. Although delayed, the evaluation provided useful
   information and represented 73% of beneficiaries. The MPED evaluation measured the impact of the program in regards to employment and
   remuneration and interviewed beneficiaries at three different times, at enrollment in 2012, in 2013 and 2014.
   Planned beneficiary surveys to collect data on the proportion of indigenous beneficiaries who were satisfied with the BJA program were never
   conducted. Also, data on education activities, conducted with beneficiaries in health centers, was poorly registered, and no records were
   included in the BJA’s MIS.




c. M&E Utilization
   The results of the BJA and MPED evaluations continue to inform the implementation of these two programs. Results from the BJA impact
   evaluation and process evaluation provided inputs for the modification of the BJA operational manual to improve the implementation and
   performance of the program.




   M&E Quality Rating
   Modest


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards
   The project was classified as category C and triggered safeguard policy OP/BP 4.01 (Indigenous People). However, an indigenous people
   plan was not required as the majority of the beneficiaries in 52 municipalities was indigenous, and the project design complied with the
          Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                              Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
          BO Investing in Children and Youth(P101084)



   requirements of the Bank’s policy on indigenous people. Also, the project design included a communication strategy to improve
   understanding of the program among all stakeholders, complement cash benefits with information on program co-responsibilities, outcomes,
   social control, and accountability, and provide information to beneficiaries about the program’s goals and beneficiary rights and
   responsibilities.




b. Fiduciary Compliance
   Financial Management
   The MoL, the MoH, and the UDAPE were responsible for the financial management of the project. Each agency had its own financial
   management procedures, operational manual, and staff. While UDAPE had adequate financial management arrangements throughout
   implementation, the MoL and the MoH implemented inadequate accounting practices, had limited coordination between their technical and
   administrative teams, and suffered from a weak internal control system to provide reliable financial information that was necessary for
   monitoring and enabling the transfer of funds.
   Interim financial reports and audited financial statements were submitted late due to a lack of adequate financial records. As a result, the
   Bank suspended the financing of BJA transfers by the end of 2012. Also, external auditors identified significant weaknesses in internal
   controls, which led to delays in project implementation and the occurrence of ineligible expenditures.
   Except for the last two audits of the MOL for 2014 and part of CY2015, all the external auditor’s opinions were unqualified. The Bank worked
   with the counterpart to obtain more information that led to the limitation of the auditor’s opinion. Almost all aspects were eventually resolved.
   Procurement
   The Bank’s procurement guidelines were followed appropriately. According to the procurement post-review mission and procurement audits
   for components 1 and 3, the project did not encounter any serious procurement issues. However, the project experienced delays in
   some contracting processes due to limited technical capacity and centralized approval processes.




c. Unintended impacts (Positive or Negative)
   None noted.




d. Other
    ---




12. Ratings
                                                                                                                 Reason for
Ratings                                  ICR                                 IEG
                                                                                                                 Disagreements/Comment
Outcome                                  Moderately Unsatisfactory          Moderately Unsatisfactory            ---
Risk to Development Outcome              Modest                             Modest                               ---
                                                                                                                 Project design was overly
                                                                                                                 ambitious, and the Results
Bank Performance                         Moderately Satisfactory            Moderately Unsatisfactory
                                                                                                                 Framework had significant
                                                                                                                 shortcomings.
Borrower Performance                     Moderately Unsatisfactory          Moderately Unsatisfactory            ---
Quality of ICR                                                              Substantial                          ---
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                   Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         BO Investing in Children and Youth(P101084)



Note
When insufficient information is provided by the Bank for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade the relevant ratings as warranted
beginning July 1, 2006.
The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column could cross-reference other sections of the ICR Review, as appropriate.


13. Lessons

The ICR (p. 22-24) identifies several valuable lessons, including the following:

     • High-level project objectives lead to attribution difficulties. In this project, the objective to reduce malnutrition was overly ambitious and was
     influenced by several factors beyond the project’s intervention scope. Therefore, outcomes cannot be solely attributed to this project.
     • Testing programs on a smaller scale allows for the modification of program design and for building implementation capacity where needed.
     Originally, it was planned to pilot the BJA program with a focus on a high-priority target population. However, the program ended up being
     implemented on a national level, leading to implementation challenges giving the MoH’s limited capacity.
     • The main aim of CCTs is to attract the target population. In this project, the CCTs did not adequately reflect the transportation costs of the
     primary target group, low -income populations in rural areas. Also, the program did not ensure that CCTs remained attractive when economic
     circumstances changed and employment opportunities improved. However, the MPED took transport and opportunity costs of the target
     population into account, and stipends were adjusted to reflect an increase in the minimum wage, resulting in a low rate of abandoning the
     program.




14. Assessment Recommended?

No


15. Comments on Quality of ICR

The ICR provides a good overview of project preparation and implementation. The ICR is concise, consistent in its analysis, and includes a
traditional economic analysis. Also, it identifies challenges and provides useful lessons learned. Taking everything together, the ICR is rated
Substantial.




a.    Quality of ICR Rating
      Substantial
