                                   Document of
                                  The World Bank




                                                     Report No: ICR2395



            IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                             (IBRD-47740)



                                        ON A

                                       LOAN

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$24.0 MILLION

                                       TO THE

                           REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN

                                       FOR AN

                  AGRICULTURAL COMPETITIVENESS PROJECT



                                  January 24, 2013




Sustainable Development Department
Central Asia Country Management Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
          (Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2012)
              Currency Unit = Kazakh Tenge
                  KZT 1.00 = US$0.0067
                  US$1.00 = KZT 149.4

                    FISCAL YEAR
                 January 1–December 31
          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACP       Agricultural Competitiveness Project
APPAP-2   Second Agricultural Post-Privatization Assistance Project
CGS       Competitive Grant Scheme
CIMMYT    International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center
CPS       Country Partnership Strategy
ERR       economic rate of return
FAO       Food and Agriculture Organization
FSD       Financial Services Department
FY        fiscal year
GB        governing board
GDP       gross domestic product
GOK       Government of Kazakhstan
GOST      GOST standards (state standards left from Soviet times)
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR       Implementation Completion and Results Report
IFA       Immune Fermented Analysis
IRR       internal rate of return
ISR       Implementation Status and Results
ISO       International Standard Organization
KAI       Joint Stock Company “Kazagroinnovation?
KAM       Joint Stock Company “Kazagromarketing?
KazNAU    Kazakh National Agrarian University
KZT       Kazakh tenge
M&E       monitoring and evaluation
MIS       market information system
MOA       Ministry of Agriculture
MOF       Ministry of Finance
NPV       net present value
NRL       National Reference Laboratory
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PCC       Project Coordination Center
PDO       project development objective
RVL       Republican Veterinary Laboratory
SPS       sanitary / phytosanitary (standards)
TA        technical assistance
TTL       task team leader
US$       United States dollar
WTO       World Trade Organization


                             i
     Vice president: Philippe Le Houérou
  Country director: Saroj Kumar Jha
    Sector manager: Dina Umali-Deininger
Project team leader: Sandra Broka
   ICR team leader: Talimjan Urazov




                  ii
                                               KAZAKHSTAN
                                     Agricultural Competitiveness Project


                                                        CONTENTS
Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives, and Design .............................................. 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................... 6
 3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 12
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ......................................................... 17
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance...................................................... 18
 6. Lessons Learned ........................................................................................................ 20
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ........... 21
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 22
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component .................................................................................. 23
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 28
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............. 34
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 36
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ................................................... 37
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 38
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 39
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents....................................................................... 40
MAP




                                                                iii
A. Basic information
Country: Kazakhstan                               Project name: Agricultural Competitiveness Project (ACP)
Project ID: P049721                               L/C/TF number(s): IBRD-47740
ICR date: 12/28/2012                              ICR type: Core Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
Lending instrument: SIL                           Borrower: Government of Kazakhstan
Original total commitment: US$24.00 million       Disbursed amount: US$14.61 million
Revised amount: US$14.70 million                  Environmental category: F
Implementing agency: Ministry of Agriculture      Co-financiers and other external partners: Food and
                                                  Agriculture Organization (FAO)

B. Key dates
                                                                                        Revised / actual
     Process                   Date               Process           Original date           date(s)
Concept review              07/23/2003     Effectiveness             09/18/2006           09/18/2006
Appraisal                   08/10/2004     Restructuring(s)                               06/30/2009
                                                                                          07/30/2010
                                                                                          10/28/2011
Approval                    04/28/2005     Midterm review            04/08/2009           03/30/2009
                                           Closing                   07/30/2010           06/30/2012

C. Ratings summary
C.1 Performance rating by ICR
Outcomes: Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to development outcome: Moderate
Bank performance: Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower performance: Moderately Unsatisfactory


C.2 Detailed ratings of Bank and borrower performance (by ICR)
                         Bank                                             Borrower
Quality at entry: Moderately Satisfactory         Government: Moderately Unsatisfactory
Quality of supervision: Moderately Unsatisfactory Implementing agency or agencies: Moderately Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank performance: Moderately Satisfactory Overall borrower performance: Moderately Unsatisfactory

C.3 Quality at entry and implementation performance indicators
                                                       QAG assessments
  Implementation performance             Indicators         (if any)                  Rating
Potential problem project at any Yes                 Quality at entry       Moderately Satisfactory
time (yes/no)
Problem project at any time       Yes                Quality of supervision None
(yes/no)
Development objective rating      Moderately
before closing or inactive status Unsatisfactory

D. Sector and theme codes
                                                                       Original              Actual
Sector code (% of total Bank financing)
Agricultural extension and research                                     50                     60
Agro-industry, marketing, and trade                                     18                     15
Animal production                                                       13
Central government administration                                        7                     25


                                                    iv
Crops                                                                      12

Theme code (% of total Bank financing)
Export development and competitiveness                                      29                    38
Other rural development                                                     14                    22
Rural markets                                                               14                    15
Rural policies and institutions                                             14
Rural services and infrastructure                                           29                    25

E. Bank staff
           Position                           At ICR                                At approval
Vice president                Philippe H. Le Houerou                   Shigeo Katsu
Country director              Saroj Kumar Jha                          Dennis N. de Tray
Sector manager                Dina Umali-Deininger                     Joseph R. Goldberg
Project team leader           Talimjan Urazov                          Maurizio Guadagni
ICR team leader               Talimjan Urazov
ICR primary author            Åsa Giertz



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The project’s development objective is to increase the competitiveness of the
agricultural sector in Kazakhstan. To achieve this objective, the project would facilitate
access to markets by supporting measures to improve the quality and safety of agricultural
products, enhance access to information, and harmonize standards. It will also help to
increase the quality, quantity, and relevance of applied agricultural research and facilitate
transfer of knowledge to farmers.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

(a) PDO indicator(s)

                                                             Original target                   Actual value
                                                              values (from     Formally        achieved at
                                                    Baseline    approval     revised target   completion or
                    Indicator                        value    documents)         values        target years
Indicator 1: Increased farmers’ income,
particularly that of small- and medium-size
farmers
Value (quantitative or qualitative)             0           2% of all        2,400 farmers 3,200 farmers
                                                            farmers
Date achieved                                   01/01/2005 04/29/2005        10/28/2011         06/29/2012
Comments (including % achieved)                 Target value was revised to better reflect the project’s
                                                contribution. Revised value was achieved.
Indicator 2: Value of agricultural exports,
including livestock products, rises compared
with 2005
Value (quantitative or qualitative)          US$800      US$820 million US$1400            US$1850 million
                                             million                      million
Date achieved                                12/30/2005 04/29/2005        10/28/2011       12/30/2011
Comments (including % achieved)              Agricultural exports increased more than target, although it this

                                                        v
                                                 is not entirely attributable to the project. The project supported
                                                 the most successful technology (Conservation Agriculture/Zero
                                                 Tillage) that helped to increase export.
Indicator 3: Increased proportion of
agricultural products that are tested and that
meet international standards for quality and
safety
Value (quantitative or qualitative)            10            30                                15
Date achieved                                  12/31/2004 04/29/2005                           06/29/2012
Comments (including % achieved)                25% achieved. Even if 60 labs were equipped according to
                                               international standards, some project activities related to this
                                               indicator were not implemented (such as construction of the
                                               National Reference Laboratory and survey of laboratories).
Indicator 4: Satisfaction of potential direct
and indirect beneficiaries of the project
Value (quantitative or qualitative)            0             20                                99
Date achieved                                  12/31/2004 04/29/2005                           06/29/2012
Comments (including % achieved)                Fully achieved. Interviews of 209 grant beneficiaries were
                                               completed with the following overall evaluation: very good =
                                               16%; good = 84%; some 'Bad' evaluations on specific issues did
                                               not result in any negative overall evaluation.

(b) Intermediate outcome indicator(s)

                                                              Original target                      Actual value
                                                               values (from     Formally           achieved at
                                                     Baseline    approval     revised target      completion or
                    Indicator                         value    documents)         values           target years
Indicator 1: 7 technical regulations, each
consisting of number of individual standards,
are harmonized
Value (quantitative or qualitative)              0           7                                  7
Date achieved                                    12/31/2004 04/29/2005                          06/29/2012
Comments (including % achieved)                  This indicator was fully achieved.
Indicator 2: 60 laboratories are equipped
according to international accreditation
standards
Value (quantitative or qualitative)              0            60 laboratories   60 laboratories 60
                                                              receive           are equipped
                                                              international     according to
                                                              accreditation     international
                                                                                accreditation
                                                                                standards
Date achieved                                    12/31/2004 04/29/2005          10/28/2011       06/29/2012
Comments (including % achieved)                  Original target of receiving international accreditation was
                                                 unattainable due to lengthy process of accreditation. Revised
                                                 target was achieved.
Indicator 3: At least 140 market-oriented
subprojects implemented under the CGS
Value (quantitative or qualitative)              0           140             140              58
Date achieved                                    12/31/2004 04/29/2005       10/28/2011       06/29/2012
Comments (including % achieved)                  40% achieved. MOA planned to implement a 5th round of
                                                 CGS mainly for marketing projects However, the 5th round
                                                 was not supported by the MOF and the actual number of
                                                 market-oriented subprojects was therefore lower than expected
                                                 with higher average size.
Indicator 4: At least 600 applied research and

                                                        vi
extension subprojects implemented under the
CGS
Value (quantitative                              0           600                                470
or qualitative)
Date achieved                                    12/31/2004 04/29/2005                          06/29/2012
Comments (including % achieved)                  80% achieved. The actual number of projects approved under
                                                 four rounds was 523, with slightly larger subprojects; 53
                                                 subprojects did not sign contracts for various personal reasons.
Indicator 5: At least 40 scientists under age of
40 receive advanced education
Value (quantitative or qualitative)              0           40                                 52
Date achieved                                    12/31/2004 04/29/2005                          06/29/2012
Comments (including % achievement)               This indicator was fully achieved
Indicator 6: Governing Board, Project
Coordination Center, and a roster of
independent peer reviewers established and
oprating, as demonstrated through minutes of
the meetings
Value (quantitative or qualitative)              0           10                                 10
Date achieved                                    12/31/2004 04/29/2005                          06/29/2012
Comments (including % achieved)                  This indicator was fully achieved.



G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                                    Actual
               Date ISR                                                                         disbursements
 Number        archived                     DO                               IP                 (US$ million)
     1         05/21/2005    Satisfactory                     Satisfactory                           0.00
     2         05/26/2006    Moderately Satisfactory          Unsatisfactory                         0.00
     3         01/09/2007    Moderately Unsatisfactory        Unsatisfactory                         0.00
     4         04/06/2007    Moderately Satisfactory          Moderately Unsatisfactory              0.00
     5         08/02/2007    Moderately Satisfactory          Moderately Unsatisfactory              0.33
     6         12/20/2007    Moderately Satisfactory          Moderately Unsatisfactory              0.63
     7         05/30/2008    Moderately Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory                1.38
     8         08/29/2008    Moderately Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory                2.76
     9         11/03/2009    Moderately Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory                8.64
    10         06/30/2010    Moderately Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory               11.84
    11         12/22/2010    Moderately Satisfactory          Moderately Unsatisfactory             11.84
    12         06/27/2011    Moderately Satisfactory          Moderately Unsatisfactory             13.21
    13         11/20/2011    Moderately Satisfactory          Moderately Unsatisfactory             14.40
    14         01/28/2012    Moderately Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory               14.40
    15         06/24/2012    Moderately Unsatisfactory        Moderately Unsatisfactory             14.67



H. Restructuring (if any)
  Restructuring     Board approved ISR ratings at              Amount          Reason for restructuring and key
     date(s)         PDO change    restructuring             disbursed at               changes made


                                                       vii
                                           restructuring
                          DO   IP          (US$ million)
   06/30/2009             MS   MS                7.54    The project was streamlined to focus
                                                         more narrowly on the project
                                                         objectives. As a result,
                                                         subcomponents 2.1 (except the CGS)
                                                         and 4.2 were discontinued, and
                                                         implementation arrangements under
                                                         subcomponent 3.2 were changed.
   07/30/2010        N    MS   MS               11.84    The project was extended until June
                                                         30, 2012, to allow time to disburse
                                                         grants already approved (part C 2(iii)
                                                         of the project) and to complete the
                                                         design of a new building for the
                                                         National Reference Laboratory in
                                                         part A.2 of the project description
                                                         (schedule 2 of the Loan Agreement).
   10/28/2011        N    MS   MU               14.40    The project was restructured to (a)
                                                         carry out a partial cancellation of
                                                         loan funds in the amount of US$9.3
                                                         million initially allocated for
                                                         construction of the NRL; (b) amend
                                                         the Loan Agreement, deleting the
                                                         reference to the NRL construction in
                                                         part A.2, and (iii) revise the
                                                         monitoring and evaluation
                                                         framework to reflect changes in the
                                                         project costs and financing and
                                                         remove discrepancies with the
                                                         Project Appraisal Document.




I. Disbursement profile




                                    viii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives, and Design

1.1 Context at appraisal1

1.      At the time of project appraisal, agriculture contributed 8 percent of Kazakhstan’s
gross domestic product (GDP) and employed 32 percent of its economically active
population. Agricultural output contracted sharply following independence, but the sector
recovered steadily after 1998, with average real annual growth of 6 percent. Important reforms
were implemented in the years before project appraisal, including liberalization of input markets,
a new land code, and a shift in agricultural support mechanisms (including price mechanisms,
credit support, and production-oriented subsidies). Following these reforms, there was a
significant increase in the amount of cropland under cultivation (from about 16.5 million
hectares in 2000 to 21.5 million hectares in 2009–10), in agricultural intensification, and in the
use of fertilizers (from virtually nothing in 2000 to 30–40 kilograms per hectare in 2005–08),
albeit not to the levels at the time of independence. These improvements occurred mainly in
northern Kazakhstan’s grain-producing regions. Despite the limited availability of private credit
for farmers, investments in fixed assets increased fivefold from 2003 to 2009. For the
Government of Kazakhstan (GOK), agricultural growth was a means to reduce dependence on
extractive industries and to bring visible benefits to poor rural areas. Yet despite the reforms,
significant challenges prevented the sector from reaching its potential, including access to
markets, the transfer of know-how and technology to farmers, and the availability of financial
services for small farmers. There was also a need to diversify the agriculture sector away from
traditional crops such as wheat and cotton and to focus more on high-value products.

2.       Problems in complying with international food safety standards limited the access of
Kazakh agricultural products to international markets. In 1996 Kazakhstan applied for
membership in the World Trade Organization (WTO) and began harmonizing its food safety
institutions and legal framework with the WTO Sanitary and Phytosanitary (SPS) Agreement. At
the time, only 17 of 152 agro-food national (GOST) standards had been harmonized with
international standards.

3.      Access to technology and know-how was another challenge for development of the
sector, in particular for smaller farmers. As a result of the post-Soviet privatization of
agricultural holdings, the number of peasant (or individual) farms doubled between 1998 and
2005 to 121,500 farms. Arable land cultivated by this group of farmers climbed from 19 percent
to more than 42 percent in the same period. Peasant and household farms produced more than a
third of all grain, well over 50 percent of meat, and more than two-thirds of raw cotton.
However, many peasant farms and household plots were managed by people with limited
experience in farming and limited access to modern technology.


1
 In addition to the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), this section is based on findings in M. Petrick, J. Wandel,
and K. Karsten, Farm Restructururing and Agricultural Recovery in Kazakhstan’s Grain Region: An Update,
Discussion Paper 137 (Halle, Germany: Leibeniz-Institute of Agricultural Development in Central and Eastern
Europe, 2011).


                                                       1
4.       The system of research, technological development, and dissemination that had
served farmers during the Soviet era collapsed and was not replaced by a system capable of
meeting the needs of increasing numbers of small farmers. Agricultural research was carried
out by 10 centers employing some 1,200 scientists. The system was underfunded. However, the
main shortcoming was the lack of a system for disseminating the findings of agricultural research
to farmers and for facilitating the adoption of technology by farmers and agro-processors. This
shortcoming was not compensated for by the private sector, which constituted a mere 10 percent
of total investment in agricultural research in Kazakhstan.

5.      The GOK recognizes the importance of agriculture for the growth of a more
diversified economy and has committed significant financial resources to support its
growth. The budget of the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) rose from KZT 11.5 billion in 2000 to
KZT 80 billion in 2005, an increase of about 300 percent in real terms. The GOK did not request
financial support from the World Bank but rather help establishing adequate policy, legal, and
regulatory frameworks and adopting and disseminating technical innovations.

1.2 Original project development objectives (PDO) and key indicators

6.       The project sought to improve the competitiveness of the agriculture sector in
Kazakhstan. It sought to facilitate access to world markets by improving the quality and safety
of agricultural products, enhancing access to information, and harmonizing standards. It also
sought to improve the quality, quantity, and relevance of applied agricultural research and
facilitate the transfer to and adoption of knowledge by farmers.

7.       The following were the project’s original targets for key indicators of outcome:
        Increase farm income, particularly for small and medium-size farmers
        Increase the value of agricultural exports, including livestock products, compared with
         2003
        Increase the proportion of agricultural products that are tested and meet international
         standards for quality and safety
        Satisfy potential direct and indirect beneficiaries of the project.

8.       The following were the project’s original targets for the key indicators of output:
        Harmonize seven technical regulations, each consisting of several individual standards
        Obtain international accreditation for 60 laboratories
        Implement at least 140 market-oriented subprojects under the Competitive Grant Scheme
         (CGS)
        Implement at least 600 applied research and extension subprojects under the CGS
        Educate at least 40 scientists below the age of 40
        Establish an institutional structure for research and extension services.

1.3 Revised PDO and key indicators and reasons or justification




                                                2
9.     Key indicators were revised during the 2011 restructuring to clarify the indicators
and their targets and to correct inconsistencies in the original project documentation . 2
Specifically, the Supplemental Letter was revised to be consistent with the Project Appraisal
Document with regard to the number of projects to be implemented under the CGS. In 2011, it
became clear that the PDO might not be fully achieved, and the Bank and the Ministry of
Agriculture discussed revising it. However, because the approval procedures in Kazakhstan
would take more than a year to complete, such a revision was not possible.

1.4 Main beneficiaries

10.     Although the project did not target a specific group of farmers, individual farmers
(usually small and medium size, family farms, and commercial farmers) were the main
beneficiaries. These farmers benefited from the improved outreach of extension services,
training in agricultural practices, creation of a market information system (MIS), improved food
safety institutions, CGS opportunities, and the dissemination of applied research. Corporate
farms, which did not need public services and public investments to the same extent, benefited
largely from the investments in food safety institutions. Research institutions and researchers
also benefited from the CGS and from training and study tours. The public SPS and food safety
laboratory network benefited from investment in new equipment and training.

1.5 Original components (total project cost US$83.1 million: IBRD US$24 million, GOK
US$46.8 million, beneficiaries US$12.3 million)3

Component 1, Quality and Safety Management of Agricultural Products (US$33.4 million: IBRD
US$12.7 million, GOK US$19.3 million, beneficiaries US$1.4 million)4

11.    This component sought to strengthen the capacity to control food safety and certify
quality along the value chain. It had two subcomponents.

12.     Subcomponent 1.1, Harmonization and Development of Standards, proposed
establishing an expert group on harmonization of regulations and standards of quality for
agricultural products. It also sought to provide technical assistance and training on the
introduction of regulations and standards.

13.     Subcomponent 1.2, Quality and Safety Monitoring, sought to improve certification
by rationalizing the system for testing and monitoring quality and safety. It proposed to
establish and equip a public Veterinarian Testing Center (microbiology, radiology, toxicology,
biochemistry, virology) and a Plant Protection Testing Center (entomology, phytopathology,
virology, microbiology), to train approximately 200 staff in various areas related to food safety,


2
  This included (a) dropping the indicator on profitability of beneficiary farmers, (b) lowering the ambitions for the
regional laboratories to focus on upgrading laboratory equipment rather than aiming for accreditation, and (c) raising
the number of marketing-oriented projects from 120 to 140 to make it consistent with the PAD (for more details, see
sections 1.6 and 3.2).
3
  Including contingencies.
4
  The amount actually disbursed was US$10.4 million.

                                                          3
to modernize laboratories for testing seeds and inputs, and to provide training and incentives for
accrediting line laboratories as needed along the value chain (through the CGS, with 25–60
percent cost sharing). Finally, it proposed to implement quality assurance schemes in selected
agro-enterprises.

Component, Agricultural Marketing (US$7 million: IBRD US$1.5 million, GOK 2.9 million,
beneficiaries US$2.6 million)5

14.     Component 2 sought to improve the private sector’s ability to assess and access
agricultural markets. To achieve this, it (a) facilitated access to market knowledge, (b)
identified bottlenecks and provided incentives to overcome them, and (c) promoted exports by
improving the international image of Kazakh agriculture. It had two subcomponents.

15.     Subcomponent 2.1, Strengthening the Market Information System (MIS), sought to
strengthen the country’s MIS. It proposed to do this by improving the quality and frequency of
data reporting, using enhanced media for publishing information, and issuing analytical reports.

16.     Subcomponent 2.2, Development of Market-Oriented Infrastructure, sought to
provide financial incentives for developing marketing associations and partnerships. It
sought to co-finance up to 40 percent of the cost of post-harvest infrastructure such as milk
collection points, slaughterhouses, storage areas, and distribution networks for priority
commodities in the northern and southern economic corridors. Grants were for projects with a
technical assistance component, an innovative aspect, a plan for disseminating results, or public
benefits beyond the farm. They were awarded to farmers in cooperatives, not individuals.

Component 3, Applied Agricultural Research and Extension (US$36.5 million: IBRD
US$9.0 million, GOK US$19.2 million, beneficiaries US$8.3 million)6

17.    This component sought to improve the agricultural research and extension system
in Kazakhstan. It proposed to create a competitive funding mechanism for applied research and
extension and to create a structure for training and supporting new extension agents. It had two
subcomponents.

18.     Subcomponent 3.1, Applied Research, sought to improve research capacity.
Specifically, it proposed to provide technical assistance to reorganize the core agricultural
research system, to finance higher education for 40 young scientists, both domestically and
internationally, and to fund applied research.

19.    Subcomponent 3.2, Agricultural Extension, sought to establish a government-
funded system for providing extension services to agricultural entities. The MOA pledged to
expand its presence in rural areas, employing at least one extension agent per district and one
extension supervisor per oblast. The project also sought to establish a system of support for
extension agents, including help hiring and training agents and monitoring output; 400 private


5
    The amount actually disbursed was US$3.5 million.
6
    The amount actually disbursed was US$27.6 million.

                                                         4
extension agents were to be trained and certified under the project. Finally, the CGS was to
finance around 450 extension and training projects averaging US$25,000. Public and private
organizations could apply, including scientific centers and academic organizations, individual
researchers, and farms and companies.

Component 4, Institutional Development and Agricultural Policy (US$6.2 million: IBRD US$0.8
million, GOK US$5.4 million)7

20.     This component sought to support the MOA’s capacity in various areas. Specifically,
it sought to (a) implement project activities; (b) improve the legal framework; (c) monitor the
effects of policy changes; (d) train staff on policy analysis, management, economics, agricultural
trade and WTO accession, agricultural knowledge and information systems, and participation in
regional agricultural fairs and conferences; and (e) monitor and evaluate project activities. It had
three subcomponents.

21.     Subcomponent 4.1, Institutional Structure, proposed establishing an institutional
structure for managing the project. A Governing Board would be responsible for defining the
strategic guidelines, including funding systems under the three components. A Project
Coordination Center (PCC) would act as secretariat of the project and be responsible for
implementing the policies agreed by the Governing Board and reflected in the Project
Implementation Plan and Operational Manual. Finally, a rotating roster of independent national
and international experts (not a permanent institution) would be responsible for the technical
review of proposals submitted under the CGS.

22.    Subcomponent 4.2, Agricultural Policy Development, financed technical assistance
to support project evaluation. A consulting firm was hired to produce two evaluations per year,
with the results presented directly to the Governing Board.

23.     Subcomponent 4.3, Project Monitoring and Evaluation, sought to strengthen the
capacity of the public sector to analyze, monitor, and develop agricultural policies. An
expert group on agricultural policy was to be established, and the project was to provide
technical assistance, including training and study tours, to develop a system for monitoring
indicators of state support.

1.6 Revised components

24.    The construction of a National Reference Laboratory under component 1 was
canceled in 2011 at the request of the government. A complicated tender process delayed
implementation of this activity beyond the point where it could be completed before the project
closed. The Bank approved the cancellation, but the borrower did not countersign the
amendment. Therefore, even though the activity was canceled by mutual agreement, the
agreement was not formalized.8


7
 The amount actually disbursed was US$4.5 million.
8
 The Bank approved the cancellation on November 8, 2011. The Ministry of Finance responded in a letter dated
January 10, 2012, that the “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency

                                                      5
25.    Furthermore, the original goal of accrediting 60 laboratories as complying with
international standards was determined to be unrealistic. This indicator was therefore
modified to say, “The laboratories [will] be equipped according to international accreditation
standards.?

1.7 Other significant changes

26.     Overall, the project was restructured three times: in 2009, 2010, and 2011. The first
changes were introduced immediately after the midterm review in June 2009 when components
2.1 (except for the CGS) and 4.2 were discontinued. These changes were intended to streamline
the structure and allow the project to focus its resources. Other changes included revising the
implementation arrangement for component 3.2 (Agricultural Extension) by replacing the
implementing agency, Kazagromarketing (KAM), with Kazagroinnovation (KAI). The scope of
this activity was also revised to stop supporting state extension agents and start giving more
support to innovative training facilities and call centers.

27.     An extension of the project was granted in July 2010, changing the closing date from
July 30, 2010, to June 30, 2012, in order to allow time for implementing the approved
subprojects and designing a new NRL building. The project was formally restructured a
second time in October-November 2011 to (a) cancel funding for constructing the NRL building;
(b) amend the Loan Agreement to exclude the laboratory construction activity, and (c) revise the
results framework to sharpen the targets and correct for inconsistencies in the original
documentation. Part of the government co-financing was also canceled.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project preparation, design, and quality at entry

28.     The project was strategically relevant, and the technical justification was rigorous.
A thorough economic and financial analysis estimated an economic rate of return of 23.5 percent
and a net present value of US$51 million. These estimates assumed that the price of products
would rise as a result of higher standards of food safety and quality, that farm productivity would
improve as a result of extension and advisory services, and that cost recovery would be higher as
a result of improved lab services and slaughterhouses. A social assessment and an environmental
review were also conducted, helping to identify potential risks and challenges. Several technical
background notes, economic and sector work, a wheat study by the Food and Agriculture
Organization (FAO), and a cotton study prepared under a PHRD preparation grant informed the
technical design of the project.

29.     The technical design was influenced by the fact that the GOK was interested in


Loans? made it possible to cancel a loan amount without amending the Loan Agreement. The Bank’s legal team
confirmed in an e-mail dated November 11, 2012, that the cancellation was effective as of the date of the Bank’s
receipt of the request from the borrower. However, for the changes to take effect, the borrower had to sign the
Amendment Letter (which complements the Supplemental Letter). This was not done.

                                                       6
obtaining knowledge and experience, not financing, and in upgrading the existing
laboratory network. At the same time the GOK decided not to use loan proceeds for consulting
services. Due to the importance of advisory and technical assistance in the project, this resulted
in a relatively small loan in an otherwise large project.9 The project was comprehensive in its
approach to improving competitiveness, but it was overstretched, encompassing diverse aspects
of production and marketing. This resulted in a complex project with many activities that proved
difficult to coordinate. In addition, many activities required a needs assessment, which was not
conducted for every subcomponent (nor done prior to project appraisal). Specifically, the first
component lacked both proper feasibility studies for construction of the NRL and a needs
assessment for Kazakhstan’s laboratory infrastructure.

30.     Although the project had many activities, the loan proceeds were allocated only to
purchase laboratory equipment, construct the NRL, and co-finance competitive grants.
This split financing arrangement had not been used before (except in a APPAP II project that
was on a parallel preparation track), creating new challenges. While the project team supported
the project in its entirety, advising the PCC counterparts and issuing no objections irrespective of
the source of funding, the non-Bank-financed activities had less weight in defining the project
implementation ratings and were less of a priority for the Bank’s internal audience.

31.     Lessons learned in other countries were used to design competitive grants and
training activities. The project was prepared in partnership with several government agencies,
the private sector, and civil society. This collaboration served to strengthen linkages between the
client, FAO, and the Codex Alimentarius Commission. The institutional arrangements were well
thought through, with responsibility for implementation being assigned to the PCC, including
fiduciary responsibilities such as financial management and procurement under IBRD funds. To
speed implementation, legislation for the implementing arrangements was drafted during project
preparation, and the Loan Agreement arranged for the project unit to receive government funding
even before the agreement went into effect.

32.     The GOK commitment to the project was unanimous and remained strong, as
reflected in stable budget allocations. However, this support was not enough to avoid
bottlenecks, speed up bureaucratic procedures, or enable the allocation of additional ministerial
staff when needed.

33.    The identification of critical risks was comprehensive at appraisal. Attempts were
made to mitigate the risks associated with cumbersome bureaucratic procedures. Others,
especially complications in project implementation resulting from the 2005 budget code, were
not possible to predict at project appraisal. However, critical risks related to the project’s overall
complexity and capacity constraints were not addressed and materialized later on.

2.2 Implementation



9
 The original IBRD loan amount was 34 percent of total project financing (the IBRD loan was US$24 million; total
project costs, including contingencies but excluding beneficiary contributions, were US$70.8 million).


                                                       7
(a) Systemic factors affecting project implementation

34.    Delayed effectiveness of the Loan Agreement was systemic and affected most
components of the project. For example, the project became effective in September 2006, more
than one year after project approval.

35.    The rigidity of the government’s internal rules made implementation of the project
overly complex and slow. The project’s feasibility study was a government-approved equivalent
of the PAD, and any changes to the project or implementation arrangements, including minor
ones, had to be reflected in the feasibility study and approved by the Ministry of Economy.10
Since the project required several changes and obtaining approval for changes was slow,
implementation of the amendments was delayed.

36.    Poorly drawn lines of responsibility among the ministries contributed to the
slowdown. Although the Loan Agreement clearly stated that the MOA was responsible for
implementing the project, the Bank’s aide-mémoires noted that continued micromanagement by
the ministries of finance and economy caused inordinate delays at early stages of implementation.

(b) Project-specific factors affecting implementation

37.      Weak capacity of the implementation agency led to slow development and poor
quality of project documentation at the beginning. Qualified local professionals were
unwilling to work in the PCC for the approved remuneration rates, and staff shortages existed in
the ministries of agriculture and finance.11 These shortages caused significant delays in important
activities, including the procurement of laboratory equipment and implementation of competitive
grants, which resulted in some activities never being fully implemented, even after the project
was extended. The World Bank team noted the shortcomings early on and provided practical
advice on how to solve implementation constraints, such as shortening the procurement process.

38.     The project’s relatively complex design involved a large number of planned
activities, which complicated implementation and coordination. By the time of the midterm
review, it was clear that the implementing agency was mired in numerous small consultancy
contracts and would not be able to implement all activities as planned. The decision was made to
focus on a few key areas (competitive grants, training, extension, laboratory equipment, and
standards) and to eliminate activities that were unlikely to succeed, such as those related to the
MIS, image enhancement, and policy development.

39.    The project budget was inadequate for some key activities. Due to strong economic
growth in 2004–07, prices in the construction sector rose significantly, and the budget allocated
for constructing the National Reference Laboratory (US$5 million) was not adequate for the


10
   The procedure was streamlined later on, and the need to obtain approval from the Ministry of Economy was
removed, although approval procedures inside the MOA remained complicated.
11
   The project had to clear all documentation in different departments of the MOA and MOF, which assigned only
one person per department to deal with this in addition to his or her regular job.

                                                       8
proposed scale. This caused significant delays in procurement, as construction had to be
retendered, and eventually led to cancellation of the subcomponent.

40.    Management of the Ministry of Agriculture changed during the last year of project
implementation, leading to a critical revision of project activities. This affected several
aspects of the project: (a) the PCC was reorganized as of January 1, 2012, which halted
implementation in 2012, and (b) construction of the NRL was suspended.

41.      Proper background analysis was not conducted for certain activities. The list of
equipment for the food safety and veterinary laboratories was finalized without assessing the
need for medium- to long-term testing and had to be revised several times during implementation.
Initially, the MOA requested broad investments in laboratory infrastructure (including expensive
automated equipment), and the request was eventually met. However, the new management of
the MOA questioned the need for expensive equipment and stressed other types of testing. The
list of equipment should have been tailored to the needs of each oblast; in many cases, the
equipment purchased was underused, particularly in oblasts with a small number of livestock.

42.     Many innovative projects were undertaken. Untested approaches posed challenges to
the implementation of certain activities (the extension system) but were highly successful in
others (the Competitive Grant Scheme).

43.     The extension system envisaged contracting some 200 consultants to support
farmers with extension services, but weak capacity of the implementing agency (KAM),
coupled with conflicts of interest between public and private sides of the organization,
produced uneven results. Even though the presence of extension agents in the field generated
benefits, the system was expensive and inefficient. A new contract was signed in 2009 with KAI,
a newly created holding that united all agricultural research institutes in the country. The activity
became more focused on group training, which succeeded in obtaining MOA support and was
financed under a specific budget line (separate from the budget line of the project).

44.     The novelty of the CGS was met with skepticism among beneficiaries but produced
tangible results. Additional marketing efforts were needed to overcome initial skepticism; in
particular, dissemination activities were obligatory, and broadly published calls for proposals led
to heightened interest in the CGS. The CGS brought tangible results on the ground. Strong
technical support and close supervision by FAO specialists and Bank team members ensured
timely response to operational “glitches? and allowed the activity to grow.

45.     The financial crisis of 2008 caused the bankruptcy of the BTA Bank, a financial
agent for the CGS. Nationalization of this financial institution and frequent staff rotation had a
negative impact on the program; as a result, delayed payments, lack of financial monitoring, and
lack of informational support caused resentment on the part of some beneficiaries. Both the team
and the implementing agency were of the opinion that if financial services had been well
implemented, the CGS could have achieved even better and quicker results.

2.3 Monitoring and evaluation (M&E) design, implementation, and utilization



                                                 9
46.     The M&E system failed to capture all aspects of all components, partly due to the
broad objective and complex design of the project. The project objective—to increase
competitiveness of the agriculture sector—was difficult to measure directly. Instead,
achievement of the objective was monitored with regard to several indicators. Access to the
market was measured by changes in the value of exports; quality and food safety were measured
by the proportion of agricultural products tested and meeting international food safety standards;
and harmonization was measured by the number of technical regulations harmonized. Increasing
the access to information was not measured. Also, increasing the quality, quantity, and relevance
of applied agricultural research was measured by outputs instead of outcomes, making it difficult
to evaluate. The transfer of knowledge to farmers was measured by the increase in farmers’
incomes and in the value of exports, which are affected by many factors beyond the scope of the
project.

47.     The M&E system was not continuously maintained, and the impact of project
activities was not assessed on a regular basis. A consultancy firm was hired to evaluate project
impacts, but the firm’s final impact assessment report fell short of expectations due to
miscommunication between the contractor and the PCC as well as weak capacity of the
contractor. The final report reviewed the performance of the PCC and implementation
arrangements, but not the project’s impacts and long-term effects. Instead, additional resources
had to be spent to assess the project’s impacts properly. Activities conducted by KAI were an
exception. KAI closely monitored the impacts of training and other services and reported results
to the MOA.

48.    The information collected was used mainly to assess project performance. Use of the
information for future budget allocation was limited mainly to KAI, which used training data to
evaluate the impact of its program and to request more resources for future training activities.

2.4 Safeguard and fiduciary compliance

49.     Two safeguards were triggered under the project: Environmental Assessment
(OP/BP 4.01) and Pest Management (OP 4.09), although no large-scale, significant, or
irreversible negative impacts were likely. The main concern was the CGS: given the demand-
driven nature of the scheme, it was difficult to predict the exact impacts. Otherwise, the food
safety component was expected to have direct positive impacts on the environment, particularly
the development and enforcement of food safety legislation, although the rehabilitation of
laboratories could have a negative environmental impact because of the use of chemicals and
reagents.

50.    To safeguard against negative environmental impacts, manuals were developed on
laboratory operations, a special environmental review document was written specifying the
environmental assessment rules and procedures to be applied for supported grants, and
training was provided in pest management. The manuals and environmental review document
proposed procedures for designing and implementing mitigation measures for subprojects that
had the potential to damage the environment.




                                               10
51.     Overall, the project was implemented in compliance with the Bank and national
environmental assessment rules and procedures as well as existing environmental
requirements. By developing and enforcing food safety legislation, the food safety component
had direct positive environmental effects. Similarly, the CGS generated significant positive
effects (see sections 3.2 and 3.5c).

52.    About 25 CGS subprojects generated some adverse, but temporary and localized,
environmental impacts, including wastewater, emissions, solid waste, and soil erosion.
Environmental assessment documents, along with information about all supported subprojects,
described their main activities; potential environmental impacts, both negative and positive; level
of environmental risks; environmental category; and measures for mitigating environmental
impacts. The environmental permits and authorizations requested were disclosed on the project
website, making this information available to all interested parties.

53.     The procurement performance under the project was mixed, with the majority of
contracts awarded according to schedule and a few suffering delays due to low capacity of
the initial implementing agency. As recommended by the Bank, the implementing agency hired
a qualified procurement specialist with experience in international procurement, with positive
results. A detailed Grant Recipient Handbook was prepared for implementation of the grant
program. The procurement and filing system was adequate, and no major issues were noted. Four
ex post reviews of procurement were conducted. In each case, the recommendations were
implemented properly before the next ex post review mission.

54.      The physical inspection of grants under the project was inadequate. As a result of
staff shortages, the PCC did not visit grant recipients on a regular basis and the financial agent
underperformed. This was partly compensated by regular visits of the FAO implementation
support team. The project was also subject to an independent procurement review in March–
April 2010. This review concluded, “The quality of borrower’s procurement management has
been generally good, but progress should be made in some areas like better contract management
(i.e., enforcement of contract conditions and remedies) and more rational assessment of the
actual needs of the end users of goods. The quality of Bank’s procurement oversight has also
been generally adequate, with some minor inconsistencies.? The findings and recommendations
were discussed as part of the last procurement ex post review mission in February 2011.

55.    Overall the project was in compliance with the financial management covenants
during implementation. The Financial Services Department (FSD) of the MOA and the PCC
were responsible for managing the project’s finances, including budgeting and planning,
accounting and reporting, internal controls, flow of funds, staffing arrangements, and external
auditing. Those arrangements were reviewed regularly during project implementation and found
to be generally acceptable to the Bank. The MOA controlled the flow of funds and maintained
accounting records, while the Project Coordination Center was responsible for financial
monitoring. A Financial Management Manual guided the work of the PCC in this respect.
Acceptable quarterly reports were submitted to the Bank on time. Although there were some
delays in the submission of audit reports during project implementation, the implementing
agency had little influence over the process, as the MOF is responsible for hiring auditors in



                                                11
Kazakhstan. The annual audit reports were found to be acceptable to the Bank and contained
unmodified (clean) opinions.

56.    However, the FSD experienced problems in managing the designated account. The
documentation of expenditures was irregular, and the account was inactive for up to 16 months,
even though the disbursement letter stipulated that withdrawals should be made at least quarterly.

2.5 Postcompletion operation/next phase

57.    While there is no confirmed follow-up project with the MOA at this stage, the
project generated a dialogue that may result in the continuity of Bank support. Further,
innovations brought to the country under the project have been replicated by other institutions
and are expected to continue beyond the life of the project:

(i)     Codex Alementarius (WTO)–compliant food safety standards and technical regulations
        developed under the project for seven key commodities (including meat and milk
        products, fruits and vegetables, and grains) were adopted by government resolution and
        continue to be used by the industry. They are essential if Kazakhstan is to trade with
        WTO members. Some of the standards were adopted for use by the Russian Federation.
        Due to Kazakhstan’s accession to the Customs Union, these standards will be overwritten
        by the general Customs Union standards, but it is expected that the new general standards
        will be based on technical standards elaborated under the project.

(ii)    The extension services will be funded under the regular state budget and thus continue
        after project closure. There are plans to establish four more training centers by 2014 to
        extend the geographic coverage of training facilities and the outreach of extension
        services.

(iii)   The Ministry of Education and Science is using the experience gained under the CGS to
        implement the Technology Commercialization Project, a larger-scale program using a
        methodology similar to that developed under the project.

58.     One negative operational aspect should also be mentioned. Although the IBRD loan
closed at the end of June 2012, agreement was reached with the MOA to continue financing
some activities from the budget, notably competitive grants, several training activities, and the
design of the NRL, through December 31, 2012. It was also agreed that steps would be taken to
strengthen the capacity of laboratories to use the new equipment. Although the MOA formally
requested that the MOF extend project activities, the MOF did not give explicit approval, but
only hinted at the possibility of using existing budgetary allocations. This allowed the MOA to
use funds allocated under the 2012 budget, but the MOA considered the response insufficient.
Consequently, all GOK financing was discontinued as of June 30, 2012, and all activities,
including operation of the PCC, were abruptly stopped, leaving the activities unfinished.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of objectives, design, and implementation

                                               12
Rating: Relevant

59.    The project’s objectives were well aligned with the World Bank’s Country
Partnership Strategy (CPS) 2012–2017. The project was an integral part of Pillar 2 of the CPS,
“Building an Appropriate Role of the Government to Promote Competitiveness.? The CPS
expected some key activities, such as the promotion of research and development, support for
innovative pilots in the agriculture sector, and improved food standards, to contribute directly to
economic development in Kazakhstan.

60.    They were also well aligned with the government’s Strategic Plan for Development
2020, which gives priority to diversifying the economy through industrialization and sees
the agro-industrial complex as instrumental to this goal. The government’s strategic plan
seeks to encourage domestic innovation by increasing research and development spending and
investments in knowledge, which is in line with the focus on applied research under the project.

61.    The project was well designed, with logical connections among its components and
their expected contribution to the project’s objective. Each component was designed to
address specific problems that remain relevant. Component 1 would have benefited from a more
thorough analysis of the country’s need for food safety infrastructure. The design and
implementation of the CGS alone was extremely demanding, and adding food safety and quality
made project implementation excessively challenging.

62.    Implementation was difficult, mostly due to the complexity of the project and long
duration of implementation. Eventually, some activities were dropped, and about 35 percent of
the project cost was canceled. The original implementation period of five years was overly
optimistic (requiring a two-year extension). In summary, despite shortfalls in design and
implementation, the project’s objectives were highly relevant.

3.2 Achievement of project development objectives

Rating: Moderately satisfactory

63.      The objectives of the project—to increase the competitiveness of the agriculture
sector by facilitating access to markets and knowledge—were achieved. Although the
building and accreditation of the NRL were not completed and the investments in regional and
local laboratories were not optimal, the investments in public and private food safety
infrastructure along with the reforms in food safety regulations significantly improved the quality
and safety of Kazakh agricultural products and expanded market access for them. Further, the
project increased the relevance of public and private investments in applied agricultural research
and extension as well as knowledge transfer. The CGS and extension services are now
institutionalized, as is the measurement of project objectives through four key indicators.

64.    Did the income of farmers, particularly small and medium-size farmers, increase?
An estimated 3,200 farmers increased their incomes compared with the 2005 level as a result of
the project. Essentially all project components contributed to this outcome: (a) the number of
grant beneficiaries (572); (b) dissemination campaigns that induced many farmers to adopt

                                                13
technologies tested or demonstrated with grants (1,100); and (c) training and extension services
financed with the project (1,500). This outcome exceeded the end-of-project target of 2,400
farmers. The economic analysis, done at farm level in a sample of 14 grant beneficiaries,
estimated that the incremental annual net benefits thanks to the project were US$308,000 per
grant. Although some grants provided benefits to one farm, other farms benefitted indirectly by
adopting the demonstrated technology, or by improving milk processors who buy from many
small farmers, or by the services provided by private laboratories (indirect benefits). (For more
economic analysis, see section 3.3 and annex 3.)

65.    Did the value of agricultural exports, including livestock products, increase
compared with 2005? The value of agricultural exports increased 130 percent between 2005
and 2011, from US$0.8 billion to US$1.85 billion. This exceeded the target of US$1.4 billion
and food price inflation. World food prices rose during the period 98 percent in nominal terms.12

66.     Did the proportion of agricultural products being tested and meeting international
standards for quality and safety increase? The 2004 baseline for this indicator was 10 percent
of agricultural products tested, and the end-of-project target was 30 percent of products. At the
end of the project, only about 15 percent of agricultural products were tested for international
quality and safety. The negative impact of not building the NRL was partly mitigated by the
MOA’s own activities, as discussed in section 4. The private sector investments in food safety
measures and laboratory equipment under the CGS helped laboratories to upgrade their
equipment and methods, and anecdotal evidence shows that the number of tests and the precision
of the tests improved significantly as a consequence. However, the project’s monitoring system
did not capture the exact results from these investments.

67.     Were potential direct and indirect beneficiaries satisfied with the project? The end-
of-project target for satisfaction was exceeded.13 The direct beneficiaries were those whose grant
proposals were approved under the CGS, whereas the indirect beneficiaries were those whose
grant proposals were rejected (but who could indirectly benefit by replicating grant
demonstrations, or using lab services funded under the project). Based on 209 interviews (face-
to-face or via telephone or e-mail), about 16 percent rated the CGS activity as “very good? and
about 84 percent rated it as “good.? This indicator is relevant because the CGS sought to increase
the relevance of applied research and to facilitate the transfer of knowledge, two principal
objectives of the project. Moreover, the government wanted its support to the sector to be highly
visible among the farming community. In addition to the CGS, KAI conducted satisfaction
surveys, which showed that 71 percent of participants had used the technical skills acquired in
KAI’s training events.14

68.   Is farming more profitable in real terms compared with 2005 levels (revised for
peasant and family farms)? Profitability was originally included in the results framework as a


12
   World Bank, “Responding to Higher and More Volatile World Food Prices ,? Economic and Sector Work Report
68420-GLB (Washington: World Bank, 2012).
13
   The satisfaction rate of 99 percent was recorded toward the end of the project, before some of the grant
beneficiaries experienced delays related to payment of the final 10 percent.
14
   The survey was conducted among 857 beneficiaries, with more than 600 responding.

                                                     14
measure of competitiveness, but was dropped in 2011. However, the indicator was measured
until 2010, and 63.9 percent of peasant and family farms were profitable at that point compared
with 37.2 percent in 2004. This exceeded the target of 50 percent of peasant and family farms
covered by the project.

69.    Did the number of specific grant subprojects achieved? The number of marketing
grants was 58 compared with the target of 140. However, the size of grants was larger than
expected, increasing from the expected maximum of US$40,000 to an average of more than
US$50,000 due to inflation and depreciation of the U.S. dollar in 2006–08. The number of
approved marketing grants was 66; eight projects did not sign contracts. The number of research
and extension grants was 470 compared with the target of 600. The actual number of projects
approved in four rounds was 523, the size of grants being slightly larger; 53 grantees did not sign
contracts for various personal reasons. Therefore, the expected outcomes were partially achieved.

70.      Other areas also supported the project’s development objectives: competitive
grants, extension activities, and training. Under the CGS, contracts were signed with 585
beneficiaries (572 grants proceeded to implementation) in six areas: modernization of private
laboratories, development of agricultural marketing infrastructure (slaughterhouses, storage
facilities), image enhancement of agricultural products (development of new design for
packaging, rebranding), applied agricultural research (test of new varieties and breeds),
extension work, and introduction of technology. Notably, CGS supported the adoption of
conservation agriculture (contributing to the rapid expansion of cropped area under no-till
conditions), testing of new methods of animal disease control, and construction of new facilities
that beneficiaries are maintaining and planning to use beyond the project. The “KazNan?
national brand for bakery products was developed and has great potential to support
Kazakhstan’s export of flour and other processed grain products. Applied research produced
numerous patents and publications and the broad adoption of new technologies. On-farm
demonstrations led to rapid adaptation of new technology among other farmers. Also important,
dissemination was mandatory under the CGS, which allowed these investments or techniques to
be replicated beyond the direct beneficiaries. (For further details, see annex 2.)

71.     Training under KAI contributed to the wider adoption of new conservation
technologies that were tested with competitive grants. Nine training centers were established
around Kazakhstan, and training was provided to about 7,800 farmers. While mainly organized
by KAI, these centers also provided facilities for dissemination events led by local farmers. KAI
also provided on-farm services and established an innovative call center for answering farmers’
queries. The World Bank encouraged KAI to improve its internal monitoring and evaluation, and
a structured system was developed for this purpose. As part of Bank supervision, FAO expertise
also assisted and closely monitored KAI-led extension.

72.     The education of young scientists had a positive impact on the institutional capacity
of research organizations. Around 160 specialists and scientists (including teachers from the
Agricultural Institute) received training in the United States, China, Russia, Germany, the Czech
Republic, Thailand, and Belarus. The training targeted scientists and specialists under 40 years of
age in order to strengthen future research capacity in Kazakhstan.



                                                15
3.3 Efficiency

Rating: Satisfactory

73.     For the project as a whole, including loan proceeds and government co-financing,
the economic rate of return (ERR) and the net present value (NPV) at completion were an
estimated 29.2 percent and US$70.6 million, respectively, assuming constant prices and an
opportunity cost of capital of 12 percent. A sensitivity analysis assessing the effect of
variations in benefits and costs revealed that a fall of 20 percent in total project benefits and an
equivalent increase in total project costs would reduce the base case ERR to about 26 percent.
The switching value is about 72 percent for total project benefits and approximately 255 percent
for project costs.

74.     The economic and financial analyses looked at the key quantifiable benefits—higher
incomes for farm and rural nonfarm enterprises—resulting from extension services and
CGS subprojects. The total value of the CGS projects—US$31 million—was based on data
gathered from visits to 14 completed grant projects and a review of 104 final reports for
implemented grants. NPVs for the sample ranged from US$25,000 to US$5.7 million. Internal
rates of return (IRRs) ranged from 19 percent to more than 1,000 percent. Both the actual IRR
and the NPV were higher than those projected at project appraisal (23.5 percent and US$51
million, respectively). The analysis confirmed that the project played an important role in the
introduction and expansion of conservation agriculture technologies.

75.     Benefits in the area of food safety were confirmed by an analysis of two private
laboratories for which the number of tests conducted substantially increased (45,000
additional tests per year for the last two years) as a result of investments in new equipment.
However, the exact value of these benefits is difficult to estimate due to lack of reliable data, and
a comprehensive analysis of the economic impacts of the investments in food safety
infrastructure was therefore not done for this ICR.

76.     Information gained during the visits to 14 grant projects was also used to estimate
financial costs and benefits. The financial analysis found the following: (a) overall, gross, and
net returns increased substantially; (b) benefit-cost ratios rose, demonstrating the attractiveness
of the investments; and (c) the level of profitability varied between activities. NPVs for the
sample ranged from US$15,000 to US$2.5 million. Financial rates of return ranged from 16 to
780 percent. Favorable cash flows from the investments indicate that the CGS will continue to
operate successfully after project closure. (For further details on the economic and financial
analysis, see annex 3.)

3.4 Justification of overall outcome rating

Rating: Moderately satisfactory

77.     Recurrent difficulties in implementation, failure to implement or complete several
activities, and underutilized resources made some results fall short of expectations.
Nevertheless, the economic analysis found greater than expected returns to the project. Based on

                                                 16
the relevance, achievement of development objectives, and efficiency, the project’s overall
outcome is regarded as moderately satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching themes, other outcomes, and impacts

(a) Poverty impacts, gender aspects, and social development

78.    Although women benefited under the project, no activity specifically targeted
women and data were not disaggregated by gender. Anecdotal evidence shows that female-
headed enterprises did receive competitive grants and training. For example, female scientists
pointed out that the project gave them the opportunity to conduct field work and interact with the
beneficiaries of their research in ways that were not possible before.

(b) Institutional change and strengthening

79.      The project contributed to institutional changes in the design and implementation of
extension services and in the dissemination of research among farmers. It helped to
strengthen KAI, exposed trainers and trainees to international best practices, provided innovative
ways for farmers to access extension advice, and introduced the principles of competition in
awarding grant funds. Important investments were also made in equipment for research
institutions. If appropriate funding continues, these investments will continue to provide benefits
in the future.

80.     Both sides mentioned strengthening the linkages between the farming community
and academia as an important achievement. Almost all grants required scientists to conduct
their research on the land of farmers, not in a lab. Collaboration between farmers and scientists
continued well beyond the project activities. Farmers started to consult with scientists they had
met on other issues, and scientists became bolder in suggesting new agricultural practices.

(c) Other unintended outcomes and impacts (positive or negative)

81.    The project tested several innovative technical and institutional mechanisms. The
implementing agency will continue to use competitive selection through evaluation, which was
part of the CGS. The peer review process created a pool of specialists to be used for other
purposes (like evaluation of the ministry’s other programs).

82.      The CGS scaled up new technologies. Kazakhstan is one of the largest grain producers
in the world, and about 180 grants focused on “resource-saving? or conservation agriculture
technologies. While some work on conservation agriculture was started before the project,
demonstrations under the project’s CGS contributed to the remarkable increase in cropland under
no-till conditions: from virtually zero in 2001 to about 500,000 hectares in 2007 and 1.85 million
hectares in 2012. 15 Having seen its benefits, such as positive yields and cost savings, grant



15
  “State of Conservation Agriculture in Kazakhstan, Agenda, Recommendations, and Potential?, CIMMYT report,
2012.

                                                    17
beneficiaries gradually expanded the area of their farms using this technology, and many other
farmers emulated their practices.

83.     The project fostered cooperation between local and central governments, academia,
and producers (cooperatives). Following the collapse of the Soviet Union, highly
individualistic production methods developed. The project was initiated within this environment
and made a significant contribution to promoting collaborative mechanisms at all levels. This
involved more and better cooperation between local and central governments, academia, and
producers (cooperatives), development of a value chain approach, and collaboration among
farmers. International institutions involved in project activities also began to cooperate with the
technological sector in the country. The project helped to integrate Kazakh scientists into
international networks by enabling them to participate in international and regional events (such
as the Network for Siberian Wheat Production).

84.     The project introduced technologies to improve resilience to climate change. Many
of the practices promoted for soil conservation, tillage, irrigation, and improved pastures, among
others, are known to reduce carbon dioxide emissions and, at the same time, to improve the
resilience of the agriculture sector to climate variability. This is particularly true for the sector’s
most vulnerable participants—small farmers. With the spread of no-till technology, Kazakhstan
now sequesters about 1.8 million tons of carbon dioxide annually.16

85.     The project upgraded the capacity of the consulting sector in the country. Several
contractors involved in the project (Turan Profi Academia and KAI) noted that assignments
under the project were new to them and helped them to grow professionally. By organizing
logistics for training abroad, Turan Profi increased its exposure to international educational
organizations and created a valuable network that it continues to use on other projects. Training
also strengthened the networking of farmers and scientists.

3.6 Summary of findings of beneficiary survey and stakeholder workshops

Not applicable.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcomes

Rating: Moderate

86.     The risk to development outcomes is assessed as moderate overall, but varies across
components. Significant risk is associated with the quality and safety management of
agricultural products, because the project did not succeed in constructing the National Reference
Library. Furthermore, equipment purchased to support safety management is likely to remain
underutilized. Still, this risk is partly mitigated by the significant investment that the MOA has
made in this area as well as in upgrading the Republican Veterinary Laboratory to the status of a
reference laboratory. The risk for outcomes achieved under other components is classified as low
because significant investment is planned for extension and agro-sciences. KAI created a viable


16
     FAO mission estimate, October 2012.

                                                  18
network of training centers that, although reliant on government financing, is planned to reach
financial self-sufficiency. Marketing infrastructure built under the project is highly likely to
continue, as investment in the livestock sector is expected to continue.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank performance

(a) Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry

Rating: Moderately satisfactory

87.     As discussed in section 2.1, all aspects of the project were well thought out, and the
project’s components were designed to address key challenges for the sector. Previous and
current CPS and government strategy confirm that the objective continues to be relevant. A
shortcoming of quality at entry was the complexity of the project and the fact that some activities
did not include a proper needs assessment or strategy. Incorporating this assessment in the design
of the project would likely have improved the outcomes of component 1, in particular those
related to laboratories.

(b) Quality of supervision

Rating: Moderately unsatisfactory

88.     The World Bank team made a significant effort to ensure timely implementation of
project activities. The mission aide-mémoires provided detailed guidance on steps for each of
the activities and how to minimize the administrative burden of government procedures.
Implementation support missions were conducted semiannually, with a final mission carried out
in November 2012, after the loan closed, to supervise the implementation of final activities under
the project. Fiduciary and safeguard policies were also supervised on a regular basis.

89.     The outcomes achieved under the CGS and component 3 were the result of
significant support from the World Bank/FAO team, and these activities would not have
succeeded without this support. In addition to the regular resources allocated to supervision,
the FAO sometimes added extra staff weeks to support the CGS. However, several shortcomings
in the quality of supervision affected implementation of the project, particularly related to
component 1. A food safety specialist should have been a core team member throughout the
project. While discussion with the World Bank team revealed difficulties in finding such
specialists given constraints within the budget for supervision, proper supervision of such highly
technical activities could not be conducted without technical experts, as the situation with the
laboratory equipment confirms. Further, as noted by the team itself, the NRL construction
activity could have been dropped at an earlier stage. Even though the government was eager to
construct the new building, it should have been clear at the time of the extension that this could
not be completed before the project was closed. Instead, to support the objective and results
framework of the project, this activity could have been redesigned to support accreditation of
existing facilities. Although still under a tight implementation schedule, this could have been

                                                19
achieved with proper support for implementation. The team could also have advised the
government to implement these activities in parallel, since much of the accreditation process is
not dependent on facilities. While the quality of supervision was high overall, these shortages are
considered too fundamental to justify a rating higher than moderately unsatisfactory.

(c) Justification of rating for overall bank performance

Rating: Moderately satisfactory

90.   The rating is based on the moderately satisfactory rating on the quality at entry and
moderately unsatisfactory rating on project implementation. It also takes into account the
moderately satisfactory rating on the project outcomes.

5.2 Borrower performance

(a) Government performance

Rating: Moderately unsatisfactory

91.     The project came about as a result of a strong interest from the government in
promoting diversification in the economy and improving competitiveness in the agriculture
sector. Government agencies including the ministries of finance and economy supported the
project, including the proposed budgets. The project budget was approved on an annual basis
even during the financial crisis of 2008–10.

92.     Delays with ratification and effectiveness of the Loan Agreement, which were
attributed to systemic issues in the project approval mechanism and could not be avoided
by this particular project, had a negative effect on the project’s momentum. It is
commendable that the GOK recognized the problem and was willing to work with the Bank to
develop a long-term solution. Micromanagement by the Ministry of Finance was another factor
that negatively affected the pace of implementation in the early stages. For example, approval of
the consultants’ terms of reference, purchase of computers for the PCC, and even connection to a
phone line required clearance from the MOF. These interventions were aggravated by the
numerous contracts to be processed. However, the MOF was open to discussing these difficulties
and streamlined the clearance process by eliminating several steps (including clearance of terms
of reference). This helped to accelerate project implementation, and the pace was mostly
regained by the third year of implementation, except for a few activities outside of government
control.

(b) Implementing agency or agencies performance

Rating: Moderately unsatisfactory

93.    The departmental staff members of the MOA and the PCC who were responsible
for the project were actively involved in the preparation and implementation process. They
met regularly with the Bank’s project team and were often its only contact point. However,

                                                20
although the project components cut across different subsectors of agriculture, departments in the
MOA showed little ownership of project activities. Component 1 particularly suffered from lack
of leadership and accountability for the investments in laboratories. This lack of clear leadership
is the main reason for the failure of this component. Individual oblast- and rayon-level
laboratories complained about the lack of response from the ministry when communicating their
problems and needs.

94.     The PCC was dissolved as of June 30, 2012, without any follow-up on the two
activities that were still ongoing. These were the review of the laboratories and the collection of
final reports and final payments to the 241 CGS beneficiaries whose subprojects were not closed
by June 30, 2012. Although it did not involve any IBRD loan funds, the fact that several grants
awarded under the project will not be paid out in full violates the contractual agreement with the
beneficiaries and poses serious reputational risk for both the World Bank and the government.
The NRL design contract was similarly terminated, wasting work done in this regard.

95.    Further, significant delays in project implementation occurred because
procurement activities took four to eight months, about 30 percent longer than usual. Some
units of the implementing agency, notably the legal department, reportedly failed to provide
constructive support and presented considerable bureaucratic impediments to implementation.

(c) Justification of rating for overall borrower performance

Rating: Moderately unsatisfactory

96.     The borrower’s performance is considered moderately unsatisfactory. This rating
recognizes the government’s effort and commitment to the project and the results achieved,
while taking into account avoidable factors affecting implementation and the failure to complete
project activities.

6. Lessons Learned

97.     Project complexity should be geared to the capacity of the implementing agency and
enabling environment. Complex projects with activities in different subsectors are difficult to
coordinate and prone to slow implementation. A pilot phase of six or even 12 months would
probably have been justified, after which adjustments and restructuring could have been made,
mitigating or avoiding the shortcomings that eventually occurred.

98.      The size of successful activities was too small for a country like Kazakhstan. In
retrospect, the larger CGS pool could have had a greater influence on sector development. The
size of the grants was based on experience with similar programs in countries like Albania,
Armenia, and Azerbaijan, but even small and medium enterprises in Kazakhstan have very
different financial needs. Thus, to make a difference and attract interest from businesses and
generate larger impacts and more visibility, the grants pool should have been larger and other
activities should have been smaller to keep the overall project manageable.




                                                21
99.      A thorough needs assessment should be done before investments are committed to
physical infrastructure (lab-related activities under the project). This would have allowed
precise justification for purchases of lab equipment and NRL construction. For example, one
possible approach might have been to provide support for methods of accrediting local
laboratories through a step-wise approach rather than through construction of a new NRL. The
idea of constructing the NRL was too ambitious from the start, and although it was difficult to
predict the challenges during the design phase, it was, according to the team, clear fairly quickly
that the activity would not be completed. Further, even upgrading existing laboratory
infrastructure was likely beyond the needs of an adequate modern food safety infrastructure. A
needs assessment would have enabled this component to be tailored to actual needs.

100. Significant budget co-financing poses operational challenges that require attention.
Specifically, (a) connection between progress toward achievement of the PDO and disbursement
was elusive, as not all disbursement was visible in the Bank system, and (b) the fact that the
Loan Agreement became a de facto project agreement was underappreciated. No activities
should be planned beyond the Loan Agreement closure date, as closure of the Loan Agreement
leads to project closure, even if some of the activities financed by the state budget have not been
completed.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower, Implementing Agencies, and Partners

7.1 Borrower and implementing agencies

101. Borrower supported moderately satisfactory rating of the project results and noted
positive impact of some project activities (grant program, extension, etc.) on the competitiveness
of the agricultural sector in Kazakhstan. MOA asked for the Bank technical assistance to conduct
a needs assessment of the IFA laboratory equipment. Such assistance may be provided in the
framework of the follow-up project preparation.

7.2 Co-financiers

102. No co-financiers were involved in this project, other than the government and the
grant beneficiaries.

7.3 Other partners and stakeholders

103. The FAO partnered through all phases of the project. Such collaboration went
beyond the traditional Cooperative Program and was crucial for the results achieved under the
CGS and extension activities. Partnership with the FAO and collaboration with the International
Center for Maize and Wheat Improvement (CIMMYT) were fundamental to achieving the large-
scale adoption of conservation agriculture technology and assessing its impact.




                                                22
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

Table A1.1 Project Cost, by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                         Actual/latest
                                                    Appraisal estimate     estimate
Components                                            (US$ million)      (US$ million)          % of appraisal
Quality and safety management of agricultural
                                                           31.0                10.4                   33.5
  products
Agricultural marketing                                      4.4                 3.5                   79.5
Applied agricultural research and extension                28.2                27.6                   97.9
Institutional development and agricultural policy           6.2                 4.5                   72.6
Total baseline cost                                        69.8                46.0                   65.9

Physical contingencies                                     1.00                0.00                   0.00
Price contingencies                                        0.00                0.00                   0.00
Total project costs                                       70.80               46.00                   65.0

Front-end fee PPF                                          0.00                0.00                   0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                                         0.00                0.00                   0.00
Total financing required                                  70.80               46.00                   65.0




Table A1.2 Project Cost, by Source of Funds
                                                                   Actual/latest
                                             Appraisal estimate      estimate         % of
Source of funds                                 (US$ million)     (US$ million)     appraisal
Borrower                                     46.8               31.3               66.9
IBRD                                         24.0               14.7               61.25
Local beneficiaries                          12.3               12.3               100.0




                                                        23
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

The project’s outputs are summarized in following table.
Table 2A.1. Outputs, by Component
                            Component 1                                                        Component 3
                      Food Safety and Quality                    Component 2                   Research and
Activity                    Management                            Marketing                     Extension
Core              7 technical regulations were           About 160 specialists and       A state extension
activities        developed and adopted.                 young scientists received       system was created and
                  34 state standards were                training abroad.                supported under the
                  harmonized.                            About 170 training sessions project.
                  6 guidelines for the introduction      on marketing were held          Extension training
                  of food products safety                domestically throughout the centers supported under
                  management systems were                project.                        the project provided
                  written.                               More than 2,500 people          training to about 7,800
                  23 private food-processing             received basic knowledge        farmers.
                  companies received grants for          about agricultural marketing
                  the introduction of the food           and the marketing
                  products safety management             information system.
                  systems.
                  6 types of lab equipment were
                  delivered with project support
                  into 18 oblast and 60 rayon
                  branches of the RVL and 4
                  oblast phytosanitary labs.
CGS               636 grants were approved under 4 rounds; 572 grants were implemented.a
          a. Of those, about 70 grants did not complete their operations by the time of project closure; 241 completed
their activities, but the beneficiary’s final report or final payment of 10 percent is pending.


Component 1, Quality and Safety Management of Agricultural Products, supported the
development of seven technical regulations (meat and milk products, fruits and vegetables,
grains, and others). This included developing technical regulations, harmonizing 34 state
standards, and drafting six guidelines for the introduction of safety management systems for
food products. All of them were completed and approved or adopted by government resolutions.
The project also financed the translation of 115 standards. These standards are being used in
practice, especially for inspecting plants and crops and animal production at the farm level.

In addition, the project supported the introduction of new food product safety
management systems in 23 private food-processing companies. Regarding animal health, the
MOA purchased six types of modern lab equipment with project funds and delivered them to
nine oblast branches and 60 rayon branches of the Republican Veterinary Laboratory network.
Laboratory managers and technicians were trained to use this equipment. In addition, 25 grants
for modernization of private laboratories were financed through the CGS.

In addition to strengthening the network of laboratories, the project supported research
projects related to animal health, particularly Echinococcosis, a parasitic disease that
affects both humans and horses (and other mammals, such as sheep). Advances with regard
to diagnosis, treatment, and disease surveillance improved the safety and quality of horse



                                                         24
products. As a result of these contributions, seven related patents were registered. This is one of
several examples reported for animal health and food safety and quality.

Component 2, Agricultural Marketing, provided training in various areas. About 160
various specialists (including 52 young scientists) received training abroad on subjects related to
agricultural marketing and competitiveness. Two training modules were prepared on the
development of a marketing and information system, and training was provided to about 570
farmers and staff members of the MOA, KAM, and other government agencies. Overall, about
170 training sessions on marketing were held domestically during the project implementation
period. As a result, more than 2,500 farmers and entrepreneurs received basic knowledge in
agricultural marketing and the marketing information system. Complementing the training
provided, the project awarded 77 competitive grants: 58 for developing marketing infrastructure
and 19 for improving the image of agricultural products.

A successful example of project-promoted image enhancement is the “Kaznan? brand.
Kaznan was developed to increase the export potential of Kazakh flour and pasta by integrating
domestic producers under one national brand. The image, developed through a project grant,
associates Kazakhstan with “bread? and is intended to distinguish Kaznan products from
competing brands. The Ministry of Industry has used this approach to develop other brands for
Kazakh products.

Component 3, Applied Agricultural Research and Extension, initially established a state
extension and knowledge dissemination system within KAM by financing a network of
rayon-level extension agents. In 2009, the activity was modified to provide technical and
financial support for establishing nine training centers (all equipped with call centers) in
agriculturally important locations in North and South Kazakhstan under the aegis of KAI.
Overall, 23,757 consulting services were provided, including 674 training seminars with more
than 7,800 participants. A “subscription? service was introduced, whereby farmers received a
minimum package of information and consultation, under which 2,828 contracts were signed.
The project also supported creation of a database of agricultural producers and their main
products, registering 56,807 producers, as well as a database containing information on 3,014
research results. Under this component, the CGS financed applied agricultural research (test of
new varieties and breeds), extension, and technology introduction.

The involvement of academia was important for testing new technologies and accelerating
the adoption of new technologies in crop and animal sciences. One of the cases highlighted is
the relation of the project with Kazakh National Agrarian University (KazNAU), one of the
project’s main partners. KazNAU develops research projects and lines covering major
technological gaps. In 2007–12, researchers from KazNAU were awarded and implemented 27
subprojects with funding from the CGS. These subprojects provided new equipment, materials,
and operating funds to conduct adaptive research related to the following areas:
    a) Increasing the productivity of rice in saline soils
    b) Introducing resource-saving technologies of cultivation of agricultural crops
    c) Developing technology for growing horticultural crops
    d) Implementing crop fertilization systems using micronutrients
    e) Developing commercial methods of producing compost by means of vermiculture
    f) Developing modern agro-processing technologies

                                                25
   g)   Adopting measures to combat animal diseases
   h)   Developing new machinery and equipment
   i)   Improving the design of agricultural machinery
   j)   Encouraging farmers and farms to adopt intensive technologies.

Conducting research on “beneficiary? farms rather than at research stations improved the
dissemination and impact of subprojects. This methodology allowed farmers to adopt
technologies quickly and enabled researchers to verify their technical and economic viability in
the field. Every proposal had to include the name and location of the farm where testing and
adaptation of the research would be conducted.

The implementation of subprojects in the National Academy of Sciences of the Republic of
Kazakhstan involved 46 senior professors, 88 associate professors, 12 doctoral students,
and 29 master’s degree students. An impressive 18 patents were registered, demonstrating the
high value and innovative approach of grants financed by the project.

Among many important contributions was the work of Dr. N. Sh. Suleymenova (KazNAU).
Dr. Suleymenova developed resource-saving technologies for cultivating soybean and rapeseed
in southeast Kazakhstan, finding that the 11 beneficiary farms increased their yields between 0.2
and 0.4 ton per hectare. The testing and dissemination of cultivation techniques demonstrate the
importance of the MOA’s continuing support for work initiated by the project.

As a result of increases in the price of vegetable oils, Kazakhstan has been expanding the
production of oil crops since 2008. Through research and demonstration grants, the project
disseminated information on the production of sunflower, cotton, soy, safflower, maize, lint, and
rapeseed (canola). As an example, two companies are developing 28,000 and 15,000 hectares,
respectively, for the production of oil crops. According to survey data, 30 percent of producers
have adopted the new technologies in certain areas of Kazakhstan.

One subproject produced 13 scientific contributions, which were presented in
international and regional conferences and subsequently published in peer-reviewed
scientific and technical journals. Developed by Dr. G. S. Shabdarbayev, KazNAU, the
research on piroplasmosis in horses, on the identification of blood parasites, antigens, and
antibodies, on diagnosis, on enzyme immunoassays, and on food safety, among other topics,
helped Kazakhstan to optimize the technology for preparing diagnostic kits and thus contributed
to applied solutions for industrial and innovative development of the horse industry.

The project contributed to establishing an adequate extension system in Kazakhstan, by
supporting the MOA in mandating KAI to establish an outreach network (at regional and
district levels). With project support, KAI created a program demonstrating the importance of
disseminating knowledge and developing educational, information, and consultancy activities to
reach different areas of the country. KAI constitutes an efficient mechanism for transferring
information on best practice technologies from experts to farmers.

KAI established regional extension centers and plans to expand its branch network into all
regions of Kazakhstan. The expansion is financed by the government budget and includes
holding scientific and practical seminars and expanding the means of dissemination (Internet,
                                               26
web-enabled library for farmers, interactive forms of knowledge transfer, and distance learning).
Eight regional centers existed in 2008 and nine in 2011; five more are planned by 2015.

The assistance provided by international experts financed by the project and FAO
contributed to the current structure of KAI. The system consists of (a) training KAI entities
in the practical use of modern technologies and (b) consulting with KAI entities on
technological issues. The extension system is financed by two lines within the MOA budget, one
of them directly linked to the project. Direct MOA financing is dedicated largely to extension
centers for farmers, while project support helped KAI to organize mobile extension services
(online, on-farm consultation, and others).

More than 400 grants were oriented toward new technologies and related extension
activities, with an impact on developing models of sustainable agricultural production,
specifically with regard to farming practices and incomes, food safety and quality, market
access, and exports through image enhancement. These grants improved efficiency and
profitability in the agriculture sector, particularly for small and medium-scale agribusinesses.
Beneficiaries specifically mentioned that the grants allowed them to hire new personnel to carry
out the proposed activities. New technologies were focused on achieving efficiency and
profitability, adding accountability and accounting skills to agribusiness. Available statistics
indicate a positive trend in production and income (except during the 2012 drought). The project
made an important contribution through its support for the adoption of new technology.

The adoption of new wheat varieties eventually should improve human health by
providing more nutritious food. Some of the contributions were focused on improving the
amount of zinc and iron in wheat varieties, which are important elements for human
consumption.

Of the wide spectrum of technologies promoted by the project, the testing and expansion of
zero tillage or conservation agriculture are the most relevant, with considerable impacts
on the country’s principal production systems. In northern Kazakhstan, zero-tillage
technology has the potential to increase wheat and grain productivity by 20–50 percent above
current levels. In addition to testing and adapting technology to local conditions, this technology
requires farmers to adopt new production practices, invest in machinery, and change the
organization of farms. The project supported this process, awarding funds for adaptive research
and helping small and medium farmers to migrate gradually from conventional tillage to full
zero tillage. Without this support, the access to equipment, organizational adaptation, and
changes at the farm level would have taken much longer or would not have occurred at all. The
area under zero tillage is increasing every year. Although the total area varies, at least 1.8
million hectares are under zero tillage in the country. In the short run, at least 40 percent of the
area devoted to cereal crops (around 4 million hectares) could be transformed, producing at least
1 million additional tons of wheat per year.

The project demonstrated the advantages of zero tillage, helping larger farms to improve
their organization and technology and smaller farms to improve their knowledge and skills
and acquire equipment. Many measures were demonstrated through training events,
consultations with experts, and service provided by major research centers, which enabled quick,
broad dissemination of best practices. Members of the Farmers Foundation of Kazakhstan and

                                                 27
the Production Center of Grain Farming consider that the project generated solid information
about new technology and its economics, especially with regard to capital investment, costs of
production, financial returns of conservation tillage compared to conventional systems, as well
as input requirements and production methodologies (seed rates, sowing time, herbicide,
rotation crop, fallow, mechanical weeding, snow trapping). Seven years ago zero tillage was a
new technology in Kazakhstan; in the recent growing season, 150,000 hectares of conservation
agriculture for spring wheat were planted, 50 percent with direct support through CIMMYT. In
the severe droughts of 2010 and 2012, spring wheat did not suffer as much as traditional wheat
because it is much better adapted to severe drought conditions. Suppliers of machinery and
technology for traditional agriculture are beginning to serve the needs of the conservation
agriculture market. Zero tillage also has well-recognized benefits for soil conservation,
biodiversity, and water management.

The project facilitated the testing and expansion of nontraditional crops, including
soybean, sorghum, and cotton, as well as pastures to expand livestock production and
promote diversification from cropping. Examples are the introduction of new breeds of sheep
and cattle and the improvement of slaughtering facilities and production of milk from horses and
camels. The testing and introduction of Agropyron is a significant new technology, resulting in
an increase in the supply of animal fodder, a reduction of grazing in areas close to villages, a
reduction of land degradation, and the use of alternative sources of energy (solar) to provide
water in remote areas. There is a clear link between the Agricultural Competitiveness Project
and the recently completed World Bank–financed Dryland Management Project, which tested
this technology in the Shetsky Rayon and is now expanding it to other regions of the country.

Farmers and researchers mentioned important advances in the use of water. Water has
traditionally been considered a limiting factor for production in some areas of the country.
During recent decades, demand for irrigation has been growing. Through research and
demonstration supported by the project, technologies such as drip irrigation have been adopted
and are expected to have an impact on new crops in dry areas.

The project also supported other technologies through research, training, or grants:
 Use of legumes to increase soil fertility to improve the consumption of protein by the rural
   population
 Production of grapes and berries
 Pest control
 Forestry production
 Production of camel milk, ostrich farms, fisheries and hatcheries, and poultry
 Improved breeding stock (horses, cattle, sheep)
 Seeds and sowing implements
 Post-harvest and marketing, including grain cleaning and transportation, refrigeration, and
   storage for agricultural products.

Table 2A.2 presents the total number of grants by type of activity.

Table 2A.2. Number of Grants, by Type
 Type                                     Planned             Actual
 Total                                       800               572

                                               28
 Laboratories (private)                    20               25
 Market-oriented infrastructure           140               58
 Image enhancement                         30               19
 Applied research                         180               98
 Extension and demonstration              430              372


Component 4, Institutional and Agricultural Policy Development, created the institutional
architecture to implement the project’s activities and helped the MOA to establish policy,
M&E, and institutional frameworks to improve the competitiveness of the country’s
agriculture sector.




                                            29
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

The key quantifiable benefit resulting from project investments is the incremental income
from improved productivity and profitability of farm and nonfarm enterprises resulting
from extension services and grant projects supported through the CGS. The appraisal also
expected to find benefits from improved quality and safety of agricultural products and more
effective marketing. However, such benefits are difficult to estimate due to a lack of reliable
data. Nevertheless, two private laboratories were analyzed and found to be conducting
substantially more tests for quality (45,000 additional tests per year for the last two years).

The analysis focused on grant beneficiaries, rather than on macro considerations such as
export earnings. Therefore, only benefits generated by the CGS were included in the analysis of
total project costs. The analysis sought to evaluate the viability of project activities at the farm or
enterprise level. An optimum number of representative grantees was identified to reflect the wide
variations within the country while achieving a sensible degree of precision. Information was
collected during field visits, discussions with grantees, and a review of available reports from the
PCC. The results were compared with those projected at appraisal. Finally, a sensitivity analysis
was carried out to assess the impact of various parameters on financial and economic returns.

Economic Analysis

Farmers and entrepreneurs implemented 572 (out of 585 signed) grant projects amounting
to about KZT 2.656 billion (US$22 million). Projects were in the following areas:
modernization of private laboratories, development of agricultural marketing infrastructure
(slaughterhouses, storage facilities), image enhancement of agricultural products (development
of new design for packaging and websites, rebranding), applied agricultural research (test of new
varieties, breeds, conservation agriculture), and extension and technology introduction. By
regions, the highest percentage of grantees was in South Kazakhstan Oblast (14.9 percent),
followed by Almaty City (14.4 percent), Almaty Oblast (11.3 percent), and Karagandy Oblast
(9.6 percent).

Of all grant projects implemented, 104 final reports for completed projects were reviewed,
or 18 percent. Visits were made to 21 grant projects, confirming the reliability of data. These
grant projects were selected on a random basis to cover all the CGS windows and both the
southern and northern corridors. Seven of the projects visited were considered to have good
potential, yet to be at a very initial stage of implementation and not generating full incomes;
these were not included in the analysis. As a result, 14 grant projects located in South-
Kazakhstan, Almaty, Zhambul, Akmola, Kostanay, and Karagandy oblasts were visited and
analyzed, or 2.5 percent of all projects implemented. This is considered a representative sample
for the project. The key economic data on the grants analyzed are presented in table 3A.1.




                                                  30
                                                      Table 3A.1 Project Completion: Key Economic Data on Analyzed Project Grants

                                                                      Investment costs (US$ thousand)a             Annual net benefits (US$ thousand)
                                                                                                                                                              Incremental annual
                                                                                                                            With project                        net benefits per
                                                                                                              Without           (full                         US$1 of investment      IRR
#                             Model                                   CGP        Beneficiary       Total      project       development)     Incremental             (US$)            (%)     NPV (US$ thousand)
 1   Applied research (AR), CYMMIT/Farm “Vlad,? zero till of            64                 36        100           197                801            605                        6.1      64                   788
     wheat and cropped fallow on drylands (Karagandy Oblast)
 2   AR, CYMMIT/Farm “Tumar,? zero-till on irrigated land                75                 37        112           422               651               229                    2.0      55                   451
     (Almaty Oblast)
 3   AR, Farm “Agro-Duman,? testing grain varieties with                 78               193         271              7            2,039           2,032                      7.5      79                  2,646
     minimum-till technology (Karagandy Oblast)
 4   AR, Co-op “Shakpak,? diversification of production with oil         53               106         159           180               801               621                    3.9      69                  1,086
     crops applying minimum-till technology and processing
     (South Kazakhstan Oblast)
 5   Extension, Farm “Bakhytzhan,? zero till of spring wheat on            9                 4         13           667               716               49                     3.8      47                   757
     drylands (Kostanay Oblast)
 6   Extension, Farm “Ken-Dala,? minimum-till of rain-fed                19                 26         45           347               647               301                    6.7     125                   757
     fodder barley (Zhambyl Oblast)
 7   Extension, Farm “Agro-Duman,? minimum till of agroparon             22                 21         42             24               73               49                     1.2      34                    66
     on drylands (Karagandy Oblast)
 8   Extension, Farm “Kunar,? cold oil pressing of safflower             21                 31         52              0               46               46                     0.9     208                   200
     (Zhambul Oblast)
 9   Extension, Farm “Mateev,? production of packed apple                20                 16         36              0               12               12                     0.3      46                    34
     chips (Zhambyl Oblast)
10   Extension, improved feed for cows, Kenes Advisory                   12                  6         18              6               44               38                     2.1    1,315                  137
     LPP/Ak Sut Farm (Almaty Oblast)
11   Modernization of private laboratory, Kazexpoaudit LPP               52                 40         92              1               38               38                     0.4      69                   130
     (Almaty Oblast)
12   Modernization of private laboratory, Baltic Control KZ              47                 21         68             71            1,473           1,402                     20.6    1,315                 5,772
     Certification LPP (Astana)
13   Marketing, milk processing, Ak Sut cooperative (Almaty              54                 33         87              7               35               28                     0.3      19                    25
     Oblast)
14   Image enhancement, Natige Milk Processing Plant,                    40                 15         55           404               504               100                    1.8      —                    515
     introduction of marketing strategy and packaging
     (Karagandy Oblast)
     Average number                                                      40                 42         82           167               563               396                   4.11     265                   954
     Average percentage                                                  49                 51        100
          — Not available.
          a. Includes only investment costs, so the amounts differ from grant costs. Full development is in a 10-year period.


                                                                                                            31
       The following summarizes the projects analyzed:

   1. Minimum and zero-till technologies reduced input costs by 3–45 percent and increased
      outputs by 5–56 percent (on a per hectare basis), with annual benefits ranging between
      US$49,000 and US$1.8 million depending on farm size and location. The analysis
      revealed that the project played an important role in expanding the use of conservation
      agriculture technologies. Overall, 42 grant projects implemented minimum- and zero-
      till technologies. About 500,000 hectares are now under zero and minimum tillage,
      with around 420,000 hectares in Karagandy Oblast alone. On the seven farms
      analyzed, the incremental annual benefits from applying zero- and minimum-tillage
      practices amounted to an estimated US$3.7 million at full development (2010).
   2. Introduction of cold oil pressing enabled the processing of 300 tons of safflower per
      year, thus producing 60 tons of quality oil and 230 tons of oil cake and generating four
      full-time jobs. The incremental annual benefits of this operation were estimated at
      US$46,000.
   3. Investments in production of apple chips enabled the processing of 65 tons of apples
      and generated the sale of 260,000 packs of nutritious dried apples, bringing an
      additional US$12,000 annually to the beneficiary enterprise. The investment also
      generated employment for two full-time workers.
   4. Improved animal feeding (use of silage and vitamin mix) increased milk production in
      participating farms from 7–8 to 10–12 liters per head per day, or around 30 tons.
      Incremental benefits were almost US$38,000 per year.
   5. Investments in two accredited laboratories brought an additional US$1.44 million
      annually due to the increased number of tests performed (from 4,000 to 45,000) as
      well as the savings realized by clients. Previously about 1,800 tests per year had to be
      carried out in Europe due to the scarcity of modern laboratory equipment in
      Kazakhstan. Thanks to the project, these tests are now undertaken in Kazakhstan,
      reducing costs by almost US$660 per test or US$1.2 million per year.
   6. Investments in a milk-processing facility enabled the production of 83 tons of various
      milk products, bringing US$28,000 of value added per year.
   7. Development of a marketing strategy, a public relations campaign, and packaging
      (image enhancement of Kazakhstan agricultural products) led to a 25 percent increase
      in sales of dairy products, bringing an additional US$100,000 per year to the
      enterprise.
   8. NPVs for the analyzed farms and enterprises ranged between US$25,000 and
      US$5.7 million. ERRs ranged from 19 percent to more than 1,000 percent. These are
      much higher than the numbers projected during appraisal: NPVs between
      US$1,800 and US$133,000; ERRs between 16 and 80 percent.

The economic analysis was performed for a period of 20 years. Based on data from the 14
grant projects analyzed, an average incremental annual net benefit per US$1 of investment
equaled US$4. The overall benefits from the CGS were calculated by multiplying this
extrapolation factor by the amount of investments factually disbursed under the CGS. The
analysis assumed an 80 percent success rate (that is, 80 percent of all grants were successfully
implemented and generated the same level of benefits) as well as a gradual increase of such
benefits over the next 20 years. The incremental costs in economic prices were calculated by
removing price contingencies, taxes, and duties. No residual values for capital investments
were assumed. However, the analysis considered the investments made by indirect
beneficiaries who adopted the promoted technologies without the project’s financial support.
The total incremental economic cost of the project amounted to about US$54.4 million.

                                              33
For the project as a whole, the ERR and the NPV at completion were an estimated 29.3
percent and US$70.5 million, respectively, assuming an opportunity cost of capital of 12
percent. These rates are higher than those projected at appraisal: ERR at 23.5 percent and
NPV at US$51 million. A sensitivity analysis revealed that a fall of 20 percent in total project
benefits and an increase in total project costs by the same proportion would reduce the base
case ERR to about 26 percent. The switching value is about 72 percent for total project
benefits, and approximately 255 percent for project costs. Implementation success factors for
the grant projects of 50 and 30 percent would reduce the ERR to 22 and 15 percent,
respectively.

Financial Analysis

The 14 grants visited were also used to estimate financial costs and benefits. The main
results of the financial analysis were (a) overall, gross, and net returns increased substantially;
(b) benefit-cost ratios were favorable; and (c) the level of profitability varied by activity.
NPVs for the analyzed farms and enterprises ranged from US$15,000 to US$2.5 million.
IRRs ranged from 16 to 780 percent. These numbers are much higher than those projected
during the appraisal: NPVs between US$13,000 and US$160,000 and IRRs between 16 and
80 percent. Favorable cash flows indicated that the CGS would continue working successfully
after project closure. A sensitivity analysis was undertaken to assess the impact on financial
returns of changes in (a) output prices, (b) expected yields, (c) operating costs, and (d)
investment costs. Although the grant projects were more sensitive to changes in both yield
and price assumptions than to variations in investment and operating costs, they were
reasonably sound in terms of revenue.

Table 3A. 2 summarizes financial costs and benefits. Details can be found in the project
files.




                                                34
                                               Table 3A.2 Project Completion: Key Data on Analyzed Project Grants (Financial)
                                                                  Investment costs                                                            Incremental
                                                                  (US$ thousand)*                 Annual net benefits (US$ thousand)       annual net benefits
                                                                                             Without With project (full                        per US$1 of       IRR          NPV
#                            Model                         CGP      Beneficiary      Total   project     development)        Incremental    investment (US$)     (%)     (US$ thousand)
 1   Applied Research (AR), CYMMIT/Farm “Vlad,?              64              41        105       178                   784           607                   5.8      60              749
     zero till of wheat and cropped fallow on drylands
     (Karagandy Oblast)
 2   AR, CYMMIT/Farm “Tumar,? zero-till on irrigated         75              37        112        395                627            232                    2.1     55              457
     land (Almaty Oblast)
 3   AR, Farm “Agro-Duman,? testing grain varieties          78             233        310          7              1,806           1,800                   5.8     70             2,488
     with minimum-till technology (Karagandy Oblast)
 4   AR, Co-op “Shakpak,? diversification of production      53             119        172        159                836            677                    3.9     68             1,159
     with oil crops applying minimum-till technology
     and processing (South-Kazakhstan Oblast)
 5   Extension, Farm “Bakhytzhan,? zero till of spring        9               5         14        599                655             56                    4.1     50              752
     wheat on drylands (Kostanay Oblast)
 6   Extension, Farm “Ken-Dala,? minimum till of rain-       20              27         47        306                611            305                    6.4    120              752
     fed fodder barley (Zhambyl Oblast)
 7   Extension, Farm “Agro-Duman,? minimum-till of           24              22         46        24                  73             49                    1.1     30               56
     agroparon on drylands (Karagandy Oblast)
 8   Extension, Farm “Kunar,? cold oil pressing of           22              33         55          0                 46             46                    0.8    179              195
     safflower (Zhambul Oblast)
 9   Extension, Farm “Mateev,? production of packed          21              16         37          0                 11             11                    0.3     36               26
     apple chips (Zhambyl Oblast)
10   Extension, improved feeding for cows, Kenes             13               7         19          6                 44             38                    2.0    781              136
     Advisory LPP, Ak Sut farm (Almaty Oblast)
11   Modernization of private laboratory, Kazexpoaudit       52              50        102          1                 46             45                    0.4     78              162
     LPP (Almaty Oblast)
12   Modernization of private laboratory, Baltic Control     47              29         76          0                316            316                    4.2    309             1,267
     KZ Certification LPP (Astana)
13   Marketing, milk processing, Ak Sut cooperative          54              39         93          7                 34             27                    0.3     16               15
     (Almaty Oblast)
14   Image promotion, Natige Milk Processing Plant,          41              18         59        449                560            111                    1.9     —               574
     introduction of marketing strategy and packaging
     (Karagandy Oblast)
     Average number                                          41              48         89        152                461            308                  2.79     142              628
     Average percentage                                      46              54        100




                                                                                             35
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

Table 4A.1 Task Team Members
                                                                                         Responsibility/
             Names                                      Title                  Unit        specialty
Lending
Maurizio Guadagni               Sr. rural development specialist              ECSSD   Task team leader
Mathew A. McMahon               Lead agriculture specialist                   ECSSD   Peer reviewer
Steven M. Jaffee                Sr. economist                                 PRMTR   Peer reviewer
Janna Ryssakova                 Social development specialist                 ECSSD
DerekR. Byerlee                 Adviser                                        ARD
Fasliddin Rakhimov              Operations analyst                            ECCUZ
Kairat Nazhmidenov              Consultant                                    ECSSD
Daniele P. Giovannucci          Consultant                                    ECSSD
Emanuela Montanari Stephens     Consultant                                    ECSSD
Bulat Utkelov                   Operations officer                            ECSSD
Talimjan Urazov                 Operations analyst                            ECSSD
Sholpan Spanova                 ET temporary                                  ECCKZ   Interpreter
Anarkan Akerova                 Counsel                                       LEGEC
Allen Wazny                     Sr. financial management specialist           ECSPS
Aliya Kim                       Finance assistant                             ECCU8
Hannah Koilpillai               Finance officer                               LOAG1
Naushad Khan                    Lead procurement specialist                   ECSPS
Anara Akhmetova                 Team assistant                                ECCKZ
Aitolkyn Kourmanova             Program assistant                             ECCU8
Wendy Aires                     Editor                                        AFTTR
Anara Jumabaeva                 Financial analyst                              FAO
David Lugg                      Agricultural economist                         FAO

Supervision/ICR
Safinaz El Hag El Tahir Ahmed   Rural development specialist                  ECSS1
Anara Akhmetova                 Procurement assistant                         ECCKZ
Mustafa Ugur Alver              Junior professional associate                 ECSS1
Michael G. Carroll              Lead natural resource management specialist   ECSS1   Task team leader
Norpulat Daniyarov              Sr. financial management specialist           ECSO3
Gulana Enar Hajiyeva            Environmental specialist                      ECSS3   Safeguards
Aliya Kim                       Financial management analyst                  ECSO3
Nurbek Kurmanaliev              Procurement specialist                        ECSO2   Procurement
John Otieno Ogallo              Sr. financial management specialist           ECSO3
Talimjan Urazov                 Operations officer                            ECSAR   ICR team leader
Yuling Zhou                     Lead procurement specialist                   EAPPR   Procurement
Sandra Broka                    Sr. rural finance specialist                  ECSAR   Task team leader
Maurizio Guadagni               Sr. rural development specialist              ECSAR   Task team leader
Arcadii Capcelea                Sr. environmental specialist                  ECSEN   Safeguards
Ignacio Jauregui                Counsel                                       LEGLE
Asa H. Giertz                   Consultant                                    ECSAR
Chris Mathias                   Consultant                                    ECSSD
Anara Jumabayeva                Sr. economist                                  FAO    CGS



                                                   36
Turi Fileccia                   Sr. agronomist                                     FAO     Extension


Table 4A.2 Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                                                            Cost, including travel and
Stage of project cycle         Number of staff weeks     consultant costs (US$ thousand)
Lending
  FY99                                                                 3.90
  FY00                                                                45.13
  FY01                                                                73.14
  FY02                                                                42.56
  FY03                                                               134.74
  FY04                                                               198.07
  FY05                                                               143.19
  Total                                                              640.73

Supervision/ICR
  FY05                                                                17.05
  FY06                                                                54.39
  FY07                                                               155.01
  FY08                                                               143.74
  FY09                                                               166.80
  FY10                                                                92.36
  FY11                                                               116.10
  FY12                                                               123.15
  FY13                                                                37.00

  Total:                                                             905.60




                                                    37
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
Not applicable




                                      38
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
Not applicable




                                        39
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic of Kazakhstan (Ministry) has reviewed the
draft implementation completion report on the Agricultural Competitiveness Project and advises
as follows.
Regarding the ICR section Project-specific factors that affected implementation. Paragraph 41
Change in management of the Ministry of Agriculture. Partial reorganization of the Project
Coordination Center (PCC) and completion of some components as of January 1, 2012 have
resulted in the project suspension in 2012.

Pursuant to the Feasibility Study for the Agricultural Competitiveness Project, in 2005
Component 1 envisaged preparation of a detailed design and construction of a National
Reference Laboratory (NRL). A long process of the ToR reconciliation due to the increase in the
principal budget for NRL design, as well as a protracted (over 1 year) international bidding, have
proved to be the main reasons for cancelling the construction within this component and
proceeding with the design only. The contract for the NRL design was only signed in April 2011
between the Ministry of Agriculture of the RoK and Gairia JSC, Lithuanian company, and
suspension of the design process in November 2011 was caused by the following factors:
         1) lack of analysis on the design of a National Reference Laboratory at the time of
             signing the contract.
         2) unjustified total area of NRL proposed by Gairia JSC that was not consistent with the
             terms of the Contract. The design company provided the NRL drawings for an area
             of 11,000 m2 instead of the area of 3,961 m2 set forth by the Contract, which 3 times
             exceeds the required building area. During the subsequent negotiations, the company
             insisted on the need for expanding the area envisaged by the contract.
Besides, neither the calculations of the international experts (Cecil McMurray and Jazeps
Rimeicans), nor those made by the Kazakh experts have been taken into account. Therefore, the
Ministry finds it unreasonable to expand the area of the National Reference Laboratory which
entails the increase in the cost of design and civil works. The drawings provided by the design
company did not contain basic design solutions. Neither a topological and geodetic survey, nor a
geological engineering survey has been carried out in the site allocated for the NRL design. The
subsequent suspension of the NRL design process was caused by the project closure on June 30,
2012.

Regarding Paragraph 42. Lack of proper background analysis for certain activities. Under the
project, 18 expensive units of equipment have been procured for immune fermented analysis
(IFA). The IFA robots were supplied to the Republican Veterinary Laboratory in 2009 without
either taking into account the actual needs, or providing relevant training to the specialists on
how to operate an IFA robot. Moreover, the software was provided for only one disease
(brucellosis). The IFA robots required and are still requiring regular maintenance by a service
engineer to keep them in an operational condition from the moment they were supplied. To
ensure continuous operation of the software, a constant maintenance service is required, and each
diagnostic requires relevant software. At the official meetings with the World Bank team, the
Ministry has repeatedly requested for technical assistance to be provided by an international
expert to carry out a respective analysis of the IFA laboratory equipment, by this request was not
addressed by the World Bank.



                                               40
Factors that have impeded the implementation of the Competitive Grants Scheme.

One of the main factors is that the PCC management failed to conduct a proper review of
the Competitive Grants Scheme implementation. Execution of the 5th round in 2010 when the
grants from the 3rd and 4th rounds had not been completed would have resulted in an excessive
number of grant recipients which was challenging for the small staff of the PCC and tight
implementation schedule. This has subsequently produced an adverse effect on implementation
of this component.

Despite difficulties that have emerged during the project implementation, the Ministry in
general supports the project performance rating as Moderately Satisfactory. Some of the project
activities, particularly the Competitive Grants Scheme, support of the extension system, etc. have
produced a moderately positive effect on agricultural competitiveness in Kazakhstan.
We are looking forward to our continued fruitful cooperation.




                                               41
42
43
Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

The project demonstrated the challenges and complexity for a member country of being
involved with the Cooperative Programme of the World Bank and the FAO’s Investment
Centre. The Investment Centre management and its staff members partnered with the Bank
throughout the project, providing technical input and know-how. At the same time, the project
extended this collaboration to other international organizations such as the CIMMYT.

In spite of some acknowledged shortfalls, overall the project had visible and measurable
outcomes, such as a sustainable increase in the income of beneficiaries thanks to the
adoption of improved technologies and knowledge. In particular, the following are the most
salient features of FAO’s collaboration:
      The design and supervision of the CGS improved the responsiveness and effectiveness of
         the National Research System.
      Technical assistance provided support for establishing a demand-driven, pluralistically
         efficient, and sustainable extension system in the country.
      The careful analysis of options and advocacy of successful approaches promoted the use
         of conservation agriculture/no-till technology among Kazakh farmers.

Both the extension system and the CGS enabled the creation of a functional system of
delivering services to farmers. Linking participants (scientists and farmers, farmers and farmers,
scientists and scientists) through the extension and CGP components as well as numerous
promotional events created a sustainable pool of knowledge and relationships. The testing of
diverse techniques and service modalities with KAI demonstrated the benefits of establishing a
cost-effective farmer- or production-specific advisory system throughout the country.

Lastly, the FAO-IC assessed the advantages of adopting conservation agriculture/no-till
technology in Kazakhstan, which can be summarized as follows:
     Adoption of conservation agriculture/no-till technology is progressing steadily in
       Kazakhstan. It is practiced on at least 1.85 million hectares, representing a remarkable
       200 percent advancement in five years. Kazakhstan is ranked ninth in the world in terms
       of acreage planted using conservation agriculture/no-till technology, second only after
       Russia in the Eastern Europe–Central Asia region.
     The adoption of conservation agriculture/no-till technology in Kazakhstan enabled an
       increase in wheat production of almost 2 million tons, equivalent to incremental income
       of about US$580 million over the last three years (2010–12).
     In food security terms, this incremental production satisfied the annual cereal
       requirements of some 5 million people (at 130 kilograms per capita per year).
     In terms of climate change mitigation, Kazakhstan has sequestered about 1.8 million tons
       of carbon dioxide (at 1 ton per hectare).
     No-till technology induced by the project covers some 350,000–400,000 hectares (around
       20 percent of the overall no-till area in the country).




                                               44
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

   1) Project Appraisal Document
   2) Loan Agreement and Supplemental Letter 2
   3) Project Restructuring Papers and amended Supplemental Letters 2:
       - Restructuring Paper of July 30, 2010 (Report #55340-KZ)
       - Restructuring Paper of October 28, 2011 (Report #62731-KZ)
       - Amended Supplemental Letter-2 (signed on December 30, 2011)
   4) Aide-mémoires for the missions of:
       - October 8–December 8, 2006
       - February 4–20, 2007
       - April 10–June 15, 2007
       - November 9–December 6, 2007
       - June 9–July 2, 2008
       - March 30–April 10, 2009
       - December 7–11, 2009
       - June 15–24, 2010
       - September 28–October 8, 2010
       - April 25–May 23, 2011
       - September 12–22, 2011
       - May 10–30, 2012
   5) Implementation Status and Results Reports (sequence #1–#15).
   6) Country Partnership Strategy for the Republic of Kazakhstan for the period FY05–FY11
       (August 10, 2004; Report # 29412-KZ)
   7) Country Partnership Strategy for the Republic of Kazakhstan for the period FY12–FY17
       (March 30, 2012; Report # 67876-KZ)
   8) Assessment of Project Contribution to the Agriculture Sector of Kazakhstan,
       By A. Alberto Yanosky, September 16, 2012
   9) Description of subprojects implemented under the Competitive Grant Scheme by Kazakh
       National Agrarian University
   10) Statistical Bulletins of the Statistical Agency of Kazakhstan
   11) President Nazarbaev’s Address to the Nation on January 27, 2012
       (http://www.parlam.kz/ru/presidend-speech/29)




                                           45
                                                     55°N               50°E                     55°E                               60°E                        65°E                     To        70°E                              75°E                     To          80°E                               85°E
                                                                                                                                                                                      Tyumen‘                                                              Novosibirsk

                                                                                                                                                          To Kurgan
                                                                                                                                    To Chelyabinsk
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            To
                                                                       R U S S I A N                                                                                                          NORTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Petropavlovsk
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Novosibirsk

                                                                    F E D E R A T I O N                                                                    Toby                       KAZAKHSTAN




                                                                                                                                                              l
                                                     a
                                                                                                                                   To
                                                    lg




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Er
                                                 Vo                        To
                                                                                                                                   Ufa




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          tis
                                                                         Samara                                                                          Kostanai                                                                           (Irt                                             To Barnaul
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Kokshetau                                 ysh




                                                                                                                         Ural
                                             To                                                                                                                                                                                                      )
                                                                                                          To Orenburg




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             O
                                           Saratov




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              b‘
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Pavlodar
                                                                                                                                                     To r g h a y                              AKMOLA                                       PAVLODAR
                                                                                                                                                     Plateau                                                                                             Ekibastuz
               50°N                                           Ural'sk                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    50°N
                                                                                                                                                 KOSTANAI                                    (Ishim)       ASTANA
                                                                                                                                                                                        Esil
                                                         Chapaevo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Öskemen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               skemen
                                                                        Zhaiy


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Semipalatinsk       (Ust-Kamenogorsk)
                                              WEST
                                                                              k




                                                                                                    Aktobe
                                                                           (Ural)




                                           KAZAKHSTAN                                                                                                             hai
                                                                                                                                                                        Arkalyk                               Karagandy                                                                 EAST                          Lake




                                                                                                                                   Yrgh
                                                                                                                                                             Torg                                                                                                                                                    Zaisan
                                                                                                                                                         Turgay
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Ka za k h                                                                 KAZAKHSTAN




                                                                                                                                       yz
                               Vo
                                  lg




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ayakos
                                                                    ATYRAU                                          Embi
                                 a




                                                                                                    hem
                                                                                                 Z
                                                                                                      AKTOBE                    Shalkar
                                                                                                                                                                                                          U pl an ds
               To Astrakhan‘




                                                                        Atyrau
                                                                                                                                                                                          Zhezkazgan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Balkhash
                                                                                                                                                                                                  KARAGHANDY                                                                                Leps                             To Urumqi
                                                                                                                                              Aral                                                                                                                                              i     Lake
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         45vN




                                                                                                                                                                                        su
               45°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Lake                                     Alakol




                                                                                                                                                                                         ry
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Saryshaghan                                          ar




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           K
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Balkash




                                                                                                                                                                                      Sa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ata
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 l                                          To Urumqi
                                                                                    Beineu
                                                                                                                         Aral                             Baikonur
                                       C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Ile
                                                                                                                         Sea                                                                                                                                   ALMATY                  Taldykorgan                      CHINA
                                       as




                                                               MANGYSTAU                                                                                                                                      ZHAMBYL
                                           pi




                                                                                                                                                                        Kyzyl-Orda                                 Shu      (Ch
                                                            Aktau                                                                           KYZYLORDA                                                                           u)                                                                                           To Korla
                                            an




                                                                                  Ustyurt                                                                                                                          Tal




                                                                                                                                                                        Sy
                                                                                                                                                                          da                                           as




                                                                                                                                                                           r
                                                                                                                                                                             ri y a                                                    Shu                                     Almaty
                                                                                                     To Nukus
                                                                                  Plateau                                                                                                     Turkistan                                                                                                   Pik Khan-Tengri
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (6995 m)
                                                Sea




                                                                                                                                            2001 LEVEL OF ARAL SEA
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Taraz
                                                                                                                                    1990 LEVEL OF ARAL SEA
                                                                                                                                1960 LEVEL OF ARAL SEA
                                                                                                                                                                                       SOUTH                                                                To Naryn


               AZERBAIJAN                                                                                                                                                       KAZAKHSTAN
                                                                                                                                                                                              Shymkent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         KYRGYZ                                                        80°E

                                                                                                                                            UZBEK ISTA N
                                                                                                                                            UZBEKISTA
               40°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                       R E P.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     K AZAK H STAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  40°N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    OBLAST CAPITALS
                                                                                                  K M ENISTAN
                                                                                             TU R KM  ENISTA N                                                               To
                                                                                                                                                                           Bukhoro
                                                                                                                                                                                                    To Dushanbe                                                                                     GALASY (CITIES WITH
                                                                                                                                                                                                       TA J I K I S TA N                                                                            REGIONAL STATUS)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      This map was produced by                                      NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                     KAZAKHSTAN                                                                                                                                                                       the Map Design Unit of The
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    RIVERS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      World Bank. The boundaries,
                                                                                                0          100      200          300 Kilometers                                                                                       colors, denominations and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    MAIN ROADS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IBRD 33425R1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      any other information shown
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      on this map do not imply, on
JANUARY 2007




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      the part of The World Bank                                    RAILROADS
                                                                                                0                100              200 Miles                                                                                           Group, any judgment on the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    OBLAST BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                          FGHANI
                                                                                                                                                                        A FGHA   STAN
                                                                                                                                                                               NISTA N                                                legal status of any territory,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      or any endorsement or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      acceptance of such
                 50°E                                                   55°E                                      60°E                                       65°E                                            70°E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      boundaries.
