                                                 Document of
                                            The World Bank

                                   FOROFFICIAL USEONLY



                                                                                 ReportNo: 26037-SK




                                  PROJECTAPPRAISALDOCUMENT

                                                    ONA

                             PROPOSEDTECHNICALASSISTANCELOAN

                               INTHEAMOUNT OFEURO10.58 MILLION
                                  (US$12.38 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                                  TO THE

                                            SLOVAK REPUBLIC

                                                    FORA

     HEALTH SECTORMODERNIZATIONSUPPORTTECHNICALASSISTANCEPROJECT

                                               August 15,2003




    Human DevelopmentUnit
    Europe and Central Asia Region




This document has restricteddistribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                    (Exchange Rate Effective August 15, 2003)

                         Currency Unit = Slovak Koruna
                                 1S K K = US$0.0269
                                 US$1 = SKK37.138

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                                  January 1 -- December 31


                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
DRG          Diagnosis RelatedGroup
ECA          Europe and Central Asia
EMU          European Monetary Union
EU           EuropeanUnion
FDI          ForeignDirect Investment
FMS          FinancialManagement Specialist
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
HCSA         Health Care Surveillance Authority
HIC          Health Insurance Company
H M I S      Health Management Information Systems
HSMS S E C K Health Sector Modernization Support Sectoral Adjustment Loan
HSMSTAP      Health Sector Modernization Support Technical Assistance Project
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
MOE          Ministry of Economy
MOF          Ministry of Finance
M O H        Ministry of Health
NGO          Non-Government Organization
PCU          Project CoordinationUnit
PHC          Primary Health Care
PIC          Public Information Campaign
PIP          Project ImplementationPlan
PPF          Project Preparation Facility
SA           Special Account
SOE          Statements of Expenditure
TA           Technical Assistance
TSU          Technical Support Unit
VAT          Value AddedTax
WHO          World Health Organization




                            Vice President:     Shigeo Katsu
                          Country Director:     Roger Grawe
                            Sector Manager      AnninFidler
                             Task Manager:      Mukesh Chawla

                                                                 FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                             SLOVAK REPUBLIC
            HEALTH SECTOR MODERNIZATION SUPPORT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
                                                  PROJECT

                                                 CONTENTS

        A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page

           1. Project development objective                                                      2

           2. Key performance indicators                                                         2

        B. Strategic Context
           1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported bythe project      2
           2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                         3
           3. Sector issues to be addressedby the project and strategic choices                  7

        C. Project Description Summary
           1. Project components                                                                11
           2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                     13
           3. Benefits and target population                                                    14

           4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                     14

        D.Project Rationale
           1. Project alternatives consideredandreasons for rejection                           15
           2. Major relatedprojects financed by the Bank andor other development agencies       16
           3. Lessons learned andreflected inthe project design                                 17
           4. Indications o f borrower commitment and ownership                                 18
           5. Value added of Bank support inthis project                                        18

        E. Summary Project Analysis
           1. Economic                                                                          19
           2. Financial                                                                         19
           3. Technical                                                                         19
           4. Institutional                                                                     22
           5. Environmental                                                                     23
           6. Social                                                                            23
           7. Safeguard Policies                                                                26




This documenthas a restricted distributionandmay beusedby recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contentsmay not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.

F. Sustainability and Risks
   1. Sustainability                                                                       27
   2. Critical risks                                                                       27
   3. Possible controversial aspects                                                       29

G. Main Loan Conditions
   1, Effectiveness Condition                                                              29
   2. Other                                                                                29

H. Readiness for Implementation                                                            30
I.CompliancewithBankPolicies                                                               30

Annexes

Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                            31
Annex 2: DetailedProject Description                                                       35
Annex 3: EstimatedProject Costs                                                            43
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary             46
Annex 5:   Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary    47
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                                      48
           (B)FinancialManagement and DisbursementArrangements                             55
Annex 7: Project ProcessingSchedule                                                        59
Annex 8:   Documents inthe Project File                                                    60
Annex 9: Statement o f Loans and Credits                                                   61
Annex 10 Country at a Glance                                                               63
Annex 11: Policy Matrix                                                                    65
Annex 12: Letter o f Sectoral Policy                                                       68

                                              SLOVAK REPUBLIC
             HEALTH SECTOR MODERNIZATIONSUPPORTTECHNICALASSISTANCE PROJECT

                                        ProjectAppraisal Document
                                          EuropeandCentralAsia Region
                                                    ECSHD

Date: August 15,2003                                    Team Leader: Mukesh Chawla
Sector Manager: Armin H.Fidler                          Sector(s): Health(100%)
Country Director: Roger W. Grawe                        Theme(s): Healthsystemperformance (P)
Project ID: PO82879
Lending Instrument: TechnicalAssistance Loan (TAL)


 [XI Loan       [ ] Credit       [ ] Grant   [ ] Guarantee     [ ] Other:
For LoanslCreditslOthers:
Loan Currency: Euro
Amount (US$m): $12.38 (Euro 10.58million)
Borrower Rationale for Choice of Loan Terms Available on File:     Yes
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
Grace period (years): 0                               Years to maturity: 3
Commitment fee: 0.85%                                 Front end fee (FEF) on Bank loan: 1.00%
                                                      Paymentfor FEF: Borrowerto Pay from OwnResources

Initial choice of Interest-rate basis:
Type of repayment schedule:
 [ ] Fixed at Commitment, with the following repayment method (choose one):
 [XI Linked to Disbursement



                                                              I        8.22    1       4.16  I     12.38
Total:                                                                10.26    1       5.53    1   15.79

A. Project Development Objective

1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)

         The Government o f the Slovak Republic i s launching a comprehensive health sector reform
program to improve the efficiency and effectiveness o f public expenditures on health care, enhance
quality o f health services, and increase the regulatory, planning and policy-malung capacity o f the
Ministryo f Health (MOH).The aimofthis reformprogram is to support the development of a financially
viable and sustainable health care system capable o f providing quality care and meeting the health needs
o f the population. Technical and implementation capacity within institutions such as the MOH, health
insurance companies (HIC), and hospitals are necessary for the design and effective implementation o f
these health sector reforms.

         The objectives o f the proposedproject are to support building o f capacity o f the health system to
become more efficient in the financing and delivery o f health care services and to improve the quality o f
health care services while maintaining access to care for the population, especially vulnerable groups.

2. K e y performance indicators: (see Annex 1)

0    Business plans for hospital developed;
0    Health insurance companies implement new provider payment systems and selective contracting with
     providers;
0    The Health Care Surveillance Institute adapts, tests and implements minimumfour clinical guidelines
     for Primary Health Care (PHC) and eight guidelines for secondary care;
0    The MOH with support from other institutions regularly publishes analytical reports on the
     performance o f the health care system, with special emphasis o n access to care for the population,
     usingdata from improvedhealth information systems.

B. Strategic Context
1.Sector-related CountryAssistance Strategy (CAS) goal supportedbythe project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: R2001-4          Date of latest CAS discussion: 02/06/2001

         The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) identifies three areas in which the Bank intends to
provide support to the Government o f the Slovak Republic: (i)    completing the transformation reforms to
restore and sustain high growth and stability; (ii) strengthening governance and institutions, to promote,
inter alia, convergence with European Union's Acquis Communitaires and European practice; and (iii)
improving social security, enhancing human development and meeting environmental standards. Further,
the CAS identifies the social sectors as one o f the major areas where the Bank should continue to stay
involved in the coming years. The proposed Health Sector Modernization Support Technical Assistance
Project (HSMS TAP) would contribute to achieving these objectives.




                                                     - 2 -

         Support to the Government's health reform program i s envisaged through the proposed Health
Sector Modernization Support Sectoral Adjustment Loan (HSMS SECAL) and an accompanying HSMS
TAP. The two projects together will support sector-wide reforms aimed at improving the efficiency and
effectiveness o f public expenditures on health care, enhancing quality o f services, and increasing the
regulatory and planning and policy-making capacity o f MOH. The overall goal o f the two projects i s to
support comprehensive health sector reforms that promote fiscal sustainability while continuing to
provide quality health care services and financial protection for the population. The overarching
objectives are to: (i)improve fiscal discipline through structural changes in the health sector that will
alleviate the chronic problem o f arrears in the health sector, encourage greater technical and allocative
efficiency and institute a system that will promote fiscal sustainability; and (ii)
                                                                                  improve the quality and
cost-effectiveness o f the health sector; and (iii) mitigate any possible negative impacts on health care
access, specially for vulnerable populations. The HSMS SECAL and HSMS TAP are inter-dependent,
and while the former addresses the policy objectives o f the reform, the latter provides the necessary
technical and capacity support for the implementation o f the reform strategy. This inter-linkage i s
necessary and critical to the success o f the broader reform agenda.

         The proposed policy agenda under H S M S SECAL i s summarized in the policy matrix, jointly
developed with MOH and agreed with the Ministry o f Finance (MOF). Tranche releases under the HSMS
SECAL are linked to completion o f key health reform implementation milestones, such as the passage o f
critical laws, introduction o f new provider payment mechanisms, and hospital autonomy. The policy
matrix is attached inAnnex 11.

2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
           Slovalua's recent track record in stabilization dates from 1998, when it took initial measures to
ensure recovery from a financial crisis. Despite substantial challenges (including the stringent demands
o f EU accession on macro policy) and the adverse external environment, the recent evolution o f the
Slovak economy has been positive. Despite the slowdown inthe EU- the Slovak Republic's main market
- real GDP grew by a robust 4.4 percent in2002 and an estimated 4.1 percent inthe first quarter o f 2003,
one o f the highest growth rates in the region. Core inflation Core inflation i s defined as the change in
prices (headline inflation) excluding the controlled prices (such as gas, water and electricity). Controlled
prices were adjusted as part o f the preparation for EUaccession resulting inprice increases that reached
up to 30 percent for some utilities. reached a historical minimum o f around 2 percent in 2002. The
unemployment rate remains high even by regional standards, but has started to recede inline with
improved performance in the real sector, falling from about 18 percent in 2002 to 14.6 percent in June
2003.

         The deficit inthe current account o f the balance o f payments, which remained above 8 percent o f
GDP for the last two years, began to show definite signs o f improvement in2003, primarily as a result o f
significantly stronger export performance and the containment o f consumption growth. Large capital
account surpluses have financed the current account deficit while also allowing a substantial
accumulation o f foreign reserves, which rose from 3 months o f imports o f goods and services at the end
o f 2001 to 5.9 months at the end o f 2002. The large capital inflows, which primarily reflect substantial
privatization-related FDI receipts and investments made in anticipation o f EU accession, have
contributed in parallel to a recent nominal and real appreciation o f the koruna. In this context, monetary
policy has been geared toward preventing sharp fluctuations in the exchange rate and restraining upward
pressures on the koruna.

         Fiscal deficits in the Slovak Republic were relatively high throughout the 1990s. This partly
reflected policy measures to reduce tax pressure and make the economy more competitive and attractive



                                                      - 3 -

to investors. Corporate and personal income taxes were reduced and generous "tax holiday" schemes
were introduced. As a result, tax revenues fell by some 7.5 percentage points o f GDP from 1996 to 2001.
These reductions were not matched by an equivalent containment o f                 expenditures, with total
expenditures and net lending (excluding privatizationreceipts) declining by only 2.5 percentage points o f
GDP between 1996 and 2001. At the same time, there was recurrent pressure to bail out critical sectors
(including the health sector), which continued to run up payment arrears. In addition, the Slovak
Republic accumulated significant government guarantees (equivalent to 16 percent o f GDP as o f
end-2002), mainly to ensure the financing o f such troubled state-owned enterprises as the railway and
power companies. The uneven implementation o f fiscal plans, with more success in reducing taxes than
expenditures, reflected an inability to break with the past and initiate structural reforms in key
expenditure areas, including the health sector.

         In this environment, the moderation o f aggregate demand through a tightening o f fiscal policy
has become essential to reduce inflationary and current account pressures. This adjustment will also
allow for a better policy mix, with a more relaxed monetary stance working to contain exchange rate
appreciation.   Over the past two years, and despite elections being held in 2002, the government has
begun to make strong progress in these areas. Fiscal measures taken in 2001 and 2002 reduced the
consolidated fiscal deficit (ESA 95 basis) from 10.7 percent in2000 to 7.2 percent in 2002.

         Inthe recent Article IV consultation for the Slovak Republic, concluded by its Executive Board
o f the IMF on July 23, 2003, See htt~://~~~.illlfor~lexternal/np/sec/i~n/2003/pnO394.htm     for the Public
Information Notice. the IMF projects growth and competitiveness to remain strong, with downside risks
from weak external demand and for core inflation. Real GDP growth i s expected to continue at around 4
percent for the coming three years. Due to needed adjustments inutility tariffs, excise tax increases and
adjustments to the VAT tax rate, annual (end o f period) headline inflation i s projected to increase to
around 9 percent in 2003, before falling to around 3.6 percent by 2005. However, core inflation is
expected to remain moderate, averaging 3.8 percent in 2003-04 before falling back to 2 percent in2005.

         Improving the policy mix by continuing to bring the fiscal deficit to more sustainable levels i s an
explicit priority for the Government, especially as it seeks to meet the Maastricht criterion o f 3 percent o f
GDP, a prerequisite for joining the European Monetary Union (EMU),by 2006. This challenge is to be
met through reforms in the tax system combined with sustained reductions in the share o f public
expenditures in GDP. The latter will require deep structural reforms in key areas o f public sector
involvement, including the health sector reforms supported by the proposed operation, so as to prevent
further accumulation o f debts while improving the effectiveness o f service delivery. T o this end, the
2003 budget envisages a 2 percent o f GDP reduction in the consolidated fiscal deficit, to be achieved
mainly through expenditure cuts, including in the health sector. Further reductions in the deficit to
around 3.5 percent o f GDP by 2005 will be required to meet the Maastricht fiscal criterion by 2006, to
 secure fiscal solvency, and to stabilize public debt well below the Maastricht debt ceiling.

         External deficits, while still large, are narrowing. Supported by the noted macroeconomic policy
 adjustments and structural reforms, the current account deficit i s projected to decline from 8.2 percent o f
 GDP in 2002 to around 6.3 percent o f GDP in2003 and then to 4 percent in 2005. Over the same period,
 the Slovak Republic's gross external debt i s projected to decline from 55.7 percent o f GDP to 38.3
percent o f GDP. At end-2002, IBRD exposure was a l o w 0.9 percent o f GDP, with IBRD representing
 around 1.4percent o f the Slovak Republic's total external debt service payments.




                                                       - 4 -

Key Issues in the Health Sector
         The Slovak Republic is facing a major fiscal crisis in the health care sector. The main symptoms
o f serious health financing problems are increasing arrears and informal out-of-pocket payments by
patients that are regressive and create access barriers. Overall accumulated arrears o f health institutions
(insurance funds and providers) stood at SKK30 billion at the end o f 2002 and are growing (Health Care
Policy, Chapter 1, Zajac, Pazitny, draft report). To cope with growing expenditures,the Government has
gradually raised the contribution rate to 14 percent o f payroll tax for active population and has over the
years increased its contribution rates for non-active population up to 9.8 percent o f minimumwage. The
Government has repeatedly been forced to clear arrears o f the Health Insurance Companies (HICs) and
publicly owned health care providers through the transfers o f privatization receipts from the National
Property Fund. These extra-budgetary contributions have grown rapidly from almost zero to over 7
percent o f health spending in 2001. The use o f non-recurring revenues to fund what appear to be
recurring expenditures, combined with the continuing growth o f health system arrears, i s a clear
indication o f the weakness o f health system finances. In addition to only providing temporary relief,
repeated Government bailouts have created a moral hazard problem for indebted health organizations.
The health care system is financially unsustainable, and reforms are urgently needed to make better use
o f public expenditures on healthcare.

         This situation occurs against the backdrop of relatively high overall health financing envelope o f
7.3 percent o f GDP (2001) (MOH data). Public spending on health averaged about 5.8 percent o f GDP in
the secondhalf o f the 1990s -more than 1percent o f GDP higherthan the average for other Central and
Eastern European Countries (Data from "Expenditure Policies towards EU Accession," World Bank
Technical Paper, forthcoming), and more than 2.5 percent o f GDP higher than the average for upper
middle-income countries. Given the high overall budget deficit in the Slovak Republic, there i s little
opportunity to increase public revenues for the health sector. While some o f the reasons for increased
expenditures o f the health care are legitimate, such as the increasedcost o f drugs that needto be obtained
from international markets (average cost o f drugs i s 75 percent o f EU average), the main reasons for the
problem appear to be weaknesses inthe management o f health expenditures and deep structural problems
inhospital sector.

         Mandatory social health insurance expenditures are managed by five HICs. The largest, the
General Health Insurance Company, covers about 70% o f population. The HICs are public institutions set
up under the 1994 Health Insurance Law and other subsequent regulatory acts. There are gaps in
financial and managerial accountability regulations, e.g., HICs are apparently not subjected to
independent audits, andthis allows for misrepresentation o ftheir true financialposition. For example, the
annual report o f General Health Insurance Company for 2001 lists significant assets from accounts
receivables in spite o f the fact that 40% o f those were from bankrupt companies. These assets were used
to balance the liabilities o f the fund to providers and pharmaceutical retailers. While the probability o f
recovering receivables was low, probability o f need to pay out accounts payable was high. Most likely,
no independent audit would have allowed the accounts to pass without qualifying them. The HICs collect
contributions that are set at 14% o f payroll o f active population and 14% on half o f net income o f
self-employed. The Government contributes for non-active population using a formula annually set by
Parliament - for 2003, the contribution rate is 14% o f 70% o f minimum wage (or 9.8% o f minimum
wage), part o f it i s being redistributed among the funds based on a formula. Contribution compliance
rates are reportedly high, disguised by low reported contribution basis o f self-employed. Compliance
with redistribution formula i s lower, resulting in deficits in funds that are net beneficiaries from the
redistributionformula.




                                                     - 5 -

        Mounting arrears and indebted hospitals are symptoms o f a deep structural crisis in the Slovak
health care system that i s present both on the demand and as well as on the supply side. The Constitution
and associated legislation guarantee a very broad range o f health services at very little direct cost to
patients, who have few incentives to limit their use o f health services. Exceptions include dentistry,
which involves significant co-payments, some types o f elective surgery, and a relatively small portion
(about 6-10%) o f drug costs. This has led to a very rapid increase in demand, with hospital admission
rates and per capita outpatient visits rising by about 18 and 20% between 1990 and 1999, respectively.
Reflecting these rising demands, spending has increased rapidly, rising by one-third as a percentage o f
GDP between 1991 and 1999.


Government's HealthSector ReformStrategy
        The Slovak Republic has been implementinghealth reforms for over a decade. The first wave o f
health reforms was guided by ideological considerations o f building a democratic society with a
market-oriented economy. These reforms led to the formation o f the health insurance system,
privatization o f primary health care and introduction o f free choice o f providers. In a recently adopted
Manifesto (November 2002), the Government program highlights the need to establish "stable"
conditions for health sector activities, stop the growth o f indebtedness, and provide for balanced
management throughout the health sector. The reforms aim to raise the efficiency o f the utilization o f
funds allocated for the provision of health care, mainly with respect to mandatory health insurance, and
to make the protection o f individuals a priority, in particular, by providing highly cost-intensive health
care that individuals realistically cannot be expected to come up for themselves. The reform plan
emphasizes the need to improve access to health care, and enhance efficiency in utilization o f available
resources.

         The Government recognizes that corruption i s part o f the many problems existing in the health
sector as well as a primary reason for dissatisfaction o f the population with health services. The
Government reform agenda includes reductionin corruptioninthe health sector through adoption o f such
measures as the introductiono f official co-payments for health services to replace informal out-of-pocket
payments, and better management o fhealth service providers.

         One o f the main objectives of the Government's plan is to curb the growing indebtedness in the
health sector while maintaining a framework that supports the best possible health conditions for the
population. It proposes to increase the ability o f the health care system to respond to the health services
needs o f the population within the framework o f available funds by ensuring grater efficiency and
effectiveness inthe use o f available resources.

         The Government proposes to establish a Health Care Surveillance Authority (HCSA) to
strengthen institutional control of health insurance funds, with emphasis on the control o f the contents
and extent o f health services purchased under the so-called solidarity package. In order to maintain
solvency o f HICs, the reform proposes to introduce an obligation for all health care institutions whose
turnover exceeds a set threshold to undergo independent financial audits, which will also result in
improvedtransparency o f financial flows inthe health sector.

         Recognizing the disproportionate share o f expenditures on drugs from resources o f the health
insurance, the Government strategy proposes to pursue the implementation o f a more open and
economically more realistic drug policy with a certain permanent and predetermined participation o f
patients inthe form o f co-payments.




                                                     - 6 -

         In order to increase efficiency and effectiveness, the Government reform strategy proposes to
continue with the already started decentralization process, and create legislative conditions for an
increased participation o f regions on the ownership o f health care institutions without restricting their
type and kind, to enable purchase and sales o f health services (health care and related services), and
creation o f conditions for equality o f chances and responsibilities o f health care institutions without
restricting the types o f ownership.

         Inorder to support these reforms, several enabling legislations are proposedto be enacted. These
include: (i) new legislative regulation on health insurance to empower the HICs to carry out true actuarial
and purchasing functions; (ii)regulators to define conditions for the provision o f social medicine
including the costs o f the care and nursing o f citizens and contributions to cover health care beyond the
so-called solidarity package and services connected with the provision o f health care to individuals in
material and social need due to objective reasons; and (iii)legislative framework for institutional
education o f health professionals through the education sector with the opportunity for health service
professionals to undergo postgraduate training at schools and institutions that will have acquired
accreditation for the corresponding type o f education.

          In sum, the Government health sector reform strategy focuses on improving the efficiency with
which the mandatory health insurance system operates by streamlining the basic benefits package and
providing a better match between revenues and expenditures. On health care organization, management
and delivery, the reforms will support an appropriate balance o f centralization and decentralization o f the
health sector. Granting inpatient health care facilities greater management autonomy with the creation o f
appropriate accountability mechanisms i s a major priority. To support this objective, the health sector
reforms will enable contracting with autonomous hospital providers, and will support the introduction o f
new provider payment mechanisms. It i s expected that the creation o f new incentives will encourage
 innovations in health care delivery (e.g., outpatient care, home nursing care and day surgery). The
problems o f informal payments and corruption inthe health sector are proposed to be addressed through
 changes in health care financing. Finally, recognizing the important role that health information plays in
 the planning, management and operation o f the health system, the Government is planning a major
 initiative to improve and integrate health information systems and flows both within the M O H as well as
 between the various stakeholders inthe health system(MOH, SPF, service providers).

 3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:

          Reforms proposed in the Government's Manifesto will be supported through an adjustment loan
 (HSMS SECAL) as well as through a technical assistance project (HSMS TAP). International experience
 in the implementation of health sector reforms shows that adequate technical capacity of the M O H and
 other key institutions responsible for regulatory functions, HICs and health providers i s critical for the
 successful implementation o f a health sector reform program. The Slovak Republic i s undertakmg a
 major and complex reform o f the health care system, which will change the basic paradigmwithin which
 health care financing, delivery and regulatory institutions are required to operate. A key sector issue
 addressed by the proposed project i s the development o f technical capacity within the Slovak Republic,
 especially within institutions such as the MOH, health insurance companies, hospitals and units created
 to implement the complex health reforms supported under HSMS SECAL. Without the development o f
 this technical capacity, the implementation of the health sector reforms are not likely to be successful.

          The proposed project supports reforms inthe areas o f health care financing, health care delivery,
 quality o f care, financing social and long-term care, and institutional capacity in the MOH. These are
 examined in greater detail below.



                                                      - 7 -

Health CareFinancingReforms
         The main objective of the health care financing reform is to curb the immediate problem o f
growing arrears and ensure long-term sustainability. Health sector reforms in the Slovak Republic will
support policy changes that will grant greater organizational and management autonomy to the HICs and
develop their institutional capacity to become active purchasers. The five HICs will be required to
provide the revised state-guaranteed basic benefits package to all insured, and will be allowed to contract
selectively with providers o f health services. The HICs will collect premium contributions (currently set
at 14% o f income for employees, calculated on the basis o f maximum income o f S K K 32,000 per month,
and 3% o f average wage for those for whom the state pays the premium). The Government contributes
funds for non-active population, using a formula set annually by the Parliament. For the year 2003, the
contribution rate is 14% o f 70% o f minimum wage (or 9.8% o f minimum wage). The HICs will be
permitted retain only 10 percent o f their collections and would be required to deposit the rest in an
equalization pool, which would then be redistributedamong the HICs based on a risk-adjustment formula
covering 40 age-gender sub-groups. The HICs will be allowed to implement new provider payment
systems to address cost-containment, efficiency and quality issues. Financialaccountability arrangements
will be clarified and HICs will be subject to mandatory independent audits, financial reporting and
solvency requirements. The M O H will regulate the operation o f the HICs with a view to addressing
issues related to market failures like adverse selection and cream skimming. The M O H will also support
institutional and organizational capacity building, including training for HIC staff and the development o f
health information systems to maintain patient records and monitoring the costs and quality o f health
services.

         The reforms will also support changes in hospital reimbursement methods. Despite the term
widely used in the Slovak Republic, the present arrangement o f "prospective budgeting" i s based on a
centralized planning mechanism that estimates the yearly budget based on historic performance, number
o f beds, staff, other input factors and inflation. In order to create appropriate incentives for consolidation
o f services, increasing efficiency in the utilization o f hospital resources and providing incentives to
reduce hospital over-capacity, M O H i s moving toward true prospective payment systems and developing
case-mix payment methods (such as those based on Diagnosis Related Groups) that will ensure that
"money follows the patient" and a one-to-one correspondence is established between expenditures and
treatment. At the same time, M O H i s proposing to introduce performance-based compensation for
directors and staff o f autonomous hospitals in order to reward effort and improve overall performance
and quality.

         The Constitution o f the Slovak Republic guarantees free health care for all its citizens. The
current range o f covered services, however, i s too generous both in terms o f the content (range o f
benefits offered) and volume (number o f benefits paid), considering resources available for health care.
Service volumes are high and, for a variety o f reasons, continue to rise. With the introduction o f
capitation-based payments for primary health care, referrals to specialists have increased. Inresponse to
incentives embedded in reimbursement schemes, hospitals and specialist outpatient clinics tend to
increase volumes, even when overall contract amount i s capped. Providers hope to get payments for
overprovided services at later times as part o f a bail-out package. Patients have little incentive to limit
their use o f health services, since there is no official cost sharing at the point o f service (although
informal payments are common).




                                                       - 8 -

        The Government has developed a conceptual approach for definingthe scope of covered services
based on full coverage o f catastrophic care (A category), partial coverage o f other essential care (B
category) and no coverage for non-essential services (C category). It is expected that the coverage o f core
services under categories A and B will meet the Constitutional guarantee o f health care that all Slovak
citizens currently enjoy. Services omitted from these categories and included in category C will be
financed entirely out-of-pocket. Details o f services and treatment included in the three categories are
beingworked out.

        The Government reform plan also includes a proposal to introduce co-payments at the rate o f
SKK20 for primary health care and outpatient visits, and SKK30 per day per hospital day. These
co-payments are expected to modify patient decisions on service utilization, and raise additional (albeit
limited)revenue for health care providers. Infact, inan amendment to the Act on HealthCare, passedon
April 9, 2003, the Slovak Parliament has already approved the introductiono f co-payments by patients to
hospitals and doctors and for drugs and medicines. It i s estimated by the M O H that this will increase
formal out-of-pocket payments by patients by SKK30 to SKK40 per month.

Health CareDelivery Reforms
        The Government reform plan will support health care delivery reforms that will create an
appropriate environment to bring about hospital rationalization, and make hospitals more cost-conscious
and consumer responsive.

        There is large excess hospital capacity inthe Slovak Republic. There are 92 hospitals, including
7 faculty hospitals, 4 specialized hospitals, 75 general hospitals and 6 psychiatric hospitals. The number
o f hospitals as well as hospital beds i s very highby intemational comparisons (7 per 100,000 population
in the Slovak Republic as compared with an EU average of 5). Hospitals in the Slovak Republic are
underutilized, and most operate at less than 70 percent o f the bed capacity compared to 80 percent and
more in most OECD countries. Average length o f stay in acute hospitals i s 9.6 days, which i s relatively
high compared to other countries of the region, like Hungary (7.0), Czech Republic (8.7), and Austria
(6.8). In line with the emphasis on hospital care in the Slovak Republic, the number o f physicians in
hospitals has increased by 23.7 percent in the last 10 years. From a physical perspective, old buildings
designed for different purposes in a different era characterize the hospital system. Typically, these
buildings have huge amounts o f dysfunctional or dead space, e.g., large, empty corridors, and
multiple-bedded patient rooms without washrooms, and are expensive to heat and maintain. M O H
proposes to rationalize the number o f hospitals and hospitalbeds, by consolidating a number o f hospitals
and reconfiguring the mix o f hospital beds. Based on a master plan o f hospitals, which i s under
preparation, a network o f 'essential' hospitals will be determined and will be strengthened during the
rationalization process. Hospitals and hospital beds identified as excess capacity in three big cities o f
Bratislava, Banska-Bystrica and Kosice will be included in the first round o f consolidation process,
followed by hospitals and hospital beds in smaller cities. Special attention will be paid to maintaining
patient access to hospitals, particularly inless-populated areas and for vulnerable populations.

        The M O H plans to implement policies that will generate market-like conditions and encourage
hospitals to operate like private entities. This requires changing the internal and external environment
within which hospitals operate. Legal changes would allow all hospitals in the Slovak Republic to
operate as autonomous entities. The proposed law will clearly define the various institutional options
(e.g., to operate as a joint-stock company). The most important immediate impact o f the hospital
autonomy will be that hospitals will no longer have an implicit Government guarantee, which will be a
signal to suppliers that they cannot just continue to lendto hospitals. This is expectedto create additional
budget constraints for hospitals and force them to worry about efficiency. The other immediate impact




                                                     - 9 -

will be that hospitals will become residual claimants (allowed to keep revenues and re-invest in the
hospitals) and control over labor and assets owned by the hospital. This i s supposed to generate
additional incentives for the hospitals to rationalize and implement rationalization plans through changes
inputs mix and aligning inputsmore closely with outputs. Since there is substantial excess capacity inthe
Slovak Republic, it i s expected that in the short-term hospitals will be able to improve efficiency without
any major changes in access to care. For the 'nonessential' hospitals that continue to build arrears, there
will be the prospect of bankruptcy and closures or the possibility o f selected bailouts by the Government
or commercial banks in exchange for a rationalization plan (forced administration). In order for the
proposed reforms to achieve their objectives, it i s imperative that the appropriate legal and regulatory
framework for hospital governance i s in place. The Government plans to set a deadline by which all
hospitals mustbecome autonomous.

         Careful planning and sequencing i s neededto successfully implement hospital reforms. The first
step will be the creation o f an appropriate legal and regulatory framework (e.g. through the Health
Provider's Act. The M O H will establish a Technical Support Unit (TSU) to provide technical assistance
to hospitals to develop a business plan. Training will also be provided on hospitalmanagers and others in
charge o f development and implementation o f business plans. The M O H will also establish a Hospital
Restructurization Fundto support specific capital investments inthe hospital sector. These activities will
take between 2-3 years, during which it i s expected that health insurance companies will start facing
incentives that will encourage them to become active purchasers o f health care services and institute hard
budget constraints for providers. Changes in health care financing companies are expected to happen
simultaneously (over 2-3 years).

Reforms in Quality of Health Care
         The objectives o f reforms in quality o f care are to introduce evidence-based medicine, create
institutional mechanisms in MOH, health insurance funds, and hospitals for continuous quality
improvement. The M O H proposes to establish a Health Care Surveillance Authority (HCSA),
functioning within a clear-cut regulatory framework to provide for financial surveillance, health services
review, upgrade the current licensing system for professionals and institutions, develop standard
therapeutic procedures and clinical guidelines as well as to start a system o f accreditation o f health
services. The establishment o f HCSA will not represent further growth o f the administration apparatus,
since prospectively, the HCSA will become an independent entity. Buildinginstitutional capacity will be
accompanied by a coherent strategy o f professional and managerial training o f health care providers. The
establishment o f the HCSA will be based on an analysis o f the roles o f the State, State Health Care
Institutes, State Institute for Drug Control, and the Institute o f Health Information and Statistics within
the health sector. The Government plans to use part o f the proposed HSMSL to support the quality
improvement strategy that will be monitoredthrough implementing the action plans.

Reforms in theFinancing of Social and Long Term Care
         The development o f appropriate financing mechanisms is expected to spur a supply-side
response in terms o f growth o f private social care services including community-based services. The
main objective o f the social and long term care i s to identify appropriate financing mechanisms for social
and long-term care, so that the impact o f closure o f hospital wards presently allocated for long-term
inpatient care and care o f the chronically illi s minimized.

         As the hospitals are exposed to a new set o f incentives, it is expected that geriatric wards and
wards for the chronically illwill be closed down. This should not mean that vulnerable groups such as the
elderly and the disabled would thereby lack access to needed care. Health sector reforms in the Slovak
Republic will develop financing mechanisms for social and long-term care and consider appropriate
incentives to attract the private sector inprovision o f health services for social and long-term care.


                                                      -10-

Strengthening Regulation, Policy-Making and Planning Functions of the MOH
         The main objective o f these reforms i s to strengthen the role o f the MOH and other relevant
quasi-governmental institutions to perform the functions o f regulation, policy-making and planning (e.g.,
development o f health legislation, standards and norms). The M O H i s expected to provide the strategic
vision, direction and implementation support for the health sector reforms. It will also focus on
stewardship and building organizational and institutional capacity to support this new regulatory and
planning function. Reforms are proposed inthe functional arrangement o f the MOHand establishing and
buildingthe capacity ofnew units, like the HealthPolicy Unit.

C. Project Description Summary
1. Projectcomponents(see Annex 2 for a detaileddescription andAnnex 3 for a detailedcost
breakdown) :

         As a companion operation to HSMS SECAL, the proposed project will provide the institutional
underpinning to support the health sector reforms. The project will have six components to build the
institutional capacity in MOH, Health Insurance Companies and related institutions to effectively design
and implementthe reform agenda.




 Component 2: Development o f a Quality Improvement
 System
 Component 3: Development o f HMIS
 Component 4: Reforms in Social and Long-term Care
 Component 5: Social Impact Analysis and Public




Component 1.Reforms inHealthCare Financing and Delivery (US%3.81 milliontotal, including
contingencies).

         This component will support selected reforms in health care financing and health care delivery.
On the financing side, the component will support measures to improve financial sustainability and
equity, revising the scope o f services covered under compulsory health insurance, ensuring coverage for
vulnerable groups and such services as long-term care, implementation o f new provider payment systems,
and development o f an appropriate legal and regulatory framework governing the roles, functions and
responsibilities o f the health insurance companies vis-a-vis the State in delivering compulsory medical
insurance and an appropriate regulatory structure for supporting the development o f voluntary health
insurance. On delivery o f health services, the component will support design and implementation o f
hospital autonomy, development o f appropriate legal and regulatory framework for hospital autonomy,
and strengthening o f the institutional and organizational capacity o f hospitals to operate in this new
system.


                                                   - 11 -

         Specifically, the component will support technical assistance for: (i)improved financial
management by HICs and hospitals; (ii)     development o f provider payment systems; (iii)      autonomization
and corporatization o f public hospitals; (iv) development o f appropriate legal and regulatory structure for
hospital autonomy; (v) development o f hospital optimalization plans for health facilities in Bratislava,
Kosice and Banska Bystryca; (vi) development o f business and strategic plans for autonomous hospitals;
(vii) training for hospital managers and other staff; and (viii) development and management o f a Health
Restructurization Fundfor capital investments to support modernization o f public hospitals and hospital
autonomy.

Component 2. Developmentof a Quality ImprovementSystem (US$1.69milliontotal, including
contingencies).

         One o f the critical challenges facing the health sector o f the Slovak Republic i s the relatively low
quality o f clinical health care. Several factors - such as limited resource allocation for quality
improvement, lack o f incentives at the hospital level for implementingquality improvement, absence o f
technical capacity in quality management and quality o f care monitoring and evaluation capability -
contribute to this problem. One goal o f the Government's health sector reform program i s to improve
quality o f care by developing a comprehensive quality improvement program for ambulatory, inpatient
and long-term care. This component will support the development o f comprehensive mechanisms for
continuous improvement o f quality o f healthcare as well as quality improvement and assurance protocols
for the Slovak health system.

         The component will support technical assistance for: (i) and implementation o f modern
                                                                        design
clinical protocols for selected high burden diseases, based on scientific evidence; (ii)      modernization o f
the accreditation and licensing system for physicians and nurses; (iii)development o f appropriate
institutional and organizational structures for the implementation o f quality improvement; (iv)
preparation o f an accreditation system for health facilities; (v) design and establishment o f HCSA; (vi)
training o f HCSA and hospital staff on issues related to quality assurance and monitoring; and (vii)
development o f materials on quality improvement.

Component3. Developmentof HealthManagementInformationSystem(US$2.82 milliontotal,
includingcontingencies).

         This component will help the Government to develop an Health Management Information
System to enable it to better conduct its policy-malung and regulatory functions, enable the health
insurance companies to better fulfill their functions and link the network o f health providers to
purchasers and appropriate regulatory institutions.

         This component will support technical assistance and training for the following: (i)the
development o f an HMIS strategy, including the development o f necessary supporting legislation; (ii)        the
development o f standards and regulations to support the integration o f HMIS at all levels o f the system;
(iii) developmentandcreationofanationalhealthdatacenterwithintheMOHtocollectandanalyze
     the
the data; and (iv) the development and integration o f the health information system.




                                                     - 12-

Component 4. Social and Long-term care reforms (US$ 0.71 milliontotal, includingcontingencies).


        The main objectives o f this component are to support technical assistance and training to: (i)
define the scope and the contents o f social and long-term care; and (ii)create appropriate policies for
organization and financing o f social and long-term care. The development o f appropriate financing
mechanisms is expected to spur a supply-side response in terms o f growth o f private social care services
including community-based services. The project will specifically support the national and international
technical assistance for: (a) assessment o f the current situation in the Slovak Republic as far as the
regulatory and legislative framework i s concerned (review o f exiting laws and regulations); (b) review o f
the current practices o f provision o f social and long-term care medicine in the Slovak Republic; (c)
preparation o f draft legislation for long-term care provision; and (d) preparation o f a detailed
implementation plan for the proposed legislationenforcement.

        This component will focus on several target groups, especially individualswho are unable to care
for themselves and whose health conditions require nursing and attendance care. This includes elderly
individuals suffering from age-related diseases, individuals with worsened health condition, chronically
ill,individuals sufferingfrommental diseases, etc. Technical Assistance underthis component will
address issues related to service eligibility and scope o f services and service standards to be delivered.

Component 5. Social Impact Analysis and Public Information Campaign (US$ 4.58 million total,
includingcontingencies).

        The main objectives o f this component are to monitor the progress in the implementation of the
reform and its impact on the quality and accessibility o f health services for the poorest population
groups, generate better awareness o f the proposed health sector reforms, create a more enabling
environment for implementation and build stakeholder commitment. The component will support a
program o f quantitative and qualitative social impact monitoring methods and the development and
implementation o f public information and communication campaign.

        The results of the social impact-monitoring program will also serve as a basis for the
development o f a public information campaign in support o f the health reform. The campaign will
comprise activities such as: media productions, road shows, publications, seminars and workshops and
training. The first phase o f the campaign will focus on building support for the legislative process
(targeting primarily Parliament members and joumalists), following by a second phase during which a
nation-wide media based public education campaign would be launched.

Component6. ProjectManagement andMonitoring(US$2.06 milliontotal, including
contingencies).

         The objective o f this component is to support the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) within the
MOH in implementation o f the project, by providing assistance. The project will support a full-time
project implementation specialist, a procurement specialist, a financial management specialist, and
monitoring and evaluation staff. This component would finance technical assistance, training and costs
for all PCU staff that are not civil servants.


2. Key policy and institutionalreforms supportedby the project:

The project would support the following key policy and institutionalreform areas:



                                                     - 1 3 -

0    A policy and regulatory framework for public sector health facilities which creates organizational
     autonomy accompanied by appropriate public accountability for financial and health service
     performance;
0    A policy and regulatory framework for organizational autonomy o f specific health insurance
     companies in delivering services under compulsory health insurance accompanied by appropriate
     public accountability for financial and health service performance, and the development o f regulated
     voluntary health insurance;
0    A policy and financing framework for long-term care services which encourage shorter stays inacute
     hospitals, and care for people with long-term nursing and support needs in a more appropriate and
     cost-effective settings, including home care;
0    Increased country capacity to regulate public and private health care financing and delivery
     institutions;
0    Increased country capacity for quality improvement and monitoring inhealth care.

3. Benefitsand target population:
  I .



          Effective implementation o f the health reforms will generate benefits for the Slovak health
system in terms o f improved responsiveness to the key health issues, greater fiscal sustainability o f the
health system, and improved quality o f care. The immediate benefits to be derived from the project
would be: (i)enhanced institutional and technical capacity to implement and sustain health sector
reforms; and (ii)  creation o f an enabling environment for the implementation o f health reforms based on
buildingstakeholder commitment, participation and support for the health reforms.

          The target population for the proposed project includes (i)managers and staff o f MOH and
health insurance funds in terms o f improved strategic and business planning, improved and strategic
financial planning, and information management skills; (ii)     staff o f MOH in terms o f ability to conduct
quality analysis and use information technology to assist the analysis; (iii)staff o f new regulatory
institutions to be established under the health reforms; and (iv) managers and staff o f hospitals and other
health care providers.

4. Institutionaland implementationarrangements:
          Executing Agency. The executing agency for th.e proposed project would be the MOH. The
PCU, established within the MOH, would be responsible for day-to-day coordination o f project activities
and logistics, procurement and financial management. The MOHwould be responsible for overall project
management and administration, and implementation o f all project activities carried out by local and
international consultants.

          Project Management and Coordination. The project activities would be coordinated by the
PCU, already established on the basis o f a statute developed and approved by the MOH on January 15,
2003, and incorporated into the organizational structure o f the Ministry. Project Implementation
Specialist, Procurement Specialist, Financial Specialist (FS) and Project Assistant have been selected in
accordance with Bank guidelines and are financed by the Project Preparation Facility (PPF) (for the
amount o f $750,000, which was approved and signed on June 2, 2003) and will continue to be financed
o f loan funds. The P C U Director, who i s a civil servant, reports directly to the Minister o f Health and has
the overall responsibility for the implementation o f the project. The P C U Director is authorized to act,
sign contracts and enter into agreements on behalf o f the MOH. In addition to coordination, the PCU will
be responsible for        project  accounting,   procurement,     including updating procurement          plans,
disbursements, consolidation o f quarterly and annual project management reports, annual work programs
and budgets. The P C U will coordinate training and technical assistance activities, project supervision and



                                                     - 14-

monitoring and evaluation.

         ProjectImplementationPlan.A Project Implementation Plan (PIP) was finalized and received
by the Bank during the appraisal mission. The PIP includes: (i)detailed project objectives and
description; (ii)key implementation issues and strategies; (iii)summary o f procedures for monitoring
project implementation; (iv) guidelines for processing withdrawal applications under the Loan; (v)
time-schedule o f procurement actions; (vi) guidelines for organization o f procurement operations; and
(vii) detailed financial management arrangements.

         Flow of Funds. The Bank would make funds available to the Government o f the Slovak
Republic under the Loan Agreement, governing the terms and conditions o f the Bank Loan and
specifying the project.     The Project will not maintain a foreign currency Special Account; all
disbursements from the Bank will be made to the MOF to reimburse it for eligible expenditures already
paid. Counterpart funds will not be paid into a separate bank account but will be accessed through the
state budget system (see Annex 6 B for details).


         Procurement. Procurement arrangements are described in Annex 6A. The Bank's Procurement
Specialist has carried out an assessment o f MOWPCU procurement capacity and found it adequate to
support the project implementation. A second procurement specialist will be hired in the PCU after loan
effectiveness to cover increased workload.

Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements

         Based o n the results o f the initial Social Assessment study, the PCU will commission a regular
program o f gathering feedback o n the project's implementation. The data will be collected through both
quantitative and qualitative social impact monitoring tools and analyzed by the designated MOH staff.
This regular monitoring program will be ineffect throughout the entire project implementation period. In
addition, the MOH will conduct daily media monitoring service and analyze the volume and depth o f
media coverage o f the Slovak Republic's health reform.

         The P C U will prepare progress reports o n activities performed under the Project. The first report
will be issued three months after Loan Effectiveness date. Subsequent reports will be submitted
semi-annually, no later then 45 days after the end o f each six-month period. The reports will include: (i)a
summary o f project activities by componenthb-component; (ii)       a description of the main achievements
against agreed implementation targets and disbursements schedules, and the problems encountered,
supported by the results o f the quantitative and qualitative social impact analysis findings; (iii)
recommendations on how to solve problems and comments o n progress in implementing previous
recommendations; (iv) updated procurement plans; and (v) a list o f all contracts signed to that date.
These semi-annual progress reports will be prepared and presented to the Bank n o later than February 15
and July 15 each year summarizing project activities during the preceding semester o f the calendar year.
Inaddition, consumer surveys will be usedto evaluate the project's impact on consumer satisfaction.

         Mid-Term Review. The Borrower will be required to undertake a mid-term review o f the
implementation o f the project at the mid-point o f the project estimated to take place around March 1,
2005. This review will be undertaken together with the Bank. By December 31, 2004, the MOH will
prepare and fumish to the Bank a report integrating the results o f the monitoring and evaluation
activities, including progress achieved in the implementation o f the project and measures recommended
to ensure the achievement o f the project's operation and development objectives duringthe remaining o f
the project period.



                                                      - 15-

         Implementation Completion Report (ICR). Upon completion o f the project, the PCU will
prepare, in collaboration with the Bank, an Implementation Completion Report. The I C R will include an
assessment o f the execution o f the project, costs, and benefits derived or to be derived, the performance
of the Borrower, the Bank and other agencies involved in project implementation, regarding their
respective obligations and accomplishments, and lessons learned.

D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
         No-project alternative. There i s little doubt that health system reforms are urgently needed in
the Slovak Republic. In light o f the continuing fiscal pressures and the upcoming EU accession,
implementation o f these reforms has taken o n new importance. Without the H S M S TAP, at least two
critical inputs needed to speed up implementation o f health reform in the Slovak Republic and increase
its chances for success would be missing: (i)     the need for timely technical assistance and support to
ensure that the design and implementation o f health reforms is sound and based on experience o f other
countries that have implemented similar reforms; and (ii)   the need to build institutional capacity o f key
change agents within the health systemto implement the health reforms ina sustainable manner.

         Specific Investment Loan. The Slovak Republic i s proposing to implement comprehensive
health sector reforms, which cover all aspects o f health system, including financing, delivery,
management and organization. Many o f the reform measures proposed involve policy formulation and
implementation and many others involve changes in protocols and rules o f business. Most o f the
proposed reform measures involve multiple players and decision-makers, which further adds to the
complexity o f the whole process. And finally, many o f the proposed measures require considerable
technical support and expertise. For all these reasons, and given the very technical nature o f the reforms,
a specific investment loan would not be the appropriate instrument o f supporting the Government's
health sector strategy. For these reasons, it i s proposed to support the reform process through the
proposed H S M S SECAL and the proposed HSMS TAP.

2. M a j o r related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
                                                                                   Latest Supervision
                Sector Issue                            Project                      (PSR) Ratings
                                                                               (Bank-financed projects only)
                                                                              Implementation   Development
 Bank-financed                                                                 Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)

 Improvingadministration and              Social Benefits Reform and                S               S
 management o f pensions and social       Administration Project
 benefits system

 Improving the management o f public      Public Finance Reform Project
 finances                                 (planned)
 Other development agencies




                                                     - 16-

3. Lessons learned and reflected inthe project design:

        Limitedresources and excess capacity are general features o f the health care sector inall former
socialist countries. In addition, health systems in Europe and Central Asia (ECA) countries tend to be
heavily focused on specialized and inpatient care. Therefore, restructuring and downsizing are on the
agenda o f all health sector reforms in these countries, and the Bank has gained considerable experience
inthe design and implementation of projects inthe health sector inthe ECA region. On the design side,
the general experience has been that by their very nature, health sector reforms tend to be complex.
Health reforms involve changes in financing, delivery, production and management o f the sector, which
makes the process even more involved. On the implementation side, the experience has been that without
strong political support and implementation capacity, even the best-designed reforms cannot be
implementedeffectively.

        Inpreparationofthisproject, thefollowing lessonsweredrawn:

        Institutional capacity.      Effective implementation o f health reforms requires institutional
capacity to manage and administer the reform process and monitor the outcomes. Health reforms tend to
be very complex and have strong political and social implications. Agencies implementing health
reforms, therefore, need to be able to manage the political process as well and ensure that political
commitment and support i s forthcoming at all stages o f the reform. The proposed project supports
capacity and institution building, both o f which are considered necessary for the effective
implementation o f the Government's healthreform strategy.

        Information, consultation and education of other stakeholders are critical. Greater attention
needs to be paid to the political economy o f the reform through marketing reforms to lawmakers, the
medical community and the public. Duringthe preparation phase the project was supportedby the PHRD
Grant. Actions were taken to involve stakeholders and this process will continue under the HSMS TAP
as well. In fact, it i s expected that the project will serve as a vehicle for bringing these stakeholders
together.

        Project designs tend to be complex. Projects have been too complex in the current portfolio.
This i s due to the fact that it is nearly impossible to single out areas in health care to be reformed
effectively, without changing other elements o f the system. The HSMS TAP i s trying to be selective and
to focus mainly on institutionbuildingand providing technical assistance.

        Restructuring cannot be forced from the top. Local participationi s a key inthe restructuring
process. Experience o f other ECA countries shows that without appropriate incentives, reform measures
have tended to be hamperedby local resistance. On the other hand, top level steering i s essential. Both o f
these lessons are built into the project design.

        Adequate resources have to be committed for supervision of projects. Involvement o f senior
technical experts into the supervision process greatly enhances the value added o f the World Bank
assistance. This is especially true for a Technical Assistance (TA) type o f project.

        Project management issues.            Project managementicoordination arrangements must be
completed during project preparation to ensure better understanding o f issues to be addressed by the
project and o f the Bank's policies and procedures. Early establishment o f coordination mechanisms also
provides for early training o f staff. Another lesson is that selection o f technical assistance should
emphasize capacity buildingto ensure that knowledge i s passed from the TA advisorsiconsultants to the
beneficiary staff. Simple but effective coordination arrangements must be agreed upon during the



                                                    - 17-

preparation process to ensure that once the project is processed and approved, start-up activities can be
implemented without delay.

4. Indicationsof borrower commitment and ownership:

        The following agreements and actions by the Government clearly demonstrate their commitment
to the project and with the reformprocess:

        Between December 1999 and February 2003, the MOH successfully executed a PHRD Grant o f
        US$ 509,400 to undertake relevant preparatory work for the proposed project. Under the PHRD
        grant, five activities were implemented and detailed reports were produced. These include: (i)
        clinical performance indicators for health facilities; (ii)scope o f services and new provider
        payment systems; (iii)  types o f indicators to be included in the health management information
        system and the basic design o f an H M I S system; (iv) a plan for management training and
        education o f providers in ambulatory and inpatient health facilities; and (v) preliminary National
        Health Accounts.
        InFebruary2001, theMOHtogetherwiththe Office oftheDeputyPrimeMinister andtheWorld
        Bank organized a policy forum for health reform. The forum was chaired by the Deputy Prime
        Minister and attended by the Minister o f Health, a number o f parliamentarians, and officials of
        MOHand MOF.
        Between July 2002 and November 2002, the project concept was approved by Parliament and
        appropriate budgetary provisions were made in the MOHbudget for 2003.
        InNovember 2002, the Parliament adoptedthe Government ManifestoonHealthReforms which
        details the reform strategy.
        InApril 2003, the Parliament passed the Health Co-payments Act under which patients will be
        required to make modest out-of-pocket co-payments for outpatient health services.
        In April 2003, the Minister o f Health issued a Letter of Sector Policy that details steps o f the
        health sector reform and actions proposed to be taken by the Government (attached in Annex 12).
        MOH has drafted the Act on Health Insurance, which is currently being discussed in various
        professional and political forums. It is expected that this Act will be presented to the Parliament
        inJuly 2003.
        PPF advance was signed on June 2,2003.

5. Value added of Banksupport inthis project:
        Technical Assistance/International Experience. The Bank's experience in similar projects in
other countries and the Bank team's expertise inhealth care financing and delivery reforms would benefit
the project by bringing in lessons learned elsewhere and facilitating the transfer o f knowledge, including
the possibility o f engaging experts from other countries and/or organizing training and study tours.

        Financial Assistance and Opportunities for Leveraging Other Funds: Although the Bank's
contribution to the proposed project i s small as compared with overall health expenditures inthe country,
project funds would provide the much-needed resources to finance new approaches in the health sector.
The Bank is also leveraging partnerships with IFC, which i s discussing the mechanics o f hospital
corporatization with MOH.




                                                    - 18-

E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are inthe project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
 -
--  Costbenefit        NPV=USS million; ERR= % (see Annex 4)
 I




    Cost effectiveness
0 Other (specify)
Economic evaluation methodology

Because the project is a Technical Assistance Loan, n o cost benefit or cost effectiveness analysis was
carried out.

2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
         The majority o f the project financing will be technical assistance and training. Project costing
was estimated by comparing unit costs o f similar consultancy assignments supported by the Bank in the
Slovak Republic and elsewhere inthe region. For any investment costs for information technology, costs
o f similar equipment procurements in the Slovak Republic and other EU accession countries have been
used.



Fiscal Impact:

         The main fiscal impact o f the project will be the counterpart funding required from the Slovak
Republic, estimated at US$ 3.41 million. The MOF does not anticipate that there will be difficulties with
malung these counterpart funding contributions. While the direct fiscal impact o f this Technical
Assistance Project will be minimal; the HSMS TAP i s linked to the larger reform program funded from
the H S M S SECAL.

3. Technical:
         General. The project's components are well focused, mutually reinforcing, and technically
sound, and together they outline a credible and appropriate health sector strategy, which the technical
assistance provided under this project will support. A large body o f knowledge exists, both in the region
and elsewhere, regarding the implementation o f health reform, including national health insurance.
Further, various approaches to health reform have been extensively discussed and debated in the Slovak
Republic in the last few years. The approach selected by the Slovak Republic has made extensive use of
this body o f knowledge, and reflects the lessons learned from this experience to develop a system that
should be both feasible and sustainable. None o f the technical solutions chosen are particularly complex,
and all utilize existing and proven technology, and correspond on most counts with the recommendations
made inthe Social Sector Policy Review carried out by the Bank.

         Strengthening the actuarial role of insurance companies. The role of the multiple insurance
companies in the Slovak Republic i s not clear. There i s n o real competition among the insurance
companies and the public has not accrued clearly identifiable benefits from the presence o f multiple
insurers. Differentiation in the value o f membership in different organizations has been unclear and
variation most evident only in the area o f insurer debt. Perhaps even more importantly, despite the
ostensibly significant role such insurers are to play in health care financing, the Government o f the
Slovak Republic has not provided insurers with many meaningful powers in connection with budgeting
and provider payment. Infact, these entities do not have some o f the more typical powers associated with
an insurance function, including: risk analysis, identification and quantification, claims processing and
monitoring o f costs and revenues, reserves, solvency criteria, the requirement to pay off its outstanding



                                                   - 19-

balances by deducting from its profit. Furthermore, the solvency o f the entity i s not subject to
Government supervision nor verified by an independent auditing, monitoring or supervisory authority.

         Ifthe insurance companies are to play ameaningfulrole inthe health care financing system, and
provide real benefit to the citizens, their role and functions need to be examined and they need to be
provided with the authority to carry out their expected role. For example, if they were going to be
responsible for covering all the costs o f insuringtheir members under the social insurance system, they
would be better served if they were able to perform budgeting, and have discretion in provider payments.
They also need the appropriate information with which to assess their risks and project costs. Such
powers could help prevent the cycle o f debt and address questions regarding responsibility for provider
payment. The project supports the development o f insurance companies and equipping them with the
ability to carry out "insurance functions", like setting premiums, setting prices, claims adjustments, and
quality control.

         Granting greater autonomy to public hospitals. Presently, the public hospitals are managed by
the state through a centralized decision-malung process. This arrangement is unsatisfactory for a variety
o f reasons, including the non-responsiveness to the changing demands o f the user-population, and the
lack o f any accountability o f the management o f the hospital. Granting the facilities greater
administrative, personnel, financial and operational autonomy i s a necessary first step in improving
efficiency and creating a basis for accountability. The project supports the development and
implementationo f hospital autonomy. When completed, hospitals would have greater freedom to manage
health production and delivery, innovate and determine local priorities, determine the balance and pattem
o f services to be provided for local communities from within available resources, and determine the most
cost effective configuration o f services. At the same time, greater autonomy will facilitate the
involvement o f hospitals in contributing more meaningfully to the shaping o f national policies and
priorities, developing new models of service delivery in partnership with the primary care, community
care and social care sectors, and be in a fair "competitive" environment with other hospital providers,
including private sector providers.

         Improving efficiency, cost-effectiveness and quality of care by designing incentives compatible
provider payment mechanisms. Despite the term widely used in the Slovak Republic, the present
arrangement o f "prospective budgeting" i s based o n a centralized planning mechanism that estimates the
yearly budget based on historic performance, number o f beds, staff, other input factors and inflation. In
order to create the appropriate incentives to consolidate services, increase efficiency in the utilization o f
hospital resources and provide incentives to reduce hospital over-capacity, it is necessary to develop and
implement a performance based payment mechanism that aligns the incentives for hospital directors and
staff. The project supports the development o f feasible payment mechanisms based on principles o f
prospective payment and using such methods as case-mix and those based on Diagnosis Related Groups
(DRG).

         Enhancing administrative capacity to emphasize the regulatory and advisoryfunctions.            The
MOH currently runs the day-to-day operations o f the hospital system, which leaves them with little time
to engage in strategic planning. Instead the MOH must be responsible for policy malung, priority setting,
and regulation while focusing on establishing strategic directions for the sector, monitoring overall sector
performance and holding other actors accountable for meeting policy objectives. The MOH should also
promote an appropriate legislative agenda to support public health priorities and build consensus for
political action. Several key elements would need to be developed as policy instruments, including
epidemiological surveillance, data management for decision-making and the development o f human
resources specialized in public health and health management. The project supports the development o f



                                                   - 20 -

administrative capacity necessary to establish a regulatory framework, regulate the insurance sector and
health care providers, define national health priorities and translate health priorities into purchasing
strategies for health insurance plans.

        Hospital restructuring and developing a hospital masterplan. The Slovak Republic also has too
many hospitals. Maintaining hospital facilities i s expensive, and involves a number o f lumpy
expenditures that cannot be cut even if the utilization rate i s low. The only solution in such cases i s to
close down the surplus health facilities. In order to facilitate the decisions o f which facilities to shut
down, it i s necessary that the Slovak Republic develop a master plan for hospitals that will provide a
scientific guide based on such aspects as the already existing infrastructure, population in the catchment
area, demographic and disease profile, utilization rates, access and equity, and cost-effectiveness. The
project supports the development o f hospital master plans at the regional level in order to effectively
optimize the number o f hospitals and bedsproviding inpatient care facilities.

        Improving Health Management Information Systems (HMIS) Strategic management o f a
sector as complex and involving as many players as the health sector does requires the availability o f
good and up-to-date information and the ability to use this information for decision-malung. The project
supports the development o f HMIS including the development o f necessary supporting legislation
(regarding mandatory exchange o f information, confidentiality, privacy, etc.), and the essential
integration tools. It will support the development o f standards, regulations and other mechanisms to
support the integration o f health information at all levels, so that common definitions and data structures
are used and necessary information can be exchanged, while still allowing maximum opportunity for a
free and open HMIS hardware and software industrywithin the Slovak Republic. Inaddition, the project
supports the development and creation o f a national health data center within the M O H to collect and
analyze key health information from all current M O H systems, as well as health insurance companies and
health providers, to maximize the policy impact o f available health information through data-based
decision making and evidence based medicine. The development and integration o f the information
systems neededto support the policy creation and analysis role o f the MOH, including integration o f the
operational systems o f state agencies like MOH, State Institute for Health Information, Pharmaceutical
Registration Office, and Public Health Institute will also be supported. Finally, the project will facilitate
the synchronization and standardization o f information from those systems and support the effective use
o f health information technology in other parts o f the health care sector to ensure that high quality,
consistent and timely information i s provided, both to support effective care and treatment, and to inform
management and decision-malung processes at all levels.

        Rationalizing the scope of covered services. The basis for determining the scope o f services
covered by the health insurance system i s laid down in the Constitution o f the Slovak Republic, that
guarantees universal coverage and free-of-charge access to health care services through the means o f
compulsory health insurance built upon the principles o f solidarity and the right o f protection o f
individual health to every citizen. In turn, this Constitutional guarantee forms the basis o f people's
expectations regarding the level o f health services they expect the health insurance system to finance and
the state-run health system to provide. For these and other reasons, the scope o f services covered by
health insurance in the Slovak Republic i s very generous. This project supports the rationalization o f the
scope o f covered services.

         Cost Estimates. Costs associated with policy support, institution-building and information
systems implementation are notoriously hard to forecast. They all depend, to an exceptional degree, on
details, which only emerge in the process o f implementation and entail a large measure o f
"learning-by-doing".    In the case of information systems, the extraordinary rate of technological



                                                    -21 -

development and market evolution make such investments even more difficult to make. Nevertheless, the
overall estimates o f costs by component and category o f investment items are reasonably accurate, since
much o f the variation inthe specific item forecasts will average out.

4. Institutional:


4.1 Executing agencies:

         The executing agency o f the proposed project i s the MOH, and the PCU would carry out project
day-to-day coordination and implementation activities. The M O H would be responsible for overall
project implementation and administration, and would manage the implementation o f all project activities
carried out by local and international consultants, contracted through the PCU.

4.2 Project management:

         The Project Implementing Agency is the Ministry o f Health which has established a Project
Coordination Unit (PCU) for the purposes o fthe preparation and implementation o fthe project. The PCU
was established on the 15th o f January 2003 and consists o f officials o f the M o H and full-time
consultants. The PCU Director, who is a civil servant, responds directly to the Ministero f Health and has
the overall responsibility for the implementation o f the project. The PCU Director is authorized to act
and enter into agreements on behalf o f the MOH. The Project Implementation Officer coordinates the
day-to-day work. In addition to coordination, the PCU i s responsible for project management functions,
including project accounting, procurement, disbursements, consolidation o f quarterly and semi-annual
project management reports, annual work programs and budgets, and updating o f procurement plans. The
PCU is also responsible for providing training and technical assistance coordination, project supervision
and monitoring and evaluation.

All Project components will have Component Coordinators who will supervise the implementation of
each component and coordinate with the HealthPolicy Unit established in the MOH. This unit i s
responsible for coordination o f all health reform activities including supervision o f Health Sector
Modernization Support Technical Assistance Project as well as Health Sector ModernizationSupport
Sectoral Adjustment Loan.

4.3 Procurement issues:

        Inaccordance with Bank practices, a procurement capacity assessmentofthe MOHandthe PCU
was carried out during a preparation mission in March 2003. One full time procurement specialist
experienced inpublic procurement management under EUregulations has beenhiredby the PCUto carry
out procurement activities. She is now actively working on preparation o f the RFP packages for the
consulting assignments planned for the first year o f the Project. On-going assistance and advice in the
preparation o f RFPs i s being provided by the Bank procurement specialist. During the March mission,
the Bank procurement specialist explained differences in the procedures under EU and World Bank
regulations and guidelines and provided on-the-job training to PCU team. The PCU Procurement
specialist i s now capable o f identifying such differences and applying appropriate provisions o f the Bank
Guidelines. Further training in Selection o f Consultants in ILO Training Center in Turin (currently
offered in November 2003) i s planned. Additional procurement specialist will be hired after loan
effectiveness to ensure adequate support for the project implementation. There are no significant
procurement issues or risks anticipated under the Project and rating o f procurement risks i s estimated at
an average level.

4.4 Financial management issues:

        A review was undertaken in April 2003 to determine whether the financial management



                                                     - 22 -

arrangements for the Project are acceptable to the Bank.

        The Country Financial Accountability Assessment for the Slovak Republic, publishedinAugust
2000, concluded that, "Budget control i s strong in the current NBS dominated system".                The
Government has begun an ambitious program o f public finance reforms, consisting o f abolishing
extra-budgetary funds, adopting new audit legislation, the introduction o f a medium-term fiscal outlook,
a major overhaul o f budgetary legislation, elaborating and implementing ESA95 and GFS2001
methodologies for reportingon public finance, improving control o f the deficits o f local governments and
public funds, initiating fiscal decentralization, adopting a pilot scheme for program budgeting, and
creating a legal framework for a State Treasury and a Debt and Liquidity Management Agency (DLMA).
Many o f these reforms are now reflected in the Slovak Republic's legislation and are being
operationalised with the support o f the donor community and specifically through the Public Finance
Management Project, which was approved by the Bank Board on June 10,2003.

        The majority o f the project financial management process relies on the existing systems within
the MOH. The production o f mandatory financial reports for the Bank is not part o f the existing system
and will be handledbythe Project Coordination Unit (PCU).

        Disbursements from the Bank loan will follow the transaction-based method, i.e. reimbursements
with full documentation and reimbursements against Statements o f Expenditure (SOE). Due to the
constraints o f the Budget Law, the loan will not disburse using direct payments, special commitments or
a Special Account. The project will not migrate to report based disbursement (see Annex 6B).

        Based on the results o f the financial management assessment, the Project satisfies the Bank's
financial management requirements.

5. Environmental:                           EnvironinentalCategory: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emergingfrom this analysis.

Not applicable.

5.2 What are the main features o f the EMPand are they adequate?

Not applicable.

5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status o f EA:
                    Date o f receipt o f final draft:
Not applicable.
5.4 How have stakeholders beenconsulted at the stage o f (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe
mechanisms o f consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?

Not applicable.

5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact o f the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results o f the EMP?

Not applicable.

6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.

        The main social issues related to the project are: access to health services particularly by the
most vulnerable and marginalized social groups (e.g. Roma), the quality o f these services and the impact



                                                     - 23 -

o f the rationalization o f health facilities on their employees as well as patients. The first two issues are
interrelated and are relevant for the poor, vulnerable groups, and population inrural areas. The third issue
primarily deals with labor adjustment problems associated with the closure or conversion o f health
facilities.

Access to Services
         Since hospital restructuring will focus on Bratislava and Kosice (where overcapacity i s most
acute), the proposed reform program i s not likely to limit access to health care services. The fact that
realignment o f services will take place within to-be-formed hospital networks provides an additional
assurance that potential decisions on closures will not compromise health care provision. On the other
hand, rationalization o f services in rural areas will need to be conducted with great caution. This i s
particularly true for mountainous areas, where travel time to the nearest facility might be severely
extended in case o f a hospital closure. Inthese instances, additional measures will need to be developed
and put in place by the M O H to safeguard the necessary access. In addition, the Government plans to
begin to systematically collect information on equity in health and access to health care that will be
analyzed by the proposed HealthPolicy Unit inthe M O H and respond appropriately to problems that will
be identified.

Quality of Care
         One o f the main reasons behindinitiating the reform i s to improve quality o f care in the Slovak
Republic. Currently there are huge cost pressures on the system puttingquality o f health care services at
risk.It is expectedthat as a result of modernization and restructuring, substantial financial resources will
be freed up that could be directed to improve quality o f care inthe Slovak Republic.

         The Govemment reform focuses on efficiency through financial incentives by subjecting health
care institutions to real financial constraints and competition. To mitigate the risk o f efficiency objective
overwhelming the goals o f providing population high quality health care and to improve the quality o f
health services from the current levels, it i s necessary that the a modem quality assurance system i s
established, based on international best practice and adjusted to Slovak context. It i s also important that
the various elements o f the quality assurance system are integrated across the health care system,
including Government regulations and supervision, professional self-regulation, purchasing by health
insurance funds, training o f health professionals and intemal management practices o f individual health
care institutions. The MOH proposes to establish Health Care Surveillance Authority (HCSA),
functioning within a clear-cut regulatory framework to provide for financial surveillance, to do health
services review, upgrade the current licensing system for professionals and institutions, to develop
standard therapeutic procedures and clinical guidelines as well as to start a system o f accreditation o f
health services. Building institutional capacity should be accompanied by a coherent strategy o f
professional and managerial training o f health care providers. The establishment o f the HCSA will be
based on an analysis o f the roles o f the State, State Health Care Institutes, State Institute for Drug
Control, and the Institute o f Health Information and Statistics within the health sector. The Government
plans to use a part o f the proposed adjustment loan funds to support the quality improvement strategy that
will be monitoredthrough implementingthe action plans.

Social Tensions Stemming from Facility Closures
         The extent and nature of potential labor adjustment will depend on the depth o f the restructuring
process. Even if there will be significant hospital closures, it is anticipated that they will affect buildings
rather than hospital staff in the first phase. This is the nature and consequence o f creating hospital
networks. In sum, the consolidation o f health service facilities i s expected to mainly result in limited
re-location within a region and re-training o f staff. Still, adjustment measures and redeployment
strategies for doctors, nurses, and support staff need to be in place. To keep distortions and possibly


                                                       - 24 -

adverse social effects caused by anxiety and insecurity to a minimum, the project will employ effective
change management strategies. These include staff training and redeployment measures to facilitate
transition o f excess staff to consolidated facilities in their region, public information campaigns to
accompany service reorganization, and capacity building to improve financial and public health
management.

Roma and other Vulnerable Groups
         Roma are the second largest ethnic minority in the country after Hungarians. Privacy legislation
prohibits the collection o f most data by ethnicity and existing quantitative surveys have been found to
significantly underestimate the Roma population, due to problems with self-reporting o f ethnicity and
under-sampling o f areas where Roma are likely to live. Thus, although the 1991 census identified only
75,802 individuals as Roma (equivalent to 1.4 percent o f the population), informal estimates suggest that
there are between 420,000 and 500,000 Roma in the Slovak Republic (or between 8-10 percent o f the
population). Information on poverty and living conditions among the Roma in the Slovak Republic is
limited. On the whole, Roma rank among the poor and are worse off in terms of nearly all basic social
indicators, including education, health status, housing conditions and access to opportunities inthe labor
market and within civil society. While absolute poverty inthe Slovak Republic i s low, significant pockets
o f poverty exist, especially in regions with large Roma populations (World Bank, 2001). About
one-fourth o f all Roma live in settlements, on the outskirts o f villages and towns, and this populationhas
been growing in the past decade, as many Roma have returned to settlements because of the availability
of cheaper housing. However, most Roma in settlements do not own their homes or land, and there i s
lack o f clarity regarding property ownership rights.

         The health status of the Roma i s widely believed to be worse compared to the non-Roma
population. Most Roma experience inadequate nutrition, poor housing conditions and illhealth. Child
nutrition i s a frequent problem, particularly in poorer settlements, and there i s evidence o f stunting
among some children. Housing conditions are the worst in the most isolated and segregated settlements.
Access to utilities and public services i s nonexistent, or limited, in many o f the more marginalized
settlements. The most serious problems include lack o f access to electricity, water, sewage and garbage
collection. On the health side, the prevalence o f communicable diseases associated with poor living
conditions such as hepatitis, trachoma, tuberculosis meningitis, and skin diseases i s particularly high in
isolated and segregated settlements. Ability to provide a good education for their children and lead a
better life are also identified as important, but take second place to more immediate issues o f hunger and
living conditions. The Roma exclusion and discrimination are also important dimensions o fpoverty (The
World Bank, 2001).

         Access to health services among the Roma i s adversely affected by the geographic distance o f
settlements from urban areas and by poor communication between the Roma and healthproviders. Thus,
while health officials believe that Roma in settlements abuse ambulance services by calling for doctors in
non-emergency situations, Roma complain that ambulances refuse to come or take too long to reach the
settlement. There i s also a general impression o f discrimination against the Roma within the health
systemby providers o f health care. Examples o f discrimination within the health system include separate
maternity wards in some hospitals.

6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?

         Since the new Government has assumed office, MOH officials have been continuously engaging
major stakeholders in the reform debate. There have been numerous workshops, presentations and open
discussions about the merits and potential pitfalls o f the proposed reform measures. As part of the social
impact monitoring effort, key stakeholder groups will continue to be consulted regularly throughout the
project's implementation period.


                                                     - 25 -

        In December 2002, MOH commissioned a baseline survey probing the Slovak citizens' level of
satisfaction with the existing health system and their attitudes towards the proposed reforms. This gave
an opportunity for the Government to obtain a picture o f public attitudes toward the planned health
reforms and the perception o f health systems performance and service delivery by different stakeholders.
A part of the funds available under the PPF are beingused for obtaining thorough a feedback from the
population at large (baseline surveys) as well as specific target groups (qualitative research) regarding
their understanding and support o f the proposed reforms as well as the stakeholders' ability to voice their
opinions and concerns regarding the reform. In addition, the project will support a number o f proactive
measures geared towards ensuring adequate transparency o f the reform. In the first phase, these activities
will focus on the members of the Parliament and representatives of the media (both central and regional).
Later, following the approval o f the project, this effort will include other stakeholders and the Slovak
society overall.

6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?

        From the point o f view o f health reform, NGOs and other civil society organizations have been
treated as stakeholders and have been informed about the on-going reform process through workshops,
presentations and information sessions. It i s suggested that in the first phase o f the project in-depth
interviews and focus groups interviews with representatives o f all strata o f society are conducted to better
understand the special concerns o f these organizations and their potential reaction to the proposed
reform.

6.4 What institutionalarrangements have beenprovidedto ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?

        While the limited time available for project preparations did not allow for conducting a thorough
Social Assessment, the project team and the MOH counterparts looked carefully at the key social
dimensions o f the reform. A preliminary Social Assessment was condicted based on the review o f
existing information material and a short field visit. The project will be supported by regular social
impact monitoring system and feedback gathering mechanism from key stakeholders, including the
poorest and marginalized groups (as potential patients) as well as health sector employees likely to be
affected by the restructuring process. The PCU i s currently reviewing the needs to strengthenits capacity
and skills needed for carrying out regular stakeholder consultations. In addition, in order to ensure
adequate level o f understanding regarding the functioning o f the new health system, parts o f the PPF and
loan proceeds will be used for organizing seminars and road shows, and disseminating relevant
information.

6.5 How will the project monitor performance interms o f social development outcomes?

        The social impact monitoring to be conducted throughout the entire project implementation
period will provide feedback regarding the general public's as well as the respective stakeholders' impact
assessment o f the reform. A series o f regular quantitative and qualitative research instrumentswill enable
the PCU to collect, on a regular basis, information related to the level o f public satisfaction with health
services and accessibility o f various social groups to health care.




    EnvironmentalAssessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)
    Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                                  -  Yes 0   NO
    Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)


                                                    - 26 -

                                                                                     --Yes 0 NO

    PestManagement(OP 4.09)                                                      L Yes 0     NO

    CulturalProperty (OPN 11.03)                                                 L 0   Yes   NO
    IndigenousPeoples(OD 4.20)                                                    `-1   Yes 0NO
    Involuntary Resettlement(OP/BP4.12)                                              `- Yes 0NO
    Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP4.37)                                                 C  Yes 0NO
    Projectsin InternationalWaters (OP 7.50, BP7.50, GP 7.50)                        `L Yes 0NO

    Projectsin DisputedAreas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*                            C  Yes 0NO

7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.

Not applicable

F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:

         The Government o f the Slovak Republic has already investedconsiderable resources inplanning
for the health reform process, and has made numerous commitments to achieve the goals o f the reforms.
At this point which bodes well in terms o f project sustainability, the political commitment for going
ahead with health sector reforms i s significant.

         The development of appropriate financial arrangements for the health sector will be critical to the
long-term sustainability o f health sector reforms in the Slovak Republic. In order to ensure financial
sustainability, the Bank will require M O H to submit a plan for financing, from MOH's overall budget,
the recurrent costs of institutions that will be especially created as part o f the reform. Another concern
with regards to sustainability relates to social and institutional aspects o f the reform supported through
this project. This is addressed directly by the project by supporting the training and institutionalcapacity
building o f key institutions involved in the reform process (like the Health Policy Unit and the Health
Care Surveillance Authority), and by supporting Social Impact Analysis and Public Information
Campaign campaigns.

2. CriticalRisks (reflecting the failure o f critical assumptions found inthe fourth column o f Annex 1):
                    Risk                    I     Risk Rating    I            Risk Mitigation Measure
 From Outputs to Objective
 Continued Government commitment to                    M          The M O Hhas issued a Letter of Sector Policy
 restructuring and rationalization                                that outlines the reform strategy and states the
 sustained will not be available                                  Government's intentions o f supporting all
                                                                  aspects o f it.

                                                                  The Government has agreed to a policy matrix
                                                                  and associated conditionalities that would
                                                                  govern the adjustment loan.

 Hospital revenue i s not stable.                      M          Premiumcollections in recent years have been
                                                                  very high(above 95 percent). The Government
                                                                  i s committedto provide budgetary allocations
                                                                  to cover premiums on behalf of those supported
                                                                  by the state. The current budget has the



                                                     - 27 -

                                                                  .equired allocation, and budget for future years
                                                                  w i l l be monitoredaccordingly.


Expenditure management i s not adequate               S           411hospitals will be required to develop
to maintain and operate facilities                                strategic business plans clearly outlining steps
                                                                  iroposed for revenue and expenditure
                                                                  nanagement. Hospitals will be assisted in
                                                                  ireparation o f these business plans, and will be
                                                                  supported through initial years to assure
                                                                  :ffectiveness.

Strategies to mitigate local concerns                 S           4 comprehensive public information campaign
about restructuring are not effective                             iimed at educating stakeholders and others
                                                                  ibout the reformmeasures will support the
                                                                  .mplementation.

Provider payment systems are not                     M            Reforms inprovider payment mechanisms will
adequately risk-adjusted                                          3e based o n case-mix methods and will be
                                                                  sufficiently broad-banded and risk-adjusted.

Regulatory mechanisms to monitor the                  S           Beneficiary surveys to monitor and assess
performance o f hospitals on access,                              xcess and equity will be carried out at periodic
zfficiency and quality are not inplace                            intervals. These include baseline, midyear and
                                                                  2nd-of-project surveys.
From Components to Outputs
Health insurance companies do not                     S           The survival o f the health insurance funds
respond to technical assistance, training                         would depend on h o w well they are able to
2ndother incentives generated under the                           perform inthe new paradigm, which effectivel:
nealth reforms                                                    changes their roles from collection agencies to
                                                                  that o f third-party purchasers and payers o f
                                                                  health services. MOHwill provide support in
                                                                  initial years for this reorientation and necessay
                                                                   training.

Key stakeholders inthe three major cities             H            There is broad political support for the
io not see the incentives in developing                            proposed health reforms. MOH is carrying out
3ptimization plans                                                extensive discussions and political lobbying fo
                                                                  support inthe three big cities. The Ministryo f
                                                                   Finance i s providing close oversight.

3ospital managers and H I C staff and                 M           Reimbursement to hospital managers and
ither staff do not see the benefits o f                           physicians will be linked to performance, and it
-eceivingmanagement training                                       i s expected that the mangers o f autonomous
                                                                   hospitals and private insurance funds will
                                                                   benefit from the training provided.


herall Risk Rating                                    S
!isk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Ris M (Modest Risk), N Jegligible or Low Risk)




                                                    - 28 -

3. Possible ControversialAspects:
        The proposed project enjoys widespread support, in principle for proposed reform measures.
However, in the process o f implementation o f these reforms, there will necessarily be some winners and
losers, which may trigger controversies. These may include:

    Staff Redundancies: The restructuring and rationalization of hospitals may lead to closure o f
    hospital beds and, in some cases, o f hospitals as well. This may lead to strong opposition to change
    from staff worhng in these facilities who may fear becoming redundant. MOH i s prepared to pay
    severance payments as required under the Law, but depending on the volume o f the layoffs, the
    process o f hospital restructuring and rationalization can potentially be controversial.

    PublicNon-Acceptance:Memberso f the community may have a negative initial reaction to hospital
    restructuring and rationalization, particularly if they fear closure o f hospitals or reduction in the
    number of hospital beds. M O H is planning to launch large-scale public awareness and information
    campaigns to communicate the true intent o f the reforms and maintain transparency and openness o f
    the process.

G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition

0   The associated HSMS SECAL Loan Agreement becomes effective.

2. Other [classify according to covenant types used inthe Legal Agreements.]


ProgressReports

0   The Borrower shall, commencing onthe day falling ninety (90) days after the Effectiveness Date,
    and thereafter, not later than February 15 and July 15 ineach calendar year and untilProject
    completion, prepare and furnishto the Bank a semiannual progress report describing, inaccordance
    with the Monitoring and EvaluationIndicators, the progress achieved inthe implementation o fthe
    Project duringthe preceding semester o f the calendar year.

FinancialManagement

    The PCUwill maintain a satisfactory Financial Management System, including records and accounts,
    and prepare project financial statements in accordance with accounting standards satisfactory to the
    Bank. The PCU will provide annual audited financial statements to the Bank within not later than six
    months after the end o f each fiscal year audited (with the audit to be carried out by independent
    auditors, acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with International Standards on Auditing, and TORS
    satisfactory to the Bank).
    The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to Bank, quarterly Monitoring Financial Reports no later
    than 45 days after the end o f each quarter.
    The Borrower shall take all measures requiredbefore the conclusion o f each FiscalYear to ensure
    that adequate counterpart funds are promptly provided to the MOH ina timely manner duringthe
    following Fiscal Year inaccordance with the work program and budget for each Project
    implementation year.




                                                     - 29 -

  Mid-Term Review

  0  The Borrower shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate
     on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators, the carrying out
     o f the Project and the achievement o f the objectives thereof; prepare, under terms o f reference
      satisfactory to the Bank, and furnishto the Bank, on or about December 31, 2004, a report integrating
     the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed and the progress achieved in the
     carrying out o f the Project and setting out the measures recommendedto ensure the efficient carrying
     out o f the Project and an adequate support to the implementation o f the Program and the achievement
     of the objectives o f the Project. The Borrower shall review the report with the Bank, by March 31,
     2005, or such later date as the Bank shall request, and thereafter take all measures required to ensure
     the efficient completiono f the Project and the Program and the achievement o f the objectives o f the
     Project, based on the conclusions and recommendations o f the said report and the Bank's views on
     the matter.

  Remedies

  0  The Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, suspend inwhole or inpart the right o fthe Borrower to
     make withdrawals from the Loan Account if any o f the events specified in Section 6.02 o f IBRD
     General Conditions for Fixed-Spread Loans (September 1, 1999) occur, or ifa situation has arisen
     which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.

  H. Readiness for Implementation
     1. a) The engineeringdesign documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
          start o f project implementation.
  0 b)Not
     1.        applicable.

     2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start o f
        project implementation.
  03.TheProject       Implementation Planhas been appraised and found to be realistic and o f satisfactory
        quality.
  0 Thefollowing
     4.                 items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):




  I. Compliance with Bank Policies

     1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
  02.   The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
        with all other applicable Bank policies.




L- MukeshChawla                            Armin H.Fidler                          Roger W. Grawe
   Team Leader                       I     Sector Manager                          Country Director




                                                      - 30 -

                                       Annex 1: Project Design Summary
          SLOVAK REPUBLIC: HEALTH SECTOR MODERNIZATION SUPPORT TECHNICAL
                                               ASSISTANCE PROJECT

                                         eY                        Data Collection Strategy
   Hierarchy of Objectives                  I                                                         Critical Assumptions
 Sector-related CAS Goal:        Sector Indicators:                iector/ country reports:        'TomGoal to Bank Mission)
 Completing the transformation Sustainable financial balance       innual report by MOHon          irowth with equity
 reforms to restore and sustain  inthe health sector and           onsolidated arrears o f the
 highgrowth and stability        reduction in arrears o f health   lealth system
                                 care providers (mainly
  Strengthening governance and hospitals)
 institutions, to promote, inter
 alia, convergence with the      Roles and functions o f MOH       leview o f the health care
 acquis and European practice;   vis-a-vis other health sector     eforms  - Sector Work
                                 institutions (health insurance
 Improving social security,      companies, providers, quality
 enhancing human development o f care institutions) clarified
 and meeting environmental
  standards.                     Public and patient satisfaction   nstitute o f Medical Statistics
                                 with health insurance and         lata
                                 health care provider
                                 institutions increases

                                 Reduction inmortality and
                                 morbidity rates for major
                                 diseases contributing to the
                                 burden o f disease (such as
                                 ischaemic heart disease,
                                 hypertension and stroke) by
                                 age, sex, region, ethnic group
                                 and socioeconomic status


  Project Development            Outcome I Impact                  'roject reports:                from Objective to Goal)
 0bjective:                       indicators:
 To strengthen the                Favorable independent            ndependent evaluation report    zontinued political
  effectiveness, efficiency and   evaluation indicating that       MTR and ICR)                    :ommitment to health reforms
  quality o f health care system effectiveness, efficiency and
 by provision o f technical       quality o f health care services                                 lealth reforms are successful
' assistance (including training) have improved in participating                                   ngeneratinghardbudget
 to support the implementation institutions as a result o f the                                    :onstraints for providers
 o f health care reform.          H S M S TAP.
                                                                                                   qo major social and economic
                                  InBratislava, Kosice and         3aseline and follow-up data     :rises
                                  Banska Bystrica hospitals        ?om hospital administration
                                  participating inthe project:                                     Vo major politicalupheaval
                                  reduction in financial arrears,
                                  bed numbers and average                                          The health reforms generate
                                  length o f stay (ALOS)and an                                     ncentives that make providers
                                  increase in occupancy rates                                      :onsumer responsive




                                                               -31 -

                                      Kev Performance                            tion Strategy
  Hierarchy of Objectives                  Indicators
3utput from each                Output indicators:                'rojectreports:               from Outputsto Objective)
:omponent:
1. Health Sector Financing
indDelivery Reform
4 legal and regulatory          Contracts and payment             'roject reports, supervision  Zontinued Government
iamework for hospital           methods for hospitals provide     :ports                        :ommitment to restructuring
iutonomy developed              improved incentives for                                        md rationalization sustained
:larifying the relationship     efficiency and quality o f care
Jetween hospitals, health
nsurance companies, the
viOH and other regulatory
lodies

lospital optimization plans, in Hospital managers and other                                     Hospital revenue is stable and
:ollaboration with key          staff trained inmanagement                                      Zxpenditure management
takeholders, developed for      issues                                                          adequate to maintain and
3ratislava, Kosice and Banska                                                                   operate facilities
3ystrica

9 legal and regulatory          Increase inthe number o f HIC                                   Strategies to mitigate possible
iamework goveming the           staff trained in health                                         local concems about
.ales, functions and            management, actuarial                                           restructuring are effective
,esponsibilities o f the health analysis, development and
nsurance companies vis-a-vis    management o f provider
he State in delivering          payment systems and contract                                    Provider payment systems are
:ompulsory medical insurance development and monitoring                                         adequately risk-adjusted
leveloped and a regulatory
iamework for voluntary
iealth insurance developed                                                                      Regulatory mechanisms to
                                                                                                monitor the performance o f
                                                                                                hospitals o n access, efficiency
                                                                                                and quality are inplace.

!. DevelopmentofQuality
ImprovementSystem
ininstitutional and             Updated licensing and             'roject reports, supervision
rganizational framework for     accreditation programs for        eports
he implementation o f           health personnel inplace
:omprehensive quality
mprovement developed            Minimumfour clinical
                                guidelines for P H C and eight
                                guidelines for secondary care
                                adapted, tested and
                                implemented.

                                Number o f health facilities
                                implementing facility-based
                                quality improvement plans by
                                end o f the project.

                                Staff o f Health Care
                                Surveillance Authority, HICs



                                                             - 32 -

                                    and health facilities trained in
                                    quality o f care management
3. HealthManagement
 InformationSystems
 (HMIS)                             A national health data center      'roject reports, supervision
 AnH M I S strategy for the         within the MOHto collect and       eports, MOHreports
 Slovak Republic developed          analyze information from all
                                    current sources established,
 Legislation needed to              which means that staff is hired,
 operationalize the strategy        office space is designated and
 drafted                            computers are available.

 Standards, regulations and         MOHpublishes regular
 other mechanisms to support        analytical reports on
 the integration o f health         performance o f health system
 information at all levels          and health sector institutions.
 developed
 4. Social and Long-term
 Care Reform
 A needs assessment, policy         N e w financing system for         'roject reports, supervision
 and detailed implementation        long-term care developed by        'eports
 plan for the development o f       end o fproject
 social and long-term care
 developed

 Appropriate legislation to
 operationalize the policy
 drafted

 5. Social Impact Analysis          Public information campaign        'roject reports, supervision
 and Public Information             targeted at different groups       .eports
 Campaign                           (policy-makers,
 At least two social assessments of parliamentarians, health
 the impact of reforms on access    providers and general public)
 andutilization o f health services implemented
 carried out.

 Materials and reports for public
 education and communication
 6. Project Managementand
 Monitoring
 Project outputs are produced       Project monitoring system in       hoject reports, supervision
 ina timely manner and on           place and reporting every six      -eports, audit reports
 budget; PCU shows                  months (quarterly financial
 pro-activity in solving            reports)
 problems and seeking to
 achieve outcomes                   Endo fproject evaluation o f
                                    all components, with input
                                    from stakeholder workshops

I                                   Annual and final project audit




                                                                  - 33 -

                               Key Performance
 Hierarc        bje                Indicators
Project Components I       iputs: (budget for each    lroject reports7           (from Components to
Sub-components:            omponent)                                             Outputs)
1. Health Sector Financing IS$ 3.81 million           'rocurement, Disbursement,  Iealth insurance funds

and DeliveryReform                                    ,upervisionand Progress     espond to technical
                                                      :ports, ICR report          ssistance, training and other
2. Quality Improvement     JS$ 1.69 million                                       ncentives generatedunder the
System                                                                            iealth reforms


3. HMIS                    JS$ 2.82 million                                       lospital managers and HIF
                                                                                  ,taffand other staff see the
                                                                                  )enefits o f receiving
4. Social andLong-term     JS$ 0.71 million                                       nanagement training
Care Reform
                                                                                  vlinistry o f Healthremains
5. Social ImpactAnalysis   JSts4.58 million                                       :ommitted to implementing a
and PublicInformation                                                             :omprehensive quality
Campaign                                                                          mprovement program
                           JSS 2.06 million
6. Project Managementand                                                          3ealth reforms generate
Monitoring                                                                        ippropriate internal and
                                                                                  :xtemal incentives for health
                                                                                  facilities to implementquality
                                                                                  murance

                                                                                  Political support for
                                                                                  transparency of information
                                                                                  and reporting on health sector
                                                                                  performance and resource
                                                                                  allocation i s maintained




                                                   - 34 -

                                Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
      SLOVAK REPUBLIC: HEALTH SECTOR MODERNIZATION SUPPORT TECHNICAL
                                         ASS1STANCE PROJECT

        The Government o f the Slovak Republic is launching a comprehensive health sector reform
program, the overall goals o f which are to promote fiscal sustainability while continuing to provide
quality health care services and financial protection for the population. The overarching objectives o f the
reform are to: (i)   improve fiscal discipline through structural changes in the health sector that will
alleviate the chronic problem o f arrears in the health sector, encourage greater technical and allocative
efficiency and institute a system that will promote fiscal sustainability; and (ii)improve the quality and
cost-effectiveness o f the health sector; (iii)
                                              mitigate any possible negative impacts o n health care access,
specially for vulnerable populations. Implementation o f these reforms is expected to contribute
significantly to expenditure control in the short term and reduction in the medium term. There would be
improvements in allocative and technical efficiency in the health sector as health insurance companies
and health providers make necessary changes in response to the incentives generated through the health
reforms. The granting o f autonomy to hospitals, especially tertiary hospitals inBratislava, would have the
immediate impact o f removing Government guarantees to hospitals with concomitant implications for
setting a hard budget constraint for hospitals and reducing the build-up o f unsustainable debts to
suppliers. There would be greater transparency inpublic resource management and planning.

        The HSMS TAP includes six components: (i)        Reforms in Health Care Financing and Delivery;
(ii)Development of Quality Improvement Systems; (iii)       Development o f HMIS; (iv) Reforms in Social
and Long-Term Care); (v) Social Impact Analysis and Public Information Campaign; and (vi) Project
Management and Monitoring.

By Component:

Project Component 1 US$3.81 million
                      -
Component 1.Reformsin HealthCare Financingand Delivery(EURO 3.26 milliontotal, including
contingencies).

Reforms in health carefinancing
        The main objective o f the health care financing reforms i s to undertake systematic reform o f
health care financing to curb the immediate problem of growing arrears and ensure long-term
sustainability. Health sector reforms in the Slovak Republic will support policy changes that will grant
greater organizational and management autonomy to the health insurance companies (HIC) and develop
their institutional capacity to become active purchasers. The five HICs will be required to provide the
revised state-guaranteed basic benefits package and compete with each other o n price. The HICs will be
allowed to contract selectively with providers and implement new provider payment systems to address
cost-containment, efficiency and quality issues. Financial accountability arrangements will be clarified
and HICs will be subject to mandatory independent audits, financial reporting and solvency
requirements. The MOH will regulate the operation o f the HICs to ensure that market failures (adverse
selection, cream slumming) are addressed. It will also support HICs in building their institutional and
organizational capacity to become active purchasers (training for HIC staff, development o f health
information systems to maintain patient records and monitor the costs and quality o f health services).

        The reforms will also support changes in hospital reimbursement methods. Despite the term
widely used in the Slovak Republic, the present arrangement o f "prospective budgeting" is based on a
centralized planning mechanism that estimates the yearly budget based on historic performance, number



                                                    - 35 -

o f beds, staff, other input factors and inflation. Inorder to create appropriate incentives for consolidation
o f services, increasing efficiency in the utilization o f hospital resources and providing incentives to
reduce hospital over-capacity, M O H is moving toward true prospective payment systems and developing
case-mix payment methods (such as those based on Diagnosis Related Groups) that will ensure that
"money follows the patient" and a one-to-one correspondence i s established between expenditures and
treatment. At the same time, M O H i s proposing to introduce performance-based compensation for
directors and staff o f autonomous hospitals in order to reward effort and improve overall performance
and quality.

          The current range o f covered services i s too generous both in terms o f the content (range o f
benefits offered) and volume (number o f benefits paid) considering resources available for health care.
Service volumes are high and, for a variety o f reasons, continue to rise. Capitation-based payment for
primary health care has increased referrals to specialist care. Hospitals and specialist outpatient clinics
have been interested to increase volumes given incentives embedded in reimbursement schemes, even
when overall contract amount is capped. Providers hope to get payments for overprovided services at
later term as part o f a bail-out package and also have in the past succumbed to prisoner's dilemma when
slidingfee schedules were applied. Patients have little incentive to limit their use o fhealthservices, since
there i s no official cost sharing at the point o f service (although informal payments are common).

          The Government has developed a conceptual approach for definingthe scope o f covered services
based on full coverage o f catastrophic care (A category), partial coverage o f other essential care (B
category) and no coverage for non-essential services (C category). It i s expected that the coverage o f core
services under categories A and B will meet the Constitutional guarantee o f health care that all Slovak
citizens currently enjoy. Services omitted from these categories and included in category C will be
financed entirely out-of-pocket. Details o f services and treatment included in the three categories are
beingworked out.

          The Government reform plan also includes a proposal to introduce copayments at the rate o f
SK20 for primary health care and outpatient visits, and SKK30 per day per hospital day. These
co-payments are expected to modify patient decisions on service utilization, and raise additional (albeit
limited) revenue for health care providers. Infact, in an amendment to the Act on Health Care, passed on
April 9, 2003, the Slovak Parliament has already approved the introduction o f copayments by patients to
hospitals and doctors and for drugs and medicines. It i s estimated by the MOH that this will increase
formal out-of-pocket payments by patients by SKK30 to 40 per month.

          This component will support selected reforms in the health care financing system to improve
financial sustainability and equity, revising the scope o f services covered under compulsory health
insurance, coverage for vulnerable groups and services such as long-term care, implementation o f new
provider payment systems, development o f an appropriate legal and regulatory framework governing the
roles, functions and responsibilities o f the health insurance companies vis-a-vis the State in delivering
compulsory medical insurance and an appropriate regulatory structure for supporting the development o f
voluntary health insurance. The project will support technical assistance for the development o f a legal
and regulatory framework, new provider payment system and contracting arrangements and training for
health insurance fund and health facility staff in implementing the revised scope o f services and provider
payment reforms.

Reforms in health care delivery
          The Government reform plan will support health care delivery reforms that will create an
appropriate environment to bring about hospital rationalization, and make hospitals more cost-conscious
and consumer responsive. The M O H plans to implement policies that will generate market-like


                                                        - 36 -

conditions and encourage hospitals to operate like private entities. This requires changing the internal
and external environment within which hospitals operate. Legal changes would allow all hospitals in the
Slovak Republic to operate as autonomous entities. The proposed law will clearly define the various
institutional options (e.g., to operate as ajoint-stock company). The most important immediate impact o f
the hospital autonomy will be that hospitals will no longer have an implicit Government guarantee, which
will be a signal to suppliers that they cannot just continue to lend to hospitals. This i s expected to create
additional budget constraints for hospitals and force then to worry about efficiency. The other immediate
impact will be that hospitals will become residual claimants (allowed to keep revenues and re-invest in
the hospitals) and control over labor and assets owned by the hospital. This is supposed to generate
additional incentives for the hospitals to rationalize and implement rationalization plans through changes
inputsmix and aligning inputsmore closely with outputs. Since there is substantial excess capacity inthe
Slovak Republic, it i s expected that in the short-term hospitals will be able to improve efficiency without
any major changes in access to care. For hospitals that continue to build arrears, there will be the
prospect o f bankruptcy and closures or the possibility o f selected bailouts by the Government or
commercial banks in exchange for a rationalization plan (forced administration). In order for the
proposed reforms to achieve their objectives, it i s imperative that the appropriate legal and regulatory
framework for hospital governance i s in place. The Government plans to set a deadline by which all
hospitals have to become autonomous.

         This component would support the development o f appropriate legal and regulatory framework
for hospital autonomy, clarifying the relationship between hospitals, health insurance funds and the
M O H and other relevant regulatory bodies, and build the institutional and organizational capacity o f
hospitals to operate in this new system. The project would support: (i)technical assistance for the
development o f an appropriate legal and regulatory structure for hospital autonomy; and the development
o f hospital optimalization plans including detailed business plan for addressing high utility and drug
costs for Bratislava, Kosice and Banska Bystrica; (ii)   training for hospital managers and other staff; and
(iii)technical assistance for the development and management o f a Hospital Investment Fundfor capital
investments to support hospital autonomy and modernization and the development o f support care
(long-term care, rehabilitation centers, day surgery centers).

Inputs:                  International and Local Expertise for Assessment o f capacity and Performance
                         Indicators for the Hospital Restructuring Fund, International and Local Expertise
                         for Design o f Hospital Autonomy Models and Design o f Provider Payment
                         Mechanisms, and International and Local Expertise for Training o f Hospital
                         Managers and HealthInsurance Staff
Outcome:                 Availability o f funds for hospital restructuring, hospital autonomy models
                         designed, provider payment mechanisms designed, and hospital managers and
                         healthinsurance staff trained.
Responsible Unit:        MOH, PCU.

Project Component 2 US$1.69 million
                      -
Component 2. Developmentof QualityImprovementSystems (EURO 1.44 milliontotal, including
contingencies).

         One goal o f the Government's health sector reform program i s to improve quality o f care by
developing a comprehensive quality improvement program for ambulatory, inpatient and long-term care.
The main objective o f implementinga comprehensive quality o f care improvement program i s to improve
quality o f care in measurable terms (e.g. cost-effective care, improved structure and process for
producing good health outcomes, improvement inhealth outcomes), and improve consumer satisfaction.




                                                     - 37 -

         The main objective o f reforms in quality o f care i s to introduce evidence-based medicine, and
institutional mechanisms in the MOH, health insurance funds, and hospitals for continuous quality
improvement in the health care sector. The MOH seeks to establish a HCSA, functioning within a
clear-cut regulatory framework to provide for financial surveillance, health services review, upgrade the
current licensing system for professionals and institutions, develop standard therapeutic procedures and
clinical guidelines as well as to start a system of accreditation o f health services. The establishment o f
HCSA will not represent further growth of the administration apparatus, since prospectively the HCSA
will become an independent entity. Building institutional capacity will be accompanied by a coherent
strategy o f professional and managerial training o f health care providers. The establishment o f the H C S A
will be based on an analysis o f the roles of the State, State Health Care Institutes, State Institute for Drug
Control, and the Institute o f Health Information and Statistics within the health sector. The Government
plans to use part o f the proposed HSMS SECAL to support the quality improvement strategy that will be
monitoredthrough implementingthe action plans.

         The MOH has already developed a draft policy for the implementation o f a comprehensive
quality improvement program. The proposed policy: (i)addresses quality improvement at all levels
(ambulatory, inpatient and long-term care) of the health care system, from regulatory organizations to
hospitals; (ii)focuses on structural, process and outcome dimensions o f quality o f care; (iii)aims at
establishing and implementing structural quality o f care standards for health care providers; (iv)
introduces modem quality o f care management systems in the Slovak Republic; (v) establishes a new
independent supervisory office for quality monitoring (Health Quality Supervision Authority); and (vi)
introduces a national quality o f care award in health care to motivate health providers and to increase
public attention o n quality o f care issues.

         This component will support the development o f a comprehensive quality improvement system
with an emphasis on the implementation of modem clinical protocols for selected highburden diseases,
modernization o f the accreditation and licensing system for physicians and nurses, development o f an
appropriate institutional and organizational structure for the implementation o f quality improvement that
involves health care regulatory bodies (e.g. Health Care Surveillance Authority), health insurance funds
and facilities and capacity-building o f staff with the HCSA, health insurance funds and health facilities to
implement a quality improvement system. The project would support: (i)technical assistance for the
development o f an institutional and organizational framework for the implementation o f a quality
assurance system for the country, quality assurance plans for health facilities; (ii)    training for relevant
staff from the HCSA, health insurance funds and health facilities; (iii)development o f materials on
quality improvement.

         The quality o f care component o f the TAL will support technical assistance and training for the
following: (i)development o f a Quality o f Care Policy for the Slovak Republic, (ii)adaptation o f
structural and process quality o f care standards for ambulatory, hospital and long-term care facilities in
the Slovak Republic; (iii)building the capacity o f the Health Care Surveillance Authority staff to
regularly update and disseminate the standards; (iv) building the capacity o f the Health Care
Accreditation Council o f the Slovak Republic to institutionalize a hospital accreditation program; and (v)
building the capacity o f health insurance companies and health providers to integrate continuous quality
improvement into their day-to-day operation.

Inputs:                   International and Local Expertise for Design and Formulation o f Policy and
                          Standards     on Quality o f Care,      International and Local Expertise for
                          Development o f Clinical Guidelines, International and Local Expertise for
                          Establishment o f HCSA, and International and Local Expertise for Training o f
                          H C S A Staff and Medical Providers


                                                     - 38 -

Outcome:                 Development o f health care policy and standards, establishment o f HCSA, and
                         training providedto HCSA staff and medical providers.
Responsible Unit:        MOH, PCU.

Project Component 3 US$ 2.82 million
                      -
Component 3. Developmentof HMIS(EURO 2.41 milliontotal, includingcontingencies).

        This component will helpthe Government develop an HMIS systemto enable it to better conduct
its policy-making and regulatory function, enable the health insurance companies to better fulfill their
functions and link the network o f health providers to purchasers and appropriate regulatory institutions.
For that the Government has taken a decision outlining five key tasks for improving HMIS within the
Slovak Republic. These are as follows:

        The development o f an HMIS strategy, including the development o f necessary supporting
        legislation (regarding mandatory exchange o f information, confidentiality, privacy, etc.), and the
        essential integration tools;
        The development of standards, regulations and other mechanisms to support the integration o f
        health information at all levels, so that common definitions and data structures are used and
        necessary information can be exchanged, while still allowing maximum opportunity for a free
        and open HMIS hardware and software industrywithin the Slovak Republic;
        The development and creation o f a national health data center within the M O H to collect and
        analyze key health information from all current MOH systems, as well as health insurance
        companies and health providers, to maximize the policy impact o f available health information
        through data-based decision making and evidence basedmedicine;
        The development and integration o f the information systems needed to support the policy
        creation and analysis role o f the MOH, including integration o f the operational systems o f the 4
         state agencies (MOH, State Institute for Health Information, Pharmaceutical Registration Office,
        and Public Health Institute), and the synchronization and standardization o f information from
        those systems;
         Supporting the effective use o f health information technology in other parts o f the health care
        sector to ensure that highquality, consistent and timely information i s provided, both to support
        effective care and treatment, and to inform management and decision-malung processes at all
        levels.

        This component will support technical assistance and training for the following: (i)the
development o f an HMIS strategy including the development o f necessary supporting legislation; (ii)    the
development o f standards, regulations to support the integration o f HMIS at all levels o f the system; (iii)
the development and creation o f a national health data center within the MOH to collect and analyze the
data; and (iv) the development and integration o f the information system.

Inputs:                  International and Local Expertise for Establishing Health Information Standards
                         and a National Health Information Center,             including Data Models,
                         Synchronization and Linkage plans, and Privacy Standards
Outcome:                 Computerized HMIS established
Responsible Unit:        MOH, PCU.

Project Component 4 US$0.71 million
                      -
Component 4. Reforms in Social and Long-TermCare (EURO 0.61 milliontotal, including
contingencies).




                                                    - 39 -

         The main objectives o f the social and long-term care reforms component supported under the
H S M S TAP are to: (i)define the scope and the contents o f social medicine that currently represents a
non-defined overlap o f the health and social areas; and (ii)    create appropriate policies for organization
and financing o f social and long-term care. The development o f appropriate financing mechanisms i s
expected to spur a supply-side response in terms o f growth o f private social care services including
community-based services. HSMS T A P will specifically support the national and international technical
assistance for: (i)assessment o f the current situation in the Slovak Republic as far as the regulatory and
legislative framework i s concerned (review o f exiting laws and regulations); (ii)     review o f the current
practices o f provision o f social medicine inthe Slovak Republic; (iii)   preparation o f draft legislation for
long-term care provision; and (iv) preparation o f detailed implementation plan for the proposed
legislation enforcement.

         This component will focus on several target groups, especially individuals who are unable to care
for themselves and whose health conditions require nursing and attendance care. This includes elderly
individuals suffering from age-related diseases, individuals with worsened health condition, chronically
ill,individualssufferingfrommentaldiseases,etc.TAunderthiscomponentwilladdressissuesrelated
to service eligibility and scope o f services and service standards to be delivered.

Inputs:                   Intemational and Local Expertise for Design o f Long Term Care Policy and
                          Policy o n Social Care
Outcome:                  Long-term care policy and social medicine policy developed
Responsible Unit:         MOH, PCU.

Project Component 5 US$4.58 million
                       -
Component5. Social ImpactAnalysis and Public InformationCampaign (EURO3.91 milliontotal,
includingcontingencies).

         The ongoing reforms o f the Slovak Republic's health sector are extensive and comprehensive,
and concern a number o f stakeholders - i.e. physicians, nurses, drug distributors, patients and health
insurance funds. The reforms seeks to stop the growth o f indebtedness (by SKK700 million a month),
and to this extent, the first impact o f the reforms will be felt by all the stakeholders almost immediately,
and likely will not be well received. The changes in the health financing system, the introduction o f
co-payment for medical services, purchase o f pharmaceuticals and hospital stays, downsizing o f the
existing today overcapacity o f the medical personnel particularly in large cities, while phased over a
multi-year period, will have a significant impact on the Slovak society. Therefore, it i s essential that the
introduction o f the subsequent reform measures be carefully monitored from the point o f view o f their
social impact o n the poorest and most vulnerable social groups.

         T o this end, the implementation o f the HSMS T A P project will be accompanied by a systematic
social impact monitoring consisting o f consultations with the key stakeholders as well as quantitative
nationwide surveys and qualitative public opinion research techniques.

         Effective implementation o f the proposed health reform will also require adequate level o f
understanding o f the rationale for the reform among the Slovak citizens and their support for the reform
measures. Therefore, the development and execution o f an effective communication strategy supporting
the HSMS TAP in the Slovak Republic i s one o f the project's most crucial components. It i s necessary to
launch the Public Information Campaign (PIC) as soon as possible because without a clear idea
communicated to all involved stakeholders, the reform process cannot be successful. The actual design
and its future modifications will be based o n the social impact monitoringprocess (mentioned above) that
will be conducted regularly throughout the entire project implementation period.


                                                     - 40 -

        The public information campaign will consist of three phases. The first one will concentrate on
the support for the currently ongoing process of preparing the necessary legal and institutional
framework. This phase o f the campaign (financed largely through the PPF) will target members o f the
Slovak Parliament and representatives o f the media, both the national media organizations as well as the
regional ones. Its prime objective i s to facilitate an effective approval o f the legislature accompanied by
an informed discussion conducted by the legislators, the related interest groups and the media. The
campaign's second phase will concentrate on explaining the rationale o f the reforms and its main
principles to the public at large. The third and last phase o f the campaign will comprise activities aimed
at the provision o f detailed information regarding the changes in the health system to the concerned
stakeholders (the medical profession, administrative personnel, health insurance funds, etc.) followed by
the relevant information disseminated among all Slovak households.

Inputs:                   International and Local Expertise for Design o f Public Relations and
                          Communication Strategies, Media Materials for Public Information and
                          Communication, Public Opinion Surveys and Social Assessment
Outcome:                  Public information and communication strategies for decision-makers and
                          general public designed and carried out, periodic social assessments carried out
Responsible Unit:         MOH, PCU.


Project Component 6 US$2.06 million
                      -
Component 6. Project ManagementandMonitoring(EURO 1.76 milliontotal, including
contingencies).

        The project will be executed by the MOH, and the PCU would carry out day-to-day project
management and implementation activities. M O H would be responsible for overall project
implementation and administration.The PCU was established on the basis o f a PCU Statute developed
and approved by the MOH on January 15, 2003, and has been incorporated inthe organizational structure
o f the Ministry. Project Implementation Specialists, Procurement Specialists, FMS and Project Assistants
have been selected following Bank selection guidelines and will be financed by the Project. The PCU
Director i s responsible to the Minister and will have the overall responsibility for the coordination o f the
project. The Implementation Specialist will coordinate the day-to-day work. The PCU Director i s
authorized to act and enter into agreements on behalf o f the PCU. In addition to coordination, the PCU
will be responsible for implementation functions such as project accounting,                      procurement,
disbursements, consolidation o f quarterly and annual project management reports, annual work programs
and budgets, updating of procurement plans, and ensuring the preparation o f the audits requiredunder the
Loan. The PCU will also provide training and technical assistance coordination, project supervision and
monitoring.

        The objective o f this component is to support the operation of a PCU within the MOH. The
project will support a full-timeproject implementation specialist, procurement and financial management
specialist and technical coordinators for the health care financing and delivery system reforms, quality o f
care, and HMIS components of the HSMS TAP. The project will finance technical assistance, training,
audits and the recurrent costs for PCU staff.

Inputs:                   Local Expertise for Project management and Implementation
Outcome:                  Sound project coordination, management and implementation
Responsible Unit:         PCU.




                                                      -41 -

- 42-

                                      Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
    SLOVAK REPUBLIC: HEALTH SECTOR MODERNIZATION SUPPORT TECHNICAL
                                          ASSISTANCE PROJECT




1. Reforms inHealthCare Financing and Delivery
2. Development of a Quality Improvement System                                0.71               0.79
3. Development o f HealthManagement Information System                        1.13               1.38
4. Reforms of Social and Long-Term Care                                       0.37               0.27
5. Social Impact Analysis and Public Information Campaign                     3.63               0.5 1
6. Project Management and Monitoring                                          1.57               0.31
Total Baseline Cost                                                           9.21               4.86
  Physical Contingencies                                                      0.88               0.49
  Price Contingencies                                                         0.05               0.18
                                     Total Proiect Cost;                     10.14               5.53
                                                       Front-end fee                     I       0.12              0.12 I
                              Total Financina Reauired                       10.14       I       5.65             15.79    1

All tables below do not include Front-End Fee for the amount o f US$120,000, therefore, the total amount o fthe
project i s different from the total amount inthe table above.

Slovakia
Health Technical Assistance Loan
Expenditure Accounts Project Cost Summa                   (US$ '000)                      (EURO '000)
                                                Local      Foreign    Total      Local       Foreign     Total
  1. Investment Costs
    B. Goods                                          7.9       21.4     29.3         6.8         18.3        25.0
    C. Technical Assistance
       1. Foreign TA                              1,202.8    4,811.O   6,013.8    1,028.0      4J12.0       5,140.0
       2. Local TA                                7,645.4          -   7,645.4    6,534.5            -      6,534.5
    Subtotal Technical Assistance                 8,848.1    4,811.0  13,659.2    7,562.5      4,112.0    11,674.5
     D. Training
       1, External Training                                     28.1      28.1                    24.0         24.0
       2. Local Training                            117.6                117.6      100.5                     100.5
    Subtotal Training                               117.6       28.1     145.7      100.5         24.0        124.5
Total Investment Costs                            8,973.6    4,860.5  13,834.1    7,669.8      4,154.3    11,824.0
 II. Recurrent Costs
    C. Office Supplies                              234.0                234.0      200.0                     200.0
Total Recurrent Costs                               234.0                234.0      200.0                     200.0
Total BASELINE COSTS                              9,207.6    4,860.5  14,068.1    7,869.8      4,154.3    12,024.0
    Physical Contingencies                          891.5      484.6   1,376.1      762.0        414.2      1,176.2
    Price Contingencies                              45.2      181.7     226.9       38.6        155.3        193.9
Total PROJECT COSTS                             10,144.3     5,526.8  15,671.1    8,670.3      4,723.8    13,394.1




                                                          - 43 -

Slovakia
Health Technical Assistance Loan                                                                  (US$ '000)
Components by Financiers
                                                            The Government            IBRD                 Total
                                                          Amount       Yo      Amount       %       Amount       %

    1. Health Sector Financingand Delivery Reforms           755.9     19.8      3,057.6    80.2      3,813.5    24.3
    2. Development of a Quality Improvement System           332.9     19.7      1,356.2    80.3      1,689.2    10.8
    3. Development of Health Management Information Systc    556.9     19.8      2,258.5    80.2      2,815.4    18.0
    4. Social and Long-Term Care Reforms                      139.6    19.7       570.7     80.3        710.3     4.5
    5. Public Informationand Communications Campaigns
                                                  . -        915.8     20.0      3,663.4    80.0      4,579.2    29.2
    6. Project Management and Monitoring                     590.4     28.6      1,473.1    71.4      2,063.5    13.2
Total PROJECT COSTS                                         3,291.6    21.0     12,379.5    79.0     15,671.1    100.0


Slovakia
Health Technical Assistance Loan                                                                   (EURO '000)
Components by Financiers
                                                             The Government            IBRD                 Total
                                                            Amount     %        Amount       YO      Amount       %

    1, Health Sector Financing and Delivery Reforms            646.1     19.8     2,613.3     80.2     3,259.4    24.3
    2. Development of a Quality Improvement System             284.5     19.7     1,159.2     80.3     1,443.7     10.8
    3. Development of Health Management Information Systc      476.0     19.8     1,930.3     80.2     2,406.3     18.0
    4. Social and Long-Term Care Reforms                       119.3     19.7       487.8     80.3       607.1     4.5
    5. Public Informationand Communications Campaigns          782.8     20.0     3,131.1     80.0     3,913.9     29.2
    6. Project Management and Monitoring                       504.6     28.6     1,259.1     71.4     1,763.7     13.2
Total PROJECT COSTS                                          2,813.4     21.0    10,580.7     79.0    13,394.1    100.0


Slovakia
Health Technical Assistance Loan                                                 (US$ '000)
Expenditure Accounts by Financiers
                                            The Government           IBRD                 Total
                                          Amount      %      Amount       %       Amount        %

1. Investment Costs
   8. Goods                                     7.5   23.0         25.0     77.0        32.5      0.2
   C. Technical Assistance
      1. Foreign TA                         1,368.2   20.0      5,472.7     80.0     6,840.9     43.7
      2. Local TA                           1,682.0   20.0      6,727.9     80.0     8,409.9     53.7
   Subtotal Technical Assistance            3,050.2    20.0    12,200.6     80.0    15,250.8     97.3
   D. Training
      1. External Training                                         30.4   100.0         30.4      0.2
      2. Local Training                                           123.5   100.0        123.5      0.8
   Subtotal Training                                              153.8   100.0        153.8      1.o
Total Investment Costs                      3,057.6    19.8    12,379.5     80.2    15,437.1     98.5
II. Recurrent Costs
   C. Office Supplies                         234.0   100.0                            234.0      1.5
Total Recurrent Costs                         234.0   100.0                            234.0      1.5
Total PROJECT COSTS                         3,291.6    21.0    12,379.5     79.0    15,671.1    100.0




                                                          - 44 -

Slovakia
HealthTechnicalAssistance Loan                                                                      (EURO '000)
Expenditure Accounts by Financiers
                                                 The Government                     IBRD                      Total
                                                Amount        %         Amount              Yo        Amount          YO

1. Investment Costs
   B. Goods                                          6.4       23.0              21.4         77.0          27.8         0.2
   C. Technical Assistance
      1. ForeignTA                               1,169.4       20.0          4,677.5          80.0      5,846.9         43.7
      2. LocalTA                                 1,437.6       20.0          5,750.4          80.0      7,188.0         53.7
   Subtotal Technical Assistance                 2,607.0       20.0        10,427.9           80.0     13,034.9         97.3
    D. Training
      1. External Training                                                       26.0       100.0           26.0         0.2
      2. Local Training                                                        105.5        100.0          105.5         0.8
   Subtotal Training                                                           131.5        100.0          131.5         1.o
Total Investment Costs                           2,613.4       19.8        10,580.7           80.2     13,194.1         98.5
II. Recurrent Costs
   C. Office Supplies                              200.0      100.0                                       200.0          1.5
Total Recurrent Costs                              200.0      100.0                                       200.0          1.5
Total PROJECT COSTS                              2,813.4       21.0        10,580.7           79.0     13,394.1       100.0
    1
     Identifiabletaxes and duties are 3.06 (USSm)and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 12.73 (USSm). Therefore, the project cost shanng ratioIS
    97.22% o f total projcct cost net o f taxes.




                                                                   - 45 -

                          Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
   SLOVAK REPUBLIC: HEALTH SECTOR MODERNIZATION SUPPORT TECHNICAL
                                  ASSISTANCE PROJECT

       Technical Assistance Projects do not require cost benefit analysis. Information regarding
expected economic and financial benefits, as well as fiscal impact, can be found inthe main text, Section
E, Summary Analysis.




                                                  - 46 -

                                   Annex 5: Financial Summary
      SLOVAK REPUBLIC: HEALTH SECTOR MODERNIZATION SUPPORT TECHNICAL
                                     ASSISTANCE PROJECT
                                         Years Ending
                                          December 31
                                                       IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD
                           I Year1   I year2     I    year3  I year4  I Year5  I Year6  I Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
  Investment Costs               0.6         4.5          5.6      2.5      0.0      0.0      0.0
 Recurrent Costs                 0.0         0.1          0.1      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Total Project Costs              0.6         4.6          5.7      2.5      0.0      0.0      0.0
              Front-end fee      0.1         0.0          0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Total Financing                  0.7         4.6          5.7      2.5      0.0      0.0      0.0

Financing
   IBRDllDA                      0.5         3.6          4.5      2.1      0.0     0.0       0.0
   Government                    0.2          1.o         1.2      0.5      0.0     0.0       0.0
      Central                    0.0         0.0          0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0
      Provincial                 0.0         0.0          0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0
   Co-financiers                 0.0         0.0          0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0
User FeeslBeneficiaries          0.0         0.0          0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0
Other                            0.0         0.0          0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0
                                 0.7         4.6          5.7      2.6      0.0     0.0       0.0
Main assumptions:
Numbers may not add due to rounding. Numbers in million EUROS




                                                 - 47 -

                             Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
   SLOVAK REPUBLIC: HEALTH SECTOR MODERNIZATION SUPPORT TECHNICAL
                                       ASSISTANCE PROJECT

Procurement
        This section describes the procurement arrangements under the Health Sector Modernization
Support Technical Assistance Project (Project). IBRD- financed Goods contracts under the Project will
be procured in accordance with the World Bank Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and I D A
Credits, dated January 1995, revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999
(henceforth referred to as Procurement Guidelines). IBRD-financed contracts for Consulting Services
required for the Project will be awarded following the World Bank Guidelines Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, dated January 1997, revised in September
1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (henceforth referred to as Consultant Guidelines). Project activities
and procurement contracts entirely financed by the Borrower will be procured in accordance with the
national regulations. The project inputs, estimated costs and procurement methods are summarized in
Tables A and Al.       The project Procurement Plan i s presented in Table B1. Other procurement
information, including prior review thresholds for IBRD-financed contracts, and summary assessment o f
the procurement capacity o f the coordinating units and IBRD's review processes i s presented inTable B.
For procurement under the Loan, the Borrower will use the Bank's latest Standard Bidding Documents
(SBD), Standard Form o f Consulting Contracts and Request for Proposals (RFP), and Standard Bid
Evaluation Report Forms.

Notification of Business Opportunities

        A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be published in May 2003 issue o f the Development
Business announcing consulting services to be procured and inviting interested consultants to express
interest and to request any complementary information from the Borrower. There are no ICBs for Goods
planned under the Project. The GPN will be updated annually thereafter for all outstanding consulting
assignments. For consultants' contracts above US$200,000, SPN/Request for Expression o f Interest will
be advertised in on-line edition o f the Development Business and in major national newspaper (in the
national and Englishlanguages).

ImplementationProcurement Management

         Ministry o f Health (MOH) is an implementing agency for the Project. The MOH established a
 small Project Coordination Unit to carry out day-to-day coordination o f Project activities, procurement,
 financial management and logistics. The P C U Director reports to the Minister o f Health. Procurement
 Specialist has been recruited and has a long experience o f public procurement management under EU
 regulations. She also received on-the-job training from the Bank Procurement Specialist in procurement
 planning, procedures related to selection of consultants (including RFP) and Consultant Guidelines.
 Additional training in ILO center in Turin o n Selection o f Consultants i s recommended for November
 2003. Inanticipation o f the start o f project implementation and usingthe PPF funds, the PCU is drafting
 Request for Proposals and TORS for procurement activities under Year One of the Project.
 Consultations between the PCU and Bank operational and procurement staff on these preparations are
 ongoing. A Procurement Capacity Assessment o f he PCU is being finalized, and an "Average" risk
 rating for procurement i s recommended for the reasons explained.




                                                     -48-

Procurement Arrangements

        Total Project costs are estimated at US$15.79 million, o f which the IBRD Loan will fund
US$12.50 million, and the Government will finance US$3.29 million.

        The procurement methods and arrangements applicable to the various expenditure categories
under the project are summarized below in Table A. Procurement Plan i s enclosed at the end o f this
section.

Procurement of Goods

        Goods (0.0020% o f total project cost or US$0.03 million) consisting o f minor office and
computer equipment o f standard specifications for the PCU/MOH estimated to cost under US$50,000
equivalent per contract will be procured during the life o f the project following the National Shopping
(NS) procedure. This procedure will be based on comparing price quotations obtained from at least three
(3) suppliers in accordance with the Procurement Guidelines. In compiling lists o f suppliers who will be
invited to submit quotations for information technology equipment under National Shopping, the
Borrower will include in the shortlist those firms which have been listed as eligible to participate in
Procurement o f Off-the-shelf Information Technology, according to the relevant website maintained by
the Bank (www.worldbank.orglhtml/oprishop-IT). There are n o ICBs planned under this project,
however, should any o f the goods contracts exceed US$50,000 equivalent at the time o f the revised
procurement plans review and approval by the Bank, I C B procedures will apply.

Consulting Services and Training

         Contracts for Consulting Services will be packaged to combine related s h l l s and services in
order to make them attractive for competition and reduce the number o f contracts to be administered. T o
the extent practicable, training activities would be incorporated with consulting services contracts.
Consultant services consist o f short-and long-term assignments to be contracted to firms andor
individuals (national andor foreign or jointly) depending o n the nature and duration o f the assignments.
Selection procedures will be generally through competition among qualified short listed consultants. The
short lists for consultant services contracts with firms shall comprise o f three to six firms with a wide
geographical spread, and with no more than two firms from any one eligible country. The consultants'
short lists may comprise entirely o f national consultants for consulting assignments that are estimated to
cost below US$200,000. The procurement o f consultant services contracts financed under the Loan will
be in accordance with the provisions o f the Consultant Guidelines. For consulting assignments exceeding
US$200,000 equivalent per contract, expressions o f interest will be obtained by advertisement in the
Development Business (on-line), supplemented with notices issued inthe national press. NoticedRequest
for Expression o f Interest for contracts below US$200,000 will be published in the national press
following the issuance o f GPN, including annual updates. The TOR and short lists for all assignments
will be subject to IBRD's prior review irrespective o f the contract amount. The following procurement
procedures will be used for selection o f consultant services:

 (9    Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) procedures, as described in Section 11,paras 2.1 to 2.28
       of the Consultant Guidelines, would be used for procurement o f consulting services estimating to
       cost above USS100,OOO equivalent per contract.

 (ii) Selection Under a Fixed Budget method will be used for public information campaign contract
       estimated at $4,500,000 equivalent.


                                                   - 49 -

(iii)   Least Cost Selection (LCS) procedure would be used for selection o f an auditor to carry out
 audit o f the           Financial Statements o f the Project estimated to cost less than USS50,OOO
 equivalent per contract.

(iv)  Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications (CQ, will be used for contracting firms for
      technical assistance for public opinion surveys and monitoring and evaluation for which the value
      of the assignments i s estimated to cost less than US$lOO,OOO equivalent per contract.

(v)   Individual Consultant (IC). Many specialized activities where specific skills are needed for short
      period o f time at scattered intervals and which would not be practical to package with the
      assignments for consulting firms described above, would be best served through the recruitment o f
      individual consultants (both foreign and national) to assist implementing agency in project
      implementation and coordination o f tasks under each Project component. Selection o f individual
      consultants will be carried out in accordance with Section V o f the Consultant Guidelines.
      Individualswill be selected on the basis o f their qualification for the assignment comparing CVs in
      response to an advertisement in the national press. PCU staff would be selected as individual
      consultants with an exception o f the following Sole Source (SS) contracts: project implementation
      officer, procurement specialists and financial management specialists, an assistant who are
      currently hold individual consultants contracts financed under the PPF and would continue their
      services under the Project. All the above individual specialists were originally selected among
      qualified candidates based on comparison o f qualifications. Civil servants cannot be hired as
      individual consultants with financingunder the Loan.

      Estimatedvalue o f all I C and SS contracts i s about US$ 1.5 million over the duration o f the project
      and amounts to 10% o f the total value o f the Technical Assistance financed under the Loan.

TrainingActivities

        Training is an integral element o f the Project's capacity building objectives. The Loan will
finance training programs, including training workshops, international study tours and local training.
Such training programs would be organized by the PCU. The total cost i s estimated at US$O.10 million
equivalent for the duration o f the project and would cover all project components. Expenditures related
to such training activities include: (a) for local training and workshops - facilitators fees, per diems o f
participants to cover transportation, lodging and subsistence; minor organizational expenses (stationeries,
handouts, training materials, coffee breaks); (b) for international study tours - international travel and
visa costs, per diems (lodging and subsistence) and course-related expenses (fixed tuition or participation
fee). Design o f the training courses and study tours will be done by the specialists contracted as short
term consultants under relevant QCBS, CQ andor I C procedures depending on the value o f the
assignment as described above inthis Annex.

        Estimated budget, list o f participants and draft agenda for each training event will be subject to
IBRD prior review. Expenditure items for training activities, including study tours, would be reported
under SOEs. The status o f the training plan would be included as part o f the quarterly progress reports,
and would be updated andor modified as may be mutually agreed between the coordination units and
IBRD.




                                                     - 50 -

Recurrent Costs

         Incremental recurrent costs generated by the project include the day-to-day operational costs for
office maintenance and consumables and incremental costs o f operating and maintaining the equipment
provided under the project for PCU. These recurrent cost items and operating expenses will be fully
financed by the Borrower.


Review by IBRD of Procurement Decisions

Schedulingof Procurement

       Prior to the issuance o f any invitation for bidding, the proposed procurement plan for the project
will be updated by the PCU and reviewed by the Bank. Procurement o f goods and services for the
Project will be carried out in accordance with the agreed procurement plan, which will be regularly
updated and included inthe FMRs subject to the Bank's review.

Prior Review Thresholds

       The IBRDprior review o f procurement documentation will cover the following: (a) equipment list,
schedule o f requirements and technical specifications, (b) packaging and updated cost estimates, (c)
Request for Proposal Documents for consultant services, including Letter o f Invitations, Instruction to
Consultants, General and Special Conditions o f Contract, Terms o f Reference, and Proposal Forms, (d)
Shortlists o f Consultants, (e) Technical evaluation reports and draft contracts, recommendations for
award. With respect to prior review o f goods contracts and o f consultant contracts, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 o f Appendix 1 of the respective Guidelines shall apply. It is estimated that
this prior review will cover 80 percent o f the value o f all contracts combined for goods and services
financed by the Loan.

       Full documentation should be submitted to the Bank for prior review o f the following procurement
contracts:
(a) each contract estimated to cost the equivalent o f $50,000 or more (National Shopping contracts);
(b) all consulting contracts over US$lOO,OOO with firms;
(c) all consulting contracts over US$50,000 with individual consultants;
(d) all Sole Source contracts with individual consultants;
(e) first consulting contract under CQ method and contract under Fixed Budget method;
(f) TORS,short lists for all other consultant contracts;
(g) budget, list o f participants, draft agenda for training events;
(h) after contract award any material modifications or waiver o f terms and conditions o f a contract
     resulting in an increase above 15% o f the original contract amount, or any modifications to contracts
     for consulting services).

       All other contracts will be subject to selective post-award reviews in accordance with the
procedures described inAppendix 1,para 4 of the Procurement and Consultant Guidelines.




                                                       -51 -

Procurement methods (Table A)

     Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (US$ million equivalent)



       ExpenditureCategory




 4. OperationalExpenses                       0.00           0.00          0.23           0.00          0.23
                                              (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)
 5. Front EndFee                               0.00           0.00         0.00            0.12          0.12
  Total                                        0.00           0.00         15.67           0.00         15.79
                                              (0.00)         (0.00)      [12.38)          (0.00)       (12.38)

 If    Figures inparenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IBRDLoan. All costs include
       contingencies.
       Includes goods to be procured through national shopping; consulting services, including surveys and audit;
       and training.



     Table B: Thresholdsfor ProcurementMethodsandPrior Review'




I 1. Works                    I           NIA                  I      NIA           I                NIA              I
12. Goods                     I         >50.000                I    ICB/NS          I           All contract          I
 3. ConsultingServices              Firms >100,000                                                   All
                                    Firms < 50.000                                                   All
                                    Firms <100,000                                             Firstcontract
                                 Individuals>50,000                                                  All
                               Individuals Any amount
                                              -                                                      All
 4. Training                                                                             Estimatedbudget, list of
                                                                                        participants, draft agenda,
                                                                                      training sites (for studvtours)


     Total value of contracts subject to prior review:           US$10 million
               OverallProcurementRiskAssessment:                 Average
     Frequencyof procurementsupervisionmissions                 One every 12 months
                                                 proposed:      (includes special procurement
                                                                supervisionfor post-reviewlaudits)




                                                       - 52 -

ProcurementPlan




     - 53 -

- 54 -

             Annex 6(B): Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
      SLOVAK REPUBLIC: HEALTH SECTOR MODERNIZATION SUPPORT TECHNICAL
                                         ASSISTANCE PROJECT

FinancialManagement
1. Summaryof the FinancialManagementAssessment


Country Issues

The Slovak Republic is a member o f the OECD, and will be facing important fiscal challenges following
its invitation to join the European Union in May 2004. I t s current fiscal deficits are unsustainable, and
inconsistent with the Maastricht criteria, and will require a substantial fiscal consolidation, focusing on
cutting back expenditure and stabilizing revenues.          The Government's success in designing and
implementing a comprehensive reform program will depend fundamentally on its capacity to strengthen
the institutional framework in which those policies are conceived, decided upon, and executed. And
within this institutionalframework, public finance management structures will be key.

The Country Financial Accountability Assessment for the Slovak Republic, published in August 2000,
concluded that, "Budget control i s strong in the current NBS dominated system". The Government has
begun an ambitious program of public finance reforms, consisting o f abolishing extra-budgetary funds,
adopting new audit legislation, the introduction o f a medium-term fiscal outlook, a major overhaul o f
budgetary legislation, elaborating and implementing ESA95 and GFS2001 methodologies for reporting
on public finance, improving control o f the deficits o f local Governments and public funds, initiating
fiscal decentralization, adopting a pilot scheme for program budgeting, and creating a legal framework
for a State Treasury and a Debt and Liquidity Management Agency (DLMA).Many o f these reforms are
now reflected in Slovakia's legislation and are being operationalised with the support o f the donor
community and specifically through the Public Finance management Project, which was approved by to
the Bank's Board o f Directors on June 10, 2003.

Strengths and Weaknesses

The strength o f the FM system lies in the use o f existing M O H systems, with robust internal control
mechanisms, to process payments and record transactions. The potential weakness i s that the MOF i s
requiredto process payments on behalf o fthe Project and, not having a full understanding o f the project
may slow the processing o f contracts and payments.

ImplementationArrangements
Executing Agency. The executing agency for the proposed project would be the MOH. The Project
Coordination Unit (PCU), established within the MOH, would be responsible for day-to-day coordination
o f pro-ject activities and logistics, procurement and financial management. The M O H would be
responsible for overall project management and administration, and           implementation o f all project
 activities carried out by local and international consultants.

Project Management and Coordination. The project activities would be coordinated by the Project
 Coordination Unit, established on the basis o f a statute developed and approved by the Ministry o f
 Health on January 15, 2003, and incorporated into the organizational structure o f the Ministry. A Project
 Implementation Specialist, Procurement Officer, Finance Officer (FO) and Project Assistant have been
 selected following Bank selection guidelines and are financed by the PPF and will continue after loan
 effectiveness. The PCU Director, who is a civil servant, reports directly to the Minister o f Health and has



                                                     - 55 -

the overall responsibility for the implementation o f the project. The PCU Director is authorized to act,
sign contracts and enter into agreements on behalf o f the MOH. In addition to coordination, the PCU
will be responsible for project accounting, procurement (including updating procurement plans),
disbursements, consolidation o f quarterly and annual project management reports, annual work programs
and budgets. The PCU will also coordinate training and technical assistance activities, project
supervision, and monitoring and evaluation.

Flow of Funds

The Bank would make funds available to the Government o f the Slovak Republic under the Loan
Agreement for the proposed project. The PCU will not maintain a foreign currency Special Account; all
disbursements from the Bank will be made to the MOF to reimburse it for eligible expenditures already
paid.

Counterpart funds will not be paid into a separate bank account but will be accessed through the state
budget system.

Staffing of the Accounting/Finance Function

Accounting will be performed by the "Economic and Accounting" section o f the MOH. Senior staff
within the department have many years o f relevant experience. As the project accounting cycle will
follow the standard MOWMOFcycle, there i s no need to provide "Bank specific" training to the staff.

AccountingPoliciesand Procedures

The MOF uses a modified cash accounting policy (commitment accounting). However, as disbursement
will be strictly on a reimbursement basis, the Project will report to the Bank on the cash basis. The
various departments/sections o f the Ministry that will be involved in receiving funds under the Project,
for processing payments and for recording the underlying transactions, have written guidelines and
procedures to safeguard assets and to ensure the accuracy o f financial reporting. Specific guidelines for
the P C U are included inthe Project Implementation Plan.

Reporting and Monitoring

It has been agreed that the PCU will prepare financial monitoring reports (FMRs) on a quarterly basis.
The FMRswill include:

0       Sources and uses o f funds
0       Uses o f funds by project activity
0       Project progress report

0       Procurement report


The first FMR will be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end o f the first calendar
quarter after the Effective Date, and will cover the period from the Effective Date to the end o f the first
calendar quarter. Draft FMR formats have been prepared and will be confirmed duringnegotiations.

InformationSystems

The Project will utilize the accounting system o f the MOH. The system has sufficient flexibility to
permit the establishment o f separate analytical codes within the main accounts, to track and report upon
the use o f project funds.

Project FMRs will not be generated automatically from the Ministry's systems but will be compiled
separately.   Transaction statements from the accounting system will be retained with the FMRs to




                                                   - 56 -

provide an audit trail to the underlying documentation.

SupervisionPlan

The reports o f the progress o f the project implementation will be monitored in detail during supervision
missions. FMRs will be reviewed o n a regular basis by the Bank F M S and the results or issues would be
followed up duringthe supervision missions. Audited financial statements o f the project will be reviewed
and issues identified and followed up.

2. Audit Arrangements
Internal audit

The MOH is subject to internal audit inspections and to review by the Supreme Audit Office (the NKU).
However, given the lack o f resources in the internal audit department and that a number o f weaknesses in
the functioning o f the X U were noted in the Slovak Republic Country Financial Accountability
Assessment (CFAA), n o reliance will be placed upon the work o f the internal audit department or the
NKU.

External audit

The P C U will be responsible for ensuring that Project financial statements are audited by an independent
auditor acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with standards o n auditing that are acceptable to the Bank.
It has been agreed during negotiations that auditing standards acceptable to the Bank are International
Standards on Auditing promulgated by the International Federation o f Accountants (IFAC). It was also
agreed that auditors acceptable to the Bank are those auditors that have been pre-qualified to audit Bank
funded operations inthe Slovak Republic. The cost o f the audit will be financed from the proceeds o f the
loan.

The following chart identifies the audit reports that will be required to be submitted by the project
implementation agency together with the due date for submission.


  Audit Report                                          Due Date
Entity                NIA
Project              Within six months o f the end o f each fiscal year and also at the closing o f the
                     project
SOE                  Within six months o f the end o f each fiscal year and also at the closing ofthe
                     project


TORSfor the audit o f the Project financial statements (including an opinion on SOE operations) have
been prepared and will be confirmed duringnegotiations.

3. Disbursement Arrangements
It is expected that the proceeds o f the Loan will be disbursed over a period o f four years, which includes
six months for the completion o f accounts and the submission o f withdrawal applications. The estimate
o f the volume o f counterpart funds required to fully implement the Project i s based on the Standard
Disbursement Profile for the Slovak Republic.

The Slovak Budget L a w requires that all income and expenditure o f the State pass through the Single
Treasury Account. This therefore precludes the establishment o f a separate Special Account for the
Project and the payment o f suppliers directly from the Loan Account. Disbursements from the Bank
Loan will therefore be limited to reimbursements with full documentation and reimbursement against



                                                    - 57 -

Statements o f Expenditure (SOE).

Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)

                                  Table C: Allocationof Loan Proceeds

           Expenditure Category                    Amount in                 FinancingPercentage
                                                   US$million
 (1) Goods                                             0.02           100% o f foreign expenditures, 100% o f
                                                                     local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and
                                                                        85% o f local expenditures for other
                                                                              items Drocuredlocallv
 [2) Consultants' services, including audits           11.39          80% for foreign consulting firms,
                                                                         100%for foreign individual
                                                                         consultants, 75% for local
                                                                     consulting firms, and 74% for local
                                                                           individual consultants
 [3) Training                                          0.09                          100%
 (4) Refunding o f Project Preparation
             -                                         0.74           Amounts due pursuant to Section
 Advance                                                               2.02 (b) o f the loan Agreement
 (5) Unallocated                                       0.14




 Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):

         Some o f the proceeds o f the Loan are expected to be disbursed on the basis of Statements o f
Expenditure (SOEs) for: (i)expenditures under contracts costing less than US$lOO,OOO for consultant
services provided by firms with an exception o f the first contract to be selected based on Consultants'
Qualifications; (ii)expenditures under contracts o f less than US$50,000 for individual consultants with
an exception o f Sole Source contracts;     (iii)goods, with the exception ofthe first NS contract; (iv)
training, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
Disbursements against such services exceeding the above limits will be made against full documentation
and respective procurement guidelines. Related documentation in support o f SOEs will not be submitted
to the Bank, but will be retained by the PCU/MOH for at least one year after receipt by the Bank o f the
audit report for the year in which the last withdrawal is made from the Loan Account. This
documentation will be made available for review by the auditors and supervision missions.


Special account:
The Project will not maintain a foreign currency Special Account.




                                                   - 58 -

                               Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
    SLOVAK REPUBLIC: HEALTH SECTOR MODERNIZATION SUPPORT TECHNICAL
                                     ASSISTANCE PROJECT



  Time taken to preparethe project (months)              7                               7
  First Bank mission(identification)                     03/19/2003                      03/19/2003
1 Appraisalmissiondeparture                     I        05/19/2003            I         05/29/2003    I
  Negotiations                                           05/27/2003                      06/30/2003
  Planned Date of Effectiveness                          10/01/2003


Prepared by:



Preparation assistance:
Japan PHRD grant
Project PreparationFacility

 Bank staff who worked on the projeci ncluded:
          Name                                           Speciality
  Mukesh Chawla, ECSHD                    Team Leader
  Marzena Kulis, ECSHD                    Human Development Operations Officer
  Jan Bultman, ECSHD                      Lead Health Specialist
  Toomas Palu, ECSHD                      Senior Health Specialist
  Dominic Haazen, ECSHD                   Senior Health Specialist
  Virginia Jackson, ECSHD                 Senior Operations Officer
  Jan Pakulski, ECSSD                     Senior Social Development and Civil Society Specialist
  Marcel0 Bisogno, ECSPE                  Country Economist
  Sarbani Chakraborty, ECSHD              Health Specialist
  Maria Vannari, ECSPS                    Senior Procurement Specialist
  Michael Gascoyne, ECSPS                 Financial Management Specialist
  Claudia Pardinas Ocana, LEGEC           Senior Counsel
  Hans Jurgen Gmss, LEGEC                 Chief Counsel
  Rohit Mehta, LOAGl                      Senior Finance Officer
  Petra Vehovska, ECCU7                   Operations Analyst (Bratislava)
  Nadejda Mochinova, ECSHD                Program Assistant
  Imelda Mueller, ECSHD                   ProgramAssistant



        Consultants                                   Specialty




                                                   - 59 -

                            Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
   SLOVAK REPUBLIC: HEALTH SECTOR MODERNIZATION SUPPORT TECHNICAL
                                   ASS1STANCE PROJECT


A. Project Implementation Plan



B. Bank Staff Assessments

0   IdentificationMission Aide Memoire

0   Preparation Mission Aide Memoire

0   PreparationMission Aide Memoire

0   Pre-appraisal Mission Aide Memoire

0   Appraisal Mission Aide Memoire

C. Other
Review of Social Policy and Expenditures; Slovak Republic (In Two Volumes: Volume 1: Overview o f
Public Spending and Policy in the Social Sectors; Volume 2: Public Spending and Policy in Health,
Education and Social Protection), The World Bank, June 2002

Poverty, Employment and Labor Market Study; Slovak Republic, The World Bank, May 22,2001

Development Policy Review; Slovak Republic, The World Bank, November 2002

Initiating Concept Memorandum, Health Sector Modemization Sector Adjustment Loan

Memorandum of President, Health Sector Modemization Sector Adjustment Loan

Letter of Sector Policy from Ministero f HealthRudolf Zajac to Country Director Roger Grawe

PHRD reports on: (a) legal and regulatory framework; (b) health insurance and financing reform,
including design o f a compulsory, publicly insured benefits package; (c) restructuring o f health services
delivery and provider payment; (d) health information systems; (e) stakeholder analysis; and (f)
economic and financial analysis.
*Including electronic files




                                                 -60 -

                                Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
    SLOVAK REPUBLIC: HEALTH SECTOR MODERNIZATION SUPPORT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
                                              PROJECT
                                               06-Aug-2003
                                                                                                      Difference between expected
                                                                                                               and actual
                                                     Original Amount in US$ Millions                         disbursements'
Project ID  FY    Purpose                       IBRD          IDA                      Cancel. Undisb.       Orig   Frm Rev'd
PO69864     2003 PUB FIN MGMT                       5.45       0.00                       0.00     5.71        0.00      0.00

PO38090     2002 SOC BEN REFADM                   23.54        0.00                       0.00   29.92         8.63      0.00

PO64542     2002 EFSAL                            177.30       0.00                       0.00   159.87      123.54      0.00

                                        Total:   206.29        0.00                       0.00   195.50      132.18      0.00




                                                    -61 -

                                      SLOVAK REPUBLIC
                                      STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                   Heldand DisbursedPortfolio
                                         June 30 - 2003
                                       InMillions USDollars


                                                         Committed                       Disbursed
                                                       IFC                             IFC
FYApproval     Company                          Loan    Equity   Quasi   Partic  Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1998100        SEF Scame Tatra                   0.86    0.00     0.00     0.00  0.86     0.00   0.00  0.00
1999           SEF West Exp-Imp                  0.96    0.00     0.00     0.00  0.96     0.00   0.00  0.00

                      Total Portfolio:           1.82    0.00      0.00    0.00    1.82   0.00    0.00  0.00



                                                    Approvals Pending Commitment

FY Approval    Company                             Loan     Equity     Quasi    Partic
2003          VUB SWAP                              5.00      0.00      0.00     0.00

               Total PendingCommitment:             5.00      0.00      0.00     0.00




                                               - 62 -

                                                     Annex I O : Country at a Glance
     SLOVAK REPUBLIC: HEALTH SECTOR MODERNIZATION SUPPORT TECHNICAL
                                                         ASSISTANCE PROJECT
                                                                          EuroDe 8   Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                 Slovak  Central  middle-      '
                                                                 Republic     Asia  income         Development diamond'                              I
2002
Population, mid-year (millions)                                        5 4    475       504                          Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                                   3950    1,960    4,460
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                                      21 5    930     2,248

Average annual growth, 1996-02                                                                                              TI
Population ("A)                                                        0 1     0 1      1.3
Labor force (?A)                                                       0 7     0 6      1.a                                        __          Gross
                                                                                                                                             primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1996-02)                                              capita                                  enrollment
Poverty ("A of population below nationalpoverty line)                                            1
                                                                                                 1
Urban population (% of total population)                               58       63       77
Life expectancy at birth (years)                                       73       69       71                                 I
Infant mortaiity (per 1,000 live births)                                 7      20       24
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                                                9       i           Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% ofpopulation)                    84       90       87
Illiteracy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                                              3       10
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)                  102     102      127             -Slovak          Republic

    Male                                                               102     103      128                      UDDer-middle-incomeWOW
    Female                                                             102     101      126

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS

                                                                      1992    2001     2002
                                                                                                    Economic ratios"
GDP (US$ billions)                                                    11 8    20 5     23.7
Gross domestic investmentJGDP                                         28 1    31 9     30.8                               Trade
Exports of goods and servicesiGDP                                     70 3    74 0     72.8
Gross domestic savingsiGDP                                            24 1    23 4     23.8
Gross national savingsiGDP                                                    22 9     22.7

Current account balanceiGDP                                           -5 9     -8 6     -8.2
Interest paymentsiGDP                                                  1 0      2 7      2.5
Total debtJGDP                                                        20 2    56 3     55.6
Total debt serviceiexports                                             7 2    10 8      13.0
Present value of debVGDP                                                      53 2
Present value of debtJexports                                                 70 4
                                                                                                                       Indebtedness
                                                                                                           -
                                           1982-92     1992-02        2001    2002  2002-06
(average annual growth)
GDP
 .~                                            -1.1          3.9       3 3      4 4      4.5                       Slovak Republic
GDP per capita                                 -14           3 7       3 2      4 3      4.4                  - -- Upper-middle-income
Exports of goods and services                   6.8          8 5       6.. 5 9
                                                                         5               8 8
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY                                                                                                                           __
                                                                      1992    2001     2002        Growth of investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                                                                                           I
Agriculture                                                                     4 5
Industry                                                                       31 8
    Manufacturing                                                              23 3
Services                                                                       63 8

                                                                                                                  -                                  I
Private consumption                                                   50 3     558      554        -401
General government consumption                                        25 6     208      207
Imports of goods and services                                         74 3     825      7 9 9                             GDi     d    G   D  P


                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                       1982-92 1992-02        2001     2002                            -~~ --
                                                                                                    Growth OF exports and imports (%)~    ~




(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                                 -4 0       4 9     -5 0
Industry                                                    -7 0       0 3      3 0                 20
    Manufacturing
Services

Private consumption                                         -2 3       3 9      4 0      5 4         u - - z ,
General government consumption                               1 4       2 1      4 7      3 8       -10 -
Gross domestic investment                                   -6 1       8 3     15 2      1 7                    -Exports          --Ollmports
Imports of goods and services                                4 4       9 5     11 7      5 3                                                         I
Note: 2002 data are preliminary estimates. Group data are through 2001
'Thediamondsshowfourkeyindicators inthecountry(inbold)comparedwithitsincome-groupaverage.Ifdataaremissing,thediamondwiilbeincomplete.




                                                                           - 63 -

                                                                                               Slovak ReDublic

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                          1992     2001   2002
Domestic prices                                                                                                         I
("A change)
Consumer prices                                      7.3    3.3
                                                                                                                      `1
Implicit GDP deflator                      11.4      5.4    3.9

Government finance
("A of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                           46.1     35.6   35.3                  97    98     99        00     01
Current budget balance                     4 . 4                               -
                                                                   ~

                                                                                     GDP deflator     *CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                   -11.9     -8.5   -7.4

TRADE                                                                                                                   I
                                          I992     2001   2002     1
(US$millions)                                                         Export and import levels(US$ mill.)

Total exports (fob)                               12,691 14,377
  n.a.
  n.a.                                                               15 WO
  Manufactures
Total imports (cif)                               14,685 16,510         000

  Food                                                                5 000
  Fuel and energy
  Capital goods                                                                                                         I
                                                                   l       o

                                                                   I           96   97   98      99     00   01
Export price index (1995=100)                        132    133
Import price index (1995=100)                        140    140                      Exports            Imports
Terms of trade (1995=700)                            94     95                                                      O2



BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                          1992     2001   2002     1
(US$ millions)                                                        Current account balanceto GDP ("A)                I
Exports of goods and services             8,050   15,122 17,151        0
Imports of goods and services             8,783   16,776 18,827
Resource balance                          -733    -1,654 -1,676     i -`
                                                                    I
Net income                                  -35    -313   -456        -4

Net current transfers                               212     193        6

Current account balance                   -698    -1,755 -1,939       -8

Financing items (net)                       159    1,867  5,584     1.10

Changes in net reserves                    539      -112 -3,645      -12

Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)     409     4,186  9,195
Conversion rate (DEC, /oca//US$)           28.3     48.4  45.3

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                          1992     2001   2002
(US$millions)                                                         Compositionof 2001 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      2,372   11,515 13,188
  IBRD                                      110      205    204                         A:205     ~ : 5 7 q

  IDA                                          0       0      0

Total debt service                         591     1,671  2,230
  IBRD                                         5      33     31
  IDA                                          0       0      0

Composition of net resource flows
  Official grants                                     78    107
  Official creditors                         77      -56
  Private creditors                        -230       65
  Foreign direct investment                        1,460  4,007
  Portfolio equity                                  -217    552

World Bank program
  Commitments                                  0     177     24       A IBRD
                                                                        -                                 E Bilateral
                                                                                                           -
  Disbursements                              44       54      0       B IDA
                                                                        -         D -Other multilateral   F Private
                                                                                                           -
  Principal repayments                         0      22     22     I C - I M F                           G Short-term
                                                                                                           -
  Net flows                                  44       32    -22
  Interest payments                            5      11      9
  Net transfers                              39       21    -31




                                                - 64 -

                             Additional Annex 11: Policy Matrix
    SLOVAK REPUBLIC: HEALTH SECTOR MODERNIZATION SUPPORT TECHNICAL
                                   ASSISTANCE PROJECT


                   First Tranche             Second Tranche              Third Tranche
Objective          [Euro      15    million, :Euro      15      million, [Euro 25        million,
                   equivalent to US$17.7 :quivalent to US$17.7 equivalent                      to
                   million)                  million)                    US$27.18 million)
Macroeconomic
Undertake            new Health Insurance                                The contribution o f
                                             The contribution of the
systemic reform     ,ct developed and                                   the health care system
                                             iealth system to general
o f health care     ibmittedto the                                       t o general budget
                                             mdget deficit is reduced
financing to curb   :abinet.                                             deficit i s reduced to
the immediate                                :o 1.0% of GDP              0.75% o f GDP
                                             :ompared with baseline.
problem o f         ,newHealthCare                                       compared with
growing arrears     urveillance Authority                                baseline.
and ensuring            developed and        Mechanisms and
long-term           ubmitted to the          institutional arrangements  Number o f hospitals
financial           :abinet.                 developed for the           incurring debts i s
sustainability.                              inclusion o f new           reduced by 50%,
                      new Treatment Act      treatment procedures and    compared to 2002.
                    eveloped and submitted   pharmaceuticals into the
                    I the Cabinet.           zssential package o f
                                             health services.

                    Plans for the
                    introduction of          Selective purchasing and

                    financial discipline,    contract monitoring

                    stringency and           capacity developed in

                    hard-budget constraints  Health Insurance

                    inhospitalfinancing      Companies.

                    developed.
                                             Needs assessment o f
                                             Health Management
                                             Information Systems
                                             completed.

                                             Number o f hospitals
                                             incurring debts i s
                                             reduced by 25%
                                             compared to 2002.

                    letailed Terms of        Implement changes,          vlinimumfour clinical
                    Leferences (TORS)and     acceptable to the Bank, in  yidelines for PHC and
patient-perceived   mplementation Plan       the physician and nurse     ight guidelines for
quality o f health  repared for              licensing system in         econdary care adopted,
                                             relation to the system o f
                    nplementation o f                                    ested and implemented.
                    ontinuous quality        Continuing Medical

                    rnprovement.             Education (CME).




                                                - 65 -

                                            'he implementation of
                                            ational quality
                                            nprovement plan
                                            cceptable to the Bank i s
                                            iitiated.


                                              L new institution for
                                              uality assurance, licensing
                                            ndaccreditation (HCSA) ii
                                            perational, and
                                            nplementing its business
                                              lan.
hnplement         .new   Act o n Status o f   mimplementation planfor      qproved
reforms o f the   [ealth Care Providers is    itionalizing hospital        nplementation plan for
health delivery   eveloped and submitted      apacity, inthe districts o f itionalizing hospital
system.            )the Cabinet.              lratislava, Kosice and       apacity in Bratislava,
                                              lanska Bystrica developed    Losice and Banska
                  ,ligibilitycriteria for                                  lystrica has been
                  rawing upon the             'nthe basis ofa mapping
                                              xercise.                     nplemented.
                  :sources o f Health
                  .estructuring Fund
                   eveloped.                  '5?40o f hospitals inthe      5% o f all surgery is
                                              listricts o f Bratislava,     :eated on a one-day
                                              3anska Bystrica, and         urgery basis, average
                                              Losice, operating as         ,ength o f Stay (ALOS)
                                              utonomous entities with       5 down by 10941and
                                              elf-governing boards.        ccupancy rate i s up by
                                                                            0% in acute care
                                                                            .ospitals implementing
                                                                            eforms, compared to
                                                                           ,002.


                                                                            Iospital information
                                                                            ystems developed and
                                                                            unctioning in 50% o f
                                                                            iospitals.
Implement                                     2oncept and
reforms inthe                                 mplementation plan for
financing o f                                 ,ocialand long-term care i s
social care.                                  leveloped.
Strengthen          A Health Policy Unit       Approved public               An evaluation o fthe
stewardship         responsible for            information campaign          first two years o f the
function            collecting data,           under implementation.         reforms, with special
(regulation,        monitoring and                                           emphasis on patient
policy-making       evaluating health                                        access, equity and
and planning) o f   reforms i s established                                  quality o f care,
MOHand other        within the MOH.                                          completed and
relevant                                                                     compared with the



                                                  - 66 -

institutions.   A needs assessment for              baseline for analysis
                 a public information               o f improvements (or
                 campaign for health                otherwise) on these
                 sector reforms                     aspects.
                 completed and a public
                 information campaign
                 formulated.

                 A detailed
                 actiodimplementation
                 plan outlining
                 sequential steps inthe
                 reform program for the
                 first year formulated.

                  Data needs for
                  measuring health
                  system performance
                  identified.

                  Baseline data for
                  monitoring and
                  evaluation o f health
                  reforms collected.




                                          - 67 -

                           Additional Annex 12: Letter of Sector Policy
    SLOVAK REPUBLIC: HEALTH SECTOR MODERNIZATION SUPPORT TECHNICAL
                                       ASSISTANCE PROJECT

                        MINISTRY OF HEALTH OF THE SLOVAK REPUBLIC
                                       OFFICE OF THE MINISTER

                                                 April 7, 2003

                  SUBJECT: HealthCare SystemModernizationProject

Dear Mr. Grawe,

It i s my pleasure to present to you the main features of the Government o f the Slovak Republic's Health
Care System ModernizationProject through this Letter o f Sector Policy.

Targeted to address all aspects o f the health sector - including quality, technical efficiency and
management - the Health Care System Modernization Project represents a significant step in the Slovak
Republic's ongoing efforts to improve the health outcomes in the country.

As detailed in the November 2002 Government's Manifesto, the following objectives and tools for the
health sector have beendefined. The government:

0        targets at establishing stable conditions for health sector activities, at stopping the growth o f
indebtedness and at providing for a balancedmanagement throughout the health sector.
0        declares the intention to increase the ability o f the system o f health care provisionto act in
correspondence to the needs o f the population while accounting for the real availability o f funds.
0        will undertake steps to improve efficient accessibility and flexibility o fhealthcare.
0        will orient the reforms inthe healthsector towards a more efficient utilisation o f resources.
0        recognizes that a highmeasure o f corruption i s part o f the problems existing inthe health sector
as well as the reasons for the dissatisfaction o f the population.
0        shall develop legislative solutions to the basic health-relatedlaws.
0        shall draft a new legislative regulationon health insurance which, in connection with the Health
Care Act and Treatment Act, shall introduce two types o f health insurance.
0         shall be pursuingequality o f chances and liabilities o f health insurance companies with respect to
mandatory healthinsurance and insurance companies with respect to voluntary health insurance.
0         shall define the conditions for the provision o f social medicine including the costs o f the care and
nursingo fcitizens and contributions to cover health care beyond the so-called solidaritypackage and
services connected with the provision o f health care to individuals inmaterial and social need due to
objective reasons.
0         shall establish Health Care Surveillance Authority thus strengtheninginstitutional control o f
health insurance companies, with the emphasis on the control o f the contents and extent o f health
services purchasedunder the so-called solidarity package, as well as control o f health care institutions
with respect to the ,,lege artis" provisiono fhealth care financed from resources o fhealthinsurance
companies.
0         shall be pursuingthe control o f the solvency o f health insurance companies through Financial
Market Authority and shall introduce the obligation to all health care institutions whose turnover exceeds
a set threshold to undergo independent financial audits resulting in an improved transparency o f financial
flows in the health sector.
0        recognizing the disproportionate share o f expenditures on drugs from resources o f the health


                                                      - 68 -

insurance, the government shall be pursuingthe implementation o f a more open and economically more
realistic drugpolicy with a certain permanent and pre-determined participation of patients (co-payments).


0        shall prepare transformation o f State Health Care Institutes into Health Care Institutions
emphasising measures directed towards reduction andor elimination o f risks o f injury to health.
0        shall continue the already started decentralisation process, and shall create legislative conditions
for an increasedparticipation o f regions o n the ownership o f health care institutions without restricting
their type and lund, to enable purchase and sales o f health services (health care and related services), and
conditions for equality o f chances and responsibilities o f health care institutions without restricting the
types o f ownership.
0        shall take care o f an amendment to the Labour Code and to the Public Service Act so as to enable
individual differentiation o f wages and mobility o f employees o f health care institutions.
e        shall prepare the legislative framework o f institutional education o f healthprofessionals through
the education sector with the opportunity for health service professionals to undergo postgraduate
training at schools and institutions that will have acquired accreditation for the corresponding type o f
education.
Inorder to support the realization o fthe above objectives, the Government o fthe Slovak Republichereby
requests the World Bank's assistance inthe form o f a Sector Adjustment Loan (SECAL) supported by a
Technical Assistance Project (TAP) to support Health Sector Modemization, with a total commitment of
US$70 million (SECAL US$ 55 million, TAP US$ 15 million) and a first tranche o f SECAL in2004 in
the amount o f USS 15 million.

The overall goal o f the Health Sector Modemization Support Loan would be to support comprehensive
health sector reforms being carried out by the Slovak Government that promote fiscal sustainability while
continuing to provide quality health care services and financial protection for the population. K e y
objectives are to: (i)improve fiscal discipline through structural changes in the health sector that will
alleviate the chronic problem o f arrears in the health sector, encourage greater technical and allocative
efficiency and institute a system that will promote fiscal sustainability; and (ii)   improve the quality and
cost-effectiveness o f the health sector; (iii)mitigate any possible negative impacts on health care access,
specially for vulnerable populations.

The reforms that we propose to carry out will focus o n supporting grant o f greater autonomy to
purchasers and providers, introducing incentives that encourage greater technical and allocative
efficiency, and concentrating the role o f the state in financing a package o f benefits for the entire
population, regulation, policy-making and planning. In this respect, we plan, among other measures, to
create hard budget constraints for health care providers to support incentives for technical efficiency at
the level o f health facilities; give health care facilities (particularly hospitals) organizational and
management autonomy to implement needed changes to improve efficiency; create incentives for
purchasers (health insurance companies) to become more efficient by granting HIFs greater
organizational and management autonomy (e.g. to set prices, implement selective contracting with health
providers and implement changes in the provider payment systems); establish an appropriate regulatory
framework to ensure that social functions o f the Slovak health system are maintained (financing for
social care, regulation of health insurance companies, quality o f care accreditation and licensing,
providing information to consumers); and rationalize benefits under compulsory health insurance to
create a better match with available public resources for health care, and putting in place mechanisms to
curb unsustainable growth in the future.




                                                     - 69 -

These goals will be realized through a series o f focused reform measures inkey areas o f the health sector.
Each o f these efforts forms a 'module' and all the modules together cover a significant part o f the health
system. These are: A) Informatisation o f the health sector; B) Improvement o f allocation-related and
technical efficiency within the health care system through implementation o f systemic changes; C) Public
opinion and communication o f the reform; D) Implementation in the health sector o f the quality and
controlling system; E) Setting up o f a social medicine package; F) Education and management o f
managing officers; G) Project management and evaluation. Details o f these modules are presented below.

Informatisationof the health sector
The primary objective o f the component i s to set up a standardized information environment as well as to
define and to build the standardizing role o f state with respect to the health sector. As another objective,
motivation incentives have to be introduced to establish an attractive while competitive environment for
providers o f solutions in the field o f health information technologies and subsequent expected direction
o f private investments to this sector. As a result, the efficiency o f the utilisation o f public and private
resources intended for information technologies in the health sector will be significantly improved. The
component i s expected to take care of the provision of adequate volumes o f valid continuous data for
further analytical processing, interpretation and modelling in accordance with the needs of the making of
state policy, as well as information and comparisons for the various market stakeholders (patients,
providers and purchasers o f health care). The setting o f the principal elements o f health documentation
protection, document flows between and among the market stakeholders, and data safety are all
considered as important aspects. Implementation and practical use o f information obtained in this way
and o f data aiming at the setting up o f a standard information interface and a network, together with
training and education o f health managers in close link to components B and F o f the Project, are also to
be considered integral parts.

The standardisationprocess will be following the next principles:
e        object o f standardisation will be information from health statistics, measurement o f health care
quality, key indicators o f economic performance o f the health system, safety standards, ..,
e        the standards will maximize the efficiency o f the gathering o f process-related, health and
economic information (e.g., at every intervention),
e        the standards will respect the need o f interlinking and separating o f systems for the processing o f
process-related, health and economic information,
e        the standards will be developed at a ,,low system level" (W3C system),
e        the standards will define adequate extent o f interlinkage o f paper and electronic documentation
as well as the implementation o f standard tools and technologies,
e        the standards will determine criteria o f accreditation with respect to data, process and safety
aspects o f commercial solutions,
e        the standards will be compatible to the extent possible with the standard internationally
recognized concepts and methods in the field o f health information technologies and management,
e        the standards will be tightly interlinked with the applicable legislative environment o f the Slovak
Republic and the EU.

The Component envisages the establishment o f the Health Informatisation Department at the Ministry of
Health (OIZMZ) as a central standardisation unit. The tasks o f the OIZMZ will mainly include:
standardisation activities, methodological activities, provision for data for analytical processing,
interpretation and modelling for the needs o f the malung o f state policy, statistical control o f data
validity, definition and administration o f central registers, code lists and code books, generation and
spreading o f new knowledge derived from the data, implementation assistance and support, realisation o f



                                                     - 70 -

pilot projects. For this purpose, a good quality o f the OIZMZ staffing and development, technological
tools as well as advisory services within the said areas will have to be provided for.

Improving allocation-related and technical efficiency within the health sector through the
implementation of system changes
The second component i s expected to promote the clarification o f the tasks o f the existing health
insurance companies and the legal position o f purchasers, providers and patients within the system, as
well as the making more specific the scope o f the health care covered from public resources. It includes:
(i) upofasystemofservicepurchasers,includingthedefinitionoftherulesofcompetitionfor
   setting
purchasers with respect to collection, redistribution and allocation o f resources; (ii)split o f Treatment
Act into services fully covered by purchasers under the basic package o f services, and services to be
partly reimbursed or not reimbursed at all under the various packages o f non-mandatory services; (iii)
management o f receivables of the existing health insurance companies and o f the existing liabilities o f
health care institutions; and (iv) definition o f the legal position o f purchasers, providers and patients
within the system.

This component is expected to support investments into the modemisation o f health care management
and provision at selected inpatient facilities. However, investments will only flow to health care
institutions whose existence i s justified with respect to the plan o f the elastic network o f health care
institutions. The managements o f the institutions will be provided with tools and technical assistance
upon the analysis and review o f physical and human structures and their organisation, and shall be made
available funds to finance reconstructions and/or abolishment o f inefficient operations, if any. Such
investments will only be made provided that they will result in a demonstrable improvement o f
cost-effectiveness o f the health care institution applying for investment funds. Consequently, all selected
institutions will have to present restructuring business plans that will clearly specify the volumes o f
scheduled investments and their expected quantified benefits. Decisions on the selection o f
modemisation projects will thus be made based on economic retum rates o f the business plans presented.
Investments will be drawn gradually (e.g. in tranches), depending on the outcome achieved by the
selected health care institutions. A detailed mechanism will be developed in collaboration with World
Bank experts during the preparatory stage o f the proposed Project.

The modemisation business plans to be developed by health care institutions are expected to be directed
towards investments that would replace inpatient care by more efficient and modern forms (such as
implementation o f one-day and ambulatory treatments), development o f unified management information
systems (e.g. to support decision making or to improve control o f spending o n drugs), utilisation o f
innovative consulting systems (e.g. aimed at saving costs o n unnecessary transport) and/or other forms o f
quality and efficiency improvement o f the care provided.

Public opinion and communication of the reform
The ongoing reform o f the Slovak Republic's health sector i s rather extensive and comprehensive, and
shall concem a number o f stakeholders - physicians, drug distributors, patients and health insurance
companies. In the view o f the need o f austerity measures due to the efforts to stop the growth o f
indebtedness (by 700 million a month) this will be made felt by all the above stakeholders almost
immediately, and the impact will be negative. Groups at risk of drop o f income that are organised or will
be able to become organised within the shortest time will naturally set up a led opposition aimed at
stopping the reform or at least at radically narrow down its contents. Such groups will invest efforts and
resources into their intentions commensurate to the volume o f funds or advantages they consider as being
at risk. The main tools to achieve the objective mentioned will be activities focusing on exerting o f
concentrated pressure o f public opinion upon the government, parliament, and the person o f Minister o f
Health.


                                                     - I 1-

The interests o f the stakeholders are however frequently contradictory, which on the one hand partly
pre-programs general dissatisfaction, malung on the other hand a good opportunity for a differentiated
approach to different target groups to arise. This will result in the need o f a larger number o f
communication lines coordinated inparallelto each other.

A wide range o f relatively complex concerns is inherent to health care issues, which are uneasy to
understand and thus to prepare an exact interpretation for. In addition, the topics are sensitive and
personal, e.g. health, quality o f life, and life itself. In trying to make health issue economical, some
ethicalparadoxes will moreover appear, such as ,,price o f health" or ,,price o f life".

Inthe view of the above, the communication will be of the nature of a sensitive influencing of public
opinion, establishing relationships with opinion makers and seeking for their support, as well as o f other
more demanding techniques o f the influencing o f public opinion, such as crisis communication or issue
management. Several surveys, analyses, testing and monitoring events will be needed upon planning and
implementing the communication. Moreover, larger amounts o f printed documents will have to be
drafted and various events will have to be organised. This work will be demanding and requires highly
qualified experts who are familiar with the topics and who have abundant experiences with the domestic
conditions o f worlung with public opinion. The sensitivity o f the topics to be communicated even more
underlines the need o f a highly professional approach. Ministry o f Health currently lacks the necessary
potential and is not prepared to carry out similar tasks.

Institutionalcapacity building to provide for health care control and quality
Component four o f the proposed Health Care System Modemisation Project will focus on the building
and development o f the intellectual and institutionalbase to provide for control, supervision, quality and
accreditation in the field o f health care through the establishment o f the Health Care Surveillance
Authority. The establishment o f the HCSA will be based on an analysis o f the roles o f state, State Health
Care Institutes, State Institute for Drug Control, and Institute o f Health Information and Statistics within
the health sector.

The establishment of HCSA will not represent further growth of the administration apparatus since
prospectively the HCSA will become and independent entity. HCSA operation will, be covered 100%
from Project funds during the first years o f its existence only, with a gradual transition to self-financing
through contributions o f health care purchasers and providers, grants, sponsorships etc. Alternatively, the
possibility o f financing o f some HCSA tasks at the national level by state through specific projects will
be considered. Such a model is typical of a majority o f countries with a developed system of the
provision for control, quality and accreditation inthe field o f health care.

The system o f quality and controlling in the health sector will be implementedthrough HCSA. Its task
will be to develop standard therapeutical procedures, so-called guidelines. A clear-cut framework,
principles and development o f institutional capacity to provide for financial supervision, medical control,
quality and accreditation o f health services will be defined, including a coherent strategy o f professional
and managerial training and education o f health care providers.

With respect to financial supervision, the Project will support the definition o f cooperation between the
newly established HCSA and the existing Financial Market Authority in the field o f the control o f
solvency and cash flows o f purchasers, including redistribution o f insurance premium. Also, HCSA will
be monitoringthe area of pricing.

With respect to the provision for quality and accreditation in the health sector, HCSA will be taking care


                                                     - 72 -

o f the development and drafting o f standard therapeutical procedures (clinical guidelines / therapeutical
protocols) based on evidence-based medicine. It will be setting and monitoring performance parameters
for health care institutions and checking the lege artis provision o f health services. Prospectively, it will
supervise and exercise the process o f accreditation o f health care providers. As an important part o f this
component, an adequate legislative framework will be developed to allow the functioning o f HCSA with
respect to control and quality o f health services.

Social and long-term care
The objective is to define the scope and the contents o f social medicine that currently represents a
non-defined overlap o f the health and social areas. Citizens will be deriving benefits from the
humanisation o f the environment, and the system o f social protection from the setting o f the method o f
financing o f services and devices through four financial channels: health insurance comapnies, social
sector budget, municipalities and citizens. An important task will be to redefine the missions o f the
individual institutions, be it in the health (treatment institutions for the long-term ill,special treatment
institutions - geriatric, hospices, etc.) or social area (pensioners' homes, social services homes, special
schools).

The component focuses on several target groups. These mainly include individuals who are unable to
care for themselves and whose health condition requires nursing and attendance care. This concerns e.g.
elderly individuals suffering from age-related diseases, individuals with worsened health condition, the
chronically ill,individuals suffering from mental diseases, patients requiring resocialization, etc.
Important factors to improve the system efficiency will include: (i)solution to the management o f the
above target groups concerning their permanent andor temporary admission; this i s connected with the
overall aspect o f the institutionalisation o f these services, and (ii)definition o f the purchaser o f the
services and devices to be provided.

Education and management of managers
Inthe view of the functions of HCSA in the field of medical control, quality and accreditation, HCSA
will operate as also the maker and promoter of the coherent strategy o f professional and managerial
training and education o f health care providers that will be interconnected with health policy objectives
and the strategy o f continuous modernisation o f the health sector. HCSA itself will not be the provider o f
education; rather, it will be monitoring the implementation o f the strategy and providing counselling to
Ministry of Health upon the strategy implementation. It will be contracting, from its own resources,
strategically important education programs at the national level andor projects oriented towards an
improvement o f the system o f professional and managerial training o f providers, in accordance with the
EU requirements. HCSA will be continuously evaluating programs offered by teaching institutions and
workplaces, and will be conducting research in the field o f the provision o f health services in relation to
the reform program. It at the same time will be building international networks with similarly oriented
organisations inother Central and Eastern European countries as well as inEUMember States.

Successful implementation o f the reform requires a critical mass o f managers at the level o f providers
and purchasers o f health services to become trained. The objective o f the Project i s to promote education
o f health and other human resources so as to give rise to a critical group able to effectively manage the
system at the micro-level.

Project management and evaluation
This component will be financing the Project management, including the preparation, procurement,
financial management and evaluation o f the Project results obtained. A Project Coordination Unit at the
Ministry o f Health o f the Slovak Republic will be in charge o f the administrative coordination o f the
activities o f consultants, and o f the Project management.


                                                     - 73 -

Special attention will be paid to Project evaluation, in particular at health care institutions supported by
the Project. There, the economic as well as qualitative impact o f investments and organisational changes
will be monitored and quantified. Moreover, customer surveys will be conducted focusing on the
assessment o f the effects o f the reform.

The health sector reforms proposed above would result inbroad-spectrum structural changes, not only in
health sector financing, management and organization, but also in the way the delivery o f services is
organized and the way that the patients will interact with the providers. We are aware that the existing
capacity in the health sector at all levels would needto be further strengthened to manage these changes
effectively. Accordingly, we propose to adopt a series o f measures to strengthen the administrative and
managerial capacity in the health system. Special training modules will be developed specific to the
needs o f administrators and managers at all levels o f the health system, and will be administered on an
ongoing basis.

We are also aware that the health sector reforms will require sustained commitment for the necessary
financial support, and we will ensure that adequate budgetary resources are available and earmarked for
this purpose. We have already made an allocation ofUS$lOm for budget year 2003, and will continue to
make available the requiredresources inthe rest o f the project years as well.

We intendto implement the Health Sector Programby mobilizing and harnessingthe available resources
 inthe Ministryo fHealth.A Health Sector Program Coordination Unit has beenestablished to administer
the various aspects o f the program. The PCU will draw on the necessary expertise from within and
 outside the government in order to implement the various aspects o f the program. The PCU will also
 coordinate activities between the MOH, implementing agencies, and the Bank.

 We believe that continuous and effective monitoring o f the progress o f the Health Sector Program is key
 to its success. For this purpose, we propose to rely on a variety o f different instruments and mechanisms
 that will guide us throughout the process. Ongoing evaluation will provide us with essential feedback for
 gauging progress, making course corrections and responding to changing demands and circumstances. A
 wide variety of specialized studies and assessments will be undertaken throughout the duration o f the
 Program, and will focus on each o f the several modules in the system. A system o f tracking changes      -
 particularly in a set o f broad financial, access and quality indicators  - will be set up and the necessary
 supporting information and recording systems will be established.

 The Health Sector Modernization Support Programprovides us with an important opportunity to invest in
 health o f our people and for the future, and we are glad that we have a partner in the World Bank in this
 effort. We are sure you will agree that the Health Sector Modernization Support Program presented
 above i s based on sound principles and will bring about significant improvements in the desired areas o f
 health financing, management and quality o f services.

 Iattach(seeAnnex11)thepolicymatrixthatwehaveworkedoutwithourBankcolleagues.Weremain
  committed to meetingthe conditions and benchmarks laid down inthis matrix.

  Sincerely,




                                                     - 74 -

RudolfZajac
MinisterofHealth




                    - 75 -


MAP SECTION


