l~~~~~~~~~~~~~l
PID
THEWORLD BANK GROUP                                                     AWorld Froe of Povorty
4oShop
'tM Wodd l3sk
Report No. AB58
Initial Project Information Document (PID)
Project Name                SLOVAK REPUBLIC-HEALTH REFORM
Region                      Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                      Health (100%)
Project ID                  P082879
Supplemental Project
Borrower(s)                 SLOVAK REPUBLIC
Implementing Agency         MfNISTRY OF HEALTH
Address                     Address Limbova 2, Bratislava
Contact Person: Jan Kralik
Tel. 00421259373275     Fax 00421259373167       Email
Environment Category        C
Date PID Prepared           April 30, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date         May 7, 2003
Bank Approval Date          June 26, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
The Economy
The Slovak economy has consolidated its recovery out of the financial crisis of 1998. Despite the
slowdown in the EU - Slovakia's main market - real GDP grew by a remarkable 4.4 percent in 2002,
turning Slovakia into one of the fastest growing economy in the region. Growth prospects remain
favorable, with expected growth rates at around 4 percent for the coming years. Core inflation (defined as
the change in prices (headline inflation) excluding the controlled prices (such as gas, water and
electricity). Controlled prices were adjusted as part of the preparation for EU accession resulting in price
increases that reached up to 30 percent for some utilities) reached historical minimum last year (2
percent) and remains moderate despite substantial increases in headline inflation rates this year expected
to reach close to 8 percent for 2003, amid price adjustments in utilities as well as tax hikes in excise and
adjustments to the VAT tax rate. Unemployment rate - at 18 percent - remains very high even for
regional standards but has started to recede inline with improved performance in the real sector.
The current account of the Balance of Payments has remained above 8 percent of GDP for the
last two years but has started to show definite signs of improvements this year, amid the growing
performance in the export sector. Large capital account surpluses have sufficed to finance the large
current account deficits while allowing at the same for a substantial accumulation of foreign reserves,
pushing the import coverage to 5.7 months (up from 3.2 months by the end of 2001). Large capital
inflows, due mainly to substantial Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) receipts which, in turn, are the result
of large privatization receipts, have contributed in parallel to an important appreciation of the Koruna.



2
PID
Within this context, much of the monetary policy effort has been geared to prevent sharp fluctuations in
the exchange rate while trying to restrain upward pressures on the Koruna. Large sterilization
interventions with the consequent high financial losses for the National Bank of Slovakia (NBS), coupled
at times with policy interest reductions by the NBS, have been the main tools to moderate appreciation.
In this environment, the behavior of the fiscal policy becomes essential to help contain spending
and reduce inflationary and current account pressures through a more moderate domestic spending. It
will also allow for a better policy mix, one with a more relaxed monetary stance that could in turn help
contain exchange rate appreciation. However, fiscal deficits have been on the high side. They have also
been growing up until 2002 (an election year). In fact, fiscal deficits in Slovakia have been on the high
side all throughout the 1990s reflecting, in part, policy measures undertaken to reduce tax pressure and
make the economy more competitive and attractive to investors. Corporate and personal income taxes
were reduced and generous "tax holiday" schemes were introduced. As a result, tax revenues fell by
some 7.5 percentage points of GDP throughout the 1996-2001 years.
These rapid reductions on the revenue side have not been matched by equivalent reductions in
expenditures, and while general government revenues lost ground by as much as 8 percentage points of
GDP between 1996 and 2001, total expenditures and net lending (excluding privatization receipts) shrank
by only 2.5 percentage points of GDP over the same period. In addition, the Slovak Republic has
accumulated significant amount cfovernment guarantees (equivalent to 16 percent of GDP as of
end-2002), mainly to ensure the continued financing of such troubled state-owned enterprises as the
railway and power companies. At the same time, there is recurrent pressure to bailout critical sectors
(e.g., health) as they continually run up high payment arrears. The uneven implementation of fiscal plans,
with successes in the reduction of taxes but limited success in reducing expenditures, reflects an inability
to break with the past and initiate structural reforms in key expenditure areas.
In addition, further fiscal challenges lie ahead in the medium term. Key among them is the
transition gap resulting from the introduction of a mandatory fully funded second pillar in the pensions
system and the need to comply with the Maastritch's fiscal criteria (deficit not exceeding 3 percent of
GDP) as a prerequisite for joining the EMU. The Government of Slovakia is well aware of the benefits of
bringing fiscal policy back to sustainable levels, and is also aware of the need for improvement in policy
mix that a cut in fiscal deficits will necessarily entail. Consequently, fiscal policy has started to move
towards these objectives after 2002. In effect, the 2003 budget already entails a 2 percent of GDP
reduction in the fiscal deficit, to be achieved mainly through expenditure cuts, key among which for this
year is the expected savings in the health sector. However, in order to achieve the type of fiscal
adjustments needed to bring back fiscal deficits to sustainable levels, deeper structural reforms are
needed in the medium term in key spending sectors, and health sector reforms are one of the most
fundamental.
Key Issues in thte Healthi Sector
Slovakia is facing a major fiscal crisis in the health care sector. The main symptoms of serious
health financing problems are increasing arrears and informal out-of-pocket payments by patients that are
regressive and create access barriers. Overall accumulated arrears of health institutions (insurance funds
and providers) stood at SKK30 billion at the end of 2002 and are growingl-ealth Care Policy, Chapter
1, Zajac, Pazitny, draft report). To cope with growing expenditures, the Government has gradually raised
the contribution rate to 14 percent of payroll tax for active population and has over the years increased its
contribution rates for non-active population up to 9.8 percent of minimum wage. The Government has
repeatedly been forced to clear arrears of the Health Insurance Companies (HICs) and publicly owned



3
PID
health care providers through the transfers of privatization receipts from the National Property Fund.
These extra-budgetary contributions have grown rapidly from almost zero to over 7 percent of health
spending in 2001. The use of non-recurring revenues to fund what appear to be recurring expenditures,
combined with the continuing growth of health system arrears, is a clear indication of the weakness of
health system finances. In addition to only providing temporary relief, repeated Government bailouts
have created a moral hazard problem for indebted health organizations. The health care system is
financially unsustainable, and reforms are urgently needed to make better use of public expenditures on
health care.
This situation occurs against the backdrop of relatively high overall health financing envelope of
7.3 percent of GDP (2001) (MOH data). Public spending on health averaged about 5.8 percent of GDP in
the second half of the 1990s - more than I percent of GDP higher than the average for other Central and
Eastern European Countries (Data from "Expenditure Policies towards EU Accession," World Bank
Technical Paper (forthcoming). While these data and those in Figure 4.8 are somewhat different from the
WHO data in Figure 4.7 (in order to reflect differences in data consolidation methods and to be
consistent across countries), they show very similar trends) and more than 2.5 percent of GDP higher
than the average for upper middle-income countries. Given the high overall budget deficit in Slovakia,
there is little opportunity to increase public revenues for the health sector. While some of the reasons for
increased expenditures of the health care are legitimate, such as the increased cost of drugs that need to
be obtained from international markets (average cost of drugs is 75 percent of EU average), the main
reasons for the problem appear to be weaknesses in the management of health expenditures and deep
structural problems in hospital sector.
Mandatory social health insurance expenditures are managed by five health insurance funds. The
largest, the General Health Insurance Fund, covers about 70 percent of population. The funds are public
institutions set up under the 1994 Health Insurance Law and other subsequent regulatory acts. There are
gaps in financial and managerial accountability regulations, e.g., funds are apparently not subjected to
independent audits, and this allows for misrepresentation of their true financial position. For example, the
annual report of General Health Insurance Funds for 2001 lists significant assets from accounts
receivables in spite of the fact that 40 percent of those were from bankrupt companies. These assets were
used to balance the liabilities of the fund to providers and pharmaceutical retailers. Probability of
recovering receivables was low, probability of need to pay out accounts payable was high. Most likely,
no independent audit would have allowed the accounts to pass without qualifying them. The funds collect
contributions that are set at 14 percent of payroll of active population and 14 percent on half of net
income of self-employed. The Government contributes for non-active population using a formula
annually set by Parliament - for 2003, the contribution rate is 14 percent of 70 percent of minimum wage
(or 9.8 percent of minimum wage), part of it is being redistributed among the funds based on a formula.
Contribution compliance rates are reportedly high, disguised by low reported contribution basis of
self-employed. Compliance with redistribution formula is lower, resulting in deficits in funds that are net
beneficiaries from the redistribution formula.
Mounting arrears and indebted hospitals are symptoms of a deep structural crisis in the Slovak
health care system that is present both on the demand and as well as on the supply side. The Constitution
and associated legislation guarantee a very broad range of health services at very little direct cost to
patients, who have few incentives to limit their use of health servi@e6ptions include dentistry,
which involves significant co-payments, some types of elective surgery, and a relatively small portion
(about 6-10 percent) of drug costs. This has led to a very rapid increase in demand, with hospital
admission rates and per capita outpatient visits rising by about 18 and 20 percent between 1990 and
1999, respectively. Reflecting these rising demands, spending has increased rapidly, rising by one-third
as a percentage of GDP between 1991 and 1999.



4
PID
Government's Health Sector Reform Strategy
The Slovak Republic has been implementing health reforms for over a decade. The first wave of
health reforms was guided by ideological considerations of building a democratic society with a
market-oriented economy. These reforms led to the formation of the health insurance system,
privatization of primary health care and introduction of free choice of providers. In a recently adopted
manifesto (November 2002), the government program highlights the need to establish "stable" conditions
for health sector activities, stop the growth of indebtedness, and provide for balanced management
throughout the health sector. The reforms aim to raise the efficiency of the utilization of funds allocated
for the provision of health care, mainly with respect to mandatory health insurance, and to make the
protection of individuals a priority, in particular, by providing highly cost-intensive health care that
individuals realistically cannot be expected to come up for themselves. The reform plan emphasizes the
need to improve access to health care, and enhance efficiency in utilization of available resources.
The government recognizes that corruption is part of the many problems existing in the health
sector as well as a primary reason for dissatisfaction of the population with health services. The
government reform agenda includes reduction in corruption in the health sector through adoption of such
measures as the introduction of official co-payments for health services to replace informal out-of-pocket
payments, and better management of health service providers.
One of the main objectives of the Government's pian is to curb the growing indebtedness in the
health sector while maintaining a framework that supports the best possible health conditions for the
population. It proposes to increase the ability of the health care system to respond to the health services
needs of the population within the framework of available funds by ensuring grater efficiency and
effectiveness in the use of available resources.
The government proposes to establish a Health Care Surveillance Authority (HCSA) to
strengthen institutional control of health insurance funds, with emphasis on the control of the contents
and extent of health services purchased under the so-called solidarity package. In order to maintain
solvency of health insurance funds, the reform proposes to introduce an obligation for all health care
institutions whose turnover exceeds a set threshold to undergo independent financial audits, which will
also result in improved transparency of financial flows in the health sector.
Recognizing the disproportionate share of expenditures on drugs from resources of the health
insurance, the government strategy proposes to pursue the implementation of a more open and
economically more realistic drug policy with a certain permanent and pre-determined participation of
patients in the form of co-payments.
In order to increase efficiency and effectiveness, the government reform strategy proposes to
continue with the already started decentralization process, and create legislative conditions for an
increased participation of regions on the ownership of health care institutions without restricting their
type and kind, to enable purchase and sales of health services (health care and related services), and
creation of conditions for equality of chances and responsibilities of health care institutions without
restricting the types of ownership.
In order to support these reforms, several enabling legislations are proposed to be enacted. These
include: (i) new legislative regulation on health insurance to empower the insurance funds to carry out
true actuarial and purchasing functions; (ii) define conditions for the provision of social medicine
including the costs of the care and nursing of citizens and contributions to cover health care beyond the
so-called solidarity package and services connected with the provision of health care to individuals in



5
PID
material and social need due to objective reasons; and (iii) legislative framework for institutional
education of health professionals through the education sector with the opportunity for health service
professionals to undergo postgraduate training at schools and institutions that will have acquired
accreditation for the corresponding type of education.
In sum, the government health sector reform strategy focuses on improving the efficiency with
which the mandatory health insurance system operates by streamlining the basic benefits package and
providing a better match between revenues and expenditures. On health care organization, management
and delivery, the reforms will support an appropriate balance of centralization and decentralization of the
health sector. Granting inpatient health care facilities greater management autonomy with the creation of
appropriate accountability mechanisms is a major priority. To support this objective, the health sector
reforms will enable contracting with autonomous hospital providers, and introduce new provider
payment mechanisms. It is expected that the creating of new incentives will encourage innovations in
health care delivery (outpatient care, home nursing care and day surgery). The problems of informal
payments and corruption in the health sector will be addressed through changes in health care financing.
2. Objectives
The Government of Slovakia is launching a comprehensive health sector reform program. The
aim of this reform program is to support the development of a health care system that is financially
viable, cost-effectively addresses the growing burden of disease from non-communicable diseases, and
provides quality care to the population. The reforms proposed by the Government of Slovakia will
change the paradigm within which health sector institutions will be required to operate and generate new
institutional roles and responsibilities. The objectives of the proposed project are to (i) build capacity of
the health system to become more efficient in the financing and delivery of health care services and to
improve the quality of health care services while maintaining access to care for the population, especially
vulnerable groups; and (ii) strengthen the effectiveness, efficiency and quality of the health care system
by provision of the technical assistance and training to provide the basis for upcoming health care reform
and support its implementation
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Technical Assistance/International Experience.The Bank's experience in similar projects in
other countries and the Bank team's expertise in health care financing and delivery reforms would benefit
the project by bringing in lessons learned elsewhere and facilitating the transfer of knowledge, including
the possibility of engaging experts from other countries and/or organizing training and study tours.
Stakeholder Coordination The Bank is uniquely positioned to facilitate the coordination of
different stakeholders having an influence on health reform - as was amply demonstrated with the
organization of the February 2001 health policy seminar. Given the inter-sectoral nature of health
reforms, it is critical that MOH liaise and coordinate extensively with other ministries and stakeholders,
notably with members of the Parliament, MOF, Ministry of Economy, trade unions, medical chamber,
regional administrations, private sector, NGOs, etc. The Bank plays a critical role in facilitating this
coordination.
Financial Assistance and Opportunities for Leveraging other fundAlthough the Bank's
contribution to the proposed project is small as compared with overall health expenditures in the country,
project funds would provide the much-needed resources to finance new approaches in the health sector.
The Bank is also leveraging partnerships with IFC, who are discussing the mechanics of hospital
corporatization with MOH.



6
PID
4. Description
The Technical Assistance project includes six components: (i) Reforms in Health Care Financing
and Delivery; (ii) Development of Quality Improvement System; (iii) Development of Health
Management Information Systems; (iv) Reforms in Social and long-term care; (v) Public Information and
Communication; and (vi) Project management and monitoring.
Component 1. Reforms in Health Care Financing and Delivery (US$ 3.80 million, 25 % of project
costs).
This component would support selected reforms in health care financing and health care delivery.
On the financing side, the component would support measures to improve financial sustainability and
equity, revising the scope of services covered under compulsory health insurance, ensuring coverage for
vulnerable groups and such services as long-term care, implementation of new provider payment systems,
and development of an appropriate legal and regulatory framework governing the roles, functions and
responsibilities of the health insurance companies vis-a-vis the State in delivering compulsory medical
insurance and an appropriate regulatory structure for supporting the development of voluntary health
insurance. On delivery of health services, the component would support design and implementation of
hospital autonomy, development of appropriate legal and regulatory framework for hospital autonomy,
and strengthening of the institutional and organizational capacity of hospitals to operate in this new
system.
Specifically, the component would support technical assistance for: (i) improved financial
management by health insurance funds and hospitals; (ii) development of provider payment systems; (iii)
autonomization and corporatization of public hospitals; (iv) development of appropriate legal and
regulatory structure for hospital autonomy; (v) development of hospital optimalization plans for health
facilities in Bratislava, Kosice and Banska Bystryca; (vi) development of business and strategic plans;
(vii) training for hospital managers and other staff; and (viii) development and management of a Hospital
Investment Fund for capital investments to support modernization of public hospitals and hospital
autonomy.
Component 2. Development of a Quality Improvement System (US$ 1.70 million, 11% of project
costs).
One of the critical challenges facing the health sector of Slovakia is the relatively low quality of
clinical health care. Several factors - such as limited resource allocation for quality improvement, lack of
incentives at the hospital level for implementing quality improvement, absence of technical capacity in
quality management and quality of care monitoring and evaluation capability - contribute to this
problem. One goal of the government's health sector reform program is to improve quality of care by
developing a comprehensive quality improvement program for ambulatory, inpatient and long-term care.
This component would support the development of comprehensive quality improvement and assurance
protocols for the Slovak health system.
The component would support technical assistance for (i) design and implementation of modern
clinical protocols for selected high burden diseases; (ii) modernization of the accreditation and licensing
system for physicians and nurses; (iii) development of appropriate institutional and organizational
structures for the implementation of quality improvement; (iv) design and establishment of a Health Care
Surveillance Authority (HCSA); (v) training of HCSA and hospital staff on issues related to quality
assurance and monitoring; and (vi) development of materials on quality improvement.



7
PID
Component 3. Development of Health Management Information System (US$2.54 million, 17% of
project costs).
This component would help the government developH-glth Management Information
Systems (HMIS) system to enable it to better conduct its policy-making and regulatory function, enable
the health insurance companies to better fulfill their functions and link the network of health providers to
purchasers and appropriate regulatory institutions. For that the government has taken a decision outlining
five key tasks for improving HMIS within the Slovak Republic. These are as follows:
*   The development of an HIMS strategy, including the development of necessary supporting
legislation (regarding mandatory exchange of information, confidentiality, privacy, etc.), and the
essential integration tools;
*   The development of standards, regulations and other mechanisms to support the integration of
health information at all levels, so that common definitions and data structures are used and
necessary information can be exchanged, while still allowing maximum opportunity for a free
and open HMIS hardware and software industry within Slovakia;
*   The development and creation of a national health data center within the Ministry of Health to
collect and analyze key health information from all current MoH systems, as well as health
insurance companies and health providers, to maximize the policy impact of available health
information through data-based decision making and evidence based medicine;
*   The development and integration of the information systems needed to support the policy
creation and analysis role of the MOH, including integration of the operational systems of the 4
state agencies (MoH, State Institute for Health Information, Pharmaceutical Registration Office,
and Public Health Institute), and the synchronization and standardization of information from
those systems;
*   Supporting the effective use of health information technology in other parts of the health care
sector to ensure that high quality, consistent and timely information is provided, both to support
effective care and treatment, and to inform management and decision-making processes at all
levels.
This component would support technical assistance and training for the following: (i) the
development of an 1HMIS strategy including the development of necessary supporting legislation; (ii) the
development of standards, regulations to support the integration of I-IMIS at all levels of the system; (iii)
the development and creation of a national health data center within the MOH to collect and analyze the
data; and (iv) the development and integration of the information system.
Component 4. Social and Long-term care reforms (US$ 0.69 million, 4% of project costs).
According to legislation, social care services in Slovakia are defined as "subsequent care,"
"special care" and "community care." Subsequent care and special care are covered through health
insurance, while community care is financed by the state budget or through direct payments. "Subsequent
care" follows acute care and includes nursing, rehabilitation, psychological and spa care. Social care
institutions charge fees, and are used by families to obtain free-of-charge state care for their older and
disabled relatives. Special care includes psychiatric care and care of those with alcohol and drug
problems. Community care largely consists of home nursing care agencies. The numbers of private home
nursing care agencies have grown rapidly. Key problems with regards to social care services include the
lack of clear definition of what constitutes social care and the lack of clear classification of the types of
financing and benefits under the various social care categories. As nursing care and long-term care are
newly emerging areas of health and social care in Slovakia, a standard terminology needs to be
developed.



8
PID
The Slovakia health care system is not adequately prepared to deal with issues related to health
care for the elderly. Although there are community care services that include long-term inpatient care,
day care centers and social services for the chronically ill, the elderly and other groups with special needs
such as the mentally ill, mentally handicapped and the physically handicapped, there is a lot of unclear
division of tasks that belong to health care and social care respectively. Acute hospitals currently provide
inappropriate and inefficient long term nursing care and social care for patients who could potentially be
cared for with home support or with lower cost, more appropriate nursing home care.
The main objectives of the social and long-term care reforms component supported under the
Health Sector Modernization Support Technical Assistance Loan (HSMSTAL) are to support technical
assistance to: (i) define the scope and the contents of social medicine that currently represents a
non-defined overlap of the health and social areas; and (ii) create appropriate policies for organization
and financing of social and long-term care. The development of appropriate financing mechanisms is
expected to spur a supply-side response in terms of growth of private social care services including
community-based services. HSMSTAL will specifically support the national and international technical
assistance for: (i) assessment of the current situation in Slovakia as far as the regulatory and legislative
framework is concerned (review of exiting laws and regulations); (ii) review of the current practices of
provision of social medicine in Slovakia; (iii) preparation of draft legislation for long-term care
provision; and (iv) preparation of detailed implementation plan for the proposed legislation enforcement.
This component will focus on several target groups, especially individuals who are unable to care
for themselves and whose health conditions require nursing and attendance care. This includes elderly
individuals suffering from age-related diseases, individuals with worsened health condition, chronically
ill, individuals suffering from mental diseases, etc. Technical Assistance under this component will
address issues related to service eligibility and scope of services and service standards to be delivered.
Component 5. Public Information and Communication (US$ 4.86 million, 32% of project costs).
The main objective of this component is to generate better awareness of the proposed health
sector reforms, create a more enabling environment for implementation and build stakeholder
commitment. The component would support the development and implementation of public information
and communication campaigns, including a survey which would identify target audiences, development
of the media campaign, publication of pamphlets, leaflets and other materials, purchase of media time.
The component would support: (i) technical assistance for the development of the public information
campaign; (ii) workshops and seminars for information dissemination; and (iii) development of
pamphlets and other materials to support the public information activities.
Component 6. Project Management and Monitoring (US$ 1.63 million, 11% of project costs).
The objective of this component is to support the operation of a project coordination unit (PCU)
within the MOH. The project would support a full-time project implementation specialist, a procurement
specialist, a financial management specialist, monitoring and evaluation staff, and technical coordinators
for all components of the project. This component would finance technical assistance, training and
recurrent costs for all PCU staff that are not civil servants.
5. Financing
Total (US$m)
BORROWER                   $3.01
IBRD                       $12.21



9
PID
IDA
Total Project Cost         $15 23
6. Implementation
Executing Agency. The executing agency for the proposed project would be the MOH, and the
Project Coordination Unit (PCU) would carry out project management activities. The MOH would be
responsible for overall project implementation and administration, and would coordinate the
implementation of all project activities carried out by local and international consultants.
Project Management and CoordinationThe project would be coordinated by the Project
Coordination Unit, already established on the basis of a statute developed and approved by the Ministry
of Health on January 15, 2003, and has been incorporated in the organizational structure of the Ministry.
Project Implementation Specialists, Procurement Specialists, FMS and Project Assistants have been
selected following Bank selection guidelines and will be financed by the Project. The PCU Director, who
is a civil servant, responds directly to the Minister and has the overall responsibility for the
implementation of the project. The PCU Director is authorized to act and enter into agreements on behalf
of the PCU. The Implementation Specialists coordinate the day-to-day work. In addition to coordination,
the PCU will be responsible for project management functions, including project accounting,
procurement, disbursements, consolidation of quarterly and annual project management reports, annual
work programs and budgets, and updating of procurement plans. The PCU will also provide training and
technical assistance coordination, project supervision and monitoring and evaluation.
Project Implementation Plan A Project Implementation Plan (PIP) will be prepared by the
time of the appraisal mission. The PIP will include: (i) detailed project objectives and description; (ii)
key implementation issues and strategies; (iii) summary of procedures for monitoring project
implementation; (iv) guidelines for processing withdrawal applications under the Loan; (v) methods of
procurement to be followed as per the Procurement Schedule in the Loan Agreement; (vi) guidelines for
organization of procurement operations; and (vii) detailed financial management arrangements.
Finance, Accounting and Auditing Arrangements
The PCU will be responsible for financial management of the project (see Annex 6B for detailed
financial management arrangements). Accounting and reporting will be based on the MOF modified cash
accounting policy (recognizing commitments after receipt of invoices). All reports to the Bank will
strictly be on cash basis. The various departments/sections of the ministry that will be involved in
receiving funds under the Project, for processing payments and for recording the underlying transactions,
have written guidelines and procedures to safeguard assets and to ensure the accuracy of financial
reporting.
Project Audits. The project would be audited annually, including a review of procurement by an
independent auditing agency acceptable to the Bank. The audit opinion on the project financial
statements will be in accordance with internationally accepted auditing standards; it will also cover
review of statements of expenditure procedure and use of the special account. The audit report would be
sent to the Bank within six months after the end of the fiscal year. A management letter will be produced
as part of the audit to identify any potential weaknesses that may exist and suggest remedial action.
Disbursements
The Slovak Budget Law requires that all income and expenditure of the State pass through the
Single Treasury Account. This, therefore, precludes the establishment of a separate Special Account for



10
PID
the Project and the payment of suppliers directly from the Loan Account. Disbursements from the Bank
credit will therefore be limited to reimbursements with full documentation and reimbursement against
Statements of Expenditure (SOE). The proceeds of the Loan will be allocated in accordance with Tl able
6.1, Annex 6(B)
It is expected that the proceeds of the Loan will be disbursed over a period of three and a half
years, which includes six months for the completion of accounts and the submission of withdrawal
applications. The estimate of the volume of counterpart funds required to fully implement the Project is
based on the Standard Disbursement Profile for Slovakia.
Procurement. One full time procurement-proficient PCU staff member - already hired - would
carry out procurement activities. The Bank's Procurement Specialist will carry out an assessment of this
unit's capacity to implement project procurement processes.
Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements
The PCU would be responsible for project monitoring and evaluation, and in this context, will
prepare progress reports on activities performed under the Project. The first report will be issued three
months after Loan Effectiveness. Subsequent reports will be submitted no later then 45 days after the end
of each   quarter. The  reports  will include:  (i)  a  summary  of project activities  by
component/sub-component; (ii) a description of the main achievements against agreed implementation
targets and disbursements schedules, and the problems encountered; (iii) recommendations on how to
solve problems and comments on progress in implementing previous recommendations; (iv) updated
procurement plans; and (v) a list of all contracts signed to that date. Annual progress reports will be
prepared and presented to the Bank by February 15 each year summarizing project activities during the
year and covering the topics addressed in the quarterly reports. In addition consumer surveys will be used
to evaluate the project's impact on consumer satisfaction.
Mid-Term Review.The Borrower will be required to undertake a mid-term review of the
implementation of the project at the time of mid-implementation of project activities that is around May
2005. This review will be undertaken in consultation with the Bankleiinber 31, 2005,the
Borrower will prepare and furnish to the Bank a report regarding the results of the mid-term review,
including progress achieved in the implementation of the project and measures recommended to ensure
the achievement of the project's operation and development objectives during the remaining of the
project period.
Implementation Completion Report (ICR)Upon completion of the project, the PCU will
prepare, in collaboration with the Bank, an Implementation Completion Report. The ICR will include an
assessment of the execution of the project, costs, and benefits derived or to be derived, the performance
of the Borrower, the Bank and other agencies involved in project implementation, regarding their
respective obligation and accomplishments, and lessons learned.



11
PID
7. Sustainability
The objectives of the proposed project are to build capacity of the health system to become more
efficient in the financing and delivery of health care services, to build capacity for improvement in the
quality of health care services while maintaining access to care for the population, especially vulnerable
groups, and to strengthen the effectiveness, efficiency and quality of the health care system by provision
of the technical assistance and training to provide the basis for upcoming health care reform and support
its implementation. All these objectives are integral to the comprehensive health sector reform program
of the Government. It is expected that sustainability will be ensured and supported by continued
Government commitment to this reform strategy,
The proposed project will build the capacity of new institutions (e.g., Health Policy Unit, Health
Care Surveillance Authority), and is an integral element in the health sector reform strategy of the
government. In order to ensure that these institutions are sustainable, the Bank will require the Ministry
of Health to submit a plan for financing the recurrent costs of these institutions in the context of the
MOH's overall budget. Another concern with regards to sustainability is the social and institutional
sustainability of the reforms supported through this project. This concern is addressed directly by the
project by supporting the training and institutional capacity building of key institutions involved in the
reform process, and by supporting public information and communication campaigns.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Limited resources and excess capacity are general features of the health care sector in all former
socialist countries. In addition, health systems in ECA countries tend to be heavily focused on specialized
and inpatient care. Therefore, restructuring and downsizing are on the agenda of all health sector reforms
in these countries, and the Bank has gained considerable experience in the design and implementation of
projects in the health sector in the ECA region. On the design side, the general experience has been that
by their very nature, health sector reforms tend to be complex. Health reforms involve changes in
financing, delivery, production and management of the sector, which makes the process even more
involved. On the implementation side, the experience has been that without strong political support and
implementation capacity, even the best-designed reforms cannot be implemented effectively. In fact, the
lack of technical capacity tends to get confused with lack of political will to implement reforms.
In preparation of this project, the following lessons were drawn from the ECA experience:
Institutional capacity. Effective implementation of health reforms requires institutional
capacity to manage and administer the reform process and monitor the outcomes. Health reforms tend to
be very complex and have strong political and social implications. Agencies implementing health reforms
therefore need to be able to manage the political process as well and ensure that political commitment
and support is forthcoming at all stages of the reform. The Technical Assistance Loan proposed for
Slovakia supports capacity and institution building, both of which are considered necessary for the
effective implementation of the Government's health reform strategy.
Information, consultation and education of other stakeholders are critical.Greater attention
needs to be paid to the political economy of the reform through marketing reforms to lawmakers, the
medical community and the public. The Bank has already started involving the stakeholders during the
implementation of the PHRD Grant and it is proposed to continue this process under the HSMSL as well.
In fact, it is expected that the project will serve as a vehicle for bringing these stakeholders together.
Project designs tend to be complex. Projects have been too complex in the current portfolio.
This is due to the fact that it is nearly impossible to single out areas in health care to be reformed



12
PID
effectively, without changing other elements of the system. The HSMSL is trying to be selective and to
focus mainly on institution building and providing technical assistance.
Restructuring cannot be forced from the top. Local participation is a key in the restructuring
process. Experience of other ECA countries shows that without appropriate incentives, reform measures
have tended to be hampered by local resistance. On the other hand, top level steering is essential. Both of
these lessons are built in the project design.
Adequate resources have to be committed for supervision of projects Involvement of senior
technical experts into the supervision process greatly enhances the value added of the World Bank
assistance. This is especially true for a TA type of project.
Project management issues. Project management/coordination arrangements must be
completed during project preparation to ensure better understanding of issues to be addressed by the
project and of the Bank's policies and procedures. Early establishment of coordination mechanisms also
provides for early training of staff. Another lesson is that selection of technical assistance should
emphasize capacity building to ensure that knowledge is passed from the TA advisors/consultants to the
beneficiary staff. Simple but effective coordination arrangements must be agreed upon during the
preparation process to ensure that once the project is processed and approved, start-up activities can be
implemented without delay.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues : Not applicable.
10. List of factual technical documents:
NA
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Mukesh Chawla
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone (202) 458-1291
Fax: (202) 477-3387
12 For information on other project related documents contact.
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D C 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax    (202) 522-1500
Web http // www worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily
included in the final project.



13
PID
Tables, Charts, Graphs:
Processed by the InfoShop week ending:  04/21/2003
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
SEARCH           FEEDUACK       SStE MAP        SHOWCA5E



