ISDS
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                                  AWorld Free of Poverty
1QfoShop
'Mc Wa Bk
Report No: AC50
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 04/30/2003
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: SLOVAK REPUBLIC                          Project ID: P082879
Project: HEALTH REFORM                            Task Team Leader: Mukesh Chawla
Authorized to Appraise Date: May 7, 2003          IBRD Amount ($m): 12.21
Bank Approval: June 26, 2003                      IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: ECSHD                              Sector: Health (100%)
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan (TAL)  Theme: Health system performance (P)
Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The Government of Slovakia (GoS) is launching a comprehensive health sector reform program. The aim
of this reform program is to support the development of a health care system that is financially viable,
can cost-effectively address the growing burden of disease from non-communicable diseases, and
provides quality care to the population. The reforms proposed by the Government of Slovakia will
change the paradigm within which health sector institutions will be required to operate and generate new
institutional roles and responsibilities. The objective of the proposed project is to build the capacity of
the health system to implement the health reforms in an effective and sustainable manner.
I.A.3. Project Description:
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The Technical Assistance project includes six components: (i) Health Sector Financing and Delivery
Reforms; (ii) Quality of Care; (iii) Development of Health Management Information Systems; (iv) Social
Medicine (Long-term care); (v) Public Information and Communication; and (vi) Project management
and monitoring.
Component 1. Health Sector Financial and Delivery Reforms
This component would support the development of an appropriate legal and regulatory framework for
hospital autonomy, clarifying the relationship between hospitals, health insurance funds and the MOH
and other relevant regulatory bodies, and build the institutional and organizational capacity of hospitals
to operate in this new system. The project would support: (i) technical assistance for the development of
an appropriate legal and regulatory structure for hospital autonomy; and the development of hospital



2
ISDS
optimalization plans including detailed business plan for addressing high utility and drug costs for
Bratislava, Kosice and Banska Bystryca; (ii) training for hospital managers and other staff, (iii) technical
assistance for the development and management of a Hospital Investment Fund for capital investments to
support hospital modernization and the development of support care (long-term care, rehabilitation
centers, day surgery centers).
This component will support selected reforms in the health care financing system to improve financial
sustainability and equity (introduction of a revised basic benefits package under compulsory health
insurance including coverage for vulnerable groups and services such as long-term care, implementation
of new provider payment systerns, development of an appropriate legal and regulatory framework
governing the roles, functions and responsibilities of the health insurance companies vis-a-vis the State in
delivering compulsory medical insurance and an appropriate regulatory structure for supporting the
development of voluntary health insurance. The project will support: (i) technical assistance for the
development of a legal and regulatory framework, new provider payment system and contracting
arrangements; (ii) training for health insurance fund and health facility staff in implementing the revised
basic benefits package and provider payment reforms.
Component 2. Development of a Quality Improvement System
This component will support the development of a comprehensive quality improvement system with an
emphasis on the implementation of modern clinical protocols for selected high burden diseases,
modernization of the accreditation and licensing system for physicians and nurses, development of an
appropriate institutional and organizational structure for the implementation of quality improvement that
involves health care regulatory bodies (e.g. Health Care Surveillance Authority), health insurance funds
and facilities and capacity-building of staff with the HCSA, health insurance funds and health facilities to
implement a quality improvement system The project would support: (i) technical assistance for the
development of an institutional and organizational framework for the implementation of a quality
assurance system for the country. quality assurance plans for health facilities; (ii) training for relevant
staff from the HCSA, health insurance funds and health facilities; (iii) development of materials on
quality improvement.
The objective of the quality of care component of the TAL is to support technical assistance and trainiig
for the following: (i) development of a Quality of Care Policy for Slovakia, (ii) adaptation of structural
and process quality of care standards for ambulatory, hospital and long-term care facilities in Slovakia;
(iii) build the capacity of the Health Care Surveillance Authority staff to regularly update and
disseminate the standards; (iv) build the capacity of the Health Care Accreditation Council of Slovakia to
institutionalize a hospital accreditation program, (iv) build the capacity of health insurance companies
and health providers to integrate continuous quality improvement into their day-to-day operation.
Component 3. Development of H[MIS
This component will help the government develop an HMIS system to enable it to better conduct its
policy-making and regulatory function, enable the health insurance companies to better fulfill their
functions and link the network of health providers to purchasers and appropriate regulatory institutions.
For that the government has taken a decision outlining five key tasks for improving Health Management
Information Systems (HMIS) within the Slovak Republic. These are as follows:
*   The development of an HIMS strategy, including the development of necessary supporting legislation
(regarding mandatory exchange of information, confidentiality, privacy, etc.), and the essential
integration tools;



3
ISDS
*   The development of standards, regulations and other mechanisms to support the integration of health
information at all levels, so that common definitions and data structures are used and necessary
information can be exchanged, while still allowing maximum opportunity for a free and open HMIS
hardware and software industry within Slovakia;
*   The development and creation of a national health data center within the Ministry of Health to collect
and analyze key health ilformation from all current MoH systems, as well as health insurance
companies and health providers, to maximize the policy impact of available health information
through data-based decision making and evidence based medicine;
*   The development and integration of the information systems needed to support the policy creation
and analysis role of the MoH, including integration of the operational systems of the 4 state agencies
(MoH, State Institute for Health Information, Pharmaceutical Registration Office, and Public Health
Institute), and the synchronization and standardization of information from those systems;
*   Supporting the effective use of health information technology in other parts of the health care sector
to ensure that high quality, consistent and timely information is provided, both to support effective
care and treatment, and to inform management and decision-making processes at all levels.
The project will support technical assistance and training for the following: (i) the development of an
HMIS strategy including the development of necessary supporting legislation, (ii) the development of
standards, regulations to support the integration of HMIS at all levels of the system, (iii) the development
and creation of a national health data center within the MOH to collect and analyze the data, (iv) the
development and integration of the information system.
Component 4. Social and Long-term care reforms
With this increasing demand for the health care targeting the elderly population, the Slovakia health care
system seems to be not adequately prepared to deal with the issues of care for elderly. Although there
are community care services that include long-term inpatient care, day care centers and social services for
the chronically ill, the elderly and other groups with special needs such as the mentally ill, mentally
handicapped and the physically handicapped, there is a lot of unclear division of tasks that belong to
health care and social care respectively. Acute hospitals currently provide inappropriate and inefficient
long term nursing care and social care for patients who could be cared for with home support or with
lower cost, more appropriate nursing home care.
According to legislation, social care services in Slovakia are defined as "subsequent care," special care
and community care. "Subsequent care" and special care are covered through health insurance, while
community care is financed by the state budget or through direct payments. "Subsequent care" follows
acute care and includes nursing, rehabilitation, psychological and spa care. Social care institutions charge
fees, and institutes for the long-term ill are used by families to obtain free-of-charge state care for their
older and disabled relatives. Special care includes psychiatric care and care of those with alcohol and
drug problems. Community care largely consists of home nursing care agencies. The numbers of private
home nursing care agencies have grown rapidly. The key problems with regards to social care services is
the lack of clear definition of what is health care and what is social care and the lack of clear
classification of the types of financing and benefits under the various social care categories. As nursing
care and long-term care are newly emerging areas of health and social care in Slovakia, a standard
terminology needs to be developed.
The main objective of the social and long-term care reforms component supported under the HSMSTAL
is to (i) define the scope and the contents of social medicine that currently represents a non-defined
overlap of the health and social areas and (ii) create appropriate policies for organization and financing
of social and long-term care. The (levelopment of appropriate financing mechanisms is expected to spur a



4
ISDS
supply-side response in terms of growth of private social care services including community-based
services. HSMSTAL will specifically support the national and international technical assistance for (i)
aassessment of the current situation in Slovakia as far as the regulatory and legislative framework is
concern (exiting laws and regulations review); (ii) review of the current practices of provision of social
medicine in Slovakia; (iii) preparation of draft legislation for long-term care provision; and (iv)
preparation of the detailed implementation plan for the proposed legislation enforcement.
This component will focus on several target groups including individuals who are unable to care for
themselves and whose health conditions require nursing and attendance care. This concerns e.g. elderly
individuals suffering from age-related diseases, individuals with worsened health condition, the
chronically ill, individuals suffering from mental diseases, etc. Technical Assistance under this
component will address issues related to (i) service eligibility and (ii) scope of services and service
standards to be delivered.
Component 5. Public Information and Communication Campaigns
This component would support the development and implementation of a public information and
communication campaign. The general objective of this component is to generate better awareness of the
proposed health sector reforms, create a more enabling environment for implementation and build
stakeholder commitment, this component will support the development and implementation of public
information and communication campaigns, including a survey which will identify target audiences,
development of the media campaign, publication of pamphlets, leaflets and other materials, purchase of
media time. The project would support: (i) technical assistance for the development of the public
information campaign; (ii) workshops, seminars for information dissemination; (iii) development of
pamphlets, other materials.
Component 6. Project Management and Monitoring
The objective of this component is to support the operation of a project coordination unit (PCU) within
the MOH. The project will support a full-time project implementation specialist, procurement and
financial management specialist and technical coordinators for the health care financing and delivery
system reforms, quality of care, and HMIS components of the TAL. The project will finance technical
assistance and training and the recurrent costs for PCU staff.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
B. Clheck Environmental Classification: C (Not Required)
Comments. The proposed project focuses on health care financing reforms, and the hospital reforms focus
on rationalization of existing capacity, especially by re-orienting services from inpatient to outpatient
services. The project does not have a civil works component and does not deal with medical wastes.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy                                Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                    * Yes 0 No    0 TBD



5
ISDS
Natural Habitats (OP/BP/GP 4.04)                            O Yes * No    O TBD
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                       O Yes * No    O TBD
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                   O Yes * No    O TBD
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                               O Yes * No    O TBD
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                O Yes * No    O TBD
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                       0 Yes * No    0 TBD
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                 O Yes * No    O TBD
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)         0 Yes * No    0 TBD
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BF'/GP 7.60)*                0 Yes * No    0 TBD
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims
on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.
II.D. Ia. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
N/A
II.D. I b. Describe any potential curnulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
N/A
II.D. I c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
N/A
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
N/A
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
N/A
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
After the new Government assumed office, Ministry of Health officials have been continuously engaging
major stakeholders in the reform debate. There had been numerous workshops, presentations and open
discussions about the merits and potential pitfalls of the proposed reform measures.
This gave an opportunity for the Government to obtain a picture of public attitudes toward the planned
health reforms and the perception of health systems performance and service delivery by different
stakeholders. In addition with the establishment of a Health Policy Unit within the Ministry of Health
will institutionalize regular qualitative and quantitative surveys and public opinion polls during the first
phase of the project. Most of the surveys would involve the analysis of secondary data, while in special
cases primary data collection will be carried out as well through a contracted specialized agency. These
surveys also monitor the qualitative and quantitative impacts of the public information and
communication campaign, which starts in the coming weeks. Key stakeholder groups will also continue
to be consulted on various other occasions.



6
ISDS
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or on basis of
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the
provisions of that policy apply.
] SI. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
[ ] S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
[X] S3. - No safeguard issues
SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan            Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                          Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework.              Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan                                        Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan.                                 Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of tlle above documents is not expected, please explain why.
Signed and submitted by       Name                                        Date
Task Team Leader:             Mukesh Chawla                               04/21/03
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved be:                  Name                                        Date



7
ISDS
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Jane E. Holt                                  04/21/03
Sector Manager/Director:        Armin H. Fidler                                04/21/03
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
lEARCH .L        I FEED8ACK  ISfE ImAp       I LSHOWC AS     I 



