Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7196-SK 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Health Sector Modernization Support Technical Assistance Project) 
 
between 
 
SLOVAK REPUBLIC  
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated December 2, 2003 
 
Page  2
2
Page  3
LOAN NUMBER 7196-SK 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated December 2, 2003, between the SLOVAK REPUBLIC 
(the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received from the Borrower a letter dated  
April 7, 2003, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
achieve structural adjustment of the Borrower’s health sector (hereinafter called the 
Program), declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during the execution 
thereof;  
 
(B) 
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. 
The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. 
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Category” means a category of items to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan as set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and 
the term “Categories” means more than one (1) Category collectively; 
 
Page  4
-
2
-
(b) 
“Disbursed Amount” means, in respect of each Interest Period, the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in said 
Interest Period; 
 
(c) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” and “FMR” mean each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(d) 
“Fiscal Year” means the twelve-month period corresponding to any of 
the Borrower’s fiscal years, which period commences on January 1 and ends on 
December 31 in each calendar year; 
 
(e) 
“Health Insurance Companies” means collectively all companies 
licensed or to be licensed for the purpose of providing health insurance;  
 
(f) 
“Maturity Fixing Date” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the date on 
which the amortization schedule for said Disbursed Amount is established, such date 
being the first day of the Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which said 
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn; 
 
(g) 
“Ministry of Health” and “MOH” mean the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Health established and functioning pursuant to the provisions of the Borrower’s Law    
No. 575/2001 dated December 12, 2001, as the same may be amended from time to time, 
or any successor thereto; 
 
(h) 
“Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators” means the agreed performance 
indicators set forth in a letter of even date
.
herewith to be utilized by the Borrower under 
the Project to measure the progress in the implementation of the Project and the degree to 
which the objectives thereof are being achieved; 
 
(i) 
“Program Loan Agreement” means the Loan Agreement (Health Sector 
Modernization Support Sectoral Adjustment Loan, Loan No. 7195-SK) of even date 
herewith between the Borrower and the Bank; 
 
(j) 
“Project Coordination Unit” means the unit established by the Decision 
of the MOH No. EI/0100/2003, dated January 15, 2003, and referred to in paragraph 1, 
Section I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and 
 
(k) 
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to the Letter-Agreement No. P 4010 SK 
signed on behalf of the Bank on March 11, 2003, and on behalf of the Borrower on     
June 2, 2003. 
 
Page  5
-
3
-
ARTICLE II 
 
Section 2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to ten million five 
hundred eighty thousand Euro (EUR 10,580,000), as such amount may be converted from 
time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of   
Section 2.09 of this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02. 
(a)  The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan. 
 
(b) 
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.  The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
 
Section 2.03. 
The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2007 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. 
(a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an 
amount equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.   Such fee shall be payable 
not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date. 
 
Section 2.05. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to:           
(i) eighty five one-hundredths of one percent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and       
(ii) seventy five one-hundredths of one percent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
 
Section 2.06. 
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 2.07. 
Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually 
in arrears on June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
Page  6
-
4
-
Section 2.08. 
(a) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall repay each Disbursed Amount in semiannual installments payable on each  
December 15 and June 15, the first such installment to be payable on the First (1st)
.
Interest Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for said Disbursed Amount 
and the last such installment to be payable on the Sixth (6th) Interest Payment Date 
following the Maturity Fixing Date for said Disbursed Amount. Each installment except 
for the last one shall be equal to one-sixth (1/6) of said Disbursed Amount.  The last 
installment shall be equal to the remaining outstanding amount of said Disbursed 
Amount.  
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, if any 
one or more installments of principal of any Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the 
provisions of such paragraph (a), be payable after June 15, 2009, the Borrower shall also 
pay on such date the aggregate amount of all such installments. 
 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of the amortization schedule for each 
Disbursed Amount promptly after the Maturity Fixing Date for said Disbursed Amount. 
 
(d) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (a) through (c) of this 
Section, in the event of a Currency Conversion of all or any portion of a Disbursed 
Amount to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency 
that shall be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate. 
 
.
Section 2.09. 
(a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; and 
 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa.  
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is 
accepted 
by 
the 
Bank 
shall 
be 
considered 
a 
“Conversion”, 
as 
defined 
in               
Section 2.01 (7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
Page  7
-
5
-
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. 
(a)  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through the MOH with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, health care, 
insurance and technical practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the procurement of the 
goods and the selection and employment of the consultants’ services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. 
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. 
(a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to 
the Bank adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project. 
 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for each Fiscal Year audited, in 
Page  8
-
6
-
accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year: (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year as so audited; and (B) an opinion on 
such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records;  
 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such Fiscal Year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals; 
 
(v) 
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained 
until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report 
for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan 
Account was made; and 
 
Page  9
-
7
-
(vi) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records. 
 
 
Section 4.02. 
 (a)  Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraphs 1 and 2 of Section II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, 
the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan and explains variances 
between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five 
(45) days after the end of the first quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of 
such first quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 
forty-five (45) days after each subsequent quarter, and shall cover such quarter. 
 
Section 4.03. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall take all measures required before the conclusion of each 
Fiscal Year to ensure that adequate counterpart funds are promptly provided to the MOH 
in a timely manner during the following Fiscal Year in accordance with the work 
program and budget for each Project implementation year concluded pursuant to the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of  Section III of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Bank 
 
Section 5.01. 
Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall 
make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
 
Page  10
-
8
-
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 6.01. 
The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the 
Program Loan Agreement have been fulfilled, except only the effectiveness of the Loan 
Agreement.  
 
Section 6.02. 
The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 7.01. 
The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. 
The following addresses are specified for the purposes of   
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
of the Slovak Republic 
Ul. Stefanovicova 5 
81782 Bratislava 
P.O. Box 82 
Slovak Republic 
 
Telex 
  Facsimile: 
 
21868 
  (421-2) 
5249-8065 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
Page  11
-
9
-
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(1-202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Bratislava, Slovak Republic, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
SLOVAK REPUBLIC  
 
By 
/s/ Ivan Miklos 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
/s/  Roger Grawe 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  12
-
10
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the  
% of 
 
Loan Allocated 
Expenditures 
 Category
(Expressed in Euro
)
to be financed
(1) 
Goods 
19,000 
100% of foreign expenditures, 
 
100%
of local expenditures 
 
(ex-factory cost), and  
 
85%
of local expenditures for 
 
other items procured locally 
 
(2) 
Consultants' 
9,740,000 
80% for foreign consulting  
 
services, including 
 
consulting firms, 100% for 
 
audits 
 
foreign individual consultants,  
 
75%
for local consulting firms,  
 
and 74% for local individual  
 
consultants 
 
(3) Training 
85,000 
100% 
 
(4) 
Refunding of  
630,000 
Amounts due pursuant 
 
Project Preparation 
 
to Section 2.02 (b) 
 
Advance 
 
of this Agreement 
 
(5) Unallocated 
106,000
TOTAL 10,580,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
 
Page  13
-
11
-
(c) 
the term “foreign consulting firm” means a consulting firm which is 
registered or incorporated in the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
 
(d) 
the term “foreign individual consultant” means an individual consultant 
who is a national of a territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
 
(e) 
the term “local consulting firm” means a consulting firm which is 
registered or incorporated in the territory of the Borrower; and 
 
(f) 
the term “local individual consultant” means an individual consultant 
who is a national of the territory of the Borrower. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:  
 
(a) 
 payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and 
 
(b) 
any expenditures under any Category in the table in paragraph 1 above, 
except under Category (4), unless the Bank shall have received payment in full of the 
front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods, excluding those under 
the contracts referred to in paragraphs 2 (a) and (b) of Part D of Section I of Schedule 3 
to this Agreement; (ii) services of firms, under contracts costing less than $100,000 
equivalent each, excluding the contract referred to in paragraph 2 (a) of Part D of    
Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; (iii) services of individual consultants, 
excluding those referred to in paragraph 2 (b) of Part D of Section II of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement; and (iv) training, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Page  14
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in building the capacity of 
the health system to become more efficient in financing and delivering health care 
services and improving the quality of health care services while maintaining access to 
care for the population, especially the vulnerable groups, particularly through the 
institutional underpinning necessary to support the health sector reforms under the 
Program and to build the required institutional capacity in MOH, the Health Insurance 
Companies and related institutions. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A:
Reforms in Health Care Financing and Delivery
Carrying out of a program of selected reforms in: (i) health care financing so as 
to improve financial sustainability and equity; and (ii) health care delivery with a view to 
design and implement hospital autonomy, and specifically consisting of the provision of 
technical assistance for: (i) improved financial management by health insurance 
companies and hospitals; (ii) the development of a suitable provider payment system;   
(iii) the autonomization and corporatization of public hospitals; (iv) the development of 
an appropriate legal and regulatory structure for hospital autonomy; (v) the development 
of hospital optimalization plans for health facilities in Bratislava, Kosice and Banska 
Bystrica; (vi) the development of business and strategic plans for autonomous hospitals; 
(vii) training for hospital managers and other staff; and (viii) the development and 
management of Health Insurance Companies for capital investments to support 
modernization of public hospitals and hospital autonomy and the development of support 
care. 
 
Part B:
Development of a Quality Improvement System
Development of comprehensive mechanisms for continuous improvement of 
quality of health care and quality improvement and assurance protocols for the Slovak 
health system, specifically through the provision of technical assistance for: (i) the design 
and implementation of modern clinical protocols for selected high burden diseases on the 
basis of scientific evidence; (ii) the modernization of the accreditation and licensing 
system for physicians and nurses; (iii) the development of appropriate institutional and 
organizational structures for the implementation of quality improvement; (iv) the 
preparation of an accreditation system for health facilities; (v) the design and 
establishment of a Health Care Surveillance Authority (HCSA); (vi) training of HCSA 
and hospital staff on issues related to quality assurance and monitoring; and (vii) the 
development of materials on quality improvement. 
Page  15
-
13
-
Part C:
Development of a Health Management Information System
Development of a Health Management Information System (HMIS) adequate to 
enable the Borrower to better conduct its policy-making and regulatory function, enable 
the health insurance companies to better fulfill their functions, and link the network of 
health providers to purchasers and appropriate regulatory institutions, specifically 
encompassing the provision of technical assistance and training for: (i) the development 
of an HMIS strategy, including the development of necessary supporting legislation;  
(ii) the development of standards and regulations to support the integration of the HMIS 
at all levels of the system; (iii) the development and creation of a national health data 
center within the MOH to collect and analyze the data; and (iv) the development and 
integration of the information system to support the policy creation and analysis role of 
the MOH. 
 
Part D:
Social and Long-term Care Reforms
Implementation of a program on social and long-term care reforms aimed at:      
(i) defining the scope and the contents of social and long-term care, including issues 
related to service eligibility and scope of services and service standards to be delivered; 
(ii) creating appropriate policies for organization and financing of social and long-term 
care; and (iii) developing appropriate financing mechanisms to spur a supply-side 
response in terms of growth of private social care services including community-based 
services, specifically encompassing the provision of technical assistance and training for: 
(i) the assessment of the current situation in the Borr
ower’s territory of the regulatory and 
legislative framework, including the review of existing laws and regulations; (ii) a review 
of the current practices of provision of social and long-term care in the country; (iii) the 
preparation of draft legislation for long-term care provision; and (iv) the preparation of a 
detailed implementation plan for the proposed legislation enforcement. 
 
Part E:
Social Impact Analysis and Public Information Campaign
Carrying out of a program of quantitative and qualitative social impact 
monitoring methods and development and implementation of public information and 
communication campaign on the basis thereof, with a view: (i) to monitor the progress in 
the implementation of the reform supported by the Project and its impact on the quality 
and accessibility of health services for the poorest population groups; (ii) to generate 
better awareness of the proposed health sector reforms; and (iii) to create an enabling 
environment for the building and implementation of stakeholder commitment, including 
the provision of training and technical assistance for media productions, road shows, 
publications, seminars and workshops. 
 
Page  16
-
14
-
Part F:
Project Management and Monitoring
Strengthening of the MOH capabilities required for the implementation of the 
Project, including provision of technical assistance and training to the PCU in the areas of 
procurement, financial management, monitoring and evaluation and relevant technical 
matters, and for the preparation of the audits of the Loan. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2006. 
 
Page  17
-
15
-
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods
Part A
:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with: (i) the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank 
in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 
1999 (the Guidelines); and (ii) the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B: 
 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.  
 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedure: National Shopping Procedures
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts or any requests for 
price quotations, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
Page  18
-
16
-
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to the first contract for goods be procured in accordance 
with the procedures referred to in Part C of this Section I, irrespective of the cost thereof, 
the following procedures shall apply: 
 
(i) 
prior to the selection of the supplier under shopping procedures, 
the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a report on the 
comparison and evaluation of quotations received and a copy of 
the specifications and the draft contract; and 
 
(ii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (i)  the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto; and (ii) the following provisions of Section II 
of this Section. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the short 
list of consultants for services under the Project, estimated to cost less than $200,000 
Page  19
-
17
-
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 and footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Least-cost 
Selection
Services for audits under Part F of the Project estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for public opinion surveys under Part E of the Project and for 
monitoring and evaluation services under Part F of the Project estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
3. 
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services for the public information campaign under Part E of the Project may be 
procured under a contract estimated to cost less than $4,500,000 equivalent awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
4. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for: (i) tasks that meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines; and (ii) the task of project implementation specialist, procurement 
specialist, financial management specialist and those financed under the Project 
Preparation Advance may be selected on a sole-source basis in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.3 and 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, subject to prior 
approval of the Bank. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its review and approval prior to the issuance to consultants of 
any requests for proposals.  Such plan shall be updated every six (6) months during the 
execution of the Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
Page  20
-
18
-
review and approval. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to: (i) each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; and (ii) the first contract for the 
employment of a consulting firm to be selected in accordance with the procedures 
referred to in paragraph 2 of Part C of this Section II, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants to be selected on a sole source basis, or estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$50,000 or more, the report on the comparison of the qualifications and experience of 
candidates, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference, and the terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and 
approval. The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given. The provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
also apply to such contracts. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply; provided however, that prior Bank review and approval shall still apply to the 
terms of reference and short list for each such contract. 
 
Page  21
-
19
-
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Implementation Program 
 
Section I.
Organizational Arrangements
1. 
Project Coordination Unit
The Borrower, through the MOH, shall maintain the PCU throughout Project 
implementation with financial and human resources adequate to enable it to carry out its 
responsibilities under the Project under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank.  The PCU 
shall be headed by a Project Director and shall include, among others, a project 
implementation specialist, a procurement specialist, a financial management specialist, 
monitoring and evaluation staff, and technical coordinators for all Parts of the Project.  
More specifically, the PCU shall be responsible for day-to-day coordination of Project 
activities, technical assistance, training and logistics and for: (i) drafting the relevant 
Project documents, including the annual work programs and budgets; (ii) preparing and 
organizing the procurement procedures for goods and the selection and employment 
procedures for consultants’ services to be financed under the Loan, including the 
updating of the procurement plan and the plan for the selection of consultants;  
(iii) preparing the documents required for the disbursement and accounting of the 
proceeds of the Loan; (iv) monitoring and evaluation of the Project activities;  
(v) preparation of audits required under the Loan Agreement; and (vi) consolidation of 
the FMRs and the Project semiannual progress reports referred to in the following 
paragraph 1 of Section II of this Schedule. 
.
Section II.
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
1. 
Semiannual Progress Reports
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions, the Borrower, through the MOH, shall, commencing on the day falling ninety 
(90) days after the Effectiveness Date, and thereafter, not later than February 15 and     
July 15 in each calendar year and until Project completion, prepare and furnish to the 
Bank a semiannual progress report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
reasonably request, describing, in accordance with the Monitoring and Evaluation 
Indicators, the progress achieved in the implementation of the Project during the 
preceding semester of the calendar year, including: (i) a summary of Project activities by 
Parts; (ii) a description of the main achievements against projected implementation 
targets and disbursements schedules, including problems encountered in Project 
implementation supported by the results of the quantitative and qualitative social impact 
analysis findings; (iii) identification of problem areas in terms of Project management 
and supervision, particularly with respect to delays in Project implementation and the 
causes of such delays; (iv) recommendations to address identified problems and 
comments on progress in implementing previous recommendations; (v) updated 
Page  22
-
20
-
procurement and selection plans; and (vi) a list of all contracts signed up to the date of 
the relevant report.  
 
2. Mid-Term 
Review
The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Monitoring and Evaluation 
Indicators, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about December 31, 2004, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, 
on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the 
date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of the Project and an adequate support to the implementation of the Program 
and the achievement of the objectives of the Project during the period following such 
date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by March 31, 2005, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take 
all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the Program 
and the achievement of the objectives of the Project, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
 
3. 
Work Program and Budget
The Borrower: (i) not later than September 30 in each calendar year, shall, 
through the MOH, prepare and submit to the Bank for its review and approval a proposed 
work program and budget for the following Project implementation year setting forth the 
annual action plan and proposed expenditures; and (ii) thereafter, shall cause the MOH to 
adopt the said work program and budget taking into consideration the Bank’s comments 
thereon and carry out the Project in accordance therewith.
 
