Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9107
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
SECOND TEXTBOOK PROJECT
(LOAN 2102-IND)
NOVEMBER 9, 1990
Human Resources Operations Division
ment V
Office
estricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
s contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS
BC                 -  Book Center
BALITBANG          -  Office of Educational and Cultural Research and
(formerly BP3K)       Development, Ministry of Education and Culture
BAPPENAS           -  National Development Planning Board (Badan Perencanaan
Perbanguaan Nasional)
CCD                -  Center for Curriculum Development
GOI                -  Government of Indonesia
ITP                -  Integrated Textbook Project
MOEC               -  Ministry of Education and Culture
REPELITA           -  Five-Year Development Plan
SAR                -  Staff Appraisal Report
DGPSE              -  Director General for Primary and Secondary Education, MOEC
Fiscal Year
April 1 - March 31
School Year
July - June
CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(1982)
Currency Unit = Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00         =  Rp 661
Rp 1.00         =  US$0.0016
Annual Average Exchance Rates to USSl.00
1983      1984       198S       1986      1987       1988
909     1,026      1,110      1,256     1,646      1,681



THE WORLD BANK                    O F OMCIAL USE ONLY
Washington D.C 20433
USA
ONce i DvectnC.n-C,wal
Opseatmew vi~atuatin
November 9, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report:  INDONESIA - Second Textbook
Prolect - (Loan 2102-IND)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report: Indonesia - Second Textbook Project
(Loan 2102-IND)" prepared by the Asia Regional Office, with Part II of
the report contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has
been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDNESIA
SECOND TEXTBOOK PROJECT ILOAN 2102-INDI
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .
Evaluation Summary  ...  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  iii
PART I:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE . . . . . . . . .1
Project Identity ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ..  1
Background ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ..1....  .  .  .  .  .  .    . .
Objectives and Description ......... ..1. 
Design and Preparation ...  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ..  2
Implemoentation ... . . . . . . . . ..                                          3
Project Reformulation ... . . . . . . ..                                     3
Staff ing  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  .   .   .   .   .   .  4
Technical Assistance ... . . . . . . .                                       5
Disbursement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  5
Loan Amendments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  5
Project  Cost   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  6
Project Results  ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ..  6
Physical ... . . . . . . . . ..                                              6
Curriculum  ....  .  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ..  6
Manuscript Development  ...  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ..  6
Textbook Distribution ... . . . . . .  ..                                    6
Distribution Policy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  7
Book Center and Its Coordination  ...  .         .    . .                    7
The Linkages between the Book Center and the 
Curriculum Development Center ...  .         .  .  .    . .                  7
Immediate Impact ... . . . . . . . . ..                                         8
Sustainability ....  .  .       .  .  .  .    . .B.....  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   8
The Future ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ..  8
Major Strengths and Weaknesses:  Bank Performances .   .....                    9
Major Strengths and Weaknesses:  Borrower Performance  . ...                    9
Part II:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  .   .....                   11
A.  Integrated Textbook Project  ...  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  12
B.  The Objective of Evaluation  ...  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  12
C.  The Result of Evaluation ...  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  13
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
SECOND TEXTBOOK PROJECT (LOAN 2102-IND)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Textbook
Project in Indonesia, for which Loan 2102-IND in the amount of US$25.0 million
was approved on March 16, 1982. The loan was closed on June 30, 1988, twelve
months behind original schedule. It was mostly disbursed (US$86,752 was
cancelled) and the last disbursement was on January 10, 1989.
The Bank prepared Parts I and III, and the Borrower, Part II.   The
Bank carried out a completion mission in November 1989. The Borrower
independently prepared Part II, dated July 11, 1989, with the assistance of an
evaluation committee which commissioned field investigations, reviewed project
documents and interviewed project staff and beneficiary schools.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
SE-OND TEXTBOOK PROJECT ILOAN 2102-IND)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Proiect Backaround and Obiectives
Loan 2102-IND was the Bank's second investment for textbook
development and distribution in Indonesia. The first investment (Credit 387-
IND) financed textbook production and the training of teachers. This first
project did not effectively address the issues of quality and efficiency in book
content and distribution. As a result, the second project was designed to
improve the quality of book content and physical standards, as well as develop
institutional capacity for long-term textbook publishing and distribution. With
a loan of US$25.0 million and a total estimated cost of US$111.7 million, the
project objectives were: (1) establish and develop a permanent institution
(Integrated Textbook Project (ITP)), staffed with technical and managerial
personnel capable of carrying out integrated activities of textbook development,
production and distribution; (2) strengthen the Curriculum Development Center
(CCD) and improve its linkage with ITP's manuscript development effort; (3)
develop textbook titles (110) and print textbooks (82 million) for primary and
secondary schools; and (4) establish a nation-wide book distribution system (37
warehouses and 250 depots) for book distribution.
Implementation
The initial lack of counterpart funds resulted in long delays in
project implementation. These unfortunate delays resulted in slow recruitment
of project staff and difficulty in site acquisition for IT?. The GOI
experienced frequent project staff turnover throughout the implementation of the
project. The Bank did not make significant disbursement until 1986, four years
after loan effectiveness. Project implementation took a period of six years,
with completion on June 30, 1988, twelve months behind the original schedule.
During implemertation, the project was reformulated and two loan
amendments were made. The main changes were: (1) ITP was upgraded to a MOEC
Book Center (BC) directly under the administration of the Minister in order to
permanently institutionalize book activities and ensure its job positions; and
(2) the quantitative targets were r&ised to the production of 150 million
textbooks and development of 152 manuscripts. Project funds were reallocated to
accommodate the new quantitative targets as well as to adjust to the devaluation
of the local currency.



- iv -
Results
The project objectives to improve the physical quality of textbooks
and to develop a national capacity for book production and distribution were
generally accomplished. The quantitative achievements in terms of book
production and manuscript development were exceeded: 150 million textbooks were
produced and 157 titles were written. However, the institutional objectives
were not fully met. The development of an integrated textbook system under the
MOEC was not fully accomplished. Although the Book Center has been
institutionalized within MOEC, its roles have not been clearly defined.
Recruitment and retention of qualified professional staff coulc not be ensured
for lack of appropriate remuneration and incentives. Due to the lack of
government budget after Project Complation, the Book Center has been unable to
maintain its planned targets of textbook development and distribution. The book
distribution facilities were significantly under utilized at the completion date
of the loan. The linkages between BC and the CCD were loose, therefore CCD's
involvement in book development was less than desirable.
Sustainability
The sustainability of project institutions and achievements will
depend on the formulation of textbook policies on textbook financing and cost
recovery consistent with long term budgetary capabilities of the Government;
clarification -f the respective roles and responsibilities for book publication,
printing and aostribution of the Book Center vis-a-vis other public and private
agencies; and further efforts to enhance book quality and use. The role of the
Drivate publishing industry in textbook publishing and provision are worth
special attention.
Lessons to Learn
(1)  The sustainability of the project is directly tied to the Government's
commitment to long-term counterpart funding. This requirement should
be recognized and agreed upon prior to loan approval;
(2) The project implementation is adversely effected by high levels of
turnover in project staff and Bank supervision personnel;
(3) During project preparation, it should be fundamental that the Bank and
Government reach a clear understanding and agreement on all objectives
and key project concepts; and
(4) The Bank should seek to ensure that project objectives and
implementation activities are feasible within the political,
organizational and institutional setting of the project.



Future Strategy
Given the size and diversity of Indonesia and the rapid growth of the
private sector, the justification and role for a single national textbook
production institution needs to be re-examined. There is significant potential
for the development of private publishers. One option is for th Book Center tc
publish only a limited range of book titles and to assume responsibility for
policies and standards in providing guidance to private publishers.
Textbook pricing policy also needs to be reviewed. Should the
Government continue to distribute textbooks free of charge in a context where
many schools choose to pwrchase textbooks from private publishers? On the other
hand, a policy is needed to ensure that affordable textbooks reach the poor and
remote schools. This issue will be addressed under the proposed Primary
Education Quality Improvement Project.



INDONESIA
SECOND TEXTBOOK PROJECT (LOAN 2102-IND\
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Part I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANX'S PERSPECTIVE
Progist IdentitX
Name of Project                  s Second Textbook Project
Loan Number                      : 2102-IND
RVP Unit                         : Asia Region
Country                          : Indonesia
Sector                           : Education
Date of Loan  !fectiveness       : June 14, 1982
Actual Completion Date           : December 31, 1987
Planned Completion Date          : December 31, 1986
Total Cost An Appraised            US$111.7 million
Total Foreign Exchange           : US$25.1 million
Total Cost at Closing            : US$90.4 million
IBRD Loan Amount                 . US$25.0 million
IBRD Loan Disbursed              . US$24.9 million
1.1       Backoround.  Underpinned by a robust GNP growth rate, the Indonesian
Government's first two Repelitas (1969-78) had pursued social goals ane the
satisfaction of basic education needs with the construction of more thani
30,000 schools.  At project appraisal in 1980, near-universal enrollment  had
been achieved at primary level (grades 1-6). Gross enrollment ratios at
secondary (grades 7-12) had increased from a low base to 257 and at tertiary
levels to 127. However, previous low participation in and the persisting poor
quality of schooling had aggravated shortages of literate and skilled
manpower. The Third Repelita 1979-83 focused upon the imorovement of overall
quality while at the same time, expanding secondary and tertiary education.
Based on evidence that textbook provision can greatly contribute to quality
improvement, the GOI made major efforts in the 1970s to improve the
availability and quality of textbooks. Under the First Bank-assisted Textbook
Project (Credit 387), achievements in terms of book production and numbers of
teachers trained exceeded expectatinns, but quality and book distribution
remained deficient.
1.2       A major goal of this Second Textbook Project was to assist the MOEC
in consolidating its accomplishments into the 1980s by improving the quality
and efficiency of book production. In contrast to previous decades, the
budgetary environment under the Third and Fourth (1979-88) Repelitas, during
which this project was implemented was increasingly constraining.



curriculum, texthook development and teacher training and inadequate
information for education administrators, teachers and students on the
gover,nment's textbook programs.
1.6       Project strategy at the identification stage was to: (a) formulate a
ten-year national program for learning materials production, including
clarification of the roles of the public and private sectors in the production
of learning materials; (b) link curriculum to textbook development and teacher
training; (c) establish a permanent, countrywide syatem to train teachers and
other school staff to :ake good use of the learning materials; and (d)
establish a comprehensive monitoring system for the actual delivery of
textbooks to school children. These strategies were fundamental for textbook
development and supply and appropriately identified. However, they were only
partially incorporated in the project design (SAR para. 2.04). The teacher
training aspect was later included in a parallel Second reacher Training
Project (Loan 2101).
1.7       The concept of an Integrated Textbook Project was adopted by both
the Bank and the Goveznment. However, no shared meaning of "integration'
existed between the Bank and the MOEC. It was interpreted on various
occasions by different parties to mean building links between curriculum
development in the CCD and manuscript development in the ITP, between a
textbook production agency (ITP) and provincial distribution agencies, or as
the centralization of all textbook activities carried out by various
departments in MOEC.
1.8       Project risks were correctly identified in the SAP but the risk-
eduction strategies used did not serve to nullify them.  Of particular
significance, annual budgets for the project were delayed and there were
difficulties in recruiting qualified project staff. These were major
impediments to timely action under the project and to quality improvement
objectives.
Implementation
1.9       The project was implemented over a period of six years.  There was
an initial delay of two years in acquiring a site for the Integrated Textbook
Project building. The completion date was extended for 12 months due to
further implementation delays caused by GOI's inadequate budgetary provision
and delays in recruiting and training project staff.
1.10      Prolect Reformulation.  In 1985 the project was reformulated during
a major Bank mission to review the proloniged implementation delay. It was
agreed that, in order to permanently institutionalize book activities and
establish job positions, a MOEC Book Center, housed in the project facility in
Jakarta, should be created to undertake ITP activities and to coordinate the
other national publishing activities of the MOEC. The Book Center, -omposed
of an Administrative Section, Divisions of Manuscripts Development (soci.al
science and science), Division of Procurement and Production, and Division of
Distribution, would parallel the Directorate General of Primary and Secondary
Education and the head would report directly to the Minister of Education and



- 4 -
Culture.  The BC would have authoLity to carry out all MOEC book activities,
namely bouk writi.g, translation, evaluation, selection, procurement,
production and distribution. Furthermore, the Book Center would also be
responsible for drawing up the Ministerial policies on all book matters   The
Center was officially inaugurated by a PresidGntial decree in February 1987,
two years later.
1.11      The Bank review team also considered the estimate for textbook
production in Schedule 1 of the Loan Agreement to be inadequate. The budget
of US$12.6 million would provide only 20% of the requirement for the four-
year period (1982/83-1985/86) for primary and seccndary education in
Indonesia. The cost of the project was re-estimated during the mission and a
new program decided. The nrw program called for development of 151 titles and
prnduction of 117 million copies of textbooks. It was the Bank's decision at
the time that if additional books could be printed within the total estimated
project costs, this would be consistent with ;he intentions of the project.
1.12      Staffing.  The project staff recruitment process was slow and
turnover wa6 high.  The first Proiect director was appointed at project
startup in 1982 bit transferred within the year. The second director was in
position for three years. He resigned and was replaced by a third one. Under
the third director, project activities began in earnest. He was transferred
in 1986, one year before the planned completion date, and a fourth director
was appointed in 1987. He brought project actsvities to c-'npletion,
accelerated disbursements and remained with the recently created Book Center
as chief adn,inistrator aftar the nroject closing date.l/ Turnover of other
key ITP!Book Center administrat.ve staff occurred every two to three years.
For some key posts turnover was annual, e.g., Head of the ITP Administration
and Manuscripts Development Departments. Several major administrative
positions, e.g., Chiefs of the Book Center's Reprographics and Production
Divisions), e*c., remained vacant after the initially appointed staff
resigned. The recruitment quality of technical staff was problematic. There
was a lack of trained publishing staff who were able to undertake the skilled
work involved in writing, editing and producing textbooks. The majority of
editozs were freBh college graduates with little professional training or
experience in pedagogy or book editing. A weak management and monitoring
capability for the book distribution system was a pereistent problem during
the project period. Only on project closure were 150 provincial warehouse
depot managers appointed by the Minister as pe~rmanent MOEC staff.
1.13      The Loan Ac aement committed the GOI to provide sufficient
remuneration and/or incentives to hire and retain qualified ITP staff. This
was not implemented for a number of reasons, including the nationwide scarcity
of skills in publishing, a lack of promotion incentives with competent
professionals preferring to work as consultants whilst holding permanent jobs
elsewhere, and the government's ban on recruitment of civil servants over 40
years of age hich hinders recruitment of qualified private sector
l/   The ITP building was comipleted in the final two years of the project and
now houses the Book Center (para. 1.10).



professionals.  Some of these problems eased in 1988 when the Book Center was
officially designated au a permanent MOEC institution (in contrast to the ITP
which was perceived as having a life only during World Bank loan period).  A
proposal for improving the remuneration and promotion system for the Book
Center staff is being considered by the Hinister, but there is, as yet, no
official decision.
1.14      Technical Assistance 1TAI.  The ITP was not able to benefit fully
from the technical assistance and training provided by the long tern,
consultants hired ander the project. This was mainly bocause the tecl'nical
assistance (TA) team began to work only in mid-1986, project management o'f TA
was weak, counterpart staff available for tratning were few and they were
heavily engaged in operational tasks while taking the training and there ware
language barriers between the expatriate consultants and the government
staff.a/ The 1988/89 study tours were fruitful in terms of broadening
perspectives on book publishing. Vieits to developing countries (in
particular, the Philippines and Singapore) were judged more useful than the
visits to developed countries.
1.15      Disbursement.  The project experienced slow disbursement in the
first three years. Little significant disbursement was made until 1986 (Part
III, Table 3) largnly due to the initial lack of a counterpart budget and
delays in civil wcrks. Disbursement for book printing and distribution did
not start until 1987. After two loan amendments with reallocation of loan
proceeds (para. 1.16), disbursemtent was accelerated. At project completion,
99% of the loan was disbursed. The last disbursement was made six months
after the closing 'ite.
1.16      Loan Amendments.  Schedule I of the Loan Agreement was amended twice
during implementation.
Initia'    1st Amend.       2nd Amend .    Total Disburs.
(Dec. 1985)     (July 1986)     (December 1988)
Civil Work             6.5           5.5             5.5               5.4
Eauipment              0.9           0.9             1.5               1.5
Print/Distri.         12.6          16.2            12.0              14.-
TA/Arch.               2.4           2.4             2.4               2.5
Management             0.0           0.0             1.0               1.2
Unallocated            2.6           0.0             2.6               0.0
Total              25.0           25.0            25.0              24.9
2/   British Publishers Association and British Council TA evaluation reports.



The first amendment reallocated US$1.0 million from the category of "Civil
Works` and US$2.6 million from the "Unallocated Funds to "Printing and
Distribution of Books", mainly to help rLduce printing bottlenecks, buy more
paper and distribute books in the provinces. The second amendment, dated July
16, 1986, increased financing for equipment and furniture and added the
category of "Project Management". It also reduced the funding for printing
and distribution of books. There were further changes in the final
disbursement of the loan to the different project activities. The movement of
the project funds may be further explained by the decrease of the value of the
rupiah against the dollar, which resulted in savings of the rupiah which
become available for other activities.
1.17       Project Cost.  The SAR estimated a total project cost of US$111.7
rnillion. Due to Rupiah devaluation (from US$1.0=Rp. 661 in 1982 to US$l.ORp.
1,681 in 1988) the Government's contribution to the project reduced by 25% in
dollar terms, from USS86.6 million to US$65.5 million. However, the physical
outcomes of the project were not affected. The total project cost was US$90.4
million.
Project Results
1.18       Physical.  Physical and quantitative achievements were substantial
but qualitative achievements were less notable. Textbook and teaching guide
production of 150 million copies exceeded appraisal targets by 83% and 157
titles were produced, 4u% more than the original estimates. The quality of
paper has been improved to give a book life of 5-6 years.  The central BC and
CCD building was completed and equippad. It has a mainframe computer but
lacks desktop computer and publishing aids with the result that 90% of its
editors work manually on manuscripts. The floor space of the BC/CCD nuilding
was over--estimated, at least for the current level of operations. It is so
far under-utilized. So are the central and local warehouses facilities.
1.19       Curriculum.  The contents of the project-produced textbooks were
based on the 1975 curriculum. Only one title was developed on the basis of
the 1984 curriculum because the 1984 curriculum was still being developed and
lacked full official status through most of the project implementation period
and BC/CCD linkages were weak. Since simultaneous teacher training in how to
use the new textbooks was not provided by the project but most teachers were
using the 1984 curriculum in teaching, they were confused by the different
sequence in which some textbooks presented curriculum material. The
misalignment of curriculum and textbook development is a serious issue which
needs to be addressed.
1.20)    ManuscriRts Development.  After serious weaknesses in manuscripts
were detected, the quality control system for manuscript writing was
strengthened, though field trials before mass production are still too
limited.
1.21       Textbook Distribution.  The central and local warehouses and depots
for book distribution were built, equipped and staffed to provide physical and
managerial infrastructure for distribution. After experimentation with a



centrally controlled distribution system, a variety of systems was introduced
to better suit local contexts. Delivery of books to schools became the
responsibility of Provincial MOEC offices. Distribution of books was not free
of problems. Although the cost of distribution to schools was built into the
overall cost of the project, funds were often insufficient and the management
was poor. As a result, books frequently did not reach schools.
1.22    A distribution monitoring system was established under the Book
Center. The problems associated with monitoring activities and accounting for
funds associated with aistributing books throughout a country the size of
Indonesia were formidable. One Bank mission recommended computerization of
the monitoring system which might have improved efficiency, but this was not
done and monitoring remained a cumbersome manual process. Book distribution
and fund management problems persisted throughout the project.
1.23    Distribution Policy.  The btsis for the distribution of free
Government textbooks has remained questionable. While the Book Center's
distribution policy aimed to provide an equal amount of books to all schools
irrespective of need, the provincial education authority often sent more books
to the uo-called "better quality schools" which were generally located in more
accessible and affluent areas and were considered to have significance for
maintaining a quality education in the province. Ironically, since there were
not enough Government textbooks to go around anyway, these schools left the
free books on shelves and asked students to buy their own books, while other
schools had access to neither free books nor private sector ones. This
practice resulted in inefficiency in the use of government books and
inequality of book distribution.
1.24       Book Center and Its Coordination.  Development of an integrated
textbook system under the MOEC wab slow and not fully achieved, with
coordination with the relevant MGEC units at central and provincial levels
beginning late in the project. In particular, a strategy defining the roles
of the Book Center, the provincial and district education authorities, the
MOEC Printing Office (Balai Pustaka.), and prIvate publishers and printers, was
not clearly articulated. Other technical branches of the MOEC still carry out
their own book production and distribution (e.g., Non-formal Education). The
Book Center did not develop capacity to formulate a strategy or provide policy
advice to the Minister. Its energies were spent on trying to meet ambitious
targets for book production and manuscripts development. At the end of the
project, Government funding for textbook production and distribution was not
forthcoming for 670 million textbooks and other instructional materials and
library books targeted to be produced and distributed in Repelita V. The
budget was provided only for 2 million books in the first two years of
Repelita V, leaving 250 warehouses and depots virtually idle and BC's
Production Division staff underemployed.
1.25       The Linkages between the Book Center and the Curriculum Development
Center were not fully established even though both institutions were housed in
the same building. The CCD was not fully involved in the textbook revision
process. This is, at least in part, due to the fact that the CCD is a
research and development unit report s to the Head of BALITBANG whilst the



reporting responsibility of Book Center is more complex. In practice, the
Book Center Director, appointed in 1988, has direct access to the Minister of
Education and Culture. He also reporte to the Secretary General on certain
operational issues, according to the BC officials. On production matters, he
contacts directly Director Generals of the technical departments, e.g.,
Departments of Primary and Secondary Education, Non-formal Education, etc. A
precise official statement defining the reporting and work relationship
between the two institutions should, perhaps, have been incorporated in the
project Legal Agreement.
Immediate ImDact
1.26    The project exceeded estimates in the quantities of textbooks
produced and provided the infrastructure for distributing textbooks
nationally. It achieved improvements in the physical quality of textbooks.
It has helped to solve the instructional material shortage in some areas where
the distribution system reached. However, studies of textbook impact on
student achievement were not feasible during project implementation.
1.27    The project has set up a national HOEC textbook agency.  Project
directors perceived their main tasks as directly developing manuscripts,
producing books, organizing printing and monitoring book distribution. These
tasks proved overwhelming given the time and skills available. Following loan
closure, high levels of book production have not been sustained.3/
Sustainability
1.28       The sustainability of project institutions and achievements will
depend on the formulation of textbook policies on textbook financing and cost
recovery consistent with long term budgetary capabilities of the Government;
clarification of the respective roles and responsibilities for book
publication, printing and distribution of the Book Center vis-a-vis other
public and private agencies; and further efforts to enhance book quality and
use. The role of the private publishing industry in textbook publishing and
provision are worth special attention. The major private publishers have
shown some aptitude to act quickly to bring their books into line with changes
in curriculum issued by the government. Although in general the quality of
privately produced books is lower than that of the government-published, there
is significant potential for improvement in private sector capacity, given
some technical assistance and government guidance. To improve textbook
content and utility, curriculum changes must be echoed and synchronized with
textbook revision. Teacher training must be conducted in parallel with
textbook provision.
3/     After loan closing, the Book Center received regularly only manuscript
development and operation funds.



-9-
The Future
1.29       Recently, there has been discussion of what kind of policy for
textbook development and distribution would best suit the conditions and
context of Indonesian education in the 21st century. Clearly, the assumption
of the project that a centralized government agency could be developed quickly
to meet all the challenging needs of the education system is not now warranted
and a new vision is needed. This involves clarification of the role of the
Book Center and, very possibly, a limitation on the scope of its activities.
1.30       One proposal is for the Book Center as the management and quality
control agency of the MOEC to oversee private textbook development and
distribution. It would issue guidelines and criteria for approving texts and
library books for use in kindergartens, primary and secondary schools. The
private sector would provide texts for arts, crafts and locally relevant
material. The Book Center itself would publish a limited range of book
titles, for example, core subjects, under high professional and copyright
rules and set standards for private publishing to emulate. Further efforts
are essential to improve conditions of service and incentives to attract and
retain qualified managers and technical staff for the Book Center and CCD.
Staff training must become a regular task. Developing a national as well as a
local pool of well-qualified and experienced writers and publishing
consultants requires attention.
1.31       The government is paying serious attention to equity issues and
poverty alleviation. In this context, a policy is needed to ensure that free
or subsidized textbooks reach poor and remote schools. Equity issues should
be addressed to assure that the benefits of government textbook programs reach
the most needy. This issue will be addressed under the proposed Primary
Education Quality Improvement project.
1.32       Maior Strengths and Weaknesses:  Bank Performance.  The issues,
problems and risks for textbook provision were correctly diagnosed during
project preparation. Project design was flexible, possibly to allow for
changing circumstances. But, in the event, lack of concrete detail on the
roles of different book agencies provided an insufficient basis for achieving
project objectives.
1.33       During project implementation, Bank supervision missions were
carried out with adequate frequency and aide-memoirs were appropriate in their
comments and proposals for action. Bank missions encouraged the Government to
accelerate the process of inbtitutionalizing the ITP and strengthening its
staffing and urged the development of a comprehensive textbook strategy and
implementation policy.
1.34       However, the project design underestimated the complex division of
responsibilities and compartmentalization of the MOEC which later hindered the
integration of textbook development. Project implementation risks were not
sufficiently addressed by covenants and GOI assurance, e.g. firmness and
timetable of government's delivery of annual budgets, building site



- 10 -
acquisition, st.ffing. Frequent changes in the staffing of Bank supervision
missions reduced the continuity.
1.35       Maior Strengths and Weaknesses:  Borrower Performance.  The project
staff performed effectively in implementing physical components after initial
delays. A major weakness was the government's complicated and lengthy
bureaucratic approval procedure. which intensified the difficulties in making
institutional changes and personnel appointments. More important for long
term impact, the project failed as a vehicle for establishing a long term
strategy and policies for textbook developm.nt.
1.36       Project Documentation and Data was inadequately compiled and
utilized, partly because of the frequent turnover of project staff. In
particular, cost and budgetary data lacked accuracy and consistency, and book
distribution data to schools were inadequately analyzed.



- 11 -
PART I I
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Part II comprises an Zxecutive Summary of a Completion Report
prepared by a 001 evaluation team and made available 1/ to the Bank in July
1989 after editing and translation. The full Completion Report addresses the
project's achievements in detail, supported by extensive tables and data from
office files or collected in selected provinces.
1/   The full Completion Report (GOI) in available in project files.



- 12 -
A. Intearated Textbook Proiect
2.1       The Integrated Textbook Project (ITP), a project financed by the
Government of the Republic of Indonesia under a loan agreement with the
International Bank of Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) from 1982 to 1987
(for 5 years), as extended for one year and terminated on the 30th of June
1988.
2.2       The long term objective of the Project is to help promote the
learning process of the pupils of the primary and secondary schools through a
book packet program by the Government. This is a continuation of the previous
Book Packet Development Project (operating from 1973 to 1981). The point iu
to improve the weak points encountered by the previous Project, particularly
in the content quality of the books, the material quality, and the production
process.
2.3       The main objective of the Integrated Textbook Project (the second
Project) is to facilitate institutionalization in the production and distribu-
tion of the packet textbooks and also the curriculum development by (a)
reinforcing the Integrated Textbook Project in such a way that it will develop
into a permanent institution, staffed sufficiently to design and manage text-
book affairs; (b) developing a better distribution system of textbooks at the
national scale; (c) reinforcing the Curriculum Development Center (one of the
centers under the Research and Development Office of the Ministry of Education
and Culture) in the attempt to make adjustments and improvements of the teach-
ing methods as prescribed by the primary and secondary school Curricula; (d)
developing about 112 master/prototype textbooks, including both revisions and
new writings, of Mathematics and Science for both primary and secondary
schools; and also English for the secondary schools; (e) printing and dis-
tribution about 82 million copies of textbooks resulting from the process
mentioned in point (d) above; (f) constructing one building for the Center
office, one central warehouse, 37 provincial warehouses, and 250
warehouses/depots at the district level; (g) providing training courses and
consultative services for the staff members; (h) conducting several studies
pertinent to the attempt to promote the quality of textbooks.
B. The Obiective of Evaluation
2.4       The general objective of evaluation is to see as to what progress
the Pxcject has made in its attempt to attain its targets. Assessment will
also be made of the strong and the weak points in the project management
(planning and implementation) and to disclose the reasons why the Project
succeeded or failed to attain its targets. This evaluation is important,
particularly to present information for the senior staff of the Ministry and
other decision makers pertinent to the textbook development policy, including:
Manuscript Development, Book Production, Book Distribution, Utility of Books
and the Impact thereof, Provision and Maintenance of the Supporting Facili-
ties, Management, Coordination, and the Institutionalizatior



- 13 -
C. The Result of Evaluation
2.5       Following are the main conclusions of the evaluation and the propos-
als which may serve to help solve problems disclosed.
1. Facilities
2.6       Facilities in Jakarta.  Generally speaking all the physical
facilities in Jakarta have been provided by ITP in accordance with the plan,
both in size and in quality, including such things as the office building,
central warehouse, and the house for the staff. All those buildings were
completed with furniture and equipment in line with the needs as planned.
Most of the machineries procured had been installed. A small number of them
in fact were not yet fully in operation due to lack of experienced experts
and/or skilled employees for the field, particularly for the language
laboratory at the CCD and the minicomputer at the Book Center. Preparatory
measures had been taken, however, where a number of staff of CCD were sent to
study abroad, and technical service was called for from a computer software
house to build the minicomputer software to suit the needs of the Book Center.
2.7       Facilities in the Regions.  Construction had been carried out of the
warehouses both at the provincial level and at the district level. Something
that claimed special attention was the water drain and the entrance alley
which were defectively maintained in some cases, and in a few other
warehouses, roofs were found leaking.
2.8       Most of the warehouses had been provided with the main equipment for
their task, but due to the large number of books they had to store for
distribution within their service area, the pallets supplied were in
sufficient.
2.9       The greater number of warehouses had been handed over to the
structural agencies at the provincial level to the provincial office and at
the district level to the district office. A small number of them had not yet
been handed over to the structural agencies and through lack of financial
resources had to face such administrative problems as the payment of electri-
city bills, coverage for buildings maintenance, payment of night guards, par-
ticularly for those who were not government officials.
2.10      Proposal.  The measures taken by ITP and CCD have been on the right
track in their effort to utilize the facilities and equipment they have in
hands. Sound information, however, needs to be provided to all staff involved
in order that sophisticated machineries like the minicomputer system and the
language laboratory can really be effective to the optimum. Good appreciation
and sound understanding of the machineries and the potential services they
could render would promote the interest of th staff in using them consistent-
ly in their daily routine.
2.11      In order to simplify the administration of the regional warehouses,
transfer of responsibility to the structural units is necessary so that the
problems of water drainage, leakages, entrance alleys and other operational



- 14 -
and maintenance tasks could be tackled under the provincial office administra-
tion. The main equipment in the warehouse should be completed.
2.   Manuscript Develooment
2.12      Manuscript development has been carried out according to the plan.
All the manuscripts of the main subjects planned were successfully developed
including those for mathematics, natural science, and English. The ta;gets as
stated in the Loan Agreement (112 manuscripts) had been reached and even
exceeded. The national target, on the other hand, the one prescribed in the
DIP (Daftar Isian Proyek - Project Schedule) amounting to 184 manuscripts
could only be attained as far as 85% of its total. This was primarily caused
by the problem of finding the right writers with the required background who
had the time enough for preparing the manuscripts for ITP.
2.13      Protwosal.  The development procedures for the preparation of manu-
scripts need to be improved particularly meeting deadlines. In the past the
manuscript took about three years to finish and was found to be too slow to
keep pace with the growth of science and technology, let alone cope with edu-
cational policy.  Ways need to be sought so that manuscript de  'opment can be
done in a shorter time.
2.14      Up to now the writers of the manuscript are generally lecturers of
higher education institutions and busy, so that the process of writing is
protracted. To overcome the problem the services of selected teachers
experienced and potentially skilled in writing textbooks could be called on.
Thus, new people could be identified, monopoly could be avoided in textbook
writing and processing time could be shortened.
3.   Book Production
2.15      ITP has in general managed to produce the books in a number
prescribed in the plan. Some books, however, were produced below the needs in
quantity, others in excess of the number intended. All-in-all the production
of 82 million of copies had been exceeded, though the national target to
produce 192 million copies could only be realized as far as 78% of the total.
This was due to the increase in the printing cost (in rupiah) and the delay in
the manuscript development.
2.16      The physical quality of the books was found to be quite good, but
book binding was defective. The leaves dropped off easily that booklife will
be shortened.
2.17      Proposal.  Though all the main textbooks have been successfully
produced in the number required, the number of copies of each title does not
always match the need. Therefore every production process should be preceded
by careful planning in terms of the number of copies. The process of pro-
duction itself should be carried out in the shortest time possible as to keep
pace with the academic year. The volume of production should be based on
reliable data so that waste could be avoided. The production experts should
find the best method of binding.



- 15 -
4.   Book Distribution
2.18      Book distribution from printers to schools is a lengthy process as
they have to go through several warehouses. Printing is done either on direct
appointment or by tender. The books are then delivered to the central or
provincial warehouse, depending on whether they were printed in Jakarta or in
the printing centers in the regions. They are stored there and prepared for
the next administrative step. From these warehouses the books are sent to the
provincial/district warehouses and then to the sub-districts and primary
schools (SD). Books for SHP and SMA are transported from the depot directly
to schools. The funds were provided by the secondary project, to cover the
distribution cost of books from the Provincial Office to the final destination
but the manner in which the books were transported was left to the provincial
staff to arrange. The allocation of books was arranged so that pupils of the
government and private SDs should get one copy each, while for the SMPs and
SMAs the number of books delivered should be in 1:1, ratio of books/pupils in
government schools and 1:4 in private schools.
2.19      Book Distribution to Sub-districts.  Distribution processes met many
obstacles. Most of the warehouses had received transport funds through the
banks, but the arrival of funds did not always match the arrival of books.
Some warehouses received the money long before the books came, and others
vice-versa. There were also cases in which the warehouse received funds for
books it never received. In still other cases the warehouse had to store
books without information on how long it would have to wait for the money to
come. These obstacles impaired the flow of book distribution and the matching
of supply to need.
2.20      Notice of official authority of distribution constituted another
problem for the transportation of books and led to late delivery. In such
cases the warehouses in the districts and municipal areas were inclined to
have more courage than those at the provincial level to get into action. The
warehouses at the provincial level were likely to delay transportation until
they had the distribution notice.
2.21      Transportation of books through the administration had the same
result as using a forwarding compary, in the sense that they were equally
efficient. The packing of the books was well done and did not cause any sub-
stantial damage to the books.
2.22      The provincial warehouses generally received complete series of
titles, but a few admitted to not having received certain titles. At the
district level there were far more deficiencies for nearly all the subjects
(natural science and mathematics for SD, SMP, and SMA).
2.23      Distribution was inclined to be more problematic outside Java than
it was within Java. This was probably because of the greater difficulty of
transportation.



- 16 -
2.24      Book TransDortation to School.  There were many departures from the
standard pattern of distribution of the books to schools. Around one third of
the books for SMP and SMA were not delivered by the district warehouse
employees as expected. Instead, school employees had to fetch the books from
the warehouse, or else the books were delivered to headmasters at gatherings
for official meetings. Most of the SD. reported that tichool employees had to
go to the sub-district office of the MOEC or to the subdistrict level
education office of the provincial government education (under the Ministry of
Home Affairs), even though the warehouse employees should have delivered the
books to school. In the worst cases, though relatively small in number (10%),
SMPs and SMAs were required to pay for the transport despits the fact that
funds for the purpose had been made available by ITP. These unwarranted
occurrences were more frequent in private than in government schools and the
lower the level of school the more cases were found to occur. In other cases
fewer books were received than were invoiced. Procedures for the reception
and packing of the books varied from place to place. All of these events
illustrate that the official procedures of distribution needed more attention
and that the distribution of books was not well managed and controlled.
2.25      The average number of books received by the schools deferred.
Nationally all titles were in short supply received less than at school level
vis-a-vis the number of pupils entitled to use them. Some schools were in
fact found to receive the books above their needs (1:1 in the government
schools). But others had not received any copies at all. This occurred also
for the private schools and schools outside Java where transportation was
scarce. Particularly for the SMA mathematics books, shortfalls occurred more
frequently in Java than outside. But the contrary was the case for SD and SMP
books. No satisfdctory explanation has been obtained for this. These
imbalances, where some schools got more while others got less than what they
needed, did not only occur in the government schools but also in the private
schools (SMP and SMA) where the book/pupil ratio was meant to be as 1:4. Weak
management ard control is evident both at the national level and at the
provincial level. Planning for the matching of production and distribution
was also weak.
2.26      ProDosal.  In order to overcome the problems in distribution, care-
ful, follow-up study should be conducted of the existing system of distribu-
tion. If it turns out that the system has not been able to cope with local
conditions, better systems should be adopted. The official procedure of dis-
tribution should take into consideration different regional conditions and
will mean a variety of systems to match local conditions. Factors to con-
sider in preparing the system of distribution include manpower, costing, time,
transportation and number of books. Monitoring of implementation procedures
should be conducted continuously in order to put in place remedial measures
quickly when delays are likely. For the distribution systems to be really
effective they must be supported by a well planned production system. All the
efforts discussed above need to be supported by research to disclose clearly
the causes of the problems which arise.



- 17 -
5.   Book Storaoe and Preservation
2.27      The atorage and preservation of books was genc .ally well done in
schools, mostly by the school librarians or employee. with special respon-
sibility for the care of books. Books were generally in good condition when
received and with little damage even though they had been packed differently
from place to place.
6.   Book Utility
2.28      In spite of the absence of any writing guide issued oither by the
central MOEC Ministry or the MOEC Provincial Offices, the ITP books were in
general the main teaching materials used in schools. There were also many
teachers who preferred to use the non-ITP publications as their main reference
and treated the ITP books as supplementary ones. The reasons stated were that
the sequence of presentation in the ITP books did not match the current cur-
riculum, the books were too few or not available at all to cover the needs of
tia teaching/learning process.
2.29      The ITP books were inclined to be used more in areas where there
were few non-ITP publications, and where schools had no alternative choice
locally.
2.30      Treatment of the books lent to pupils in the regions was quite good.
The pupils were generally given the chance to borrow the books, one pupil one
book, to be taken home or to be used in class, or in turns where the books
were too few for all pupils.
2.31      Proposal.  There are in fact still many teachers who are not will-
ing to use ITP books as their main textbooks, simply because the sequence of
the material does not match the curriculum (although they believe that the
books are of a better quality and that they contain more information than any
other books of the kind). Therefore, extensive information has to be given to
teachers and headmasters on how to use the books creatively. Many of them are
of the firm believe that the sequence of material in the textbooks should
always comply with the curriculum, so that it could make their task easier to
carry out. In fact the sequence in which the material is presented does not
always have to follow the one used to present the curriculum. The curriculum
may change its sequence at any time required, but the books provide a concept
of knowledge presented in its entirety. A book may contain more materials
than a curriculum can cover. To clarify this to school personnel several
measures could be taken. The ideas could be introduced during supervisory
visits to the school. Probably the best way is to include the necessary
information in the introduction of the textbook, so that teachers could be
continually reminded how to use the material contained in the book. Alterna-
tively a supplementary edition of the book could be issued (See Book Content).
7.   Book Contents
2.32      According to the teachers, the ITP books were sufficiently good, in
terms of the scope of the material, as well as the depth of treatment. The
contents were also found to conform to the current curriculum. On the other



- 18 -
hand, most of the teachers were of the opinion that the sequence of presenta-
tion did not quite match the curriculum. This was the major reason why they
did not use the books am their main reference or at least they recommended the
use of other publications and suggested the pupils buy them. Another reason
not using the books was that the language used needed simplification so that
teachers could understand it. Also, sentences were thought to be too lengthy
by some teachers.
2.33      The teachers' comments recorded above were supported by a content
analysis conducted by experts as follows. Generally speaking, the materials
contained in the books for SD, SMP, and SMA were in conformity to the
curriculum effective at the time, particularly in terms of completeness. It
was found, on the other hand, that in some books the sequence and the depth of
discussion did not comply with the curricular prescription. Some materials,
in fact, might be superficially discussed in one volume, but they could be
found again in another where they were dealt with in greater detail.
2.34      The design and pre&Eintation ol the materials to pupils were
appropriate to pupils' capacity, particularly in terms of the language,
systematics, illustrations, pictures, diagrams, size of the characters and
coloring. Some discussion material seems to need additional illustrations,
pictures, and diagrams to help clarify the concept. There were inconsistences
in terminology between the books and curriculum, particularly for SMA mathe-
matics.
2.35      The answer keys were not included in the pupils books, but they were
incorporated in the teachers books. This was a good idea as the pupils would
not become dependent on the keys.
2.36      On the whole the teachers manuals included the explanation on the
material but did not include discussion of how the materials should be pre-
sented. Even the explanation was insufficiently detailed.
2.37      It should be noted here that the books were prepared in reference to
curriculum 1975, while the present curriculum is the revised version of cur-
riculum 1975. The analysis presented here is intended for guidance in im-
p ovement of the books appropriate to the current curriculum.
2.38      Proposal.  Supplementary editions need to be issued for those books
which need additional materials and additional test problems (natura. science,
mathematics). At the least, a supplementary edition is needed for the SD
teAtbooks on natural science and mathematics. These should include additional
materials relevant to arithmetical skill. While for books on physics, chem-
.stry hiology, and math in SMP and SMA, the supplementary edition needs to
.Lnclude additional test problems. The issuance of such supplementary editions
would be;ter guarantee that the existing publication will be useful.
Teach,rs manuals need to be developed and published containing dis-
cussion of how to use the materials in the pupil books in such a way that they
would encnurage an active learn-ng environment, especially at the SD level.
For SD, ,'atural sci.ence, for instar-e, directions should include methods of
developing process skills. For SD math problem solving techniques are needed



- 19 -
to support creativity development pupils. For SMP and SMA, Inglish books, the
supplementary edition should introduce techniques of improving skills con-
versation.
2.40      Generally upeaking the books need revision.  Some need total
revision but ouhers need to be supplemented by additional material.
2.41      It is recommended that the books be published with language,
illustration and pictures appropriate to the level of development of the
users.
8.   Book Impac
2.42      The circulation of the ITP books had a good impact on most of the
teachers. They proved to have improved the quality of the teaching/learning
process in schools by broadening '.oachers' knowledge, enhancing eva2uation
skills and application of methods of learning, providing opportunities for
deeper study by the presentation of more materials and guidance on use of
teaching aids. These benefits were realized when ITP books were introduced in
the training programs teachers attended.
2.43      As may be expected most of the teachers were of the opinion that the
ITP books had been able to help raise the learning achievement of pupils,
particularly those outside Java who have been using the book!i most consis-
tently. This does not, however, necessarily imply that learning achievement
was higher outside Java than within Java.
9.   The Institutionalization of the Book Center
2.44      Now that the Book Center has been officially inaugurated as a
structural unit within the Ministry of Education and Culture, all book matters
within the Ministry could potentially be handled better than when the Book
Center was still a project. With its present status the Book Center will be
able to reinforce its staff either by employing additional officials or
improving their skill. It will also be able to establish better cooperation
with other units within the Ministry. The institution is beginning to ahow
result in the development of a number of books other than mathematics, natural
science, and English.
2.45      Prooosal.  Since the Book Center as an official unit has been
established, coordination of textbook production needs to be made. This is
still in the hand of several units. Coordination is needed so that the physi-
cal quality and content of manuscripts can be controlled and books can be
evenly distributed to schools.
10.  Recruitment and Development of Staff
2.46      Durizg its service period ITP had been recruiting a numiber of
officials it needed on occasion from other units within the ministry. Most of
them were appointed staff members of the Book Center to strengthen the struc-
ture of the organization. Staff development was conducted mainly through
short training courses in-house as well as overseas. Foreign and domestic



- 20 -
consultants were employed, particularly to help arrange the training courses.
The foreign consultants were assigned to prepare the staff for the overseas
training and to manage the in-service training in-house. One of the weak
points perceivable in the scheme was that the terms of reference were not well
prepared. There was no clear description included of the tasks and respon-
sibility of the foreign consultants, with the result that their services could
not be appreciated to the optimum.
11. Coo2eration between ITP and other Units
2.47      To support the execution of the project, cooperation was established
between ITP and the other units within the Ministry, the Research and Develop-
ment Office of the MOEC, the MOEC Printing House (Balai Pustaka), the Graphics
Center of Indonesia (GCI), and many other units which were relevant to book
development. tinder cooperation with BALITBANG, ITP w:as to provide an office
building for the CCD complete with the equipment necessary and to finance the
training programs for the staff. The CCD was to carry out research and devel-
opment in areas related to book and curriculum development. The cooperation
was found satisfying to both the ITP and the CDC.
2.48      The cooperation with Balai Pustaka (BP) was afnLnig at the
stabilizing book stocks in the market, in that BP was givon the right to carry
out the "over-print" but was responsible for ensuring t e. would always be
books available in the market.  Those books produced by:  rk for free circula-
tion should be considered as the first edition.   The se,:,id edition and on,
published by BP under the "over-print" schedule, were f- :ommercial circula-
tion which students could buy. Being both publisher and al drinter, BP was
also granted the right to prinl  60% Df the printing work to: ITP.
2.49      Cooperation with the Graph.c Center of Indonesia *.as also achieved
in ITP provided GCI with the graphics laboratory instrumen!:o while GCI
arranged training courses for the ITP staff and helped cont.r i the production
quality.
2.50      Both ITP and GCI took advantage of this cooperaticn.  For GCI it
meant confirming its role as a training institution in the field of graphic
science and engineering and introducing a new experience to staff. For ITP it
could help raise the skill and workmanship of the staff and t.us Improve the
quality of the books it produced.
2.51      Sound cooperation could in genera'. be maintained with other relevant
units within the MOEC, such as the Directorate General of Basic and Secondary
Education, Secretariat General, and all the provincial offices throughout
Indonesia.
2.52      Proposal.  Cooperation between the Book Center and other units which
has been establishted up to now in the context of e:ecuting the project, should
be preserved and further developed to support the Book Center particularly for
solving problems in book matters in the context of providing textbooks for
schools.



- 21 -
12. Absorption Rate of Funds
2.53      The fundu provided for the Integrated Textbook Project from the year
1981/1982 was 57 million rupiah (from the Development funds) and US$25 million
(from the World Bank Loan). The absorption rate during its eight year.
service was 91.15% for the Development funds and 99.81% for the Loan funds.
This indicates that the project managed the funds successfully despite the
large number of problems it had to face in the field.
2.54      So far ITP/Bcok Center has not had much of a problem in financing
book production and attain its target, thanks to the high level of support
from the development and Loan funds. The challenging problem for the Book
Center in the coming years is the level of funding it receives in the Fifth
Five Year Plan (Repelita V) to cope with its production and distribution plan
for the books. For Repelita V, the Government has announced a target of 670
million copies of books to be provided for as textbooks and for school librar-
ies in SD, SMP, and SMA. If each copy costs Rp 1,000 to provide, the total
will require no less than Rp 670 billion in five years or about Rp 2.3 billion
a year.   The Book Center will find it very hard to attain its target.
2.55      Proposal.  The policy of free textbook provision needs to be
reviewed, particularly in the government schools. If replacement set of text-
books is to be supplied every five years (because the lifetime of the books is
five years), the burden of free textbooks for all pupils will become increas-
ingly heavy for the Government to bear. It would seem better if the supply of
free textbooks were directed only to underprivileged pupils.



- 23 -
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loan/Credit
Loan/Credit Title                  Purpose           FY of
Approval       Status
Credit 387-IND               To help improve            1973        Completed
First Textbook Project       primary and secondary                  in Dec.
education through                     1981
provision of textbooks
and in-service teacher
training
Loan 1486-IND                To expand physical         1977        Completed
First Teacher Training       infrastructure for                     in 1983
Project                      pre- and in-service
teacher training & to
develop teacher
training materials.
Loan 2101 Second Teacher    Continue to expand          1982        To be
Training Project             capacity for teacher                   completed
training and develop                  in June
new teaching                          1990
materials.
Loan 3158-IND Second         To improve secondary       1990        Board
Secondary Education and      education quality,                     Approval
Management Project           equity and management                  Feb. 1990
through in-service
teacher and supervisor
training, upgrading
the MOEC's MIS and
related studies.



- 24 -
2. Proiect Timetable
Activity                  Date Planned        Date Revised      Date Actual
Identification                                                      11/77
Preparation                                                      06/05/79
Preappraisal                                                     06/27/80
Appraisal                                                        12/00/80
Post-appraisal                                                   05/00/81
Loan Negotiation                                                 01/25/82
Board Approval               03/16/82                            03/16/82
Loan Signature               04/05/82                            04/05/82
Loan Effectiveness           06/14/82                            06/14/82
Loan Closing                 06/30/87         06/30/88           06/30/88
Loan Completion              12/31/86         12/31/87           12/31/87



- 25 -
3. Loan Disbursement
Disbursement in Thousand US$
FY
Ectimated         Actual    Actual % of
Cumulative      Cumulative   Estimated
1982/83                  0.00             0.00          -
1983/84              1,500.00             0.00          0%
1984/85              7,000.00            26.08          0%
1985/86             16,000.00         1,177.58          7%
1986/87             22,500.00         5,063.69         23%
1987/88             25,000.00        13,937.00         56%
1088/89                  0.00        19,134.72         77%
989/90                  0.00        24,913.00 L&      99.6%
LA  Source:  Controllers--Management Information Division (CTRMI).
February 28, 1989.



- 26 -
4. Proiect Imolementation
Appraisal          Target
Indicators            Estimated           Date      Actual Achievements
Achievements          FY
Manuscripts   Write and revise 112        1985      152 manuscripts were
textbook manuscripts                 completed
Textbooks     Produce 82 million          1985      150 million textbooks
copies of textbooks for             were produced by FY88.
prim.& secc;d. schools
Distribute the above       1985      Most of the 150
82 million textbooks                million textbooks were
to schools                           distributed to provin-
cial level by FY89.
Construction  Construct and furnish       1985     The building was
of Building   physical building for                erected by FY87 and
ITP and CDC                          furnished and equipped
by FY89.
Construction  Build one central and    1986/87   The central warehouse
of Book Ware- 250 local warehouses and              and 250 warehouses and
houses/depots depots for textbook                  depots were constructed
distribution                         and equipped by FY89.
(Addition: 150 local
warehouse and depot
officers were
appointed, FY90)
Staff         Recruit administrative   ITP '84   Staff recruitment was
Recruitment   and professional staff   CDC '86   completed except 4 ad-
for ITP/Book Center                 ministrative positions
and CDC                              in Book Center but
turnover is as high



- 27 -
5. Proiect Costs La
(in US$ million)
Category of            Estimated                      Actual
Expenditure      Local   Foreign  Total        Local   Foreign  Total
Civil works      6.93     4.33      11.26      12.12    7.42    19.54
Furniture        0.53     0.35       0.88
Equipment        0.49     0.91       1.40      1.24     1.51      2.75
Manuscript Dev  3.67      0.66       4.33      3.54     0.00      3.54
Curriculum Dev  1.41      0.26       1.67      2.87     0.00      2.87
Print/Dist Bks 46.26    11.73       57.99    43.71    10.93    54.64
Prof. services  0.98      0.11       1.09
Project Manage  0.00      0.00       0.00      4.37     1.50      4.37
Technical Asat  0.45      0.83       1.28      0.19     2.52      2.71
Contingencies  25.87      5.94      31.81                          _
Total           86.59    25.12    111.71    68.04    22.38    90.42
/a  The calculation of the actual costs is based on the information
provided by the Government in Rupiah.  The annual exchange rates
from the International Finance Report were used for conversion
from Rupiah to US dollars. In the actual cost information provided
by GOI, "Furniture" cost is included in the "Equipment" cost;
"Professional" in "TA."



- 28 -
6. Proiect Financina
(U8$ million)
Source of funds                   Planned                Actual
IBRD                               25.1                  24.9
GOI     l      c  C                1  
Total Project Costs           111.7                 90.4



29 -
7. njj.m
Stes of        Nonth/  No. of    Staff   Specialization           Perform        Types of
Project Cycle      Year   Persons   weeks      Represented          Rating LA      Problem
THRU APPRAISAL
Identificetion      10/77    3       120 Lk  Educators, Ecornmist
Preparation         06/79    2               Economist, Architect
Preappraisal        05/80    3               Economist, Educators
AppraisaL           12/80    3               Economist, Educator,
Architect
Post Appraisal      05/81    2                rEanni-st, Educator
SUPMRVISJONS
Supervision         11/82    2         7     Educator & Architect       I    Recruitment difficul-
ty, Civil work delay
Supervision         03/83    2         7     Educator & Engireer        1    Disbursement, Recruit-
ment difficulty
Review              11/83    2         7     Educator & RSI             1    GOI regulationr
op Officer                     Recruitmnnt difficulty
Supervision         06/84    3        10.4   Educator, Architect       2    Disbursement
RSI meober                     Institution Bldg.
Supervision         05/85    3        10.4   Educator & Engireer       2    Institution BLdg.
Funds shortage,
Procurement delay
Supervision         11/85    3        10.4   Educator & Architect      2    Institution Bldg.
Supervision         02/86    1         3.4   Architect                 2    PIU staffing & budget
Supervision         07/86    1         3.4   Education Planner         2    Slow disbursement
Supervision         12/86    1         3.4   Education Pl anner        2    Slow Inplem, high
project staff turnover
Supervision         06/87    1         3.4   Educator                  2    TA delay
Review/PCR          10/87    2         7     Educator 4 RSI             2    Key staff; OSM
Op. Officer                    fund shortage
Supervision/PCR    03/88    1          3.4   Educator                  2    Management, OLM
fund shortage
PCR                 11/89    2        13     Educators
La Ratinp-  1 - Problem  free or  minor problem; 2 - Moderate problem; 3 - Major problm.
L 120 staff weeks spent through ppreisal was en estimetion. Accurate staff week recording began
by the MIS system set-up in FY1962.



- 30 -
:Stus of Covenants
m              Description of Covenant                     Date             Current Status
1.06           Appoint professional staff                  09/82           In complionce
to CCD in accordance with
schedule satisfactory to
the Bank.
1.07(a)        Appoint professional staff                  09/87            Key staff and 64
to ITP and ensure sufficient                                professional staff
rewuneration and Incentives                                 appointed in early
to hire and retain qualified                                1988.  Twenty-six
staff                                                       Sppo'nted to Civit
Service positions at
project completion.
Turn over high.
07(b)          Project-related functions                   09/82           In compliance
and responsibilities of
eight key staff of ITP shall
be satisfactory to the Bank.
1.08           By 06/30/84 complete a study                06/84            In compltance
on (1) operational structure
of ITP including action plan
to integrate ITP with MEC
publishing and printing
entity, etc.
1.09           Study to be compteted by                    09/88            Preliminary Study
12/31/84 assessing quality                                  incLuded as a part
and cost of printing and                                    of GOI's PCR.
paper procured on Longe-
vity of book use.
i.10           Carry out field tests during                09/87            CompLeted
fuLl school year on repre-
sentative sample of nine
schools.
11             ALL paper (including cover                  06/85           In compliance
paper) to meet Bank speci-
i 12           Obtain copyright before                     09/87            In compliance
reproducing any textbook.
p.02(b)        Furiish to Bank not later                                    FinaL annual audit
thari six months after end                                  report has been.
of fiscal year certified                                    completed and will
copies of accounts audited                                  be submitted to the
and auditors' reports                                       Bank by May 1990.



- 31 -
Chart 1: ORGANIZATION OF WOM CENTER
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION AND CULTURE
B ALITSANG  |cetr
Center             and Sec. Ed.
ITP                                           Section
Admin.
Sik-Sec.
Generat
Sub)-Sec.
Finance
Sub-Sec.
Facitity
Div. of Man-                  Div. of Man-DisonfDvsonf
uscript Dev                   script                       Procureevnt/                       Distribution
Social Sci.                    Math/Sci.                   Production
iv.                         Sb-Div.
SbDv.                          Stb-Div.
_   ero-                      _ T   s
Sr py                             prt
l Sub-Div.               | ~~~Sub-Div. 
Pr Fodu-n                           Storage
Sub -D i v.                       Sub -D iv .|
Book Pro-                         Inform-
curement                           ation



